
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). The Angel and the Demon .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5606 wright2-0085
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE Angel and the Demon:
               A TALE.
            
            By T. S. ARTHUR.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. W. BRADLEY, 48 NORTH FOURTH STREET
            
            1860.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, by J. W. BRADLEY, in
                  the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
                  District of Pennsylvania.
               STEREOTYPED BY L.JOHNSON & CO.
               PHILADELPHIA.
               PHILADELPHIA:
               PRINTED BY KING & BAIRD,
               607 SANSOM STREET
            
         
         
            PREFACE
            WE think few mothers can read this volume without being struck with the great
               importance of care in regard to the dispositions and moral qualities of those into
               whose hands they place their children. There are sad disorders in society at the
               present time, and influences of a baleful character at work: above all things, let
               tender, innocent children be kept wholly beyond their sphere. In but rare cases
               should there be a delegation of the mother's duties: extreme ill health is, perhaps,
               the only excuse for such delegation; but when it is made, let the nurse or governess
               be of known pure life and firm integrity. There should be no guess-work here;
                  no trusting of a stranger, unless under the amplest
               testimonials from known parties; for wrong done to childhood is, too often, wrong
               done for the whole life. But we can only hint here at what we have endeavored to
               illustrate in the present volume.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAP. I.—THE YOUNG GOVERNESS. 9
               
               II.—GAINING INFLUENCE. 21
               
               III.—TRIALS. 32
               
               IV.—WORTH AND PRETENSION. 40
               
               V.—THE WIND AND THE SUN. 48
               
               VI.—THE GOVERNESS DISMISSED. 60
               
               VII.—A REVELATION. 71
               
               VIII.—THE NEW GOVERNESS. 82
               
               IX.—THE SHADOW OF EVIL. 91
               
               X.—A LITTLE BREEZE. 101
               
               XI.—THE DEMON UNVEILED. 108
               
               XII.—A FEARFUL MYSTERY. 119
               
               XIII.—DOUBT AND ANXIETY. 127
               
               XIV.—PAINFUL CONSEQUENCES. 138
               
               XV.—ALARMING OCCURRENCE. 150
               
               XVI.—DISAPPEARANCE OF MADELINE. 158
               
               
               CHAP. XVII.—THE SEARCH. 165
               
               XVIII.—A NEST OF PSUEDO-SPIRITUALISTS. 189
               
               XIX.—THE BIRD AND THE SERPENT. 204
               
               XX.—THE RESCUE. 215
               
               XXI.—THE ARREST. 223
               
               XXII.—BREAKING THE SPELL. 236
               
               XXIII.—THE ANGEL STRONGER THAN THE DEMON. 245
               
               XXIV.—AN UNEXPECTED REVELATION. 269
               
               XXV.—A REVELATION. 278
               
               XXVI.—REVIEWING THE MATTER. 287
               
               XXVII.—GETTING RIGHT. 298
               
               XXVIII.—CONCLUSION. 304
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The angel and the demon
            THE ANGEL AND THE DEMON.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE YOUNG GOVERNESS.
               MRS. DAINTY'S health was poor, and her nerves delicate. It was no use, she said:
                  the wear and tear of body and mind were more than she could stand. She must have a
                  governess for the children. Mr. Dainty never opposed his wife in any thing, and so
                  replied,—
               "Very well, Madeline. Find your governess."
               But Uncle John—Uncle Johns, by-the-way, if they happen to be on the mother's side,
                  and old bachelors at that, are proverbially inclined to interfere with the
                  home-management of their nieces—had, as usual, a word to say after he was alone
                  with Mrs. Dainty.
               "Don't have any thing of the kind," said he. "Be governess to your own
                  children."
               "But I'm not equal to the task. It will kill me. See how thin and pale I am getting; and my nerves
                  are in a terrible condition."
               "No wonder."
               "Why?"
               "Dissipation will destroy any woman's nerves.
               "Dissipation! Why, Uncle John!"
               "How many nights were you out last week?"
               "Only three."
               "Only three! and each time until long after midnight. Dancing, late hours, hot
                  suppers, and confectionery! No wonder your nerves are shattered! Such a life would
                  kill me up in half a year."
               "Well, in my case, it is all that keeps me going. These social recreations, coming
                  at intervals upon the enervating cares of domestic life, give new vitality to the
                  exhausted system."
               "Filigree and nonsense!" replied Uncle John, impatiently. "You know better than to
                  talk after this fashion."
               And so, for the time, the debate closed between them.
               Meeting with no opposition from her husband, Mrs. Dainty proceeded at once to the
                  work of procuring a governess. Among her fashionable friends she first made
                  inquiry, but in no direction could she hear of the right individual. The
                  qualifications were set forth at large. She must speak French with the true
                  Parisian accent, and be able to teach that language; her knowledge of music must
                  be thorough; she must be perfect in drawing and painting; her manners must be
                  ladylike, her tastes refined: in a word, she must possess all the high
                  accomplishments necessary to educate the children of a fashionable mother who was
                  "in society." She would greatly prefer a Frenchwoman.
               At last she heard of a "French lady," the daughter of a French count of the old
                  régime, who was desirous of procuring the situation of governess in a family of
                  "good standing." An interview with this lady was held in the presence of Uncle
                  John, who took occasion to ask her some questions about Paris, where he had spent
                  several years. The stately manner and superior air which she assumed at the
                  commencement of the interview gradually gave way under these questions, until
                  madame showed considerable embarrassment.
               "Your face is very familiar to me," said Uncle John, finally. "I am sure I must
                  have met you in Paris."
               "Monsieur is undoubtedly mistaken," said the lady, with returning dignity.
               "Perhaps so," replied Uncle John. Then, in a more serious voice, he added, "But
                  one thing is certain: you do not possess
                  the qualifications desired in the governess of my nieces."
               The "French lady" offered no remonstrance, and asked for no explanations, but,
                  with a flushed face, arose and retired.
               "Better keep clear of counts' daughters," said Uncle John, as the applicant
                  withdrew. "If you will have a governess for the children, procure one born and
                  bred so near at home that you can readily learn all about her."
               Mrs. Dainty, who was particularly attracted by the appearance of the French lady,
                  was not altogether pleased with Uncle John's summary mode of despatching her,
                  though a little startled at the idea of getting an imposter in her house.
               What next was to be done? "Suppose we advertise?" said Mrs. Dainty.
               "And have your bell-wire broken before ten o'clock the next morning," replied
                  Uncle John. "Take my advice, and wait a few days."
               "What good will waiting do? Unless we take some steps in the direction we wish to
                  go, we shall never arrive at the end of our journey."
               "Good steps have been taken," said Uncle John, cheerfully. "You have already made
                  known to quite a number of your friends that you want a governess. The fact will
                  not die; many will remember member and speak of it, and somebody will happen to
                  think of somebody who will just suit you."
               So Mrs. Dainty concluded to wait a few days, and see what time would bring
                  forth.
               On the third morning after the interview with the French count's daughter, as Mr.
                  and Mrs. Dainty and Uncle John sat talking together on the governess-question, the
                  waiter opened the door, and said that a young woman wished to speak with Mrs.
                  Dainty.
               "Who is she, and what does she want?" inquired Mrs. Dainty, with an air of
                  indifference, stroking the head of her King Charles spaniel, which, instead of her
                  baby, occupied a comfortable position in her lap.
               The servant went down to gain what information he could from the visitor touching
                  her business with Mrs. Dainty, and returned with the information that she was an
                  applicant for the situation of governess in the family, having been informed that
                  the lady wanted a person in that capacity.
               "Tell her to come up," said Mrs. Dainty. "I wonder who she can be?" was added, as
                  the servant withdrew.
               Uncle John sat with his chin resting on the head of his cane, apparently so much
                  engaged with his own thoughts as to be
                  unconscious of what was passing.
               In a few minutes the door reopened, and a young woman in plain attire, and of
                  modest, almost timid aspect, entered. Mr. Dainty was standing with his back to the
                  fire; Mrs. Dainty sat in her morning wrapper, with the King Charles spaniel still
                  in comfortable quarters; and Uncle John remained in the same position, not
                  stirring as the girl entered.
               "Take a chair," said Mrs. Dainty, with that supercilious indifference which
                  imagined superiority often puts on toward imagined inferiors.
               The girl flushed, trembled, and sat down, letting her eyes fall to the floor.
               "What is your name?" asked Mrs. Dainty.
               "Florence Harper," replied the girl.
               "Where do you live?"
               "At No. — Elwood Street."
               "With whom?"
               "My aunt."
               "Are your father and mother living?"
               "No, ma'am." Even Mrs. Dainty felt the sadness with which this reply was made.
               "I am in want of a governess for my children," said Mrs. Dainty, coldly; "but I
                  hardly think you will suit."
               The young girl arose at once.
               "Sit down." Mrs. Dainty spoke with a slight impatience. The visitor resumed her
                  chair, while Mr. Dainty kept his place before the fire, with his eyes fixed upon
                  her curiously.
               "Do you speak French?" inquired Mrs. Dainty.
               "Yes, ma'am."
               "What French school did you attend?"
               "I was with Mr. Picot for six years."
               "Indeed!" There was a new interest in Mrs. Dainty's voice.
               "How is it in regard to your musical qualifications?" she continued.
               "I will satisfy you, madam," said the applicant, in a quiet but firm and dignified
                  manner, "in regard to my ability to teach the various branches of a polite
                  education, by references, if you desire them."
               "Oh, certainly! I shall expect references, of course. You don't imagine that I
                  would take an entire stranger into my house without the most rigid inquiries
                  touching her character?"
               Miss Harper arose.
               "Do you wish," said she, "to make any inquiries about me? Or have you concluded
                  that I will not suit you?"
               "You can leave your references," replied Mrs. Dainty.
               
               The names of two ladies were given. Mrs. Dainty had no acquaintance with them, but
                  she knew their standing.
               "That will do," she replied.
               "Shall I call again, or will you send me word if you desire to see me," said the
                  young girl.
               "You may call." Mrs. Dainty spoke in a very indifferent manner.
               The visitor retired.
               "I don't like her," said Mrs. Dainty.
               "Why not?" inquired Uncle John, lifting, for the first time, his chin from the
                  head of his cane.
               "Too plebeian," said Mrs. Dainty.
               "Nothing but a countess will do for your young hopefuls," retorted Uncle John.
                  "Plebeian! There is the air of a lady in every movement. Take my advice, and learn
                  all you can about her; and I'm mistaken if you don't at once secure her
                  services."
               Mrs. Dainty's heart was set on having a governess; and, as no better opportunity
                  offered for procuring one, she made inquiries about Miss Harper, and received
                  encouraging information. A family council, consisting of herself, husband, and
                  Uncle John, decided in the affirmative on the question of engaging the young lady,
                  who, as she did not return to know whether her services would be desired or not,
                  was sent for. Terms, duties, and the like being discussed and settled, Miss
                  Harper, with many misgivings and strong reluctance, assumed the difficult and
                  responsible position of governess in the family of Mrs. Dainty.
               Three children were placed under her care: Agnes, the eldest daughter, now in her
                  fourteenth year; Madeline, the second, eleven years old; and George, in his sixth
                  summer. Many unwise remarks had been made about the young girl in the presence of
                  the children; and when she assumed, formally, the charge of them, she perceived at
                  a glance that they held her in contempt, and were not in the least inclined to
                  obey her authority.
               The first day's trials were severe enough. Mrs. Dainty, in whose mind there was a
                  foregone conclusion adverse to the young governess, made it her business to be
                  present with her for some hours while giving her introductory lessons to the
                  children, or, rather, while making her first efforts to dive into their minds and
                  see what had already been stored away. The mother did not act very wisely during
                  the time; for she was not a very wise woman. Could she have seen the image of
                  herself as it was pictured in the mind of Miss Harper, she would not have felt
                  very much flattered. A small portion of light entered the region of perception once or twice, the way being opened by a
                  quiet answer to some remark that broadly displayed her ignorance. One result
                  followed this rather meddle-some interference on the part of Mrs. Dainty. Her
                  respect for the young governess was materially heightened.
               On the second day, Miss Harper was left in the undisturbed charge of her young
                  pupils, and she had a better opportunity for studying their natures. Agnes, the
                  oldest, she found to be indolent, proud, and quite ready to imitate the example of
                  her mother in disrespectful conduct toward herself. Madeline was of a gentler,
                  more loving, and more obedient disposition; while George was a rude, well-spoiled
                  specimen of a boy who showed no inclination whatever to come under even the
                  mildest discipline.
               "She'll never do any thing with them," said Mrs. Dainty, in a confident manner, as
                  she sat alone with her husband and Uncle John, on the evening of the first day,
                  and talked over the new arrangement.
               "Why do you think so?" asked Uncle John.
               "She's too young and inexperienced. She hasn't character enough. Agnes is almost
                  as much of a woman as she is."
               "Don't be too sure of that," said Uncle John.
               "Agnes will have to live very fast if she ever overtakes Miss Harper."
               "She's rather an indifferent-looking personage," remarked Mr. Dainty, in a
                  careless way, "and hasn't stuff enough in her for the management of three such
                  spirited children as ours."
               Uncle John smiled.
               "You are quite taken with her," said his niece.
               "I haven't had much time for observation," replied Uncle John; "but the little I
                  have seen impresses me favorably. Beneath that modest, quiet, almost timid
                  exterior, there lies, if I am not mistaken, far more reserved power than you
                  imagine. Give her a fair chance, second her efforts in every attempt she makes to
                  bring the children into order and subordination, and particularly refrain from the
                  slightest word in their presence that will lower her in their respectful
                  regard."
               Mrs. Dainty saw, from the last remark, that she had erred in a very thoughtless
                  way; and her cheeks burned a little when Uncle John added,—
               "I have heard something of Miss Harper's history from a lady friend, who
                  represents her as a very superior girl, and says that she was raised in a circle
                  of refined and highly-intelligent people."
               "Oh, well, we can give her a trial. Perhaps she will do," replied Mrs. Dainty, in
                  a languid manner. "I'm glad she has been
                  raised among refined people. My greatest fear was that she would impart vulgar
                  manners to the children."
               "I don't think she can do them any harm." Uncle John spoke a little
                  ironically.
               "I hope not," said Mrs. Dainty, seriously; and the subject, not taking a turn that
                  was agreeable to her, dropped of its own weight.
               We shall see, in another chapter, some of the results of this new arrangement in
                  the home of the fashionable mother.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               GAINING INFLUENCE.
               HAVING procured a governess for the children,—even if she were not all that was
                  expected in the individual who was to fill so important a place,—our fashionable
                  mother felt a weight of care removed from her shoulders. She could now go out when
                  she pleased, and stay as long as she pleased, and not suffer from the troublesome
                  consciousness that she was neglecting her children,—a species of dereliction that
                  never escaped the watchful eyes of Uncle John, who had no hesitation about
                  speaking plainly.
               Miss Harper's experiences with the children on the first and second days were not
                  very encouraging; and this was particularly so in the case of Agnes, whose conduct
                  toward her was exceedingly offensive.
               On the third morning, this young lady positively refused to give her French
                  recitation at the time required by Miss Harper, declaring that it was her wish to
                  take a music-lesson. She had overheard her mother and Uncle John conversing on the
                     subject ject of Miss Harper's
                  authority over the children, on which occasion Mrs. Dainty had said,—
               "I will have no iron rule with Agnes. Miss Harper must treat her with that
                  respectful consideration to which a young lady in her position is entitled. There
                  must be no petty domineering; no ordering with upstart authority; no laying down
                  of law."
               "Do you expect to be always present with Miss Harper in the school-room?" Uncle
                  John asked quietly, as if he was really in earnest.
               "Of course not! What a preposterous idea!" replied Mrs. Dainty.
               "Then Miss Harper must have authority in your absence." Uncle John spoke very
                  decidedly.
               "Agnes will never submit to any authority from her."
               "Why not from her, pray?"
               "Because Agnes has reached an age when she can comprehend the wide difference
                  between their respective stations. She is almost a young lady."
               "You are a weak woman, Madeline," said Uncle John,—"a very weak woman, and I am
                  almost out of patience with you. Now, do you wish to know, plainly, how I regard
                  this matter?"
               "Not particularly." Mrs. Dainty gaped as she spoke.
               "You shall know, for all your well-bred indifference," said Uncle John, a little
                  sharply. "In my opinion, Miss Harper is in every way the superior to Agnes, and,
                  if I am not vastly mistaken, will in a few years be recognised, in society, as
                  superior."
               "Society!" Mrs. Dainty curled her lip. "What do you mean by society?"
               "Something more perhaps than you mean," was answered. "Men and women recognised by
                  common consent as superior to the mass."
               "Well, you can talk as you please, and think as you please, Uncle John; but I'm
                  not going to have Agnes domineered over by this plebeian girl, and if she attempt
                  any thing of the kind, she will get her immediate dismissal."
               All of this was heard by Agnes, who very naturally made up her mind to be the
                  director of her own studies in the absence of her mother.
               "I wish to take my music-lesson now," she said, when the governess asked for her
                  French recitation.
               "From twelve to one is the hour for music," replied Miss Harper, mildly, yet
                  firmly, fixing her eye steadily upon the eye of Agnes. There was something in the
                  expression of that eye which the young lady had never seen before, and which held
                  her by a kind of fascination. It was not
                  anger, nor rebuke, nor sternness, but the quiet power of a superior mind over that
                  of an inferior. Agnes tried to withdraw her gaze, but it seemed impossible to do
                  so. A strange feeling of respect, almost awe came stealing into her heart and
                  repressing her dominant selfhood. When Miss Harper withdrew her steady gaze, Agnes
                  almost caught her breath, so marked was the sense of relief that followed.
               "Madeline dear," said Miss Harper, in a cheerful, pleasant voice, speaking to the
                  younger sister, "shall I hear you read now?"
               Madeline came smiling to her side, and, lifting her book to her face, read the
                  lesson which had been given to her.
               "Very well done! You are improving already." Miss Harper spoke so encouragingly
                  that Madeline looked up into her kind face, and said, without thinking of the
                  place and the occasion, "Thank you!" The young governess had already opened a way
                  into her heart.
               "Now, Agnes," said Miss Harper, "if you are ready with your French lesson, I will
                  hear it." She spoke kindly and cheerfully, fixing her eyes at the same time
                  steadily upon her, and with the same look of quiet power which had subdued her a
                  little while before.
               "I would rather take my music-lesson first." Agnes could not yield without a show
                  of resistance. Something was due to pride.
               "The hours of study were fixed in consultation with your mother," said Miss
                  Harper, mildly; "and it is my duty as well as yours to act in conformity
                  therewith."
               "Oh, mother won't care!" Agnes spoke with animation. "If I prefer this hour to
                  twelve it will be all the same to her."
               "Your mother don't care for her word, Agnes?" Miss Harper spoke in a tone of
                  surprise.
               "I didn't mean that," was answered, with some little confusion of manner. "I only
                  meant that if she knew I preferred one time to another she would not hesitate to
                  gratify my wishes."
               "Very well. We will consult her this evening," said Miss Harper. "And if she
                  consents to a new arrangement of the study-hours I will make no objection. But at
                  present both you and I are bound to observe existing rules. I have no power to
                  change them if I would. So, come up to the line cheerfully, to-day, and to-morrow
                  we will both be governed by your mother's decision."
               Agnes was subdued. Without a sign of hesitation she went on with her lesson in
                  French, and said it all the better for this little contention, through which she came with an entirely new
                  impression of Miss Harper.
               When the young teacher came to George, this little reprobate would do nothing that
                  was required of him. His book he had, from the commencement of the school-hours,
                  refused to open; replying to every request of Miss Harper to do so with a sullen,
                  "A'n't a-going to."
               "Now, George, you will say your lesson," said Miss Harper, in a pleasant tone.
               "A'n't a-going to," replied the little fellow, pouting out his lips, and scowling
                  from beneath his knit brows.
               "Oh, yes; George will say his lesson."
               "A'n't a-going to."
               "Oh, yes, Georgie," said Agnes, now coming to the aid of Miss Harper. "Say your
                  lesson."
               "A'n't a-going to." His lips stuck out farther, and his brow came lower over his
                  eyes.
               "Come, Georgie, do say your lesson," urged Agnes.
               "A'n't a-going to." The resolute will of the child had no other expression.
               "I'll tell mother," said Agnes.
               "Don't care! Tell her! You wouldn't say your lesson."
               "Oh, yes, Georgie, Agnes did say her lesson like a good girl; and so did
                  Madeline." Miss Harper showed not the least excitement. Her voice was calm and her
                  manner even. "Now say yours."
               "A'n't a-going to." The persistent little rebel had no idea of capitulation.
               "I knew a little boy once——"
               There was such a pleasant, story-telling tone in the voice of Miss Harper that
                  George was betrayed into looking up into her face, when she fixed his eye as she
                  had, not long before, fixed the eye of his self-willed sister.
               "I knew a little boy once," she repeated, "who had no mother. Before he was as old
                  as you are now, his mother died and went to heaven. Poor, dear little fellow! it
                  was a sad day for him when his good mother died and left him to the care of
                  strangers."
               George was all attention. Already the unpleasant lines of frowning disobedience
                  were fading from his childish countenance, and a gentle, earnest look coming into
                  his eyes.
               "After this little boy's mother died," went on the governess, "there was nobody in
                  the house to love him as she had done. His father was absent all day, and very
                  often did not get home in the evening until poor little Willy was fast asleep in
                     bed. As it would not do to leave Willy
                  alone with the cook and chambermaid, his father got a governess, who was to have
                  the care of him and teach him all his lessons. Now, it so happened that this
                  governess was not kind and good as Willy's mother had been, but was selfish and
                  cruel. She gave him long, hard lessons, and if he did not get them—which he often
                  could not—would punish him cruelly; sometimes by shutting him up in a dark closet,
                  sometimes by making him go without eating, and sometimes by whipping him. And all
                  the while she managed to make Willy's father believe that she was kind and good to
                  him.
               "Poor little Willy! He grew pale and sad-looking, and no wonder. I was at the
                  house one day——"
               "Oh, Miss Harper! Did you know him?" said George, with a countenance full of
                  interest.
               "Yes, dear, I knew little Willy; and I knew his mother before she died. As I was
                  just saying, I called one day at the house, a few months after his mother was
                  taken away from him; and, as the servant opened the door for me, I heard the voice
                  of Willy, and he was crying bitterly. All at once the voice was hushed to a low,
                  smothered sound.
               "'What is the matter with Willy?' I asked; and the servant answered that she
                  supposed the governess was putting him into the dark closet again. In an instant
                  there seemed to stand before me the child's dead mother, and she pointed upward
                  with her finger. I did not stop to think, but ran upstairs into the nursery, where
                  I found the governess sitting by the window with a book in her hand.
               "'Where's Willy?' I demanded. She started, and looked very much surprised and a
                  little angry. But I was in earnest.
               "'Where's Willy?' I repeated my question more sternly. As she did not stir, I went
                  quickly across the room and opened a closet door, which I found looked, with the
                  key on the outside. There, lying on his face, was the dear child. I took him up in
                  my arms and turned his face to the light. It was pale as marble. I thought he was
                  dead.
               "'Bring me some water,' I called, in a loud, quick voice. The frightened governess
                  fled from the room, but soon returned with water. I threw it into the dear child's
                  face, and rubbed his hands and feet. In a few minutes, he began to breathe.
               "'Give him to me, now,' said the governess, endeavoring to lift him from my arms.
                  But I said, 'No; cruel woman!' She looked angry, but I was not moved. 'Untie my bonnet-strings,' I spoke to
                  the chambermaid; and the girl took off my bonnet.
               "'Jenny,' said I to the chambermaid,—I knew her name,—'Jenny, I want you to go for
                  Willy's father.'
               "Jenny did not hesitate a minute. 'There's no use in sending for his father,' said
                  the governess. But we didn't mind what she said. When Willy's father came, she was
                  gone. He was very much distressed when he saw his dear little boy, and very angry
                  when I told him about the dark closet. After that I became Willy's nurse and
                  teacher. But he did not stay with us very long. The angels came for him one lovely
                  summer evening, and bore him up to the heavenly land; and he is now happy again
                  with his mother."
               Tears came into the eyes of all the children when Florence Harper ceased speaking.
                  She had found the way to their hearts, and, not only this, had lifted for them
                  just so much of the veil that concealed her true character as to let them see
                  enough to win something of love and something of respectful consideration.
               The book was still in the hand of George, and, as he let his eyes fall from the
                  face of Miss Harper, they rested on the open page. Nothing was said by the latter.
                  A few moments of silence passed, and then George, in a low but rather earnest
                  voice, said over his lesson.
               The young governess had conquered.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               TRIALS.
               IT was late when Mrs. Dainty came home. Her husband had already arrived, and was
                  waiting for his dinner. George and Madeline, pleased as children usually are when
                  the visiting mother returns from her recreations, crowded around her with their
                  questions and complaints, and annoyed and hindered her to a degree that broke down
                  her small stock of patience.
               "Miss Harper!" she called, in a fretful voice, going to her chamber-door.
               The governess heard, and answered from her room, leaving it at the same time, and
                  coming down toward the chamber of Mrs. Dainty.
               "Call those children away!" said the mother, sharply. "And see here! When I come
                  home next time, don't let them beset me like so many hungry wolves. I've hired you
                  to take the care of them, and I want the care taken. That's your business."
               Mrs. Dainty was annoyed and angry; and she looked her real character for the time.
                  She was a superior, commanding an inferior, with a complete consciousness of the
                  gulf that stretched between them. Her manner, even more than her words, was
                  offensive to the young governess, whose native independence and self-respect
                  impelled her at once to resign her position and leave the house.
               "George; Madeline." She spoke quietly,—almost indifferently.
               "Why don't you call them as if you had some life in you?" exclaimed Mrs. Dainty,
                  losing all patience.
               Miss Harper turned away without a word, and went up-stairs, intending to put on
                  her bonnet and leave the house. Near her room-door she met Uncle John, who had
                  overheard the offensive language of his niece. He saw that the young girl's face
                  wore an indignant flush, and that both lips and eyes indicated a settled
                  purpose.
               "What are you going to do?" he asked, letting her see by look and tone that he
                  understood her feelings.
               "I am going away from here," she replied, firmly.
               "You must not do it," said Uncle John.
               "Self-respect will not permit me to remain," answered Florence.
               "Feeling must yield to duty, my dear young lady," said Uncle John, with an earnestness that showed how much he was
                  interested.
               "My duty is not here," was the slowly-spoken answer.
               "Our duty is where we can do the most good. I know something of your morning's
                  trials and wise discipline. You have done nobly, Florence,—nobly. There is good in
                  these children, and you must bring it forth to the light."
               "I am but human," said Florence, with a quivering lip.
               "You are gold in the crucible," replied Uncle John. "The fire may be very hot, my
                  dear young friend; but it will leave no mark upon your real character. It is not
                  every spirit that has a quality pure enough to meet life's higher ordeals. No, no:
                  shrink not from the trials in your way. The lions are chained, and can only growl
                  and shake at you their terrible manes. Go back for the children. For their sakes,
                  draw them to yourself with the singular power you possess. Be to them all their
                  mother fails to be. And always regard me as your friend and advocate."
               Uncle John left her and went back to his own room. A few moments Florence stood
                  irresolute. Then, stepping to the head of the stairs, she called to George, who
                  was pounding at his mother's door. Mrs. Dainty had re-entered her chamber and
                  locked it against the children. The child did not heed her in the least. Going
                  down to him, and taking his hand, which the stubborn little fellow tried to
                  prevent her from doing, she said, in a voice that was very
                  kind, and in a tone full of interest,—
               "George, dear, did I ever show you my book of pictures?"
               Instantly the firm, resisting hand lay passively in hers; though he neither looked
                  up nor answered.
               "It is full of the sweetest pictures you ever saw,—birds, and sheep, and horses;
                  children playing in the woods; and ducks and geese swimming in the water."
               "Won't you show them to me?" said the child, turning to his young teacher, and
                  half forgetting, already, in the pleasing images she had created in his thoughts,
                  his angry disappointment in being thrust from his mother's room.
               "Yes; and you shall look at them just as long as you please," answered
                  Florence.
               Madeline had thrown herself upon the passage floor in a stubborn fit. Her mother's
                  discipline in the case, if the child had remained there until she came from her
                  chamber, would have been to jerk her up passionately, and, while passion remained
                  in the rapidly-acquired ascendant, inflict upon her from two to half a dozen blows with her hand. Wild,
                  angry screams would have followed; and then the repentant mother would have
                  soothed her child with promised favors.
               "Madeline must see them also," said Miss Harper, pausing and stooping over the
                  unhappy little girl. "Don't you want to see my picture scrap-book?" She spoke very
                  cheerfully.
               "Oh, yes, Madeline! Do come! Miss Harper is going to show us a book full of such
                  beautiful pictures."
               The voice of George went home. Madeline arose to her feet. Taking, each, a hand of
                  their governess, the two children went with light feet up to her room, and in her
                  book of pictures soon lost all marks of their recent unhappy disturbance.
               Mrs. Dainty appeared at the dinner-table in a bad humor, and commenced scolding
                  about the new governess.
               "She'll have to do better than this, before I am quited with
                  her," she said, captiously.
               "What's the matter now?" asked Mr. Dainty, in a manner that exhibited some
                  annoyance.
               "Matter!" replied his wife. "I guess you'd think it was some matter, if, when you
                  came in late, tired and hungry, the whole body of children were to hover around
                  you with their thousand wants and complaints. It's Miss Harper's business to keep
                  them out of the way. She's paid for doing it. I had to call her down from her
                  room, and when I spoke to her sharply she turned herself from me with an air of
                  offended dignity that was perfectly ridiculous. The upstart! I shall have it out
                  with her this afternoon. No domestic shall treat me with even a shadow of
                  disrespect. I scarcely think she comprehends her true position in the family; but
                  I will enlighten her fully."
               The children listened with wide open ears, from Agnes down to George. Mr. Dainty
                  made no response, and Uncle John merely remarked, "I hope you will think twice
                  before you act once in this business of defining Miss Harper's position and making
                  yourself clearly understood. My advice is, to be very sure that you understand
                  yourself first."
               There was nothing to offend in the manner of Uncle John. He spoke in sober
                  earnest.
               "Mother," said Agnes, breaking in through the pause that followed Uncle John's
                  remark, "did you say that I should take my French lesson first?"
               "No: who said that I did?" Mrs. Dainty answered, without a moment's
                  reflection.
               "Why, Miss Harper said so, and made me give my French recitation before I was
                  ready for it."
               
               "I said no such thing." Mrs. Dainty spoke with some indignation, born of a vague
                  notion, from what Agnes had said, that the young governess was assuming arbitrary
                  rule over the children, and falsely quoting her as authority. "I said no such
                  thing! What does she mean by it?"
               "Well, she said you did, and made me say a lesson before I had half learned it.
                  That's not the way to do!"
               "Oh, dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Dainty. "Here comes the trouble I feared! Give these
                  vulgar people a position a little in advance of what they have been used to, and
                  forthwith they take on airs. I saw it in the girl at the first interview. I knew
                  then that she wouldn't suit, and if my judgment hadn't been overruled she never
                  would have come into the house."
               Mrs. Dainty glanced toward meddlesome Uncle John as she said this. But Uncle John
                  did not seem to be in the least disturbed.
               "Agnes," said he, looking across the table at the injured and complaining girl,
                  "what lesson did you propose to recite in place of your French?"
               Agnes flushed a little as she answered,—
               "My music-lesson."
               "Ah! That was the substitute. What about it?" And Uncle John turned his quiet eyes
                  upon the countenance of his niece. "If I am not mistaken, I heard you tell Miss
                  Harper that you thought the hour from twelve to one the best for music."
               "Maybe I did," answered Mrs. Dainty, pettishly; 'but I didn't fix it as a law more
                  binding than the statutes of the Medes and Persians. Something was left to the
                  girl's own discretion."
               "And I think it will be found on examination," said Uncle John, "that she used the
                  discretion wisely."
               "Oh, but she said"—Agnes had taken her cue from her mother—"that the hours for
                  study had positively been fixed by mother, and that she had no authority to vary
                  them in the least."
               "Preposterous!" ejaculated Mrs. Dainty.
               "What's the news to-day?" said Uncle John, turning to Mr. Dainty. "Any thing of
                  importance stirring in the city?"
               He wished to change a subject the discussion of which could do nothing but harm
                  among the children.
               The answer of Mr. Dainty led the conversation into an entirely new channel. Once
                  or twice, during the dinner-hour, Mrs. Dainty tried to renew her complaints
                  against the governess; but Uncle John managed to throw her off, and so the matter
                  was dropped for the time.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               WORTH AND PRETENSION.
               THE manner in which Florence Harper met the insolence of Mrs. Dainty—we give her
                  conduct its true designation—chafed that high-spirited lady exceedingly. She could
                  neither forget nor forgive such conduct in an inferior. What right had she to
                  exhibit an independent spirit?—to show a womanly pride that would not brook an
                  outrage? The very thought made the hot blood leap along the veins of indignant
                  Mrs. Dainty. Oh, yes. She would "have it out with her!" So, toward the middle of
                  the afternoon, Florence was sent for, and she went down to the sitting-room where
                  Mrs. Dainty was alone. Uncle John was on the alert. He had remained in his own
                  apartment, listening, with the door ajar, for nearly an hour, and heard the
                  summons given to Florence. He was in the sitting-room almost as soon as she was,
                  and in time to prevent an interview, the result of which would, in all
                  probability, be the withdrawal of Miss Harper from the family. His niece looked at
                  him with a frown as he entered. An offensive interrogation was just on her tongue,
                  but she repressed the words, substituting therefore this query:—
               "When did we fix the hours of study for the children, Miss Harper?"
               "On the day before yesterday, ma'am," replied Florence, in a calm, respectful
                  voice.
               "I never had any thing to say to you on the subject!" Mrs. Dainty lost temper,
                  and, of course, dignity and self-respect.
               "Was not ten o'clock mentioned by you as the hour when it would be best to
                  commence the lessons?" inquired Florence.
               "If it was, that doesn't mean fixing all the hours of study!"
               "You said you wished Agnes to begin with French," said Florence, quietly.
               "Well, suppose I did: what then?"
               "Only, that I understood you to mean that you wished her to let French constitute
                  her first lesson as most important. You will, no doubt, remember that I approved
                  this, as her mind would always come fresh to the study."
               "Approved!" Mrs. Dainty could not repress this manifestation of contempt.
               "You will also remember, that you spoke of the hour from twelve to one as most suitable for
                  music."
               Miss Harper looked at the excited lady with a steady gaze.
               "And upon that you based a set of arbitrary rules, and tried to enforce them by
                  representing me as their author!"
               "No, madam, I did no such thing." Florence drew her slender from up to its full
                  height, and looked calmly, steadily, and with an air of dignified self-respect
                  upon Mrs. Dainty. "I simply remained firm to my duty when Agnes wished to begin
                  with music; and said to her, that the hours of study had been arranged in
                  consultation with you, and that I had no authority to change them. So I understood
                  the matter, and, in my action, simply regarded the good of your child. I did not,
                  of course, permit my pupil to direct the plan of study, and only yielded a
                  reference to you in order to make my firmness of purpose the less offensive to her
                  pride. And you must forgive me, madam, for saying, that it is neither just to me
                  nor your children thus to react upon my honest efforts to meet your wishes in
                  regard to their studies, and serve at the same time their best interests as a
                  teacher. I wish, for the sake of your children, you knew me better. As it is, if
                  you desire me to remain their instructor, you must either fix the hours and
                  subjects of study in so plain a way that no one can mistake them, or leave it
                  altogether in my hands. In either case, I will guarantee submission on the part of
                  the children."
               The outraged pride of Mrs. Dainty broke through the pressure of involuntary
                  respect which the dignified, resolute, perfectly independent manner of the young
                  teacher had inspired, and the word "Impertinent!" was on her lips, when Uncle John
                  said—
               "Miss Harper is clearly right, and I am pleased to know that she has acted with so
                  much firmness and so much prudence. She is entitled to praise, not blame."
               Mrs. Dainty waved her hand for the governess to leave the room. Without a word, or
                  the slightest apparent hesitation, Miss Harper retired.
               "Uncle John!" Mrs. Dainty turned angrily upon the old gentleman the moment they
                  were alone, "I am out of all patience with you! What chance have I to command
                  respect from inferiors in my house, if you step in to justify them to my face when
                  I am attempting to blame improper actions? It's an outrage, and I won't have
                  it!"
               "There is only one way to command the respect of your household, Madeline,"
                  replied Uncle John, "and that is, to treat them with kindness and justice tice. You may demand respect from those
                  whom you regard as your inferiors, forever; but, unless your actions toward them
                  be marked with dignity and ladylike self-possession, your command will be no more
                  heeded than was that of the old British King who commanded the waves of the sea to
                  stop their advancing course. Respect or contempt is an independent thing, and
                  always has free course. If a lady desires the first, she has to do something more
                  than utter her proud behest. She has got to deserve it; and, if she fail in this,
                  she will surely have the last,—contempt."
               "I don't wish to hear any more of that," replied Mrs. Dainty, curtly. "I hardly
                  think it fair to seek a justification of your own conduct in turning around and
                  assailing me. What right had you to approve Miss Harper's conduct to her face,
                  when I was blaming her?"
               The common right which every one has to drag another from the brink of a precipice
                  over which he is about blindly casting himself. I have observed Miss Harper very
                  closely since she has been in the house, and at times when she could not be aware
                  of this observation. When you have been in the street, I have been at home,
                  watching her deportment among the children; and it has always been kind, wise, and
                  consistent. There has been no shadow of that domineering spirit of which you seem
                  so nervously afraid, but always a firmness that knew just how far to yield, and
                  how far to be immovable. I happened to hear all that passed in regard to the
                  French and music lessons. Agnes was all to blame, and Florence was all right. It
                  was beautiful to see with what a gentle dignity Florence met the efforts of Agnes
                  to be mistress instead of scholar, and how wisely she subdued the incipient lady's
                  rebellious pride. She gave no offence in doing so, but really won upon her kind
                  feelings; and, but for the opportunity given her pride to speak out its
                  mortification, you would never have heard a word of complaint.
               "You will thus understand," continued Uncle John, "why I threw in a word of
                  justification in time to prevent the utterance of language on your part, which
                  would inevitably have resulted in the loss of a governess for your children who
                  has already gained more power over them for good than any other being in the world
                  possesses. And now, Madeline, let me warn you against any further exhibitions of
                  passion, pride, or contempt toward one into whose hands you have committed the
                  well-being of your children. Seek to elevate, not depress her. Treat her with
                  respect and consideration, and your children will do the same.
                     You make her the guide, counsellor,
                  and companion of your children. Think of the vast influence she must exercise over
                  them! The work of forming their young minds—of directing their characters—is in
                  her hands, not yours. The mother's high prerogative you choose to delegate to one
                  regarded as an inferior. Happily, in this case, the choice of a representative has
                  not been foolishly made. In all respects Miss Harper is qualified for her
                  position, and, if sustained in it, will act her part nobly. She is no common
                  person, let me tell you, but one of superior mind, high moral worth, and almost
                  perfect accomplishments,—in a word, a model for your children! But she is, at the
                  same time, a young woman with too much self-respect to bear your haughty,
                  insulting manners. If you wish to keep her, therefore, you must not repeat the
                  offences of to-day."
               "Does she expect me to curtsy every time I meet her, and to say, 'If you please,'
                  and 'By your leave, miss'?" The lips of Mrs. Dainty curled, and he looked very
                  scornful.
               "No,—nothing of the kind. Only that you shall treat her with common decency,—which
                  you have not done!". Uncle John was provoked.
               "You are quite complimentary, I must confess," said Mrs. Dainty, with an offended
                  manner.
               "I speak the truth, and that is always the highest compliment I shall ever pay
                  you, my foolish niece!" retorted Uncle John, who used his prerogative, in most
                  cases, to the full extent.
               "I think we had better drop this subject," said Mrs. Dainty.
               "Very well; let it drop now. I will renew it again when your feelings are less
                  excited and your judgment less obscured. Only let me repeat my warning about Miss
                  Harper. You have an angel in your dwelling: let her remain to bless your children.
                  But the guest will not remain if you treat her as though she were a spirit of
                  evil."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THE WIND AND THE SUN.
               "MOTHER, can't I take my music-lesson first?' said Agnes. It was on the morning
                  after her fruitless effort to be mistress instead of scholar.
               Mrs. Dainty was in the middle of one of the most absorbing chapters of the
                  "Mysteries of Paris," a book which she had read until twelve o'clock on the night
                  previous, and to which she had turned, immediately after her late breakfast, with
                  the eagerness of a mere excitement-lover. She did not heed her daughter's
                  question. Only the sound of a disturbing voice was perceived.
               "Mother!" Agnes uttered her name in a loud, impatient tone, grasping her arm as
                  she spoke, and shaking it to attract attention.
               "What do you want, you troublesome girl?" Mrs. Dainty turned angrily toward her
                  daughter.
               "Can't I take my music-lesson first?"
               "I don't care what lesson you take first! Go away, and don't disturb me!"
               This was the mother's thoughtless answer. Agnes glided away in triumph, and Mrs.
                  Dainty's eyes fell back to the pages of her book, unconscious of the meaning of
                  her reply.
               "I'm going to take my music-lesson first!" said Agnes, as she came into the
                  study-room, where Miss Harper was seated with George and Madeline. And she
                  tightened her lips firmly, elevated her chin, and tossed her head jauntily, while
                  from her clear, dark eyes looked out upon her teacher a spirit of proud
                  defiance.
               "Very well," replied Florence, in a voice that showed not the slightest
                  disturbance. "At twelve o'clock I will be ready to give the lesson."
               "I'm going to take it now," said Agnes, drawing up her petite form to its extreme
                  height, and looking, or rather trying to look, very imperious.
               Miss Harper could scarcely help smiling; but she repressed all feeling, and merely
                  answered,—
               "You can practise your scales for the next two hours, if you prefer doing so,
                  Agnes. At twelve I will give you a lesson."
               "I'll go and tell mother that you won't give me my music-lesson!" said the
                  baffled, indignant girl, flirting out of the room.
               "Mother!" She had grasped the arm of her mother again.
               "Go away, and don't annoy me!" Mrs. Dainty threw out her arm, and swept her daughter away from her side.
               "Mother!" Agnes had pressed back again, determined that she would be heard.
               "What do you want?" Mrs. Dainty dropped her book from before her face, and turned,
                  with anger flashing in her eyes, upon her daughter.
               "Miss Harper won't give me my music-lesson!"
               "Oh, dear! There's to be nothing but trouble with that stuck-up girl!" exclaimed
                  Mrs. Dainty. "I saw it from the first.
               And, tossing her book from her, she started up, and went with quick steps and a
                  burning face to the room where Miss Harper sat with the two children next younger
                  than Agnes, who were leaning upon her and looking up into her face, gathering
                  intelligence from her eyes as well as her fitly-spoken words.
               "See here, miss!" exclaimed Mrs. Dainty, as she came sweeping into the room, "I'm
                  getting tired of this kind of work, and it must end! What do you mean by refusing
                  to give Agnes her music-lesson?"
               "Do you wish her music to precede her French?" Very calmly, and with a quiet
                  dignity that rebuked the excited mother, was this question asked; but Mrs. Dainty
                  was partially blinded by anger, and, obeying an ill-natured impulse, made
                  answer,—
               "I want no airs nor assumptions from such as you! I hired you to instruct the
                  children, not to set them by the ears. I saw from the beginning that you wouldn't
                  suit this house,—that a little brief authority would make a tyrant of you, as it
                  does of all vulgar minds."
               Mrs. Dainty was losing herself entirely.
               The face of Miss Harper flushed instantly, and for a moment or two an indignant
                  fire burned in her eyes. But right thoughts soon find a controlling influence in
                  all superior minds. The assailed young governess regained, almost as quickly as it
                  had been lost, her calmness of exterior; nor was this calmness merely on the
                  surface. She made no further remark, until the stubble fire in Mrs. Dainty's mind
                  had flashed up to its full height and then died down for want of solid fuel. Then,
                  in a voice that betrayed nothing of disturbed feeling, she said,—
               "If it is your wish, madam, that Agnes should take her music-lesson first. I have
                  no objection. My duty is to teach her, and I am trying to do so faithfully. But
                  things must be done in order. Establish any rules you deem best, and I will adhere
                  to them faithfully."
               "Give Agnes her music-lesson!" Mrs. Dainty spoke with an offensive imperiousness,
                  waving her hand toward the door.
               
               Miss Harper did not move.
               "Do you hear me?" exclaimed Mrs. Dainty. The fires had received a new supply of
                  stubble.
               "Fool!"
               Mrs. Dainty turned quickly, a shame-spot already on her cheek, and met the angry
                  eyes and contemptuous face of Uncle John, who had thrown his voice into her ears
                  alone.
               "Fool!" His lips shaped the word for her eyes; and she saw it as plainly as if it
                  had been written in staring capitals.
               Uncle John beckoned to her with his head, stepping back as he did so, in order to
                  prevent the other inmates of the room from seeing him. Mrs. Dainty obeyed the
                  signal, and, without venturing another remark, retired from the study-room, and,
                  sweeping past Uncle John, sought refuge in her own chamber.
               "A'n't you going to give me my music-lesson, miss?"
               If her mother had retired from the field, there was no disposition whatever on the
                  part of Agnes to follow her example.
               "Certainly," was the mild, evenly-spoken answer.
               "Come along, then, and give it to me now."
               "I will be ready at twelve o'clock, Agnes."
               "Mother told you to give it to me now, and you've got to do so."
               "Oh, don't talk so to Miss Harper, Angry!" said Madeline, her voice trembling and
                  her eyes filling with tears.
               The words came just in season. Miss Harper felt that all this was more than she
                  ought to bear; and outraged pride was about rising above convictions of duty.
               "Georgy and I love you. We will say our lessons." The sweet child
                  lifted her large, beautiful eyes to the face of her governess.
               "Tell us a story, won't you, Miss Harper?" It was George who made the request.
               "As soon as you and Madeline have said your lessons, I will tell you a nice little
                  story." And Florence won him to her will with a kiss.
               The lesson-books were opened instantly, and, the light tasks set, the little ones
                  entered upon them with willing spirits.
               "Come and give me my music-lesson!" broke in, discordantly, the voice of
                  Agnes.
               "At twelve o'clock, Agnes." There was not the smallest sign of disturbed feeling
                  in the manner of the governess.
               "Mother will turn you out of the house! I heard her say so!"
               
               A red spot painted itself on the brow of Miss Harper. But it faded as quickly as
                  it came.
               Seeing that she was not to have her will with the governess, Agnes flirted from
                  the room, and sought the apartment to which her mother had retired.
               "Mother! mother! That upstart thing says she won't give me my music-lesson for you
                  nor anybody else!"
               Now Agnes went a step too far, and at the wrong moment. It was just then dawning
                  upon the mind of Mrs. Dainty that her daughter had exaggerated the conduct of Miss
                  Harper, and led her into an unladylike exhibition of herself. The sting of
                  mortification excited her quite enough to make her turn with sharp acrimony upon
                  this wilful daughter.
               "I don't believe a word of it!" she said, angrily. "All this trouble has grown out
                  of your bad conduct. Go off and say your lessons at the right time. I won't be
                  annoyed in this way any longer."
               "But, mother——"
               Mrs. Dainty took her by the arm and thrust her from the room, saying,
                  passionately,—
               "Don't let me see your face again to-day!"
               For several minutes Agnes sat upon the stairs leading up to the study-room, so
                  disappointed and mortified that only anger kept her from tears. Down from this
                  room came the low murmur of voices; and her ears recognised now that of Madeline
                  or George, and now that of Miss Harper. How musical was the latter, compared with
                  the sound of her mother's rebuking tones that were still in her ears! In spite of
                  pride and self-will, her heart acknowledged the contrast; and, with this
                  acknowledgment, touches of shame were felt. Even with mean false accusation on her
                  side, self-will had failed to triumph. Success would have blinded her to the
                  quality of her own spirit; but failure made her vision clearer.
               All remained still in the mother's chamber and still through the house, as the
                  mortified girl sat almost crouching on the stairs, and quiet was only disturbed
                  faintly by the muffled voices that were heard in the study-room.
               Agnes could not help but think, for passion was subsiding; and thought dwelt
                  naturally upon the persons and circumstances by which passion had been aroused
                  into turbulence. A contrast between the mother's spirit and the spirit thus far
                  shown by Miss Harper forced itself upon her mind, and she saw the beauty of the
                  one and the deformity of the other. In spite of her pride, a feeling of respect
                  for Miss Harper was born; and with this respect something of contempt for her
                  weak, passionate mother found an existence.
               
               "Now tell us the story, won't you, Miss Harper?" It was the voice of George,
                  ringing down from the study-room. The lessons were over; and the promised story
                  was to come.
               Scarcely conscious of what she was doing, Agnes moved quietly up the stairs, until
                  she was near enough to the door of the study-room to hear distinctly.
               "There was once a little flower-bud." Miss Harper began her story in a low voice,
                  and Agnes leaned forward, listening earnestly. "It was very small, and two green
                  leaves gathered their arms closely around it, for there was a hidden treasure of
                  sweetness in the heart of that bud. One day the cold, angry wind came along, and
                  wanted the bud to open her beautiful pink leaves and give out from her heart the
                  sweet perfumes that were hidden there. He blew harshly upon her, throwing her
                  little head first on one side and then upon the other, and called angrily for her
                  to open, that her sweetness might breathe in his ugly face. But the two green
                  leaves only hugged their arms closer around the bud. Then he dashed her head upon
                  the ground, and tried to trample the life out of her; for he did not love her at
                  all: he only loved himself. The light stem that held the bud did not break, but
                  only bent down, and, when the cruel wind was gone, raised up again from the ground
                  and lifted the bud into the warm sunshine that was coming abroad.
               "It was very different when the gentle, loving sunshine came and asked the two
                  green leaves to unclasp themselves and let the bud grow into a flower, that the
                  sweetness might come out of its little heart. Greener and softer grew these
                  leaves, and they seemed almost to smile with pleasure, as they gently fell back
                  from the swelling bud, that opened and opened in the face of the sunshine until it
                  became a beautiful flower, the perfume in its heart filling all the air
                  around."
               Miss Harper paused.
               "What a sweet story!" said Madeline, looking still into the face of her governess,
                  and with wondering eyes, for she felt, child as she was, that the story had a
                  signification.
               "Love and kindness are always better than anger," said Miss Harper, answering the
                  child's eyes.
               "The sunshine was love?" said Madeline.
               "Yes; and the cold wind was anger."
               "And what was the flower?" asked the child.
               "You and George are human flowers, dear;" and, from the swelling love in her pure
                  spirit, Miss Harper pressed a kiss on the
                  lips of both the children.
               "Am I a flower?" asked George.
               "I call you a little human flower," answered the governess,—"a little human
                  flower, with love in your heart, hidden away there like sweetness in the heart of
                  the bud I was telling you about. Will you let me be your sunshine?"
               The wayward boy flung his arms around the neck of Florence and clasped her
                  tightly, but without speaking. He felt more than he could utter.
               A tear dropped upon the hand of Agnes, as she sat upon the stairs near the door of
                  the study-room. It seemed to her as if heaven were in that room, while she was on
                  the outside. Never in her life had she felt so strangely; never had such a sense
                  of desolation oppressed her. That lesson of the bud, the wind, and the
                  sunshine,—how deeply it had sunk into her heart! Acting from a sudden impulse, she
                  started up, and, going in where the young governess sat with an arm drawn around
                  each of the two children, she said, with burning eyes, and a voice unsteady from
                  emotion,—
               "Be my sunshine also, Miss Harper! Oh, be my sunshine! I have long enough been
                  hurt by the angry wind!"
               An appeal so unlocked for surprised Florence; but she did not hesitate. Rising
                  instantly, she took the extended hands of Agnes in both of hers, and
                  answered,—
               "I have only sunshine to give, dear Agnes. Regard me no longer as an enemy and an
                  oppressor. I am your friend."
               "I know it, I know it, Miss Harper!"
               "Your true friend," added Florence, kissing her. "And now," she added, in a sweet,
                  persuasive voice, "let us make this room sacred to peace, order, and instruction,
                  and open all its windows for love's warm sunshine to stream in upon us daily."
               "It shall be no fault of mine if otherwise," was the low, earnest reply of the
                  young girl, whom love has conquered.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE GOVERNESS DISMISSED.
               "HOW do you like your governess?" inquired a fashionable friend, who was making a
                  call upon Mrs. Dainty.
               Mrs. Dainty shook her head and pursed up her lips in a vulgar way that was natural
                  to her.
               "Not perfect, of course," said the friend.
               "No,—not within a thousand miles of perfection."
               "An American girl, I presume?"
               "Yes." The lip of Mrs. Dainty assumed a curl of contempt.
               "Poor American girls are an indifferent set," remarked the lady. "A'n't you afraid
                  that your children will, imperceptibly, imbibe her low habits and vulgar ways of
                  speaking?"
               "Yes; that is my greatest fear. Already I think I see a change."
               "I wouldn't keep her an hour, if that were the case," said the lady. "No, not for
                  the fraction of an hour!" she added, with emphasis. "I had almost most as soon see
                  my children vicious as vulgar; for vice may be eradicated, but vulgarity is a
                  stain nothing can polish out."
               "And, to add to her offence," remarked Mrs. Dainty, "she has assumed an upstart
                  authority which has kept the house in hot water ever since she came into it. The
                  children, and particularly Agnes, will not submit to her rules and exactions."
               "Why don't you pack her off? I'd do it in less than no time," said the refined
                  acquaintance.
               I've about made up my mind to do it, and in spite of all opposition."
               "Opposition! Who has any right to oppose?"
               "That fussy old uncle of mine is always meddling in our affairs,—Uncle John."
               "Why do you keep him about the house?"
               "He's my mother's brother," replied Mrs. Dainty. She could have given a better
                  reason; but it would have been at the expense of an exposure of selfishness she
                  did not care to make.
               "If he were my mother's great-grandfather, he couldn't find harbor in my house if
                  he interfered in what didn't concern him," said the lady.
               Mrs. Dainty sighed. Uncle John was a great trouble to her, for he would say what
                  he thought and do what he pleased. But then Uncle John owned the house they lived in, which they occupied
                  rent free, or in compensation for board. And, moreover, Uncle John was worth two
                  or three dollars where her not over-thrifty husband was worth one. No, no. It
                  wouldn't just answer to turn Uncle John out of the house; for that would be a
                  losing business.
               "If I could only find the right stamp of a governess," said Mrs. Dainty, sighing
                  again.
               "I think I know a person who would just suit you."
               "Oh, indeed! Where can I see her?"
               "Have you any acquaintance with Mrs. Ashton?"
               "No,—though I have long desired to be numbered among her friends."
               "Only yesterday she mentioned to me," said the visitor, "that she knew a
                  highly-accomplished English lady, a widow, whose husband died in the East India
                  Company's service, and asked me to bear her in remembrance if I should hear of any
                  one who wanted a governess."
               "How fortunate!" exclaimed Mrs. Dainty. "An educated English lady! What more could
                  I desire?"
               "Nothing. Shall I speak to Mrs. Ashton about you, and learn the lady's
                  address?"
               "By all means. Won't you see her this very day?"
               "If you desire it."
               "Oh, I do desire it above all things."
               "I will see the lady for you."
               "How kind in you!"
               "Shall I say that you wish to engage her?"
               "Oh, by all means!"
               "What will you do with your American girl?" asked the lady.
               "Give her notice to quit immediately. She shall not pass another night under this
                  roof: my mind is made up to that. The way she has acted this day decides me."
               "At what time shall I tell this English lady to call?"
               "I will see her at four this afternoon."
               "Very well."
               "In the mean time I will close up matters with Miss Harper."
               "Is that the name of your present governess?" inquired the lady, evincing some
                  interest.
               "Yes."
               "Florence Harper?"
               "Yes. Do you know any thing about her?"
               "I knew her mother when I was a girl," replied the lady,—"though I never fancied
                  her a great deal. She had too much mock dignity for me. She married very well, and
                  for some time moved in moderately good
                  society. But her husband failed in business several years ago, and died shortly
                  afterward, I think. So it is her daughter you have for a governess! How things
                  will come around! There was a time when she seemed to think I wasn't good enough
                  to associate with her; and now her daughter has come down to the position of a
                  hireling. Well, well! Isn't this a queer world? If Florence is like her mother, I
                  don't think she will suit."
               "She puts on airs above her station," said Mrs. Dainty.
               "An inherited fault. Her mother had a way of looking down upon everybody. I
                  couldn't bear her!"
               "Humph! This spawn of hers actually assumed to put herself on a level with me, and
                  to 'approve' my opinions in regard to the children's education! I was too
                  provoked!"
               "You'll always have trouble with her," said the lady. "The stock isn't right. Is
                  Agnes taking lessons in music?" she inquired, in a pause that followed. The sound
                  of a piano had for some time been heard.
               Mrs. Dainty drew out her watch as she answered in the affirmative. She saw that it
                  was half-past twelve o'clock. A moment or two she listened, while a serious
                  expression came into her face.
               "I don't like that," said she.
               "What?"
               "This girl is bound to have her way, I see!"
               "Who?"
               "Why, Miss Harper. There's been a contention between her and Agnes about the hour
                  at which the music-lesson shall be given. Agnes wished to take it at ten o'clock;
                  but Miss Harper said twelve. I told her two hours ago to give Agnes her lesson.
                  But you see how it is! She means to be mistress. I'm too provoked!"
               "If she begins by domineering over your children in this way, what will it be in
                  the end? I only wonder that a girl like Agnes would submit."
               "It is the last music-lesson she gives in this house," said Mrs. Dainty. "My mind
                  is made up to that. Send me the English lady, and I will engage her on the spot.
                  Tell her that I would like her to come this very day, if it is agreeable. I will
                  end Miss Harper away, and take her without consulting anybody. When the thing is
                  done, Uncle John may scold to his heart's content. He can't change the fact."
               And so the thing was settled. At dinner-time Mrs. Dainty maintained a perfect
                  silence in regard to the governess. Agnes looked subdued. Her mother noticed this, and her blood grew hot as she
                  imagined the cause to be a crushed spirit under the iron rule of Miss Harper.
                  Uncle John had made it his business to see a great deal more of what was going on
                  than any one imagined. He understood the state of Agnes's mind far better than did
                  her mother. All was coming right, he saw, and his wise heart, so full of interest
                  for the children, felt a burden of care removed. After dinner he went out.
               "Just what I wished for," said Mrs. Dainty to herself, as she saw him take his hat
                  and cane. "I will make clean work of it with this 'angel' of yours: see if I
                  don't!"
               "Tell Miss Harper that I wish to see her in my room," Mrs. Dainty spoke to a
                  servant, half an hour later. The servant carried the message to the governess, who
                  obeyed the summons without a moment's delay.
               "I have sent for you, Miss Harper, to say what you must have yourself
                  inferred,—that you will not suit me for a governess."
               Mrs. Dainty spoke coldly,—almost severely. That Florence was surprised, her
                  suddenly-heightened color showed plainly. She caught her breath, and, for a few
                  moments, looked bewildered. Mrs. Dainty observed this, and said,—
               "You have no reason to be surprised or disappointed, miss. I told you in the
                  beginning that I didn't think you would suit; and I have never seen cause for a
                  moment to change my mind since you came into the house. Instead of falling into
                  you place and doing your duty as became one in your position, you have done
                  nothing but keep me and the children in hot water from the day you entered the
                  house. When you get a good situation again, take my advice, and be content with a
                  hireling's place, and don't assume the airs of a mistress. No lady will have her
                  children domineered over as you have domineered over mine."
               "Mrs. Dainty, I repel——"
               "Not a word to me, miss! Not a word to me!" replied the lady, imperiously. "I
                  permit no one in my house to answer back. Here are your wages for the time you
                  have been instructing the children. Take the money, and go!"
               Miss Harper did not touch the money, but turned away, and was leaving the
                  room.
               "Miss Harper!" The voice of Mrs. Dainty had in it a commanding tone.
               Florence paused, and turned partly around.
               "Why don't you take the money? say!"
               "I cannot receive pay for services that are so poorly regarded," was her
                  calmly-spoken answer.
               
               "Impudent!" Miss Harper turned away again.
               "Stop!" The foot of Mrs. Dainty jarred on the floor. Miss Harper looked back.
               "Don't see one of the children; but go off with yourself immediately!"
               The young governess flitted away almost as noiselessly as a spirit. At the same
                  moment Mrs. Dainty rung her bell violently. To the servant who answered, she
                  said,—
               "Tell all the children to come to my room."
               "They shall see who is mistress in this house."(So she talked with herself in the
                  interval.) "Uncle John has had his way a little too long. But there is a point
                  beyond which patience ceases to be a virtue; and I have arrived at that
                  point."
               "What do you want, mamma?" asked Madeline, as she came with Agnes and her little
                  brother into her mother's apartment.
               "I want you to stay here with me," was the cold answer.
               "Can't I go back to Miss Harper? She was telling us such a sweet story when you
                  sent for her."
               "No; you can't go back. You must stay here."
               "I don't want to stay here. I'm going back to Miss Harper. I like her better than
                  anybody in this house." And little self-willed George made for the door, in his
                  determined way.
               "You George! Come back this instant!" cried his mother, in anger.
               "A'n't a-going to," replied the little rebel.
               "George!"
               "A'n't a-going to!" sounded resolutely down from the stairs.
               "I'll punish you!"
               "Don't care! Miss Harper! Miss Harper!"
               Almost like a fury did the mother rush away after her child. He heard her coming,
                  and ran to Miss Harper for protection. She had gone to her own apartment: not
                  seeing her in the study-room, the child knew where to find her.
               "Go back to your mother, George!" said Florence, speaking firmly, but kindly, as
                  the child rushed toward her.
               "A'n't a-going to!"
               "Oh, yes; Georgie must."
               "No, no! A'n't a-going to!"
               "This is the way you encourage disobedience in my children!" exclaimed Mrs.
                  Dainty, as she swept into the room at the moment when Miss Harper was stooping
                  down to kiss the little boy in the fulness of her swelling love. "Out of my house!
                  and quickly!"
               
               Grasping George by an arm, she bore him, screaming, from the room; and, as his
                  cries came back to her from the distance, Miss Harper could hear mingling with
                  them the sound of passionate blows.
               "Poor children!" she said. "There is good in them, but how sadly overgrown by
                  weeds! With such a mother, what hope is there? But I must not linger here. For
                  their sakes I would have remained, even though suffering insult daily. No choice
                  is left me, however, and I must go."
               As Miss Harper passed the door of Mrs. Dainty's room, on her way down-stairs,
                  dressed to leave the house, she heard the sobbing of George and Madeline, mingled
                  with stormy words that were passing between Agnes and her mother. The purport of
                  these she did not stop to hear, but hurried on, and, without seeing or speaking to
                  any one, took her silent departure.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               A REVELATION.
               "FLORENCE!" Miss Harper stopped suddenly, and looked up in a bewildered
                  manner.
               "Florence!" repeated the voice of Uncle John.
               "Mr. Fleetwood!" She could only utter the kind old man's name in a low, choking
                  voice.
               "Where are you going, Florence?" he asked.
               "Home," was the answer.
               "Has any thing happened at home? Is your aunt sick?"
               "No, sir."
               "Are you sick, Florence?"
               "Yes, sir. Sick at heart!" was the reply of Florence, made with quivering
                  lips.
               Uncle John turned, and walked beside Miss Harper, in the direction he had found
                  her going.
               "There is something wrong, Florence," said he. "Why have you left the house of my
                  niece so suddenly?"
               "Mrs. Dainty has dispensed with my services"
               "What?"
               
               "Mrs. Dainty does not wish me any longer to hold the place of governess to her
                  children," said Florence.
               Uncle John was silent for some moments. He then said,—
               "How did this happen? Tell me every thing freely."
               Florence related what had passed between her and Mrs. Dainty at the hurried
                  interview preceding her departure from the house.
               "You must go back again," said Uncle John, after Florence had finished her brief
                  narrative.
               "Impossible!" was her firm answer.
               "Say not so, Florence."
               "Impossible, Mr. Fleetwood! Impossible! I am not strong enough to bear all this
                  insult and indignity. I can suffer pain, or even death; but my spirit will not
                  brook humiliation like this! Only for the children's sake have I remained up to
                  this day."
               "And only for their sakes would I still have you remain," said Uncle John.
               "But the door is shut against me; and I will never knock to have it opened," said
                  the young girl, with an indignant spirit; "never! never!" She repeated the words
                  very firmly.
               "The door must be opened for you, and without the preliminary of a knock. Leave
                  all that to me," said Uncle John.
               By this time they had reached a small house in a part of the city where persons in
                  moderate circumstances reside, and both paused at the door.
               "Will you come in, Mr. Fleetwood?" said Miss Harper, speaking in a tone of unusual
                  familiarity. "Aunt Mary will, I know, be glad to see you."
               "Yes, I must go in, and have a little more talk with you, and a little conference
                  with good Aunt Mary."
               In the next moment they passed together into the house,—the manner of Uncle John
                  being that of a man who was entering a familiar place. In the small,
                  neatly-furnished sitting-room to which both proceeded they found a plainly-dressed
                  lady, somewhat advanced in years. She was reading in a volume that seemed to have
                  been taken up casually, as her knitting-work was in her lap.
               "How are you, Mrs. Elder?" said Uncle John, in the familiar voice of a friend; and
                  he took the old lady's hand and shook it cordially.
               "Right well, and right glad to see you, Mr. Fleetwood," was the frank, cheerful
                  response, as she returned the hearty pressure of Uncle John's hand. "But to what
                  cause am I indebted for this visit?" she
                  added, a slight shadow coming into her face as she looked more narrowly at
                  Florence.
               "A providential one, doubtless," said Mr. Fleetwood, smiling. "I met your niece,
                  just now, fleeing from the post of duty, and have accompanied her hither, that I
                  might hear the report she has to make of herself."
               "A good report, I doubt not," replied the old lady, throwing a kind but serious
                  glance upon the countenance of her niece.
               "When the door is shut in your face, you can hardly be blamed for leaving the
                  threshold," said Florence, with some bitterness in her tones.
               "Is it so bad as that, my child?" Mrs. Elder spoke with much tenderness which did
                  not wholly conceal a flush of indignation.
               "Just so bad." Florence said this slowly, and with an emphasis on every word.
                  "Just so bad," she repeated. "And yet Mr. Fleetwood wishes me to return for the
                  children's sake."
               "And is not that a powerful motive?" said the old gentleman, speaking before Mrs.
                  Elder had time to reply. "For the children's sake! For the sake of those little
                  ones whom the Lord, when upon the earth, took up in his arms and blessed with a
                  divine blessing,—who are so precious in the eyes of Heaven ven that their angels
                  do always behold the face of Our Father. I urged, you see, Mrs. Elder, no light
                  motive."
               The eyes and countenance of Florence both drooped to the floor, and she remained
                  sitting almost motionless.
               "I must know all the facts in the case, Mr. Fleetwood, before I can say a word
                  touching the duty of my niece. What she sees to be right she has the courage to
                  do, and, if my eyes can aid her in seeing right, I will gladly lend her their more
                  experienced vision. Let me have the whole story of this new trouble with Mrs.
                  Dainty."
               In as few words as possible, Florence rehearsed what had passed between her and
                  Mrs. Dainty, giving to her auditors that lady's emphatic and insulting terms of
                  dismissal.
               Mrs. Elder remained gravely silent for some minutes after Florence had ceased
                  speaking; while Mr. Fleetwood waited patiently to get the conclusion of her
                  thoughts.
               "I don't see that it is possible for Florence to go back again," said the old
                  lady, speaking as if that view of the case were clearly settled in her mind.
               "Extreme cases require extreme measures," said Mr. Fleetwood. "I treat my niece,
                  for most of the time, as if she were
                  partially demented. And so she is; for vanity and love of the world have in a
                  measure dethroned her reason. She was my favorite when a little girl; and I
                  remained strongly attached to her as she grew up toward womanhood,—though I could
                  not be over-patient with the fashionable follies to which she showed far too early
                  an inclination. For some years I have been altogether out of heart with her, and
                  see no hope of her reformation, except through virtue of some great calamity. But
                  she has children, to whom all my love is transferred,—children who may be trained
                  to good or warped to evil. I had almost come to despair of them, when a bright day
                  renewed old acquaintanceship, and I discovered in your excellent niece all the
                  qualities needed to save these children. How wisely, lovingly, and unselfishly she
                  has performed her task so far I need not repeat to you, Mrs. Elder, for I have
                  told you every word before. And now, do you think I can give her up? No, no. She
                  must return. But I will make the way as easy for her as possible. All the rough
                  places I cannot hope to make even; but she has courage to walk, if she knows the
                  voice of duty, even where sharp stones are certain to cut her tender feet. Already
                  she has won her way into the hearts of the children, and has at this moment more
                  power over them for good than any living soul. This power must not be lost."
               "Every child that is born," said Aunt Mary, in a thoughtful tone, "is precious in
                  the eyes of God, and his love toward that child is manifested in the best possible
                  arrangement of things external to its life, in order that these may awaken in its
                  heart emotions of kindness, mercy, and pity toward others. Such emotions, whenever
                  excited, fix themselves as permanent things in the young immortal, and remain
                  there like good seed that may be warmed into life and produce good fruit when time
                  has brought the age of rational freedom. It is by such remains of good and true
                  things in all their varieties, which are stored up in the minds of children from
                  the earliest days of infancy, up to manhood, that our Divine Father is able to
                  save us from the evil inclinations we inherit, when we step forth, as men and
                  women, self-reliant and rationally responsible. To help in the work of storing up
                  in the minds of young children such 'remains,' as I have called them, is indeed a
                  heavenly work; and all who engage in it are co-workers with angels."
               "And to neglect such work," said Mr. Fleetwood, "when it lies in our way, and will
                  be performed formed by no other hands if
                  we refuse to do it, involves no light responsibility. The perversion, corruption,
                  and final ruin of an immortal soul is a fearful thought."
               A deep sigh fluttered the bosom of Florence Harper; but she made no remark.
               "If a mother neglect her high duties in this regard," said Mrs. Elder, "can we say
                  that another becomes responsible in her stead?"
               Florence raised her head and listened with marked interest for Mr. Fleetwood's
                  answer to this question. He reflected a moment, and then made reply:—
               "For the work God sets before us are we alone responsible. His love for his
                  children is so great that he is ever providing the means to help them to a
                  knowledge of the good that is needful to secure their happiness. If those
                  appointed by nature to do good to his little ones neglect their high trust, he
                  leads others to a knowledge of their wants; and, if these pass by unmoved to
                  kindness, he still offers the heavenly work to other hands."
               The head of Florence again drooped, and again her bosom trembled with a sigh.
               "I do not ask Florence to return to our house to-day," said Mr. Fleetwood. "She
                  must have a little time for rest and reflection, and I must have a little time for
                  observation and management at home. The meaning of this hasty step on the part of
                  my niece I do not comprehend. Something lies behind it that I must make out
                  clearly before acting."
               "I will see you in the morning, Florence," added the old gentleman, on rising to
                  go. Then, taking her hand, he said, very earnestly, and with slight emotion,—
               "Ever regard me as your friend,—nay, more than a friend,—as a father. Do not fear
                  that I will advise you to any course of action in this matter that I would not
                  advise you to take were you indeed my own child—as—as you might have been!"
               The voice of the old man grew strangely veiled with feeling as he uttered, in
                  something of an absent way, the closing words of the last sentence.
               "Yes! yes! as you might have been, Florence!" repeated Mr. Fleetwood, with sudden
                  energy, catching at the hand of the young girl and pressing it to his lips.
               "Tell her all! yes, tell her all!" he added, turning to Mrs. Elder in a hurried,
                  excited manner. "Her presence moves me strangely, and memories of the past are too
                  strong for an old man's feelings."
               
               Mr. Fleetwood left, abruptly, the apartment, passing into the street, and so
                  leaving the aunt and niece alone.
               "Tell me all of what, Aunt Mary?" said Florence, coming to the side of Mrs. Elder.
                  Her face had become very pale.
               "A simple story of thwarted love and undying affection," replied Aunt Mary,
                  calmly. "Mr. Fleetwood loved your mother, and that love was only in a measure
                  returned. Your father won her heart more truly, and she decided in his favor. They
                  were married, and you are their only child. If your mother had married Mr.
                  Fleetwood, the current of her life might have run smoother; but whether she would
                  have been happier is not for me to say. Mr. Fleetwood never would marry again; and
                  it seems that his love for your mother has been an undying passion. I will say no
                  more than this. But he is a man of great moral worth, noble sentiments, and a true
                  heart. His interest in you is not a passing whim or preference, but has in it such
                  deep regard as a wise and good father knows only for his child. And so you may be
                  very sure that he will advise you to no course of action in regard to his niece
                  and her children that he would not advise for his own daughter. It was his love
                  for these children that led him to desire you for their governess,— you, whom he
                  rightly knew only through my representation of your character. I think you will
                  see it best to return to your post."
               "I can only go back through Mrs. Dainty's invitation, and, I was going to say,
                  after her apology."
               "Withhold for the present that last condition," said Aunt Mary. "I doubt not, when
                  the time comes, the way in which your feet should walk will be made very
                  plain."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE NEW GOVERNESS.
               MRS. DAINTY was asleep in her easy-chair, and the children, with no governess to
                  interest or instruct them, were ranging through the house at will, and finding
                  their own amusements, when the educated English lady arrived, and sent up her
                  card.
               "Mrs. Jeckyl—Jeckyl: who is she? I have no acquaintance by that name," said Mrs.
                  Dainty, as she looked at the card through her half-awake eyes. "What kind of a
                  person is she?"
               "She's dressed in black," replied the waiter.
               "Have you ever seen her before?" inquired Mrs. Dainty.
               "No, ma'am."
               "Is she genteel-looking? Has she the appearance of a lady?"
               "She walks like a lady," replied the discriminating waiter; "but her black is a
                  little rusty."
               "Somebody that wants charity, I suppose," said Mrs. Dainty, with a look of disgust
                  and an impatient toss of the head. "Go down and say that I am engaged, but that
                  she can send me word as to her business."
               The waiter retired. On coming back he said,—
               "The woman wouldn't tell me her business. She says she was desired to call by Mrs.
                  Ashton, but that, if you are not prepared to see her, it is of no
                  consequence."
               "Mrs. Ashton! Oh, yes; now I understand! Has she gone?"
               The manner of Mrs. Dainty changed suddenly; and she made the inquiry with manifest
                  eagerness.
               "She acted as if she were going," replied the waiter.
               "Go back quickly, and say that I will be down in a moment."
               A gleam of satisfaction shot across the face of Mrs. Dainty.
               "My new English governess!" she ejaculated, in a low tone, as the waiter left the
                  room. "I'll soon have a new order of things with the children!"
               After slightly adjusting her dress, which had become disarranged during her sleep
                  in the easy-chair, Mrs. Dainty put on as grave an air of dignity as she could
                  assume, and went down to the parlor. As she entered, a tall woman dressed in black
                  arose, and stood, awaiting her approach, with a half proud, half deferential air,
                  fixing upon her at the same time two
                  small, gray, piercing eyes, that seemed to go right through Mrs. Dainty. Her
                  widow's weeds, as the waiter had informed his mistress, were a little rusty; and
                  the same might be said of her complexion. Her nose was rather a marked feature for
                  prominence and size; her lips were delicate in comparison with the rest of her
                  face, and had a certain flexibility which showed them to be quick indicators of
                  feeling. The whole aspect of the face made upon Mrs. Dainty, at the first glance,
                  rather an unfavorable impression; and she seemed to be pushed from rather than
                  drawn toward the woman.
               "Mrs. Jeckyl?" she said, assuming a frank, smiling courtesy, as she came forward
                  and offered her hand.
               "My name." And the visitor bowed with a reserved dignity, giving only the tips of
                  her fingers to Mrs. Dainty.
               "Mrs. Ashton desired you to call?"
               "Yes, ma'am. She said you were about changing your governess, and would like to
                  see me on the subject."
               The woman's manner a little embarrassed Mrs. Dainty: there was in it an air of
                  conscious superiority that rather overawed her.
               "I have dismissed an upstart American girl, who took on airs with both me and my
                  children," replied Mrs. Dainty, with considerable warmth.
               "American girls, I have observed," said the visitor, "are apt to forget themselves
                  in the respect you mention. It grows naturally out of your system of government, I
                  presume. This equality of the people must often show itself as an offensive
                  element in society. I have been many times annoyed by it since I came to
                  America."
               "Oh, it's dreadful!" replied Mrs. Dainty. "Dreadful!"
               "Like other evils," was replied, "it will, I suppose, cure itself in time. People
                  who can afford to be independent will throw off the rude familiars who thrust
                  themselves too far in advance of their right positions."
               "Exactly so, as I have done in the case of Miss Harper, whom I sent off without a
                  moment's warning, for the offence of presumption. She very foolishly imagined that
                  her judgment and her will touching the children were superior to mine, and
                  ventured to set me at naught in their eyes. It was a bold experiment on her part,
                  and proved, of course, a failure."
               "If all American ladies would act with a like decision of character," said Mrs.
                  Jeckyl, "a needed reform would take place much sooner than it is likely to occur
                  while things go on as at present. But to the purpose of my visit. You desire, as
                     I understand, to secure the services
                  of a competent governess for your children."
               "I do," replied Mrs. Dainty.
               "So I have been informed; and I have called to see you at the particular request
                  of Mrs. Ashton. I do not know that I am prepared to make a positive engagement at
                  present, however. The position will be new to me; and I feel averse to assuming
                  it. Having moved all my life in the best English society, I find it hard to
                  repress a natural repugnance to becoming a mere employee—a kind of half servant—in
                  an American family."
               "I am not surprised at the feeling," said Mrs. Dainty, whose respect for the lady
                  had mounted at least thirty degrees on the scale of estimation. "It would be
                  strange if you felt differently. But I think we can make your position in our
                  family wholly agreeable. At least, it shall not be my fault if there is any
                  failure."
               "If the lady herself is on my side——" Mrs Jeckyl paused.
               "You need not be troubled for the rest," said Mrs. Dainty, finishing the
                  sentence.
               "Very truly said," was remarked, in a compliant, insinuating manner.
               The two ladies then came down to a regular business interview, in which the
                  questions of service and compensation were fully discussed. The terms of the
                  applicant were high, and her stipulations varied. She was to have no care of the
                  children beyond their education. Mrs. Dainty must have a nurse to give all
                  attention to their bodily wants, while she administered solely to their mental
                  needs. The hours of study must be fixed, and the nurse produce the children at the
                  study-room doors precisely at the time specified. With the termination of the
                  study-hours, all demands upon the governess for service in the family must end.
                  After that her time must be her own. As to her meals, they must be sent to her
                  room, and she must have the privilege of ordering as she desired from the day's
                  bill of fare. All this was imperative, and all this Mrs. Dainty yielded, so
                  earnest was she in her desire to secure the services of this accomplished English
                  lady.
               "There is one thing of which I must advise you," said Mrs. Dainty, during the
                  interview. "We have residing with us a bachelor uncle of mine, who, being in no
                  business, amuses himself by petty interferences in our family concerns. He is a
                  terrible annoyance sometimes. I mention this in the beginning, that you may be
                  prepared for him. One of the reasons why I sent off that American girl was,
                  because he took her side in every thing, and encouraged her in all her airs and
                  assumptions."
               
               "He must keep out of my way." There was a peculiar lifting of Mrs. Jeckyl's upper
                  lip as she said this,—as we sometimes see it in an angry beast,—just showing her
                  teeth enough to make it evident that she had the power to bite, and the will, too
                  under sufficient provocation. The effect on Mrs Dainty was not pleasant; but she
                  waved aside the warning impression as something in which there was no meaning.
               "Hold him entirely aloof," she said. "Do not permit his interference in the
                  smallest matter."
               "What right has he to interfere?" Mrs. Jeckyl showed a measure of womanly
                  indignation.
               "None!" was answered, with warmth. "None! I consider myself competent to decide in
                  all questions touching the management of my own children, and his meddlesome
                  interference puts me out of all patience. We must lay our heads together to
                  circumvent him entirely."
               "Why circumvent?" said Mrs. Jeckyl. "Why take all that trouble? Isn't there an
                  easier an plainer way?"
               "I do not wish seriously to offend my uncle," replied Mrs. Dainty, slightly
                  depressing her tone. "He is an excellent, well-meaning, kind-hearted man. I would
                  therefore circumvent rather than harshly oppose him. He is rather quick-tempered,
                  and an open rupture might ensue. The best way for you will be to keep him entirely
                  at a distance. Stand wholly on your dignity. Do not respond to any suggestion or
                  advice that he may offer in regard to the children, but keep your own counsel and
                  carry out your own views."
               "Trust me for that," said Mrs. Jeckyl. "He will always find me rock or
                  India-rubber."
               "When will you come?" asked Mrs. Dainty, as this preliminary interview was about
                  closing.
               "As early as you desire," replied the educated English lady. "To-morrow, if it is
                  agreeable."
               "I wish you would say this afternoon."
               "This afternoon!" Mrs. Jeckyl opened her small gray eyes wider than usual.
               "I have a particular reason," said Mrs. Dainty.
               "If it is very particular." There was a yielding air about Mrs. Jeckyl.
               "It is, very particular. I will explain. Uncle John knows nothing at
                  all yet about my break with Miss Harper, and still thinks her in the house. Her
                  services were obtained through him, and he seems to regard her as a kind of
                  protégé. Now, in order to let him understand that I am entirely in earnest, and
                  that her return is impossible, I wish him to learn two facts in the case at the
                  same time,—that the old governess has left the house, and that a new one has entered. This will prevent a brief but
                  unpleasant struggle for the mastery. You understand me?"
               "Certainly."
               "And will remain?"
               Mrs. Jeckyl reflected for some time.
               "I see exactly what you wish to accomplish," she said, "and sympathize with you
                  entirely. Tomorrow would suit me better; yet troublesome difficulties may pile
                  themselves up between this and to-morrow."
               "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure," remarked Mrs. Dainty.
               "It is, as every one has proved a hundred times in life," said the new
                  governess.
               "It will be wise for us, then, to use the ounce of prevention."
               "It will," replied Mrs. Jeckyl.
               "Then you will at once assume your new duties in my family?"
               "Yes."
               "I am delighted at your compliance!" said Mrs. Dainty, pleased as an impulsive
                  child in gaining some desired object. "We shall soon have a new order of things
                  that will defy Uncle John's petty interference. Come with me, and I will take you
                  to your room and then introduce you to my children."
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE SHADOW OF EVIL.
               SHOWING the room was a simple affair, but when it came to showing up the children
                  the matter assumed rather a complicated aspect. Agnes was the first whom Mrs.
                  Dainty ventured to introduce to the new governess.
               "My oldest daughter, Mrs. Jeckyl," she said, as Agnes, who has been summoned to
                  the study-room, entered with a grave, half-wondering, perceptibly-clouded face.
                  "Agnes, Mrs. Jeckyl, our new governess, who takes the place of Miss Harper."
               Agnes, who had advanced to within a few steps of her mother and Mrs. Jeckyl,
                  stopped suddenly. The quicker-flowing blood dyed her face to a deep crimson. The
                  tall, repulsive-looking English woman—repulsive to the sight of Agnes—advanced a
                  step and offered her hand; but, instead of taking the extended hand, Agnes merely
                  returned her sharp penetrating look, with one half fearful and half repugnant.
               
               "Why don't you speak to the lady?" said Mrs. Dainty, with some sharpness of
                  tone.
               Agnes partially extended her hand, and Mrs. Jeckyl, changing her dignified look to
                  one of smiling insinuation, accepted the reluctant courtesy.
               "Sit down, my dear." Mrs. Dainty's manner changed, and her voice assumed its
                  pleasantest tones.
               The three then sat down, facing each other, but neither of them at ease.
               "Mrs. Jeckyl," said the mother, "has come to take the place of Miss Harper as your
                  governess. She is an accomplished English lady, and will be very kind to you. I
                  shall expect you to submit yourselves to her dutifully, and to be guided by her
                  instructions. You are the oldest, my daughter, and your example to Madeline and
                  George will be all-potent. As you lead, they will follow. Lead them kindly, then,
                  into obedience and acquiescence. It is in your power to make this change an easy
                  one for all parties. Confide in Mrs. Jeckyl. You will find her worthy of all
                  confidence."
               "Believe me, my dear child," (Mrs. Jeckyl took up the theme in a peculiarly
                  insinuating voice, and with a smile that obliterated nearly every disagreeable
                  feature in her countenance,) "that I am indeed your friend. I do not come here as
                  a harsh, exacting ing tyrant, but as a sympathizing instructor. I shall not be
                  over-exacting, though earnest in seeking your improvement. Do not fear that I will
                  require you to run where only the skill to walk is possessed. Let us be friends in
                  the beginning."
               And she seized the hand of Agnes and gave it a warm pressure.
               Mrs. Dainty was delighted at this; it was so different from the cold, unbending
                  manner of Florence Harper. She saw in it the polished complaisance of a superior,
                  educated woman, in contrast with the weak, upstart pretensions of a presuming
                  American girl elevated by circumstances into a position of authority.
               But Agnes was not to be won over so easily. Young eyes often see deeper at the
                  first glance than old ones. The hand taken by Mrs. Jeckyl gave no returning
                  pressure. Mrs. Dainty was chafed at this, and said, with some impatience of
                  manner, yet in a low tone, meant only for the ears of her daughter,—
               "This is unladylike! Try and show a little breeding."
               "Oh, never fear, madam," spoke out, in a free way, the new governess, who had
                  heard the admonition: "we will be good friends enough. Your daughter must have
                  time to make my acquaintance. First
                  impressions are rarely continued. She will find me considerate, just, and
                  sympathizing. I have been young, and can well remember the days of girlhood.
                  Indeed, the child in me is not all extinguished yet. I like your daughter's face,
                  and see in it the index of a mind to which judicious culture will give strength
                  and beauty."
               "Thank you for the prophecy," said Mrs. Dainty, highly pleased with this
                  well-timed remark. "I have seen that Agnes possessed more than ordinary
                  endowments, and that all she wanted was a judicious instructor, who could be at
                  the same time a wise and loving friend. Be that to her, Mrs. Jeckyl, and you will
                  have our everlasting gratitude."
               "Trust me, madam, that I will seek the highest good of your children in all
                  things," was replied in a manner that was meant to be impressive, but which so
                  thinly veiled the hypocrite that Agnes, whose eyes were upon the woman's face,
                  curled her lip in almost involuntary contempt.
               "Call George and Madeline," said Mrs. Dainty, but little encouraged by Agnes's
                  reception of the governess, and anxious to get matters settled between this latter
                  personage and the children as quickly as possible.
               Agnes left the room, and soon returned with her brother and sister. Madeline
                  entered with a demure mure face, and shy, timid air; while George bounded in,
                  boy-like, shouting at the top of his voice.
               "George!" Mrs. Dainty held up her finger in a warning way.
               George checked his rude manner, and stood with his large eyes fixed curiously upon
                  the face of Mrs. Jeckyl, who tried to put on a most winning countenance. But, so
                  far as the boy was concerned, her effort was entirely fruitless. To him her aspect
                  was wholly repulsive.
               "What old woman is this, mamma?" he asked, looking from Mrs. Jeckyl to his
                  mother.
               "Why, George! George! Hush! What do you mean? Where are your manners?" And the
                  face of Mrs. Dainty crimsoned.
               "You see, Mrs. Jeckyl," she said, trying to apologize for the child's rudeness,
                  "how our children ape the coarse manners of these vulgar American domestics. Miss
                  Harper, the governess whom I have just dismissed, has left her mark behind her, as
                  you see; and a very ugly mark it is."
               "She isn't ugly at all!" exclaimed George, by no means comprehending the drift of
                  his mother's remark, but understanding clearly enough that Miss Harper was the
                  subject of disparaging words. "She's beautiful, and I love her. I do!"
               "Madeline dear,"—Mrs. Dainty turned from
                  George, over whom she had but little influence, and spoke very pleasantly,—"let me
                  present you to Mrs. Jeckyl, who is to be your governess in the place of Miss
                  Harper."
               But the child, instead of advancing toward Mrs. Jeckyl, stepped back slowly,—as if
                  the woman's eyes were two broad, strong hands, pushing her away,—receding until
                  she stood against the wall.
               "Madeline! Come here this moment! What do you mean?" Mrs. Dainty spoke
                  sharply.
               The child now moved, sideling, along the wall, keeping her gaze fixed, as by a
                  kind of fascination, upon Mrs. Jeckyl, until she came opposite to where her mother
                  was sitting. Then, not withdrawing her eyes for an instant from the strange
                  woman's face, she came forward and stood by her mother's side.
               "This is my second daughter, Madeline," said Mrs. Dainty, pushing the child toward
                  Mrs. Jeckyl.
               "How are you, my dear?" Mrs. Jeckyl, seeming not to observe the intense repugnance
                  of the child, reached out a hand, and, taking hold of Madeline, drew her almost
                  forcibly to her side.
               "What a nice little girl!" she said, holding her tightly in one hand, and
                  smoothing her hair with the other. "What sweet curls! Where did you get them,
                  dear?"
               But Madeline, with a flushed, half-frightened face, tried to release herself from
                  the woman's firm grip.
               "What dear children you have!" said Mrs. Jeckyl, now insinuating an arm around
                  Madeline, and continuing to smooth her hair with gentle but regularly-repeated
                  passes. "We shall be the best of friends in a little while. I shall love them very
                  much."
               Once or twice Madeline, over whose face rapid changes were passing, (at one moment
                  it was deeply flushed, and at the next overspread by a strange pallor,) made a
                  spring in the effort to release herself. But the hand of Mrs. Jeckyl, that was
                  upon her arm, tightened to a vice-like grasp, while the other intermitted not for
                  an instant its regular motions, just above, or slightly touching, her hair.
               "We shall be very good friends, madam,—the best of friends. I always attach
                  children strongly." Mrs. Jeckyl spoke confidently, and like one wholly at her
                  ease.
               At this moment Mrs. Dainty became oppressed with a feeling of vague terror, united
                  with an almost intolerable repugnance toward Mrs. Jeckyl; and it was with an
                  effort that she overcame the impulse to spring forward and snatch Madeline from
                  her investing ing arm. A little while she
                  struggled weakly against this strange feeling; then it passed slowly away, and,
                  like one awakening from a dream, she found the current of her life moving on once
                  more in its regular channels. But she had a different impression of Mrs. Jeckyl,
                  and a new feeling toward her. It seemed as if they had been suddenly removed from
                  each other, and to so great a distance that immediate contact was forever
                  impossible. She was about suggesting that it might be as well for Mrs. Jeckyl to
                  defer until the next day her formal entrance into the family, when she observed a
                  change in Madeline, who, instead of endeavoring to get away from the new
                  governess, now leaned against her, although the hand that held her a little while
                  before was no longer closed upon her arm. Almost at the moment of noticing this,
                  Mrs. Jeckyl raised the unresisting child to her lap, who leaned her head back
                  against her, and gazed up into her face with a pleased, confiding, almost
                  affectionate, look.
               "I said we would be good friends." Mrs. Jeckyl glanced with an exultant smile
                  toward Mrs. Dainty. "I understand the art of attaching children. What a dear,
                  sweet child this is! I promise myself a world of pleasure in entering into her
                  pure young mind and storing it with lessons of wisdom. And your oldest
                  daughter——"
               Mrs. Jeckyl turned her glittering eyes—that seemed to have in them a charmed
                  power—upon Agnes.
               For a moment or two the young girl was retained by them, as if a spell were on
                  her: then she turned away and fled from the room, her whole being pervaded by a
                  strange sense of fear.
               Not in the smallest degree did Mrs.Jeckyl seem to be disconcerted at this.
               "Young people have curious fancies," she said, in an even voice. "I am used to
                  them, and know how to adapt myself to all these variant peculiarities. Give
                  yourself no further trouble about my position with your children. I will manage
                  all that. Leave me now with Madeline and George. I want to make their better
                  acquaintance. Come, Georgie dear; I have in my pocket the funniest little box,
                  with the funniest little man in it, you ever saw in your life."
               The funny little box, and the funny little man, won over the romping boy, and he
                  went to the side of Mrs. Jeckyl without a moment's hesitation.
               It was as much as Mrs. Dainty could do to tear herself from the apartment and
                  leave her two little children alone
                  with this woman. She felt a vague sense of evil. A shadow, as from the wing of
                  danger, seemed to have fallen upon her spirit. But Mrs. Jeckyl asked to be alone
                  with them, and she felt that she must retire.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               A LITTLE BREEZE.
               "WHO is that old woman I met on the stairs just now?" inquired Mr. Fleetwood, late
                  in the afternoon of the day made memorable by the entrance of Mrs. Jeckyl into the
                  Dainty family.
               "It is our new governess," replied Agnes, to whom the question was addressed. A
                  look of disgust marred her face as she spoke.
               "Your new governess!" exclaimed Uncle John, in amazement. "When did she come, and
                  where from?"
               "She came two hours ago; but whether she dropped from the clouds, or was dug out
                  of the earth, is more than I can tell. She's horrible! I don't know what's come
                  over mother!"
               "Who is she? What is her name?"
               "A wicked-looking old woman, whom mother calls an accomplished English lady. Her
                  name is Jeckyl."
               "Jeckyl? Jeckyl?" Uncle John shook his head. "Never heard of her before."
               
               "Nor anybody else but mother. And where she found her, the dear only knows!"
               "Why was Florence Harper sent away?"
               A sad expression came into the face of Agnes, as she replied,—
               "My fault, I suppose. In my blind self-will, I resisted her when she was right and
                  I was wrong; and I complained of her unjustly. Mother talked very roughly to
                  her,—she's always done that; and then—and then, I believe, Miss Harper went
                  away."
               "Miss Harper was a kind, good girl," said Uncle John, "and tried always to do what
                  was right. I am sorry you misunderstood or resisted her, for she was the best
                  friend you will ever find in a governess."
               "I know she was, uncle; and I have learned it just too late. Oh, I would give any
                  thing in the world to have her back again."
               "I must see your mother at once," said Uncle John. "Where is she?"
               "In her own room."
               "Will you say that I want her?"
               Agnes went to her mother's room.
               "Uncle John wishes to see you," said she.
               "What does he want to see me about?" asked Mrs. Dainty.
               "I don't know. He's waiting for you over in the sitting-room."
               "Tell him I'm engaged just now."
               But that reply didn't suit Uncle John at all. His niece had no business to be
                  engaged, to him!
               "What is she doing?" he inquired of Agnes.
               "Reading."
               "Ah, well! If she can't come to me, I can, at least, go to her." And Uncle John
                  left the sitting-room. Mrs. Dainty started and looked confused as Mr. Fleetwood
                  entered her chamber.
               "Very particularly engaged?" said the old gentleman, a little sarcastically.
               "I didn't imagine that your business was one of life and death!" retorted Mrs.
                  Dainty, with heightening color.
               "And yet it may be, for all your defect of imagination," said the old man, seating
                  himself with the air of one who had something on his mind.
               "Where is Florence Harper?"
               "That is a question not in my power to answer," replied Mrs. Dainty. "She left
                  here some hours ago."
               "Why did she leave?"
               "I sent her away."
               "For what cause?"
               "She did not suit me."
               
               "In what respect?"
               "In all respects."
               "A sweeping range of objections, truly. May I ask another question?"
               "Forty, if you like."
               "Who is that old woman I met on the stairs a little while ago?"
               "Old woman! I've seen no old woman." Mrs. Dainty emphasized the last
                  words.
               "A middle-aged woman, then, with a hard—almost wicked—face. She was dressed in
                  black."
               "Our new governess, probably," said Mrs. Dainty.
               "That old hag your new governess!" Uncle John felt outraged, and spoke
                  intemperately.
               "I beg of you not to use such language, Uncle John." Mrs. Dainty affected
                  calmness, and spoke in a tone of quite rebuke. "The person to whom you refer is an
                  accomplished English lady, whose husband—a man of rank, I believe—died in the East
                  India Company's service."
               "Poh! A cast-off, superannuated lady's maid, more like!" retorted Uncle John, with
                  overflowing indignation.
               "This is insufferable!" exclaimed Mrs. Dainty, losing temper.
               "What is insufferable?"
               It was Uncle John's turn to assume an exterior calmness.
               "Your unwarrantable interference in our family concerns! It has come to a pretty
                  pass when I cannot even buy a beefsteak, or turn off a disorderly domestic, but
                  you must interfere in the matter and volunteer an ignorant condemnation. To tell
                  you the plain truth, Uncle John, I am getting very tired of this, and wish it to
                  end. I didn't consult you about this affair, because I didn't think it one in
                  which you had any rights or interest."
               "Indeed! You ignore my interests quite summarily. Pray, did you consult your
                  husband?" inquired Mr. Fleetwood.
               "No, I did not!" was replied. "There was no occasion to worry his mind on the
                  subject."
               "Probably you thought he had no more right in the case than your troublesome old
                  uncle," said Mr. Fleetwood, sarcastically.
               "Whether he had or not doesn't signify in the present controversy," replied Mrs.
                  Dainty, still showing a great deal of angry excitement. "I
                  chose to send away an offensive, upstart American girl, who didn't know her place,
                  and who kept the children by the ears half of the time, and take in her stead an
                  accomplished, middle-aged lady, with years and experience on her side. I have no question in
                  regard to my husband's acquiescence, and therefore shall not permit you to hector
                  me on the subject. So pray, Uncle John, spare me any further annoyance! It will
                  only tend to produce, in both of us, states of unkindness."
               "Where so much is at stake, I must venture much," said Mr. Fleetwood. "I pray you,
                  in turn, be not offended, if I press you on this subject. The love I bear for you
                  and these children will not let me keep silence. You have strangely misapprehended
                  Florence Harper. She——
               "Uncle John!" Mrs. Dainty interrupted the old gentleman, "I have shut the door
                  against her: so let her name die in this house. I shall not consent to canvass
                  with you either her good or evil qualities. I know just as much of her as I ever
                  care to know."
               "What do you know of this Mrs. Jeckyl, to whom, in such mad haste, you have given
                  over the care of your children? An accomplished English lady? Is that the extent
                  of your knowledge? Did you ever hear of her before to-day?"
               "Go on, Uncle John! Go on! I will try to be patient!" said Mrs. Dainty, leaning
                  back in her chair and forcing to her lips a smile of resignation.
               "A fig for your patience! Answer me in reason!" retorted the old gentleman.
               "I will when I make you my father confessor; but not before. I have no need at
                  present for such a ghostly appendage."
               In this spirit the controversy went on for more than half an hour, no advantage
                  whatever being gained by Uncle John. Mrs. Dainty said that she had tried a
                  governess of his selection, and tried her faithfully; and now she was going to try
                  one of her own choosing, and, if he talked until doomsday, it would not, in the
                  smallest degree, affect her purposes in the case.
               Most reluctantly did Mr. Fleetwood consent to abandon the argument. He felt that
                  too much was at stake. But a woman's will in the case was altogether too strong
                  for him. Mrs. Dainty had made up her mind to have her own way, and all
                  remonstrance, argument, and persuasion went with her for nothing.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE DEMON UNVEILED.
               "SUCH a scene as I have had with that meddle some old uncle of mine!" said Mrs.
                  Dainty to Mrs. Jeckyl. The two ladies met in the room of the latter, whither Mrs.
                  Dainty repaired as soon as Mr. Fleetwood, hopeless of gaining any influence over
                  her, had retired, discomfited, from the field of controversy.
               "On what subject?" inquired the new governess.
               "Oh, about you!" said Mrs. Dainty.
               "About me? What about me?" The small, gray eyes of Mrs. Jeckyl lightened.
               "I told you that Miss Harper, that abominable girl I sent off to-day, was a pet of
                  his."
               "Ah, yes; I remember. Well, there's one thing very certain, madam: he'll find no
                  pet or plaything in me!" There was the look of an ogre in the woman's skinny face.
                  "I met him on the stairs an hour ago: one glance told me his character. I read him
                  like a book."
               "How did you read him?" asked Mrs. Dainty.
               "He's an old cot-beety! A thing I despise!" said Mrs. Jeckyl, with contempt.
               "He's kind-hearted." Mrs. Dainty uttered a word of apology for Uncle John. It came
                  from her lips almost unbidden.
               "Kind-hearted! Any fool may be kind-hearted," said Mrs. Jeckyl, "and yet be very
                  annoying in his folly. I never had much fancy for what are called kind-hearted
                  people by way of apology for a thousand annoying vices and defects of
                  character."
               "Uncle John has few defects of character, and novices." Mrs. Dainty could not help
                  this just defence of her excellent relative.
               "By your own showing, madam," said Mrs. Jeckyl, affecting a pleasant tone," he is
                  very much inclined to be meddlesome in your affairs: that I call a vice. If you
                  think the appellation too severe, you can call the peculiarity by another name. I
                  can't tolerate such men!"
               "I don't ask your toleration of him. Only avoid, if possible, giving offence. For
                  my mother's sake, if not for his own, I must bear with him and treat him with all
                  considerate kindness."
               "I'll manage him," said Mrs. Jeckyl. "So don't give yourself any trouble about his
                  interference with my duties or privileges in the house."
               There was considerable modification in the tone and manner of Mrs. Jeckyl. She saw that she had
                  shown her rough side a little too plainly, and that there were reasons why Mrs.
                  Dainty could not ignore Uncle John altogether.
               "You must bear as kindly as possible with his peculiarities. He means well," said
                  Mrs. Dainty, as a very feeling sense of her many obligations to Uncle John, past,
                  present, and to come, grew distinct in her mind.
               "He won't trouble me any." Mrs. Jeckyl smiled in a lamb-like way,—or, rather,
                  tried so to smile. But the effort was one so unusual to her that she failed in the
                  result; and Mrs. Dainty was in some doubt as to the meaning of the curious
                  expression that came into the woman's face. She had visited the room of Mrs.
                  Jeckyl for the purpose of having a very free talk about Uncle John, and also for
                  the purpose of settling with that lady some very decided plans of operation in
                  regard to him. But the spirit in which Mrs. Jeckyl showed herself disposed to act
                  rather cooled her ardor, and set her to thinking in a new direction.
               The conference closed almost abruptly, and little to the satisfaction of either
                  party. Mrs. Dainty more than half repented of her hasty action in taking this
                  strange woman into the house and giving over her children to a guardianship and an
                  influence that might be for evil instead of good. When her husband questioned her,
                  she put as bold a face upon the matter as was possible,—denouncing Miss Harper in
                  unmeasured terms, and extolling the educated, accomplished English lady whom she
                  had been so fortunate as to secure in her place.
               "It is best, sometimes, to let well-enough alone," said Mr. Dainty, on learning
                  from his wife the change she had seen proper to make in a matter of so much
                  importance. "And I think Miss Harper was at least well enough."
               This was all he remarked, and Mrs. Dainty saw it best to leave the matter, so far
                  as he was concerned, just there. His easy indifference left her generally free to
                  do about as she pleased: so, whenever he failed of prompt acquiescence in any
                  course she designed to take, she pursued the easy policy of not disturbing his
                  mind on the subject.
               "Oh, she's hateful! I'll get a gun and shoot her!" It was little George who thus
                  freely expressed his indignant appreciation of the new governess. He was talking
                  to Madeline; and they were near enough to their mother's door to be heard
                  distinctly.
               "I wish Miss Harper was back again," said Madeline. Her voice had a mournful sound
                  in the ears of Mrs. Dainty. "I loved her so."
               "Miss Harper was good, but this old woman is hateful. What made you sit in her lap and lean your
                  head against her?"
               "I don't know. I couldn't help it," replied Madeline, still speaking in a kind of
                  plaintive way. "I wish mother would send her out of the house. I'm afraid of
                  her."
               "I'm not afraid of her!" spoke out little George, boldly. "And I don't mean to say
                  a single lesson."
               "That won't be right," said Madeline. "She is our teacher, you know."
               "She isn't my teacher if I don't choose; and I don't choose," responded young
                  America. "I'll say my lessons to Miss Harper; and I won't say them to anybody
                  else."
               "Madeline dear!" It was a new voice among the interlocutors, and the tones send a
                  strange thrill among the nerves of Mrs. Dainty.
               All was silent for some moments. The presence of the new-comer seemed to have
                  thrown a spell over the children.
               "Come, dear; I want to show you something beautiful I have in my room."
               Mrs. Dainty set breathlessly still, listening. There was the sound as of a child
                  rising slowly from the floor.
               "Come, George." It was the same voice.
               "A'n't a-going to!" was the quick, sturdy reply.
               "Yes, George; come. I've got some beautiful things up in my room."
               "Don't go, Madeline!" said George. "She's got a snake up there, and it'll bite
                  you! I saw it as I passed her door!"
               "You wicked little wretch!" exclaimed Mrs. Jeckyl, thrown for a moment of her
                  guard. "How dare you utter such a falsehood?"
               "Mother!" It was the voice of Madeline, and its low tones came to Mrs. Dainty's
                  ears with such an appealing fear in them that she repressed only by a strong
                  effort an impulse to rush forth into the passage and catch the child up in her
                  arms. But she sat still and listened.
               "Don't go, Maddy!" persisted George, nothing daunted. "She has got a
                  snake there. I saw it."
               A wild cry of fear now broke from the lips of Madeline, that went thrilling
                  through the house. Mrs. Dainty sprung from her room and caught the child from Mrs.
                  Jeckyl's grasp. As she did so, Madeline shrunk against and clung to her, while her
                  whole frame quivered as you have felt a bird quiver in your hand.
               "What ails you, dear?" Mrs. Dainty laid her face down upon the child's face, and
                  spoke very tenderly.
               "It's that wicked little boy of yours," said Mrs. Jeckyl, "who has been frightening her with the
                  story of a snake in my room. How dare you do so, sir?"
               "Well, so you have!" persisted little Don't Care. "I saw it. There it is now, in
                  your bosom! See! If its head isn't peeping out alongside of your neck!"
               It was now Mrs. Jeckyl's turn to start and look frightened. So natural and earnest
                  was the boy's tones, that even she was for a moment deceived, and clutched
                  convulsively at the imaginary snake.
               "Too bad!" she exclaimed, recovering herself. "Too bad!"
               Others soon joined the little group at the door of Mrs. Dainty's chamber; for the
                  cry of Madeline had reached every ear in the dwelling. Among the first to arrive
                  was Uncle John.
               "She did it!" cried George, pointing to Mrs. Jeckyl. "She did it!"
               "Did what?" asked Uncle John.
               "Frightened Maddy! She's got a snake in her bosom! Take care!"
               "A snake!" Uncle John looked puzzled.
               "I saw it in her room; and she's got it in her bosom now," persisted the little
                  fellow, quite delighted in observing the storm he had raised, and more delighted
                  at the discomfiture of the enemy.
               "You wicked little wretch!" exclaimed Mrs. Jeckyl, advancing toward the boy.
               George glided behind Uncle John, and, peering out from his place of refuge, made a
                  new attack.
               "They're in her eyes now! Don't let her come near you, sister Aggy! Take care,
                  papa! Old snake! She's the mother of snakes! See! They're crawling
                  all over her!"
               A tiger about to spring upon his victim could not have glared with two more cruel
                  eyes than those that sought the form of little George.
               "Silence!" cried Mr. Dainty, who had joined the excited company. "Silence!" he
                  repeated, sternly, as George attempted to speak again. "What does all this
                  mean?"
               "It simply means," said Mrs. Jeckyl, with forced composure, "that this little boy
                  of yours has frightened his sister with an improbable story of a snake in my room.
                  He seems to have a fruitful imagination, as he now multiplies the snake by a
                  score, and covers my body with them."
               Uncle John now observed Madeline, who stood with her face hidden upon her mother's
                  bosom, and shrinking very closely to her, turn her head slowly and look at Mrs.
                  Jeckyl. Her countenance was pale, and her eyes had a strange—almost
                  terrified—expression. She gave only a single glance, and then hid her face again, while a low shudder was seen
                  pervading her body.
               "It is plain," said Uncle John, taking advantage of the singular state of affairs
                  presented, and addressing the new governess, "that your efforts to gain influence
                  over these children have been unsuccessful, and that, judging from the present
                  state of affairs, such efforts in the future will be hopeless. My advice to you,
                  therefore, is to retire immediately."
               "I have no knowledge of you, sir, in the case," replied Mrs. Jeckyl, growing at
                  once self-possessed, and speaking with dignity. "I am here, under regular
                  engagement with Mrs. Dainty, to perform a service to her children, for which I
                  hold myself entirely competent, and to recede from which under the reaction of
                  simple child's-play like this I am not in the least inclined. Am I covered with
                  snakes, sir?"
               "Not literally," replied Uncle John.
               "Not literally! "What am I to understand, sir, by your words?"
               "Simply the meaning they convey to your mind. Nothing more."
               "Are there snakes in my eyes?" The woman was losing her forced composure.
               "Say yes, Uncle John! Say yes!" spoke out little George.
               "If you look into a mirror, you can see for yourself self," replied the old
                  gentleman, who, now that he had come fairly into conflict with the stranger,
                  determined to adopt any mode of warfare that would drive her from the house. "I
                  don't wonder that you frightened Madeline."
               "Uncle John!" Mrs. Dainty now made a feeble effort to speak in favor of her new
                  governess. "This is insufferable! Am I to have no control in my own house? Are
                  people to be insulted——"
               "Oh, mother! mother! send her away!"
               It was Madeline who interrupted Mrs. Dainty, as she lifted her face with a look of
                  such pleading fear that it checked her utterance. And the shudder that thrilled
                  the child's frame was so strong that it sent the blood coldly to her mother's
                  heart.
               "Madam!" (Mr. Dainty now assumed the controlling power, and spoke to Mrs. Jeckyl
                  like a man who was in earnest,) "after this scene you cannot remain here in any
                  comfort to yourself, nor in any acceptance in our family. I beg you, therefore, to
                  retire from the house, and at once."
               "Sir——" Mrs. Jeckyl made an effort to reply, but Mr. Dainty would have no parley
                  with her. "Madeline," he said, laying his hand upon his wife and speaking very
                  firmly, "go into your room with Maddy and George; and you, Agnes, leave us."
               There was no hesitation on the part of any thus addressed, for all, except George, were more than
                  glad to get out of the presence of Mrs. Jeckyl. He,—little rebel!—as he went at
                  his father's bidding, looked back over his shoulder, and called out,—
               "Snakes! Snakes!"
               As soon as Mrs. Jeckyl was alone with Mr. Dainty and Uncle John, and found herself
                  without any chance of holding the place she was in reality particularly desirous
                  to retain, she gave full course to her indignant feelings, and for some minutes
                  poured forth a torrent of mad invective. Not a single word was said in reply; and
                  so, like one beating the air, she soon exhausted herself. Her departure was like
                  the lifting of a storm-cloud from the dwelling of Mr. Dainty; but the storm did
                  not pass without leaving some traces of its evil work. Scarcely had Mr. Dainty
                  seen this woman beyond the threshold, ere he was startled by a cry of distress
                  from his wife, and the eager calling of his name. On reaching the chamber from
                  which her voice came, he saw Madeline lying upon the bed, pale and deathly in
                  appearance; and when he laid his hands upon her he found that she was rigid and
                  insensible.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               A FEARFUL MYSTERY.
               THE family physician, who was hurriedly summoned to the strangely-affected child,
                  entered the dwelling of Mr. Dainty in about thirty minutes after the departure of
                  Mrs. Jeckyl. He found Madeline showing a few signs of returning animation, but not
                  of conscious life. Her face was still of an ashen hue, and its expression painful
                  to look upon. At first he asked no questions, endeavoring, by an observation of
                  her symptoms, to comprehend the case. He soon saw that extraordinary causes had
                  been at work, and that the child's condition was one not to be reached through
                  ordinary treatment. After looking at her for some minutes, and examining all the
                  life-indications, he said, turning to Mr. Dainty,—
               "How long has she been in this state?"
               "More than half an hour."
               "What produced it?"
               "I am not able to answer your question,—at least, not satisfactorily. To me her state is
                  unaccountable."
               "Had she a fall, or a fright?" asked the physician.
               "Neither. And yet her mind was seriously disturbed."
               "By what?"
               "I can scarcely explain, for I am in doubt myself."
               "Perhaps your wife can answer my questions more clearly." And the physician
                  addressed himself to Mrs. Dainty. But the mother was silent. To her mind there was
                  a deep mystery in the affair. That Madeline's state was, in some way, dependent
                  upon Mrs. Jeckyl's influence over her, she had a vague conviction. But as to the
                  manner and meaning of this influence she was in total ignorance.
               "Will you inform me, as briefly as possible, as to the condition of things
                  existing at the time this partial suspension of life took place?"
               The physician addressed Mrs. Dainty.
               "I think she was frightened at something said by George," Mrs. Dainty
                  answered.
               "What was that something?"
               "He said that our governess had a snake in her bosom, and that snakes were
                  crawling all over her."
               The doctor looked thoughtfully upon the floor, and waited for additional
                  information. But Mrs. Dainty said nothing further. Little George was standing
                  close to the bedside. As the doctor raised his head, his eyes rested upon the
                  boy's face.
               "I think," he said, as he looked at the bright-eyed child, "that you must have
                  seen very sharp to find serpents about Miss Harper."
               "Oh, it wasn't Miss Harper!" replied the boy, in a quick tone: "she's lovely!"
               "Who, then, was it? I thought Miss Harper was governess to your children?" And the
                  physician turned to Mrs. Dainty.
               "No, sir; Miss Harper is no longer the governess of my children."
               There was a certain coldness of manner about Mrs. Dainty that was meant to repress
                  inquiry on this particular subject.
               "I hope, madam," said the doctor, speaking with some earnestness, and a little
                  severity of tone, "that you will be as unreserved as possible in your
                  communications. Unless I have all the information in regard to the cause of
                  Madeline's illness that it is in your power to give me, it will be impossible to
                  prescribe intelligently, or with any hope of reaching the case. Miss Harper, I
                  understand, then, was not the person to whom your little son referred as having a snake in her
                  bosom?"
               As Mrs. Dainty did not reply immediately, Uncle John spoke out in his blunt way,
                  and right to the purpose, saying,—
               "No, it was not Miss Harper, but a wicked old hag that my niece picked up
                  somewhere. If I had any faith in witchcraft, I would believe that she had laid a
                  spell on Madeline."
               The doctor now turned to Uncle John.
               "When did this new governess of whom you speak come into the family?"
               "To-day."
               "Only to-day?"
               "She came into the house only a few hours ago."
               "Was Madeline well this morning?"
               "Perfectly."
               "This is a sudden illness, then?"
               "So I understand it," replied Uncle John. "How is it, Agnes?" And he spoke to the
                  sister of Madeline, who was leaning over the bed, gazing with wet eyes upon her
                  pallid face. "Did Madeline show any symptoms of illness before this sudden
                  attack?"
               "She has acted strangely ever since Mrs. Jeckyl came into the house."
               "Mrs. Jeckyl!" said the physician, in a tone of surprise.
               The eyes of all turned quickly to his face with looks of inquiry.
               "Do you know this woman?" asked Mr. Dainty.
               "I am not certain. But I think I have heard the name before." There was an air of
                  evasion about the doctor.
               "She is an Englishwoman," remarked Mr. Fleetwood.
               The doctor looked at Agnes, and pursued his inquiries.
               "Acted strangely, you say. In what respect?"
               "I can hardly explain, sir," replied Agnes. "But I have heard tell of birds being
                  charmed by serpents; and the way Madeline acted toward Mrs. Jeckyl made me think
                  all the while of a bird and a serpent. I do not much wonder that Georgie saw
                  snakes in her eyes. They were the strangest eyes I ever looked into, and made me
                  shudder. She' done something dreadful to Madeline!"
               "Were they alone together?" inquired the physician.
               "For a little while."
               "Did Madeline seem repelled, or attracted, by this woman?"
               "Both. She appeared to be drawn toward her, yet acted like one struggling to get away. Oh, sir,
                  it was dreadful! I never met so terrible a woman! Her eyes shone, sometimes, like
                  coals of fire. I was afraid of her."
               "Did you see her put her hands on Madeline?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "In what manner?"
               "She held her with one hand, while with the other she smoothed her hair."
               "Did Madeline try to get away?"
               "At first she did; but after a while all her struggles ceased, and she laid her
                  head back against her, half shutting her eyes, and looking like one just going to
                  sleep."
               The doctor's countenance assumed a still graver aspect.
               "Was this woman an entire stranger?" he asked, in tones of surprise, turning to
                  Mrs. Dainty.
               "She came highly recommended by Mrs. Ashton, as an accomplished Englishwoman, the
                  widow of a distinguished officer who died in the service of the East India
                  Company."
               "Her own story, I suppose, believed by Mrs. Ashton without evidence. And on this
                  slight knowledge of the woman you placed these tender, impressible children under
                  her control!"
               And the doctor shook his head ominously
               "There has been harm done here," he added, "beyond my skill to cure."
               "What harm?" Mrs. Dainty's face grew suddenly as pale as the face of her
                  unconscious child.
               "Do you not know, madam," said the doctor, "that there are men and women at this
                  day who possess an evil power over the minds of those who submit themselves to
                  their influence, stronger than even the witch of Endor possessed of old,—persons
                  in mysterious league with evil spirits, who delight through them to break down the
                  soul's God-given freedom and make it the slave of their will? If this were my
                  child, I would rather a thousand times see her pass upward into heaven than live
                  on here exposed to the assaults of infernal spirits, who, in my opinion, have
                  gained admittance to her through this evil woman's power!"
               "Doctor," said Mr. Fleetwood, laying his hand upon the physician's arm with some
                  firmness of clasp, "no more of that, if you please! It is neither the time nor the
                  place!"
               "I stand rebuked," answered the doctor. "But I feel strongly on this subject, and
                  am apt to speak warmly."
               "Time is passing," said Mr. Fleetwood, "and every moment is precious. This child
                  needs your most skilful attention. I
                  think you understand her case as fully as it can be understood through any further
                  explanation at this time. We place her in your hands. Do for her to the utmost of
                  your skill."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               DOUBT AND ANXIETY.
               IT was nearly two hours from the time the physician entered the house of Mr.
                  Dainty before he retired, and then the night had fallen. He left Madeline in a
                  natural slumber, and with her pulses beating evenly. She had recovered from her
                  almost cataleptic condition with the rapidity of one awakening, and showed a
                  tranquil rather than disturbed state of mind. The presence of the doctor seemed a
                  little to surprise her, and she asked, as she looked from face to face, who had
                  been sick. Soon after, like one overwearied, she sunk into a gentle sleep.
               Before retiring from the house, the physician had a long conversation with Mr.
                  Dainty and Mr. Fleetwood, in which he gave it as his opinion that Mrs. Jeckyl had
                  attempted to gain a mesmeric influence over Madeline, and with a successful result
                  that it was frightful to contemplate.
               "She looked to me like a very fiend incarnate," said Mr. Fleetwood. "I can believe
                  any thing against her as to evil
                  purpose; but I am hardly prepared to reach your conclusion in the case."
               "Has the child ever shown symptoms of nervous disease at all resembling her
                  present affection?"
               "Never,"replied Mr. Dainty.
               "You heard Agnes describe the way in which she acted toward this woman?"
               "Yes."
               "Was it not remarkable?"
               "Very."
               "Have you any theory in regard to it different from mine?"
               "I have no theory on the subject," said Mr. Dainty. "The whole thing is beyond my
                  reach."
               "Are you familiar with these modern phenomena, which some call, oddly enough,
                  spiritualism?"
               A look of disgust came into the face of Mr. Dainty, as he answered,—
               "No."
               "If you were familiar with them, either from reading or observation," said the
                  doctor, "you might be inclined to think as I do touching your daughter's sudden
                  terror, which was followed by so deep a prostration of mind and body."
               "Her imagination," said Mr. Fleetwood, "is no doubt far more active than we had
                  supposed, and she may have an idiosyncrasy in regard to snakes which threw her
                  into a condition of paralyzing terror when George declared that the woman had
                  serpents crawling all over her. I am sure that her eyes were remarkably snaky at
                  the time. This, to me, is a more intelligible explanation."
               The doctor did not urge his view of the case, although his response to Mr.
                  Fleetwood was not of a character to show any leaning, on his part, to that
                  gentleman's opinion. After charging them to keep Madeline as free as possible from
                  all disturbing influences, he went away, promising to call in the morning.
               Before making his visit to the house of Mr. Dainty on the next day, the doctor,
                  whose mind had become very much interested in Madeline's case, called to see Mrs.
                  Ashton, whom he knew very well. After making a few friendly inquiries about her
                  family, he said,—
               "You recommended to Mrs. Dainty an Englishwoman as a suitable person to take the
                  place of governess to her children?"
               An expression of surprise came into the face of Mrs. Ashton, as she answered,—
               "I have not the pleasure of an acquaintance with Mrs. Dainty."
               For a moment the doctor looked puzzled. Before he had time to put another question, Mrs. Ashton
                  said,—
               "There is an Englishwoman named Jeckyl——"
               "The same! What do you know of her?" The doctor spoke quickly, interrupting the
                  lady.
               "Very little," replied Mrs. Ashton. "But why do you question me in regard to this
                  woman, Dr. Edmonson?"
               "Mrs. Dainty engaged her on your recommendation."
               "On my recommendation!"
               "Yes."
               "In the first place, doctor, I don't know Mrs. Dainty, except by sight; and, in
                  the second place, I have never recommended Mrs. Jeckyl to anybody."
               "There has been some deception, then," said Dr. Edmonson.
               "There certainly has, if I have been made to endorse the woman. I did speak of
                  her, to one or two persons, as an Englishwoman who desired to get the situation of
                  governess, and I may have spoken of her as educated and accomplished,—not so much
                  from my knowledge of her acquirements as from her own testimony in the case. And
                  now I remember that somebody told me that Mrs. Dainty was about changing her
                  governess, and that I mentioned tioned this to Mrs. Jeckyl and advised her to see
                  about the matter. This is the utmost of my doings in the case."
               "What is your impression of the woman?" inquired the doctor.
               "Not particularly favorable," said Mrs. Ashton. "I can hardly tell how she got
                  access to my family in the beginning. At first I pitied her lonely and almost
                  helpless condition in a strange country, and felt some interest in her; but this
                  interest has steadily diminished, until now the woman is so repulsive that I can
                  scarcely endure her presence."
               "And this is all you know of her?"
               "All; and I am pained to think that she has been received into any family on my
                  supposed recommendation. I should not like her to have a controlling influence
                  over my children. But pray, doctor, what has happened in connection with her and
                  Mrs. Dainty's family? I hope she has not been robbing them, or any thing of that
                  kind?"
               "Nothing of that kind," answered the doctor. "But I'm afraid she has been
                  attempting mesmeric influence over one of Mrs. Dainty's children."
               "Dr. Edmonson!"
               There was about Mrs. Ashton a peculiar tone and manner that excited the doctor's
                  curiosity.
               
               "Are you aware that she possesses any power of this kind?"
               "Your question throws a flood of light into my mind," said Mrs. Ashton, "and
                  gives, I think, the key to a singular fact that has always puzzled me. On occasion
                  of one of Mrs. Jeckyl's visits here, my little Emmeline was suffering with a sick
                  headache. You know how much she has been troubled with these headaches. She was
                  lying on the sofa, with pale face, and read, suffused eyes, when this women came
                  in. Seeing that Emmeline was sick, she made a number of inquiries about her, and
                  then, sitting down by the sofa, laid her hand, with a light pressure, as I could
                  see, upon her head. 'Poor child!' she murmured, and then began stroking her hair.
                  I noticed that she bent down and looked very intently into her face. I thought her
                  manner a little curious, but did not regard it as significant of any thing
                  unusual. This result followed: Emmeline, in less than two minutes, closed her eyes
                  and went off into a deep sleep, which lasted over an hour, or until Mrs. Jeckyl
                  ended her visit. On rising to go, she referred to the child, and, leaning over
                  her, moved her hand, in what struck me as a singular way, over her face. Emmeline
                  roused up instantly. 'How does your head feel, dear?', asked this women. 'It does
                  not ache any,' was answered. 'I thought You would be better,' said Mrs. Jeckyl, as
                  if speaking to herself. Once or twice since, in thinking of this incident, I have
                  had a vague impression that the sleep of Emmeline on that occasion was not a
                  natural one, and that it depended, in some way, on the act of Mrs. Jeckyl."
               "I have no doubt of it," said Dr. Edmonson.
               "You have not?"
               "No: evidently the women transferred, for the time, some will-force of her own to
                  the child, producing temporary unconsciousness. Her spirit Overshadowed the
                  helpless little one."
               The words of Dr. Edmonson sent a shudder along the nerves of Mrs. Ashton.
               "You frighten me!" she said.
               "You have cause to be frightened. When half-insane men and women step beyond the
                  orderly course of natural life and invoke powers of evil—for all things disorderly
                  are evil—to enable them to exercise a mysterious and controlling influence over
                  their weaker fellow men and women, there is subtle danger abroad, more fearful in
                  its effects than the invisible pestilence walking in darkness and wasting at
                  noonday. It is no light thing, Mrs. Ashton, to disturb the divine harmonies of the
                  human soul,—to thrust an impious hand boldly down among its hidden strings! I am
                  amazed at the folly and weakness ness
                  that prevail on this subject,—at the singular infatuation of well-meaning persons,
                  who permit themselves to become the instruments of invisible powers and influences
                  the quality of which even the feeblest reason might determine. To hear some of
                  these persons talk confidently, and with self-satisfied tone and countenance,
                  about penetrating the arcana of the spiritual world, excites my mirth sometimes,
                  but oftener affects me with sadness."
               "I have two or three friends," said Mrs. Ashton, "who have been carried away by
                  these things, and their lapse from reason has caused me deep regret."
               "You rightly designate their state of mind," replied the doctor, "as a lapse from
                  reason. No mind possessing a true rational balance is in any danger
                  of falling from its mountain-height and crystal atmosphere, where every thing is
                  seen in its true relation, down into this miry valley, where the thick atmosphere
                  distorts every object and mirage adds its mocking illusions. I am in no wonder at
                  the result,—at toppling reason, lapsing virtue, desolated homes! Every tree may be
                  known by its fruit; and the product of this has shown itself to be evil from rind
                  to core!
               "Never again, Mrs. Ashton, permit this woman Jeckyl to darken your chambers with
                  the shadow of her presence. If she have once brought your little Emmeline under
                  this direful influence of which we are speaking, she has disturbed the natural
                  order of her mind and gained a certain power over her. A second trance will be
                  induced more easily than the first. Even by her serpent-eye she may cast on her a
                  spell."
               Mrs. Ashton grew pale and shuddered.
               "I warn you in plain words," added the doctor, "speaking as think, and from a
                  solemn sense of duty. Mrs. Jeckyl, if I am to judge by the way in which her
                  presence and active sphere affected one of Mrs. Dainty's children, has a potency
                  of will almost irresistible. In Madeline's efforts at resistance—for she
                  manifested from the very beginning an intense repugnance toward the woman—she was
                  thrown into a condition of trance profound almost as death. The state in which I
                  discovered her, when summoned by the family, was not that of an ordinary
                  suspension of vital powers. I saw in an instant that extraordinary causes had been
                  at work. And I now fully comprehend the case. There has been a disturbance of the
                  order of that child's life that may never be corrected. Ah, Mrs. Ashton, a mother
                  can never be too-careful in the selection of those who are to be the daily
                  companions, and, I might say, educators, of her children!"
               
               From the house of Mrs. Ashton, Dr. Edmonson went to Mrs. Dainty's. He found
                  Madeline as well, apparently, as usual, and her mother's cheerfulness restored. He
                  made an effort to startle her mind with a clear apprehension of the danger through
                  which the child had just passed, but only partially succeeded. Mrs. Dainty hadn't
                  much faith, she said, in the strange stories told about the power of mesmerists,
                  and considered nine-tenths of the alleged phenomena as sheer delusion. She could
                  understand how Madeline's repugnance to Mrs. Jeckyl might have been so strong as
                  to produce vital suspension for a period; but that Mrs. Jeckyl had gained any
                  power over her was a thing not to be admitted for a moment.
               The doctor observed Madeline very closely, and was satisfied that a change had
                  taken place.
               "Did you sleep well last night?" he inquired of her.
               "Not very well," was answered.
               "Why?"
               "I had ugly dreams, that waked me up."
               "Often?"
               "Two or three times."
               "What did you dream about?"
               "I don't know."
               "Try if you can remember one of your dreams
               "I fell into the water once," said Madeline.
               "And that woke you?"
               "No, sir; but I thought that Mrs. Jeckyl tried to push me under, and that made me
                  wake up."
               "The doctor looked very earnestly into Madeline's face. Its expression troubled
                  him.
               "Can you remember another dream?"
               "No, sir: I can't remember any more."
               "You may be thankful, Mrs. Dainty," said Dr. Edmonson, "that circumstances so soon
                  showed the character of this woman. The harm she might have done your children is
                  inconceivable."
               "I think you put too serious a face upon the matter, doctor," replied Mrs.
                  Dainty.
               "Time, I fear, will tell you a different story," said the doctor, as he arose to
                  depart. "For the present let me enjoin upon you to keep this child as free as
                  possible from all disturbing causes."
               Mrs. Dainty made no answer, and the doctor, bowing almost formally, bade her
                  good-morning.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               PAINFUL CONSEQUENCES.
               "MADELINE."
               "Mrs. Dainty looked up, a slight expression of annoyance coming into her face:
                  Uncle John stood before her.
               "Well? What is it?" She did not speak with an air of encouragement; nor did she by
                  look or motion give the old gentleman an invitation to sit down. He had entered
                  the library, where she was reading.
               "I want to have a talk with you about the children," said Mr. Fleetwood. He was
                  altogether self-possessed, and his tone and manner were earnest.
               A deeper shade of annoyance passed over the countenance of Mrs. Dainty.
               "You still purpose having a governess?"
               "I don't know that I purpose any thing," replied Mrs. Dainty. "I've had such
                  wretched luck, so far, with governesses, that I shall hardly feel safe in trying
                  another"
               "Why not recall Miss Harper?" said Mr. Fleetwood.
               "Uncle John!" Mrs. Dainty turned upon the old gentleman a look of indignant
                  surprise.
               "The children are all attached to her; and she is pure-minded, true-hearted,
                  and——"
               "She's insolent and upstart!" retorted Mrs. Dainty, with passion; "and I will
                  never have her back in her old place."
               "You have altogether misapprehended Florence," urged Mr. Fleetwood, with unusual
                  earnestness of manner.
               "I am not apt to misapprehend people," said Mrs. Dainty, drawing her head up a
                  little proudly.
               "Have you noticed Madeline particularly, during the last few days?" inquired Mr.
                  Fleetwood, after a pause.
               "Particularly? How?" Mrs. Dainty looked curiously at the old gentleman.
               "Do you see no change in her since that remark able experience with Mrs.
                  Jeckyl?"
               "No," was answered, without hesitation.
               "I have."
               "Indeed! you are sharp-sighted, Uncle John!" Mrs. Dainty spoke lightly.
               "Love is always sharp-sighted when danger is about," was sententiously
                  answered.
               
               "You are fanciful."
               "No, Madeline!" The countenance of Mr. Fleetwood become still more serious. "No,
                  Madeline; I am not a dealer in light fancies, but a man of sober thoughts and
                  direct purposes, as you have reason to know, There is a change in our little pet,
                  and one boding, I fear, unhappy consequences, unless she is at once surrounded by
                  counteracting influences. The spirit of that bad woman, in over-shadowing her,
                  left something of its darkness on her young spirit."
               Mrs. Dainty sighed unconsciously.
               "What is the change you have observed, Uncle John?" she said, her repellant manner
                  subsiding.
               "Do you remember to have heard her merry laugh ringing through the house as of
                  old?"
               Mrs.Dainty thought for a moment or two, and then replied,—
               "I do not."
               "Do you know where she is now?"
               "No."
               "Come with me."
               The old gentleman arose, and moved toward the library-door. His niece followed
                  him, with a look of questioning interest on her countenance.
               "Where is she?" The mother spoke in a whisper."
               "Step softly," said Mr. Fleetwood."
               From the library they went noiselessly up to the nursery.
               "See!" And the old gentleman directed the attention of his niece to Madeline, who
                  was sitting there alone, her back to the door, silent and motionless.
               "She is reading," whispered the mother.
               Uncle John shook his head.
               "Madeline!" Mrs. Dainty could not repress the impulse to speak.
               The child started up and turned with something of a frightened look toward the
                  door.
               "What are you doing here all alone?" asked Mrs. Dainty."
               "Nothing," answered the child, looking confused.
               "Nothing?"
               "No, ma'am."
               "How long have you been here alone?"
               "I don't know."
               "Come down with me to the library."
               "I'd rather stay here," replied Madeline.
               "And I'd rather have you in the library," said Mrs. Dainty, with an air of
                  impatience.
               "I wasn't doing any thing," urged Madeline.
               "I didn't say that you were. But that doesn't signify. Come down into the
                  library."
               "I don't want to go down into the library."
               
               "Come! Do you hear me?"
               But Madeline stirred not.
               Mrs. Dainty was about starting forward to grasp the child's arm and constrain
                  obedience, when Uncle John held her back, whispering,—
               "Patience! patience! Remember that you are now dealing with a diseased mind
                  instead of a healthy one. There is something wrong about the child, and, if you
                  love her, be prudent."
               "You deal in riddles," said Mrs. Dainty, yielding to the constraining force of
                  Uncle John. "Disobedience, it strikes me, is a disease that should be dealt with
                  promptly." She spoke in a whisper.
               "Madeline!" There was a winning tenderness in the old man's voice that found its
                  way to the child's heart, for she moved toward Uncle John and grasped his
                  outstretched hand. The moment she felt its warm pressure, she shrunk close to his
                  side, while a pleasant change in her young face revealed the change which had come
                  over her spirit.
               "I want you in the library," said Mrs. Dainty firmly. She did not think it right
                  to let the child have her own way.
               "Come," Uncle John spoke, cheerfully; and moving away, Madeline followed without
                  resistance.
               But Mrs. Dainty failed altogether in awakening an interest in the child's mind.
                  Uncle John, thinking ing it best to leave them alone for a time, withdrew from the
                  library. The mother, on whose mind a pressure of concern had fallen, took down a
                  large volume of natural history, filled with costly engravings, and, opening it on
                  a table, drew Madeline's attention to the pictures.
               "Isn't this beautiful?" she said, pausing over a group of exquisitely-colored
                  birds.
               "Yes, ma'am," replied the child, in atone that betrayed an entire lack of
                  interest.
               "Humming-birds! Oh, how beautiful!" The tones of Mrs. Dainty's voice were
                  animated. "This one with golden wings and emerald-green bosom is like the darling
                  wee bird we saw this spring, fluttering among the honeysuckle-leaves in the
                  garden. Isn't it sweet?"
               "Yes, ma'am."
               There was not a ripple of interest in Madeline's voice.
               "Don't you like birds?" inquired the disappointed mother.
               "Yes, ma'am."
               "Here are two beautiful doves. How lifelike! It seems every moment as if they
                  would fly away! A'n't they lovely, dear?"
               "Yes, ma'am."
               Mrs. Dainty bent down and looked into the child's face. Her eyes were not on the book, but cast
                  dreamily to the floor, and there was in her countenance a sad expression.
               "Madeline!" Mrs. Dainty spoke with a suddenness that caused her child to start and
                  the varying color to dance over her face.
               "What do you mean by this? I don't understand you!" Mrs. Dainty's mind was growing
                  confused through impatience.
               For an instant Madeline looked frightened, and then burst into tears.
               "What are you crying about, silly child? "What ails you?"
               Madeline answered nothing, but wept more violently.
               "Are you sick?"
               "No, ma'am," sobbed the unhappy child.
               "What's the matter with you, then?"
               "I don't know."
               "Crying like a baby, and don't know for what? Shame on you!"
               Madeline moved away from her mother's side, as if a hand had been suddenly pressed
                  against her.
               "Come, now! There's been enough of this! Dry up your tears at once, and be a good
                  girl! Here! Let me wipe them all away."
               And she caught Madeline with one hand, while with the other she held a
                  handkerchief to her eyes. But the fountain of tears was not so easily dried up.
                  Madeline wept on, sobbing in a wild, convulsed manner.
               "I'm out of all patience!" exclaimed Mrs. Dainty. Her mind, instead of getting
                  clearer, was becoming more and more clouded by passion. "If you don't stop this
                  crying for nothing, I'll punish you! Hush, I say!"
               There was an instant of strong agitation, as if the will of the child were
                  contending vigorously with an almost over powering flood of emotion; and then all
                  was still as death. Madeline stood motionless, and silent as a statue.
               "Very well," said Mrs. Dainty, coldly; "I'm glad to see that you can obey if you
                  will, and I look to having no more annoyances of this kind. Go and sit down, or
                  amuse yourself in some way."
               But Madeline did not stir.
               "Do you hear me?" Mrs. Dainty spoke sharply
               Still the child stood motionless.
               "Madeline!"
               No response.
               "Don't trifle with me, child!"
               The stern, threatening voice uttered its injunction in vain.
               
               "Madeline! Answer me, or I will punish you severely."
               The mother had raised her hand to strike a blow, when Mr. Fleetwood, who remained
                  near the library-door, came in hastily, and with a look and gesture warned her
                  against that extremity.
               "Uncle John!" exclaimed the excited woman, losing all patience, "I wish you would
                  mind your own business, and not interfere with me. You only encourage this
                  self-willed child in her spirit of disobedience!"
               And before Mr. Fleetwood had time to reply she caught Madeline by the arm, and
                  dragged her from the library, and through the passages to her own apartment, the
                  door of which she closed and locked.
               "You'll find that I'm in earnest!" she exclaimed, in a husky but determined voice,
                  as she hurried Madeline across the room. Seating herself, she drew the child close
                  in front of her, and, looking steadily into her face, said,—
               "Speak! "What do you mean by this conduct?"
               The aspect of Madeline's face, as it now appeared in the eyes of Mrs. Dainty, was
                  so strange that alarm took the place of anger. All life seemed to have receded
                  therefrom. The blue lips stood apart, the eyes were wide open, almost staring, the
                  skin was of an ashen hue. Lifting her quickly from the floor, the mother laid her
                  child upon a bed, and, after bending over her a few moments anxiously, went to the
                  door and called Mr. Fleetwood.
               "I warned you," said the old gentleman, in a reproving voice, as he saw the
                  child's condition. "I told you that you were dealing with a diseased mind!"
               "What can ail her? Oh, Uncle John, send at once for the doctor!" Mrs.
                  Dainty wrung her hands, and stood glancing from Madeline to Mr. Fleetwood, her
                  countenance pale with fear.
               The old gentleman bent down over the child, laying his hand upon her forehead and
                  breast, and then searching along her wrists with his fingers. Her flesh was cold,
                  and damp with perspiration, and there was so feeble a motion in the heart that
                  scarcely a wave of life could be felt along the arteries.
               "Oh, send for the doctor! She may die!" Mrs. Dainty was overwhelmed with
                  distress.
               "Be patient. Control yourself, Madeline." Uncle John spoke with unusual calmness.
                  "Get cold water and bathe her forehead and temples."
               This was done, and signs of more active life followed. A warmer color returned to
                  her cheeks; respiration became deeper; the half-opened eyes closed, giving the look of sleep, instead of death,
                  to her childish face.
               "What is the meaning of this? "What has come over the child?" said Mrs. Dainty,
                  breathing more freely as she saw that a new and healthier action had supervened:
                  "I don't understand it, Uncle John."
               "There is disease of the mind, Madeline, as I have been trying for the last hour
                  to make you understand. Its exact nature cannot at once be determined. Neither
                  anger nor force will avail any thing: of that be fully assured."
               "But, Uncle John, she must not be permitted to have her own will entirely. That
                  leads to ruin."
               "Of course not. The government of love, wise and gentle in all its
                  ministration,—not the government of angry force,—must have rule. See into what a
                  mental paralysis your efforts to compel submission have thrown her. If her mind's
                  condition had been a healthy one, this would never have occurred. Deal with her,
                  then, wisely and gently, as you would deal with the sick."
               Mrs. Dainty sighed deeply, and looked troubled.
               "What does it mean, Uncle John? "What is the cause of this strange affection?"
               "It was not so before Mrs. Jeckyl came into the house."
               Mrs. Dainty gave an unwilling assent.
               "Something has been done to her by that woman. If I were a believer in witchcraft
                  I would say that she had laid a spell upon the child; that Madeline was under the
                  influence of an evil eye."
               "There is something wrong," murmured Mrs. Dainty, speaking partly to
                  herself,—"something wrong! I wish I had never seen that dreadful woman." A low
                  shudder pervaded her nerves.
               "Yes, something very wrong," said Mr. Fleetwood; "and it will require the wisest
                  care on our part to restore the harmonious action of her life, so suddenly and so
                  strangely disturbed."
               For nearly two hours Madeline lay in a deep sleep; and during all that time Mrs.
                  Dainty sat by the bedside. "When she awoke at last, her mind was in a tranquil
                  state, like one coming out of a refreshing slumber. But she exhibited none of her
                  old lightness of spirit,—was quiet, yet cheerful, rather than of pensive mood. She
                  did not seem inclined to join, as of old, her little brother George, Master "Don't
                  Care," in any of his sports, but rather shrunk away into unobserved places,
                  sitting quiet and idle.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               ALARMING OCCURRENCE.
               TIME made very little change in Madeline's state; no change, at least, for the
                  better. Twice during the succeeding fortnight her mother's anger was excited
                  against her, and the strong, passionate will of the one set itself vigorously to
                  work to subdue the so-called "wilfulness" of the other. But each time the storm,
                  like all storms, made itself felt only in wreck and ruin. Madeline, after the
                  exhaustion of the wild strife of passion was over, showed a moody, absent
                  exterior, and an increased tendency to be alone.
               "What can ail the child?" Mrs. Dainty would say, in her uneasiness and perplexity,
                  now appealing to her husband, and now to Uncle John. But from neither could any
                  solution of the mystery of her strange state be derived. The family physician was
                  called in and consulted, though with little satisfaction. "There must be a change
                  for Madeline," he said. "Her mind must be diverted. She is in a morbid state;"
                  with much more to the same purpose pose. Yet nothing was gained. The mental
                  disease abated not, but commenced assuming new forms. Morbid desire began taking
                  the place of morbid indifference; and, if this inordinate craving were not
                  indulged, fits of nervous prostration followed the excitement of contention,
                  resembling the stupor of opium.
               It now became a matter of serious consideration in the family as to how Madeline
                  was to be treated by the other members. Suddenly her, will had grown exacting. The
                  mild-tempered, gentle, loving little girl had become imperious, selfish, and
                  demanding. If she desired a thing, or wished for an indulgence, no amount of
                  opposition subdued her. Denial, argument, punishment, increased instead of
                  weakening her purpose, and the certain result was a nervous spasm, or deep stupor,
                  lasting at times for hours. So long as she had her own way, the current of her
                  life glided along smoothly; but any obstruction swelled it into a turbulent flood,
                  the dark depths of which were hidden from all eyes.
               The doctor strongly recommended change of place, new associations. "Send her out
                  in the carriage every day, or take her to the public squares for a ramble among
                  the children," he would urge, when he saw her moving in her quiet way about the house, and marked the singular
                  expression of her countenance, that had in it something almost weird.
               One day Agnes, the elder sister, accompanied by George, had taken Madeline to the
                  City Square through which they wandered for some time. Growing tired, the girls
                  sat down to observe a party of little children who were jumping the rope, while
                  George, boy-like, took a wide range over the grounds. Suddenly the attention of
                  Agnes was called to Madeline by an exclamation, and, looking around and into her
                  face, she saw that her eyes were fixed on some object with a look of fear.
                  Following their direction, she saw at a short distance the repulsive form of Mrs.
                  Jeckyl, who was standing perfectly still, gazing at them. Her first instinctive
                  movement was to shade the eyes of Madeline with her hand and thus hide from her
                  the form which had disturbed her with its presence. As she did so, Madeline shut
                  her eyes and leaned her head back against her sister.
               As soon as Mrs. Jeckyl, saw that she was observed, she came forward, offering her
                  hand to Agnes in a familiar way, and inquiring with an affectation of interest
                  about the family.
               "Ah," she continued, "and here is my little pet, Maddy!" placing her hand, as she
                  spoke, on the head of Madeline, whose slight form quivered and shrunk at the
                  touch.
               "How are you, dear?" she asked, in tones meant to be winning.
               But Madeline kept her face buried in her sister's garments.
               "That little rebel brother tried to frighten my pet," she added, her hand still
                  playing with the child's curls,—"the naughty boy! But Maddy was my jewel! Little
                  darling! Come! Look up, and let me see, if only for a moment, that pair of bright
                  eyes."
               Agnes felt the head of Madeline slowly turning, as if she wished to get a stealthy
                  glance at the woman's face.
               "Ah! Peep-bo! Peep!" said Mrs. Jeckyl, playfully. "I thought the light would
                  come."
               Madeline had taken a single look, and then hidden her face again.
               "How have you been, darling?" Mrs. Jeckyl bent her head close down to the face of
                  Madeline.
               The child made no answer.
               Still the woman's hand was on her head, and restlessly moving among the sunny
                  curls. Twice had Agnes pushed it away with a firm effort; but it returned again
                  persistently. She had a strange, bewildered wildered feeling, and an impulse to catch Madeline
                  in her arms and flee away, as from impending danger.
               "Ah! Peep-bo!" Madeline had stolen another look, and the woman,
                  watchful as a serpent, had caught the glance; and now her eye held that of the
                  child, who did not again turn her face away, but continued to gaze upon that of
                  Mrs. Jeckyl.
               "You are a little darling!" said Mrs. Jeckyl, now bending close to Madeline, and
                  smiling upon her in her most winning manner. "The sweetest pet in all the world!
                  Here, sit on my lap." And she made an attempt to life Madeline from the arm of her
                  sister; but Agnes resisted, saying, coldly,—
               "If you please, madam, let her remain where she is."
               But the woman was bent on having her own way. Not seeming even to hear the words
                  of Agnes, she applied her strength, and drew the child upon her lap. A deep
                  fluttering sigh came up from the heart of Madeline, and light spasms quivered over
                  her face. There was a brief, feeble resistance; then strength and will were
                  subdued, and, passive as a babe, she shrunk against the woman, laying her head
                  down upon her bosom.
               Roused by fear and indignation, Agnes started to her feet, and, grasping her
                  sister by the arms, said, as she exerted her strength in the effort to remove
                  her,—
               "Let her go, Mrs. Jeckyl!"
               "Don't fret yourself, my dear," said the woman, fixing her glittering eyes into
                  those of Agnes, with a look meant to subdue her also. But the effort to hold her
                  passive by the strength of a powerful will failed wholly.
               "Release my sister!" she added, sternly.
               But Mrs. Jeckyl drew her arm the more tightly around Madeline, and with her steady
                  eye sought to throw a spell over Agnes.
               Grown desperate with fear, Agnes now exerted all her strength, and with a single
                  violent jerk succeeded in wresting the half-insensible form of her sister from the
                  arms of Mrs. Jeckyl.
               "You're a polite young lady!" said Mrs. Jeckyl, in a sneering manner. "This is
                  American good-breeding, I suppose!"
               "And you're a wicked woman," replied Agnes, indignantly confronting the enemy.
               "Snakes! Snakes!" It was the ringing, exultant voice of little "don't-care"
                  George, who had circled the square in a trot, and just returned to the place where
                  he had left his sisters.
               Mrs. Jeckyl turned with a start upon this unwelcome intruder.
               
               "Old Snakes!" said the boy, stooping before the woman, with his hands upon his
                  knees, and a grin of exultation on his face. "Old Snakes!"
               Fierce as a tiger did she advance upon George; but she had an antagonist to deal
                  with who was an over-match for her.
               "Take care!" exclaimed the boy, as he darted around a lady who was passing, thus
                  putting her between him and Mrs. Jeckyl; "take care, ma'am: that's Old
                  Snakes!"
               The lady started, and looked half frightened.
               "Take care!" repeated Young America. "She's got a snake in her bosom! There! don't
                  you see its head peeping out?"
               "Mercy!" exclaimed the lady, springing away from Mrs. Jeckyl, who, in trying to
                  catch George, ran against her.
               "Snakes! Snakes! Old Snakes!" screamed the little rebel, dancing with delight, and
                  soon attracting a crowd of men, women, and children to the spot.
               "Where are the snakes?" asked one and another.
               "There she goes! Don't you see her? That is Old Snakes!" answered the laughing
                  boy, pointing to Mrs. Jeckyl, who, a second time discomfited by weapons for which
                  she had neither shield nor armor, was acting on the principle that discretion was
                  the better part of valor, and making a hasty retreat from the battle-field.
               "You're a very rude little boy," said a grave old gentleman.
               "And she's a very wicked woman," answered little. Don't Care, looking boldly up
                  into the speaker's face.
               "Why did you call her Snakes?" inquired the man: "there's no sense in that."
               "If you'd looked into her eyes, you'd have seen them," replied George, half
                  carelessly; and then, grasping the outstretched hand of his sister Agnes, he
                  withdrew from the little crowd, and passed with quick steps homeward.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               DISAPPEARANCE OF MADELINE.
               THE danger which threatened Madeline had suddenly taken on a new and more alarming
                  aspect. With the removal of Mrs. Jeckyl from the house of Mr. Dainty, it was
                  believed that all direct influence had ceased, and that whatever of evil she had
                  wrought upon the child would gradually lose its power over her as time progressed.
                  But the enemy had not left the field; there was only a change of position.
               The detail by Agnes, in an excited manner, of what had occurred in the City
                  Square, sent through all hearts a thrill of fear. In the family council, Mr.
                  Dainty talked indignantly of the police and arrest, while Mr. Fleetwood, for the
                  most part silent, walked the floor with uneasy footsteps.
               "I shall not dare to let Madeline pass our own threshold," said Mrs. Dainty, in a
                  troubled voice, "though she is dying for change of air and change of scene. Oh,
                  isn't it dreadful!"
               "The woman must be arrested," Mr. Dainty announced nounced, for the tenth
                  time,—the only remedy he had to suggest.
               "What good?" inquired Uncle John.
               "We will have her bound over to keep the peace," said Mr. Dainty.
               Uncle John shook his head as he answered, "You cannot bind the influence of her
                  evil eye. It may fall upon our precious one at any moment least expected, and in
                  spite of all law or police. The danger comes from a new direction, and is too
                  subtle in its nature to be restrained by common ponds."
               "What then are we to do?" asked Mrs. Dainty, wringing her hands in a distressed
                  manner.
               But no one ventured a reply to her question.
               After a long and troubled session, the family council broke up, without having
                  arrived at any satisfactory result beyond the common conclusion that it would not
                  be safe to let Madeline, in her present state, go out, and thus be in danger of
                  meeting the strange woman who had thrown so fearful a spell over her young
                  spirit.
               Singularly enough, the child, from this time, showed a restless desire to get away
                  from the house. Instead of creeping into lonely rooms by herself, she would seek
                  the front windows and door, and stand gazing into the street, her eyes wandering
                     up and down among the passengers, as
                  if in search of some one. When taken from the door or windows, she would resist,
                  and sometimes fall into passionate fits, that left her in a strange stupor. Three
                  times within a week she attempted to steal away; and once she succeeded in getting
                  off, but was met by her father, who happened to be returning home, when only a few
                  blocks distant. To his inquiries as to where she was going, she replied, "To the
                  Square." After a slight opposition, she concluded to go back with him, but was
                  moody and ill-natured for the rest of the day.
               So it continued for weeks, with but little change for the better. Mrs. Dainty's
                  fears were all the while excited, and she never felt comfortable a moment when
                  Madeline was away from her.
               One day, in taking her usual after-dinner sleep, Mrs. Dainty was visited by a
                  frightful dream about Madeline, so vivid in its character as to awaken her. Her
                  first impulse, the moment bewildered thoughts ran clear, was to seek for her
                  child. "Madeline!" she called, going to her chamber-door. For a moment or two she
                  stood listening, then called, in a louder voice, "Madeline! Madeline!"
               "Madeline!" It was the voice of the oldest daughter, calling from the library.
               "Agnes, where is Madeline?"
               "I do not know," replied Agnes, coming toward her mother. "I heard her and George
                  up in the nursery not long ago. Perhaps she is there George!"
               A pair of rapid feet responded noisily to the call.
               "George, where is your sister?"
               "Don't know," answered the boy.
               "Isn't she in the nursery?"
               "No, ma'am."
               "I heard you and her talking there not long ago," said Agnes.
               "She went down-stairs for a piece of cake a good while ago."
               Agnes almost flew down to the kitchen, and inquired of the chambermaid, whom she
                  found there, if she had seen Madeline.
               "I heard her come down-stairs a little while ago, and I think she went into the
                  parlor," replied the chambermaid.
               One of the parlor-shutters was found pushed open, the curtain drawn aside, and a
                  chair out of position.
               "She has been here," said Mrs. Dainty, in a choking whisper.
               "Perhaps she has fallen asleep somewhere," suggested a domestic.
               
               "Search through the house, everywhere!" replied Mrs. Dainty. "Look into all the
                  rooms and closets! How could you lose sight of her?"
               But they searched in vain. The child was not in the house!
               "Where is Uncle John?" asked Mrs. Dainty, in her terror and bewilderment.
               Mr. Fleetwood entered from the street at the moment his name was mentioned, and in
                  no way lessened the anxious fears of his niece by his troubled exclamations on
                  learning that Madeline was nowhere to be found in the house.
               "I have trembled every day in fear of this!" said the old man, pacing the floor in
                  great agitation. "How could you leave her unguarded?"
               Not long, however, did Mr. Fleetwood remain inactive. After sending word to Mr.
                  Dainty, and despatching servants in various directions to search through all the
                  neighborhood, he went out himself, and commenced a series of close inquiries at
                  all the stores and offices within several squares.
               "Had she curly hair?" inquired a boy who was buying something at one of the stores
                  visited by Mr. Fleetwood.
               "Yes," answered the old gentleman, with a sudden eagerness of manner.
               "And wore a blue frock?"
               "Yes."
               "Was bare-headed?"
               "Yes."
               "I saw her going down the street a good while ago. An old woman, dressed in black,
                  had her."
               "Going down the street! Where?" asked Mr Fleetwood, with increasing
                  excitement.
               "By our house," replied the boy.
               "Where is your house?" demanded the old gentleman, in a voice that startled not
                  only the lad, but all the other inmates of the store.
               "Round in Eager Street."
               "Which way did you say they were going?"
               "Toward Fifth Street."
               "I'll give you ten dollars if you'll find them!" said Mr. Fleetwood.
               "Will you?" And the lad dropped his package on the counter and started for the
                  door.
               "Ten dollars?" He paused for reassurance.
               "Yes,—ten gold dollars. Now move on their track like lightning! But stay! You are
                  to report yourself at my house, the number of which is on this card. Let us hear
                  from you speedily. Now, away!"
               The boy disappeared from the door and went flying down the street.
               Still pursuing his inquiries, Mr. Fleetwood met with others who confirmed the boy"s statement that
                  a child, resembling Madeline, had been seen in company with an old woman dressed
                  in black. This caused him to visit the Chief of Police and
                     secure his efficient aid in the matter, thus putting in
                  operation the most vigilant means of discovery.
               It was nearly an hour after Mr. Fleetwood left the house, when, disappointed in
                  any good result, he returned to the anxious, frightened family, to meet pale,
                  tearful faces and trembling inquiry. Mr. Dainty and the servants had also been in
                  search of the lost one, but their search had proved quite as fruitless. The boy
                  who had hoped to gain the reward of ten dollars had likewise reported himself. He
                  had spent an hour in vain.
               Night came down upon the fearfully-disturbed inmates of Mr. Dainty's family, and
                  yet Madeline was absent. Nothing whatever could be learned in regard to her,
                  except the single fact mentioned by the boy, and confirmed by others, that a
                  little girl resembling her had been seen in company with an old woman dressed in
                  black.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE SEARCH.
               "IT is nearly a week since Mr. Fleetwood was here," said Mrs. Elder, as she placed
                  her work-basket on the table and drew up a chair.
               Florence, who had just brought in a lighted lamp, sighed, but made no answer to
                  the remark.
               "He seemed more than disappointed, I thought, at your persistent refusal to make
                  any advances toward a reconciliation with Mrs. Dainty," added Mrs. Elder.
               "Yes: he was offended." There was a touch of sadness in the low voice of Florence
                  Harper.
               "No, not offended, dear," said Mrs. Elder, quickly. "That is too strong a word. He
                  was disturbed."
               "He asks of me too much, Aunt Mary." Florence spoke with some warmth. "I am but
                  human."
               "Perhaps he does. But the condition of things at Mrs. Dainty's must be his excuse.
                  See into what a state of mind Madeline has fallen."
               "Poor child! I cannot sleep, sometimes, for thinking of her," said Florence.
               
               "I can hardly wonder at Mr. Fleetwood, seeing that his heart is wrapped up in
                  those children. He has seen how much power for good you can have over them, and,
                  now that an evil hand is at work, seeking to mar the sweet beauty of Madeline's
                  spirit, can you feel surprise at his eagerness to bring her again within the
                  sphere of your influence? I cannot, Florence."
               "Then you think I ought to go?"
               Aunt Mary was silent.
               "Mrs. Dainty has not desired my return."
               "She has not communicated such a desire; but Mr. Fleetwood has over and over again
                  said that only weak pride keeps her from doing so. Shall not something be conceded
                  for the children's sake?"
               "If you think I ought to call and see Mrs. Dainty, as Mr. Fleetwood proposes, I
                  will go to-morrow," said Florence.
               Aunt Mary was silent.
               "You will not advise me?" Florence spoke in a perplexed voice.
               "If you act from my advice, you will not act freely," said Mrs. Elder. "The
                  question, moreover, is one of such difficult solution, that I do not see it
                  clearly enough to speak with decision."
               The bell at this moment rung violently, causing both Florence and her aunt to
                  start and look with inquiring eyes into each other's faces. A few moments
                  afterward a man's feet were heard moving quickly along the passage.
               "Mr. Fleetwood!" ejaculated Mrs. Elder, rising as the old gentleman entered
                  hurriedly.
               "Florence," said Mr. Fleetwood, in an agitated manner, as he laid his hand upon
                  the arm of Miss Harper, "you are wanted!"
               "For what? Has any thing happened to the children?"
               "Yes,—something dreadful! Madeline is lost or stolen!"
               "Oh, Mr. Fleetwood! Lost! Stolen! What do you mean?"
               "Madeline has been gone from the house for several hours, and we have searched for
                  her everywhere in vain. Two or three persons in the neighborhood are positive that
                  they saw her, or a child answering in all things her description, in company with
                  a woman dressed in black. That infamous Mrs. Jeckyl, without doubt!"
               "Dreadful! Dreadful!" exclaimed Florence, clasping her hands and turning very
                  pale.
               "Ah, Florence! Florence!" said Mr. Fleetwood, "if you had only thrown the wings of
                  your love around her, this would not have been!"
               
               Florence covered her face with her hands, and for some moments wept bitterly.
               "I have only, wished to do right," she said, at length, with forced composure.
                  "More has been required of me than I had strength to perform. But speak now, Mr.
                  Fleetwood: I am ready to move at your bidding."
               "Poor Agnes is almost beside herself. A little while ago she said, in her mother's
                  presence, 'Oh, if Miss Harper were only here!' And her mother said, in reply, 'If
                  she had not left us, this could not have happened.' The way is plain for you, dear
                  child! Come with me! Come!"
               The old man's voice was pleading and tremulous. His heart was overburdened.
               "This moment," replied Florence, as she turned and glided from the room. In less
                  than a minute she re-entered the little parlor, with bonnet and shawl, ready to
                  accompany Mr. Fleetwood. She had no cause to complain of her reception at Mrs.
                  Dainty's. Agnes, the moment she entered, sprung forward to meet her, and, laying
                  her face against her bosom, sobbed violently. Mrs. Dainty arose with a slight
                  assumption of dignity, but gave her hand with far more warmth of manner than Mr.
                  Fleetwood had hoped for.
               "I am glad to see you, Miss Harper," she said,— "glad for the sake of Agnes. Oh,
                  we are in dreadful trouble! Poor Madeline! Uncle John has told you all. Oh, my
                  child! my child! Where can she be? It will kill me!"
               And Mrs. Dainty fell into a fit of hysterical sobbing.
               "Have you no further intelligence of Madeline?" Mr. Fleetwood inquired of Mr.
                  Dainty.
               "None. I have just returned from the Police-Office. Not a word of the child,
                  although reports have come in from all parts of the city."
               "Where did Mrs. Jeckyl live at the time she came here?" asked Florence. None could
                  answer the question.
               "Is there no one of whom she could be inquired about?"
               "Mrs. Ashton, I think, knows something in regard to her," said Mr. Fleetwood.
               "Has any one been to see her?" inquired Florence.
               "No one. We should have thought of that be fore," said Mr. Dainty. "Who knows her
                  residence?"
               Mrs. Dainty gave the required information, and a servant was despatched
                  immediately with a note to Mrs. Ashton. That lady could not say where Mrs. Jeckyl
                  lived, but thought she was at a certain
                  boarding-house in Twelfth Street. Thither Mr. Dainty went without delay.
               "Does a Mrs. Jeckyl board here?" he inquired of the waiter who came to the
                  door.
               "No, sir," was answered, in a tone plainly enough conveying the information that
                  the woman about whom he made inquiry was known to the servant.
               "When did she leave?" he asked.
               "A month ago."
               "Where can I find her?"
               "Don't know."
               "Where did she go when she left your house?"
               "Don't know, sir."
               The waiter's manner showed some impatience, as if the very name of the woman were
                  an offence to him.
               "I wish to see Mrs. Brainard. Is she at home?"
               "Yes, sir. Walk into the parlor, and I will call her down."
               "Mr. Dainty went into the parlor, and in a few moments the woman who kept the
                  boarding-house entered.
               "You had a Mrs. Jeckyl here a few weeks ago?" said Mr. Dainty.
               "I had."
               "Do you know where she is now?"
               "No, sir." Mrs. Brainard's voice had in it something of impatience and something
                  of disgust.
               "When did she leave your house?"
               "Nearly four weeks ago."
               "Where did she go?"
               "I really cannot answer the question, sir. I was so glad to get her out of my
                  house that I let all interest in her die the moment she was beyond my door."
               "Do not any of your servants know where she went?"
               "It is possible, sir. I will inquire of the chambermaid."
               "If you please; for I must find her, alive or dead!"
               "Is there any thing wrong about her?" asked Mrs. Brainard, curiously.
               "I am afraid she has stolen my child!" said Mr. Dainty, his manner growing
                  excited.
               "Stolen your child!" Mrs. Brainard became pale and agitated, and her eyes turned
                  toward a little girl, not seven years old, who at the moment entered the room. She
                  reached out her hand, and the child drew to her side. The moment Mrs. Brainard's
                  arm could be thrown around the little one, she clasped her eagerly, as if she felt
                  that she had just escaped impending danger.
               
               "If you can aid me in tracing her," said Mr. Dainty, "you will confer the highest
                  benefit."
               Mrs. Brainard left the room, and returned in a little while with the chambermaid,
                  who thought Mrs. Jeckyl went to a house in Fifth Street near Noble. The name of
                  the person who kept the house she did not remember. This was all the chambermaid
                  could tell. The waiter was questioned, but from him nothing was elicited.
               "How did this woman conduct herself while in your house?" asked Mr. Dainty.
               "She made herself very offensive to most of my boarders, and gained a singular
                  influence over two of them,—ladies, who were invalids and had been suffering for
                  years with nervous complaints. She is a woman of masculine intellect, sir. Few men
                  are her equal in an argument. Her satire is withering."
               "So I should infer from the little I saw of her. You speak of her influence over
                  two ladies in your family. How was this obtained?"
               "In what I regard as a very disorderly way. Mrs. Jeckyl is a 'medium,' as it is
                  called."
               "A mesmerist," said Mr. Dainty.
               "Or spiritualist, as some say. The thing has various names."
               "The power, if any power is possessed by these people," said Mr. Dainty, with
                  strong evidence of feeling, "is demoniac."
               "Just what I have said from the beginning," replied Mrs. Brainard. "I have seen
                  much evil, but no good, result from these disorderly practices. Had I known Mrs.
                  Jeckyl to be a 'medium,' she would not have found entrance into my house. I have
                  closed my doors against more than one of them."
               "Then Mrs. Jeckyl mesmerized the ladies to whom you refer?"
               "She had table-tippings, rappings, writings, and all sorts of diablerie going on in their rooms for nearly a week,
                  turning the heads of my boarders, when I closed down upon her with a strong hand,
                  adding a notice to vacate her apartment. She demurred, and was insolent. But I
                  have a will of my own, sir, and was not to be thwarted. If she had not left at the
                  time specified in my notice, I would have had her trunk set out on the
                  pavement."
               "I cannot but applaud your spirit," said Mr. Dainty. "Desperate diseases require
                  desperate remedies. But time passes, and I must not linger. What you say of the
                  woman only adds to my anxiety and fear. I must find her, and rescue my child, ere
                  sleep closes an eyelid."
               "Heaven give you success!" said Mrs. Brainard. Taking a carriage, Mr. Dainty was
                  driven rapidly to Fifth and Noble,
                  where he alighted, and commenced to make inquiries from house to house; but no one
                  had heard of a Mrs. Jeckyl. After a fruitless search of half an hour, it occurred
                  to him that the woman might have assumed another name: so he went over the ground
                  again, describing her person.
               "There was such a woman here." He received this reply at one of the
                  houses where he called.
               "Was her name Jeckyl?"
               "No, sir; I think it was Hawks. But I'll inquire, sir, if you'll wait a minute.
                  Won't you walk in?"
               Mr. Dainty entered the house, and was shown into one of the parlors, where, after
                  waiting a short time, a lady joined him.
               "Pardon this intrusion," said Mr. Dainty, rising. "But I am in search of an
                  Englishwoman who some three or four weeks ago took boarding in this neighborhood.
                  Your servant informs me that there was a person here answering to her
                  description."
               "What was the name of the woman of whom you are in search?" was inquired.
               "Jeckyl," replied Mr. Dainty.
               The lady shook her head.
               "She may have reason to pass by another name" remarked Mr. Dainty.
               "I don't know how that may be. A tall, sinister-looking Englishwoman with an eye
                  that held a lurking serpent, took boarding here some weeks ago. But she only
                  remained three or four days. She was disagreeable to us, and we made ourselves
                  disagreeable to her; and so we parted."
               "Where did she go?" Mr. Dainty asked, eagerly. The lady shook her head.
               "No one in this house knows. She went as she came,—a marvel and a mystery."
               "And beyond this you can give no information in regard to her?"
               "None whatever."
               Mr. Dainty stood for some moments silent and perplexed. Then, with a sickening
                  sense of disappointment, he retired, and, entering the carriage which awaited him
                  at the door, ordered the driver to take him to his own house as rapidly as
                  possible. He brought with him neither light nor comfort, and found none awaiting
                  his arrival. Not a single gleam of intelligence touching the absent one had
                     shone in upon his afflicted family.
               What more could be done? The evening had waned, and it was now past the hour of
                  nine. To abandon all search for the night seemed cruel; yet, without a single clue
                  to unravel the mystery of the child's absence, what step could be taken toward accomplishing her recovery? Whither
                  were they to go in search of her?
               The wretched mother, from a state of almost frantic excitement, had fallen into a
                  condition little removed from stupor. The family physician was called in to see
                  her, but he prescribed nothing. Her trouble was beyond the reach of any medicines
                  he could give.
               Anxious and sleepless was that night in the house of Mr. Dainty. Early in the
                  morning the search for Madeline was renewed. Not the least active in this search
                  was Miss Harper. "With a perseverance and assiduity unknown to the sterner sex,
                  she steadily sought to find the clue that was to unravel the mystery of Madeline's
                  absence. Starting where Mr. Dainty had begun, at Mrs. Brainard's, she went from
                  thence to the house in Fifth Street where a woman answering to the description of
                  Mrs. Jeckyl had made a brief sojourn. Beyond this point Mr. Dainty had failed to
                  go; but Florence was not to be thrown off so easily. Her woman's tact and feeling
                  all came in to quicken the interest of every member in the family, and the result
                  was a declaration on the part of a servant, who was questioned repeatedly, that
                  she thought she could recognise the hack-driver who took the woman, with her
                  trunk, away.
               In company with this servant, an Irish girl, Florence visited the various
                  hack-stands in the city; but at none of them did the girl recognise any driver as
                  the one for whom they were in search, and they were going back, the heart of
                  Florence heavy with disappointment, when her companion exclaimed,—
               "Deed, and that's the very mon himself, so it is!"
               And she pointed to a hackman who was leisurely driving his carriage along, just in
                  advance of them.
               To spring forward was but a natural impulse, and in a moment the driver reined up
                  his horses at the sign given by Florence. Leaving his box, he stepped to the
                  pavement, saying, as he did so—
               "Want a carriage, miss?"
               "I wish to ask you a question or two first," replied Florence, slightly confused
                  at the abruptness with which she was confronted by the man.
               "As many as you please, miss," returned the hack-driver.
               "How long is it since that woman left your house?" asked Florence, turning to the
                  girl.
               "About two weeks," was answered.
               "In the morning or afternoon?"
               "In the morning."
               "And this is the man who drove her away?"
               
               "I think so. He looks like him, ony way."
               "About two weeks ago," said Florence, now addressing the hack-driver, "a tall
                  woman, dressed in black, was taken, with her trunk, from a house in Fifth Street
                  near Noble. Do you remember any thing about it? Were you the driver?"
               "I was," replied the man.
               The whole frame of Miss Harper quivered instantly with an eager impulse.
               "Can you take me to the house where you left her?" she asked.
               The man stood in thought for some moments, and then answered,—
               "I think so."
               "Will you accompany me?" Florence spoke to the girl.
               "Certainly, miss: I'm at your service."
               "Drive me there as quickly as possible." And Florence stepped toward the door of
                  the carriage, which was instantly thrown open by the hackman. Entering, with the
                  girl, she seated herself, and was soon driven rapidly away toward the northern
                  part of the city, and through streets with the aspect of which she was unfamiliar.
                  At last the carriage stopped before a house of not over-inviting exterior. It was
                  old, dingy-looking, and had a deserted aspect, all the shutters being closed to
                  the third story.
               "This is the place, miss," said the driver, as he opened the carriage-door.
               "Are you certain?" inquired Florence, a slight tremor running along her nerves as
                  she looked up at the house.
               "Dead sure," replied the hackman, in a confident voice. "I know the house by its
                  shut-up look. I've passed here many a time, and have never seen a window open yet,
                  or the sign of a human about the house."
               "Come," said Florence to the Irish girl, and the two stepped from the carriage,
                  and, crossing the pavement, ascended the steps. The bell was rung, and, after
                  waiting for a few moments, the door opened, and a slightly-formed girl, about
                  fifteen years of age, with a singularly interesting face, inquired their
                  errand.
               "Does a Mrs. Jeckyl live here?" asked Florence.
               "No, ma'am," replied the girl.
               "Mrs. Hawks?" said the companion of Florence. The girl shook her head.
               "We were told," said Florence, "that a woman bearing one of these names came to
                  your house about two weeks ago. She was a tall Englishwoman, dressed in
                  black."
               "Won't you come in and see my mother?" And the girl moved back a pace or two from the
                  door.
               According to the invitation, Florence stepped over the threshold and entered the
                  house, following the girl, who conducted her into the back-parlor, which was
                  feebly lighted by the rays that came in through a small opening in the
                  shutters.
               "Sit down," said the girl, "and I will call my mother." And she passed, with a
                  gliding motion, noiselessly from the apartment.
               The eyes of Florence soon accommodated themselves to the feeble light, and, gazing
                  around the room, she noted its contents with curious interest. The furniture was
                  meagre and plain, the carpets worn, and the window-curtains faded. A few articles,
                  which seemed the relics of a better condition, indicated the possession of taste.
                  While yet engaged in making these observations, Florence, whose eyes had been
                  peering into the adjoining parlor, the shutters of which were closed tightly,
                  turned her head and met the steady, penetrating gaze of a woman who had entered so
                  silently that no sound of footfall had disturbed the air.
               This woman was in height a little above the medium stature; of slender
                  proportions; with an unusually high and broad forehead; faded, almost sallow,
                  complexion; eyes black as coals, yet bright as fire; lips arching, thin, and
                  flexible; and a delicate, receding chin. Florence arose, and stood before the
                  woman in momentary confusion, her eyes drooping beneath her singularly penetrating
                  gaze.
               "Pardon this intrusion," said Florence, with considerable hesitation of manner. "I
                  am in search of a person who, as I am informed, came to your house some time
                  within the past two weeks."
               The woman requested Florence to resume her seat, and then, drawing a chair in
                  front of her, said, in a low, musical, yet not altogether pleasant voice,—
               "What is the name of the person you are seeking?"
               "Mrs. Jeckyl," replied Florence.
               The woman shook her head.
               "She has gone by the name of Hawks, I believe," said Florence.
               Another shake of the head, accompanied by the remark,—
               "I do not know any one bearing either name."
               "She is an Englishwoman, tall of stature."
               "Ah!" The response was in a quick voice, in which was a shade of surprise.
               "She dressed in black," said Florence.
               
               "Did you say her name was Jeckyl?" asked the woman.
               "Yes. But I believe she has also gone by the name of Hawks."
               "Was she young, or old?"
               "Past the middle point of life."
               "A woman answering your description was here about two weeks ago, and remained
                  several days. But her name was Fordham."
               "Another alias, no doubt," said Florence, in a
                  quickened voice. "And now, madam, if you will tell me where I can find her, you
                  will confer an obligation beyond all price."
               "Is she a relation?" inquired the woman, looking steadily into the excited face of
                  her young visitor.
               "No!" answered Florence, with an expression of disgust.
               "Why do you seek her?" The manner and tone of the woman threw a chill over the
                  feelings of Miss Harper.
               "The person I seek has, it is feared, enticed away, or stolen, a little girl,
                  whose mother is almost beside herself in consequence."
               "A grave charge to bring against any one," said the woman, seriously. "I hardly
                  think it can apply to Mrs. Fordham."
               "You know something of her antecedents, then?" Florence spoke inquiringly.
               "Nothing," answered the woman, almost coldly.
               "Where can I find her now?"
               "I have neither seen nor heard of her since she left my house," said the
                  woman.
               The look of distress that settled on the countenance of Miss Harper seemed to
                  awaken a motion of sympathy in the woman's heart.
               "Whose child is missing?" she inquired, in a soft voice.
               "The child of Mrs. Edward Dainty, number 400 — Street; a little girl, eleven years
                  old. She has been absent since yesterday. The woman suspected of the crime of
                  enticing her away was employed, a short time ago, as governess, but dismissed
                  almost immediately, in consequence of certain defects that entirely destroyed her
                  right influence over the children."
               "What were those defects?" inquired the woman, evincing a new interest in the
                  matter.
               "She attempted, it was thought, to magnetize the children."
               "Ah!" The woman seemed more interested, and leaned toward Florence, fixing upon
                  her, as she did so, her dark, bright, weird-looking eyes. There was a brief
                  pause.
               
               "Well, what of it?" inquired the woman, seeing that Florence remained silent.
               "The consequences were serious, so far as the little girl I refer to was
                  concerned," said Florence "She was changed almost from the hour Mrs Jeckyl drew
                  her within the sphere of her influence."
               "Delicately organized, and easily impressed, no doubt." The woman spoke half to
                  herself.
               "She is a sweet, lovely child," said Florence, "and it is terrible to think of her
                  pure, almost infantine spirit coming within the sphere of such a woman. Death, in
                  my regard, would be a blessing instead."
               "You speak warmly on the subject," said the woman.
               "I have cause to do so, for I feel warmly," said Florence.
               "You have met Mrs. Jeckyl, as you call her?"
               "No. Happily, I never crossed her path. My foot has not touched the slime of her
                  serpent trial!"
               The woman's face darkened, as if a shadow had fallen upon it.
               "If the person you call Jeckyl, and the one who passed a few days in my house, are
                  the same," she said, "your language is far too strong. Though she is to me,
                  partially, a stranger, yet I have had testimony mony in regard to her of the
                  highest and most authoritative character. I know her quality as well as if I had
                  seen her heart laid open and read it like the pages of a book. She belongs to an
                  exceptional class in the present time. To ordinary people she is unintelligible.
                  The high purposes of her life are not appreciated by them. She cannot be weighed
                  in their balance."
               The woman spoke rapidly, and with enthusiasm, quick changes running over her face,
                  and her eyes brightening and darkening by turns like a stormy sky. A low shudder
                  of fear crept into the heart of Florence as she looked at this woman; and the
                  Irish girl who accompanied her, and who had until now remained standing, moved
                  backward toward the door of the room, gaining which, as a point of advantage, she
                  said,—
               "'Deed, and, miss, I think as how we'd as well be going from here."
               "Stay a moment." And Florence reached forth a hand toward the girl.
               "I shouldn't wonder if I was riding on a broomstick next!" muttered the latter, as
                  she receded into the passage.
               "Don't go, if you please. I will be with you directly." There was a tremor of
                  anxiety in the tones of Florence.
               
               "I will not call in question a word you have said," remarked Florence, speaking in
                  a deprecatory tone, as she turned to the woman. "All I ask now is that you give me
                  some clue by which I can trace this person from the time she left your house. That
                  is my errand here; and I beg, in the name of humanity, that you will satisfy it to
                  the extent of your ability."
               "I asked her no questions when she left," replied the woman. "She came with a
                  message from an absent one in the upper spheres,—a message that filled my heart
                  with reverent gladness. As an honored guest, she remained for a few days an inmate
                  of my house, and then went as she came. The spirits led her here, and the spirits
                  withdrew her in their own good time. She is gifted in a high degree; and they have
                  chosen her as one of their most favored messengers to darkly-wandering mortals. I
                  bless the day she came to this house. Ah! now I see the white garments, and now
                  the angel-face, of that blessed daughter who ten years ago left my heart
                  desolate."
               The woman's eyes were elevated, and she seemed in an ecstatic vision.
               "She removed the veil from my dull eyes,—that honored messenger!" she continued,
                  "and, by a pure vision, I now see beyond the dark boundary which conceals the
                  beautiful world where the blessed ones dwell. She likewise unstopped my ears, so
                  that they can hear spirit-voices. I hearken to them all day long."
               "I call nothing of this in question," said Florence, rising, and moving toward the
                  door; "but other matters of interest press on me too imperatively for delay. Once
                  again, let me implore you to give me some light. Thank again! Is there no one
                  likely to be informed of her present home, to whom you could refer me? Let your
                  mother's heart counsel for me in this matter!"
               "I trust the spirits in all things. For wise ends they have hidden from me all
                  that pertains to their favored messenger. She came in mystery, and departed as she
                  came. In the spirit I meet her almost daily. In the body I know her not."
               The Irish girl had already retreated beyond the outer door, and stood upon the
                  marble steps. Hopeless of gaining any information here touching the object of her
                  search, Florence, over whose spirit had fallen a strange, suffocating fear, as if
                  her very life were waning, turned from the woman, and almost rushed,
                  panic-stricken, from the house.
               "'Dade, and it's the divil's den!" ejaculated the Irish girl, bluntly, as they
                  crowded into the carriage. "I wouldn't go into that house again for a mint o' money. I expected every instant
                  to see you spirited off!"
               Florence did not answer the girl, but ordered the driver to leave her at the house
                  in Fifth Street and then to take her to the residence of Mr. Dainty. She brought
                  neither light, hope, nor comfort to those who had anxiously awaited her return,
                  and found none for her own troubled heart.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               A NEST OF PSEUDO-SPIRITUALISTS.
               AS Florence Harper left the room in which the singular and exciting interview
                  described in the last chapter took place, and fled in strange alarm from the
                  house, the girl who had admitted her came gliding in with her noiseless step from
                  the adjoining apartment, and, standing before the woman, who yet remained in a
                  partially ecstatic condition, said,—
               "Oh, mother! This is dreadful!—dreadful!"
               "What are you saying, child? What is dreadful? I see beautiful visions, and hear
                  music of angelic sweetness. I see nothing dreadful. Give me your hands, Adele
                  dear."
               And she reached forth her small hands, so white and thin as to be
                  semi-transparent. But the girl stepped back a single pace, eluding the offered
                  grasp.
               "Why don't you give me your hands, child?" The woman spoke with some
                  impatience.
               "Because I would rather keep them in my own possession just now," replied Adele, in a low,
                  clear tone, the slight quiver in which showed a disturbed state of feeling.
               "You are perverse," said the woman. "The spirits must be consulted. There are evil
                  influences at work."
               "They are at work in that Mrs. Fordham, if, as this young lady says, she has
                  stolen a child!" Adele made answer, speaking firmly. "I never liked her. She's
                  wicked!"
               "Adele!"
               "I believe it, mother." The girl was resolute. "She tried to get me in her power;
                  but I was able to resist her, thank God!"
               "Daughter! daughter! "What is the meaning of this?" exclaimed the woman, in
                  surprise and displeasure, rising as she spoke, and advancing toward Adele, with
                  the evident belief that if she could get her hands upon her she could more
                  effectually bring the full power of her strong will to bear in subduing her
                  rebellious spirit. But Adele retreated into the next room, saying, in a quick,
                  decided voice,—
               "I'm getting heart-sick of all this, mother! There is in it more of evil than
                  good, I sadly fear. I don't like the people who come here. Some of them may mean
                  all right; but some of them, I know, mean all wrong; and your Mrs. Fordham is one
                  of them. And so is Mr. Dyer. I hate the very sight of him! He said something to me
                  last night."
               "What did he say?" eagerly asked the mother.
               "I can't tell you now, because I promised him that I would not. But if he says it
                  again I'll dash the first thing into his face that I can lay my hands on."
               Just then the door-bell rang, and Adele answered the summons. The very man about
                  whom they were speaking entered. The moment Adele saw him she started back, and,
                  running along the passage, escaped from his presence up-stairs.
               "Mr. Dyer!" said the mother, with a pleased familiarity of manner, singular under
                  the circumstances, to say the least of it. She gave him her hand, which he grasped
                  hard, and retained while they walked back into the darkened parlors.
               "Mrs. Weir!" was his simple response. His tone was low, penetrating, agreeable.
                  Let us describe Mr. Dyer. It is the countenance that indicates the man. Chin,
                  mouth, nostrils, eyes, forehead,—on these each one writes his character, though he
                  tries never so hard to play the hypocrite. The lineaments of the face never lie.
                  But in the present instance the face was so much hidden by a hairy veil that much of its true expression was
                  concealed. Intellectually, taking his rather low forehead as a guide, Mr. Dyer was
                  not a man of superior endowments. But his small brown eyes, shining out from their
                  hollow recesses, indicated mental activity and alertness. The skin of his face was
                  colorless, and had a bleached appearance, all the lines running down, as if it had
                  been rained upon every day for a dozen years. High up, reaching nearly to the
                  cheek-bones, the hairy investure began, and that seemed to have yielded also to
                  the causes which made all the facial lines perpendicular. It was guiltless of
                  curl, or curving line of beauty, but shot down, straight and thick, a dark brown
                  mass, wiry and unsightly. The hair upon his head was long, dry, harsh, and
                  straight, lying like the mane of some beast upon his shoulders. His full, pouting
                  lips indicated sensuality. Yet even this countenance had been schooled by a
                  sinister purpose so as to deceive some by its meek expression of goodness.
               Mr. Dyer was that intellectual, strong-willed woman's plaything, a biologist,—we
                  use one of the names assumed by a modern sect of pseudo-spiritualists,—a getter-up
                  of circles, and a leader in the insane orgies of mesmerism run mad. He was
                  wonderfully given to trance-ecstasies, and could elevate vate himself into the
                  highest of the spiritual spheres in a moment and at will. Familiar tête-à-têtes
                  with Adam, Noah, Moses, Socrates, Washington, and the world's hosts of worthies
                  and heroes, were had by him daily; and most of them honored him as the medium of
                  important communications to the world. From some cause, however, by the time these
                  communications reached the sphere of nature, they had lost all meaning and
                  coherence. Still, Mr. Dyer enunciated them with oracular gravity, and many who
                  listened imagined a deep symbolical meaning.
               Not possessing that strong, masculine, reasoning mind which gives man power over
                  man by virtue of superior intellectual force, and yet having a large share of that
                  bad ambition of which Milton's Satan was a type, Mr. Dyer sought influence over
                  others—females particularly—by means of modern witchcraft, going from house to
                  house "and leading silly women captive," and, by his devilish arts, withering or
                  destroying the budding germs of rational freedom in little children, whenever they
                  chanced to come within the sphere of his blasting influence. He was one of a bad
                  class of sensualists, whose active propensities gain power by cunning and
                  hypocrisy. It was a day of evil triumph with him when he discovered that he was a
                  "powerful medium dium," and could
                  subdue by means of his stronger will the consciousness of sickly, nervous women,
                  and so control the wonderful organism of their spirits as to make them speak and
                  act like mere automatons. It was a vast improvement on Maelzel and Kempelon!
               At the time of his introduction to the reader, Dyer had already been the
                  instrument of promoting four separations between husband and wife. He was himself
                  a married man; but, having discovered that another, a handsomer, brighter, and
                  more attractive woman than his lawful partner, was conjoined to him as to the
                  spirit, and therefore, according to his reading of the matter, his real wife, he
                  had separated himself from the heart-broken woman against whom he had committed
                  one of the most grievous sins in the crowded calendar of human wrongs. In the eye
                  of the law he was a vagrant, for he had no apparent means of support. But he
                  managed to get his share of worldly gear from his duped or corrupt admirers. It
                  was sufficient for some of them that the familiar spirits, or demons, required
                  their favorite instrument to be clothed and fed and supplied with needful
                  money.
               Such was the man whose appearance gave evident pleasure to Mrs. Weir,
                  notwithstanding the intimation of her daughter, just made, that his evil eyes had
                  fallen upon her, and that already his polluting breath had touched her fair young
                  cheek.
               As the two entered the parlors, Dyer still holding the woman's hand, he gazed into
                  her eyes with a fixed look, beneath which her own did not quail.
               "And what have the spirits been saving to you this morning?" He spoke in a low
                  voice, modulated to musical cadences, and bent his face close to hers. "I can see,
                  by the lucid depth and strange ethereal brightness of your eyes, that you have
                  been holding sweet communion with them."
               They sat down upon a sofa, and Mrs. Weir replied,—
               "New spheres are opening to me. I am anxious to rise higher, higher, into more
                  celestial states; but the spirits are ever teaching me lessons of patience. I am
                  too worldly yet, they say. The dross of this outer sphere is dimming my fine gold;
                  the stain of earth is on my garments. Their low whispers are lingering yet in my
                  ears, and my soul feels the hush of a deep tranquillity."
               "Beautiful! Celestial!" And Mr. Dyer raised his hands in almost saintly
                  benediction.
               "Of all this the scoffing world knows nothing," went on Mrs. Weir, murmuring in a
                  soft, sweet voice. "It is too gross and sensual, and, like the swine, tramples on
                  these precious pearls."
               
               "And still, like the swine," added Dyer, "turns upon and rends us who cast them at
                  its feet."
               "Alas! too true!" Mrs. Weir spoke almost sadly.
               "But the spirits sustain us. Their communications are our exceeding great reward,"
                  said Dyer, with enthusiasm. "We are not in the world nor of it, but enjoy the
                  glorious privileges of the immortals."
               He leaned closer.
               "To the pure all things are pure—"
               The door-bell rung, and each gave a start,—a shade of disappointment clouding the
                  brightness of their faces.
               "Did you expect another visitor at this time?" asked Dyer.
               "No," replied Mrs. Weir, as she listened to the light steps of Adele on the stairs
                  and moving along the passage to the door.
               Both sat very still, hearkening. A low ejaculation of surprise escaped the lips of
                  Adele. Then were heard the rustling of a woman's garments, and the movement of
                  feet.
               Mr. Dyer and Mrs. Weir arose as the parlor-door was pushed open.
               "Mrs. Fordham!" exclaimed the latter, as a tall woman in black entered with a
                  slow, stately step, holding by the hand a shrinking little girl, who drew back in
                  partial fear at the sight of strangers. Close behind them was Adele, her usually
                  quiet face now alive with feeling, and her glance fixed with eager interest on the
                  beautiful child. She reached out her hand and said,—
               "Come, dear!"
               But the woman reproved her with a look, and drew the little one closer.
               "Mrs. Fordham! Welcome again!" said Dyer, giving the visitor his hand. "You drop
                  down upon us as if from cloud-land. I thought you were far away. But who have we
                  here?"
               And he stooped a little, carefully examining the child's face.
               "A prize,—a treasure,—a good gift from our generous spirits," answered Mrs.
                  Fordham, as she sat down with the air of one who felt herself at home, and lifted
                  the child upon her lap. Drawing her head down upon her bosom, she made a pass or
                  two with her hand, and the little girl was still as an effigy.
               "There never was a more impressible subject," said the woman, "nor one through
                  whom spirits communicate more freely. I saw it in her the instant my eyes rested
                  on her face. Then I consulted the spirits, and they said that she was born to a high mission. But how was she to
                  be brought into the sphere of her holy calling? In common language, she was not
                  mine. I was not the instrument of her birth, and therefore, in the world's regard,
                  had no right to dispose of her. Again I consulted the spirits. The answer was
                  clear. The bars of custom must be thrown down, they said. The child was destined
                  to a high use, and human bonds must not restrain her. For a time the spirit was
                  willing but the flesh weak. I hesitated, held back, doubted; but clearer and
                  clearer came the indications. At last all communication was withdrawn from me. I
                  asked, but received no answer; again and again I called to my old and dear
                  companions, but not even a faint, far-off echo was returned to my half-despairing
                  cry. Then, and not till then, I yielded. I sent forth my thought and affection
                  toward this child—this beloved one of the spirits—and drew her toward me. Though
                  distant as to the body, I felt that my hands were upon her, and that she was
                  approaching. And she came in good time,—came and threw herself into my arms,—a
                  young devotee to this new science, a neophyte priestess for service at the alter
                  in that grand spiritual temple, the walls of which are towering upward to
                  heaven."
               Mrs. Fordham's eyes gradually assumed an up ward angle: a rapt expression came
                  into her face; her voice was deep and muffled by feeling.
               "Precious darling! Chosen one! Beloved of the angels!" said Mrs. Weir, bending
                  over the little girl, who now lay in a trance-sleep against the woman's bosom.
               "Will the spirits communicate through her now?" asked Dyer.
               "Let me inquire of them," answered the woman. And she relapsed into a state of
                  real or apparent cessation of all exterior consciousness. Ten minutes of almost
                  pulseless silence followed, the child still lying in her strange, unnatural
                  sleep.
               "They will speak," said Mrs. Fordham, in a deep yet hushed tone. Then she laid her
                  hand gently on the colorless face of the child-medium, and held it there for the
                  space of several seconds. A few light passes followed. The child caught her
                  breath: there were slight convulsive spasms of the chest and limbs, while a most
                  painful expression saddened her gentle face.
               "Dear Child!" murmured Mrs. Weir.
               "It is the strife in her soul of evil spirits against the good," said Mrs.
                  Fordham. "She is not yet wholly purified for her great mission. Happily for her,
                  the battle is fought in states of unconsciousness. She is spared all
                  suffering."
               
               "The spirits love and protect her," said Dyer.
               "They love and protect their own; and she is theirs," answered Mrs. Fordham.
               As she spoke, she raised the child to a sitting posture. Her eyes were still
                  closed, and the look of sadness and suffering yet remained. Dyer drew a chair and
                  sat down directly in front of her. Mrs. Weir took another and did the same, but
                  arose immediately, and, looking to the opposite side of the room, said,—
               "Come, Adele; bring a chair and sit down with us."
               But Adele neither answered nor stirred.
               "Daughter, did you hear me?" Mrs. Weir's voice was firmer.
               "I do not wish to come into the circle," replied Adele.
               "Don't be foolish, child: come," said Mrs. Weir.
               "No, mother: I wish to be excused."
               Mrs. Weir was moving across the room toward her daughter, when Dyer said,—
               "Stop, madam! Let us consult the spirits."
               Mrs. Weir came back.
               "Mrs. Fordham, ask the spirits about this strange perverseness," said Dyer.
               The woman closed her eyes and sat quite still for a minute.
               "The spirits require the circle to be harmonized," was Mrs. Fordham's
                  decision.
               "You must come, Adele!" Dyer spoke half authoritatively.
               But Adele stood as firm as marble.
               "Adele!" Mrs. Weir's voice, now sharp and commanding, thrilled through the
                  rooms.
               "There are other spirits besides Mrs. Fordham's familiars, and they tell me not to
                  harmonize her circle to-day," answered Adele, speaking very calmly, and with
                  meaning emphasis.
               "They are evil, lying spirits!" exclaimed Dyer, with excitement.
               "From the infernal spheres," said Mrs. Fordham, solemnly. "I am afraid, Mrs. Weir,
                  that sirens are seeking to possess your daughter, that they may utterly destroy
                  her."
               "Adele, come! Flee to us quickly!" cried Mrs. Weir, in a tremor of excitement,
                  stretching forth her hands.
               "My spirits are true, and I believe them!" answered the girl, resolutely. And she
                  stood immovable.
               "The spirits will not communicate unless the circle is harmonized," said Mrs.
                  Fordham, with ill concealed impatience.
               
               "Let the perverse creature withdraw, then." Mr. Dyer spoke sharply.
               "Go!" said Mrs. Fordham, waving her hand.
               But Adele stirred not.
               "Go!" repeated her mother.
               There was not a sign of obedience.
               "All things must harmonize, or the spirits will not answer. If the girl will not
                  come into the circle, she must leave the room." It was Mrs. Fordham who spoke.
               "The spirits tell me to remain, and I will obey them!" said Adele, with unwavering
                  firmness.
               "They are bad spirits!" Dyer almost thundered out the words, his pent-up anger and
                  impatience getting the better of his self-control.
               "Lying spirits!" shrieked Mrs. Fordham, catching the excitement of the man.
               "Who is to decide?" asked Adele, calmly.
               "Heaven's messenger!" said Mrs. Weir, pointing to Mrs. Fordham. "It is through her
                  that the spirits of the higher spheres descend."
               "Heaven's messengers don't rob mothers of their children!" Adele answered. "If
                  there are lying spirits in the case, they have found access to her ears, not
                  mine!"
               "Heavens and earth!" exclaimed Dyer, starting to his feet; "what does the girl
                  mean?"
               Mrs. Fordham's self-imposed calmness all departed, and the fire in her eyes shot
                  out toward Adele like serpent tongues. With three or four quick passes, she
                  restored the little girl who sat in her lap to a half-dreamy consciousness of real
                  things, and then, taking two or three strides toward the door, said, glancing over
                  her shoulder,—
               "The same room, Mrs. Weir?"
               "The same," was answered, and woman and child disappeared from sight.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE BIRD AND THE SERPENT.
               "YOU needn't stand glowering upon me after that fashion, John Dyer!" said Adele,
                  after Mrs. Fordham and the child had left the room. "I know you, sir!"
               "Silence!" was the passionate response, and—
               "Silence!" was repeated, though in feebler utterance, from the mother of
                  Adele.
               "That is a wicked woman!" said the girl, resolutely. "There is a serpent in her
                  eyes. I saw it when she was last here; and it looks out with keener venom now.
                  Mother, beware of her!—and—"she hesitated a moment, and then went on, in a bolder
                  tone,—"beware of him! There is an adder in your path: one step more,
                  and it will sting you to death!"
               She pointed her finger steadily at Dyer, and stood gazing at him until his eyes
                  fell in confusion. Then she passed from the room with rapid but noiseless feet,
                  gliding away like a spirit.
               "An enemy hath done this," said Dyer, almost meekly, turning to the mother of
                  Adele. "You have slumbered, I fear, and let the evil one scatter tares in your
                  field."
               "I know not its meaning," sighed Mrs. Weir. "This morning I noted the first signs
                  of a perverse temper."
               "What were the signs?" Dyer looked sharply into her face, reading every changing
                  lineament, as if he were scanning the pages of a book. There was slight confusion,
                  and a moment's hesitation, on the part of Mrs. Weir. She then answered,—
               "I desired to take her hand and lead her up among the beatific mountains, but she
                  held back. I urged, and she refused. She then acknowledged having resisted Mrs.
                  Fordham in the same way when that honored messenger made my house bright with her
                  presence. Oh, it is distressing me beyond utterance!"
               "Can you trace the cause?" inquired the man.
               "No."
               "Your sphere is not strong enough."
               "Who has a stronger sphere than Mrs. Fordham?" queried the mother. "She has set
                  her at defiance also: nay, her power of resistance just now proved more than our
                  combined influence was able to overcome."
               "I can do it!" said Dyer, after a pause. "Leave her in my hands. I will exorcise the spirits of
                  evil."
               "Your sphere repels her."
               Dyer was on the alert again, and his keen glances were upon the face of his
                  companion.
               "Has she said so?"
               "Yes. And you heard her strange language just now."
               "Well? What further?"
               "I have nothing further. We know that antagonistic spheres exist."
               "True, true." The man seemed relieved. "She has compared me to a serpent. But I
                  know my own heart. Evil, be thou far from me! Come, angelic purity! As we draw
                  nearer the invisible world we grow more ethereal, and the coarseness of depraved
                  nature is dissipated in the fire of divine affinities. To the pure all
                  things—"
               The ringing of the door-bell again interrupted their pleasant communion, and in a
                  few moments they were joined by two visitors,—females,—who met Dyer and Mrs. Weir
                  in a manner that showed them to be on terms of close familiarity.
               In the mean time the woman Fordham had retired with the child to one of the
                  chambers above, her mind deeply disturbed by the unexpected incident of Adele's
                  opposition to the necromantic rites about being instituted,—so much disturbed that
                  she was unable to prolong the spell she wished to throw over the consciousness of
                  the little girl, who momently became more and more distressingly alive to the
                  strangeness of her position.
               "Oh, ma'am," she said, in pleading tones, as the woman shut the door on entering
                  the chamber, "won't you take me home? Mother is crying for me. I heard her crying
                  all last night. Oh, dear! I do want to go home to my mother!"
               "Don't fret yourself, child!" replied the woman, a little harshly. "You shall go
                  home."
               "Take me home now, won't you? I don't like to be here. You promised me yesterday
                  that I should go home before night. Oh, ma'am, do take me home now!"
               The little clasped hands were raised pleadingly; the husky voice quivered; the
                  pale face had in it a look of fear and distress that would have melted any heart
                  not made hard, by selfish passions, as the nether millstone.
               "You shall go home, dear," said the woman, softening her voice and assuming an
                  affectionate manner. "You shall see your mother to-night."
               And she tried to lift her upon her lap, but the child resisted and held back. Then
                  the woman seized her by both arms, and held her firmly, looking ing into her eyes, and exerting the serpent's power
                  of fascination.
               The child stood still, held by a grip too strong for resistance, but she let her
                  eyes fall.
               "Look at me!" commanded the woman. But the glance she hoped to catch and hold in
                  her weird gaze did not turn itself from the floor.
               "Look at me! Do you hear?" And the woman placed one hand under the little girl's
                  chin and forced her face upward. But, instead of looking at the woman, the child
                  shut her eyes.
               Holding her thus, Mrs. Fordham commenced with one hand a series of mesmeric
                  passes; but the child struggled and tried to escape from her. A blow was evidently
                  meditated, for there was a quick raising of one hand, accompanied by an angry
                  flash sweeping over the woman's face. But the cruel purpose was repressed.
               "What has come over the girl?" she muttered, impatiently. "Am I thus to be baffled
                  again? I did not look for it here! But down, excitement! If I would regain my
                  power, it must be through calmness and a resolute will."
               Releasing the child, who instantly shrunk away to the farther side of the room,
                  Mrs. Fordham assumed an unimpassioned manner, but kept her gaze steadily resting
                  upon her victim.
               The woman sat on the bedside, and the child stood pale, trembling, and in tears,
                  crouching against the wall directly opposite. Every thing became silent and
                  motionless as death. The child did not look up, but steadily
                  persisted in avoiding the gaze of her persecutor. But the powers of evil were too
                  strong: there was an eye upon her that possessed a charm too potent for her to
                  withstand; she was a frightened bird struggling, but in vain, against the
                  fascination of a serpent. One, too, three minutes passed; all remained hushed as
                  if status and not living forms were in the room. At last the woman stirred
                  slightly, as though the inner excitement had struggled through all restraining
                  bars and shuddered along the surface: her head gradually bent forward, and her
                  eyes protruded fearfully. And now there was an apparent relaxation of muscle in
                  the child. Evidently, her will was losing its faculty of resistance. A minute
                  more, and the woman began approaching, with the stealthy movements of a cat, her
                  eyes still fixed intently upon the girl. Cautiously, and as if in doubt, she laid
                  her hand against her cheek, touching it lightly. The child did not stir! She
                  pressed the hand harder: there was no sign of consciousness! She called: there was
                  no answer!
               Suddenly a new life seemed thrilling along the woman's veins. Her countenance flushed; her eyes
                  danced in light; her-whole person quivered Stooping over the child, she lifted her
                  with some caution, as if fearing the spell might dissolve, bore her across the
                  room, and laid her upon the bed. Then she made slow passes above her for the space
                  of nearly five minutes.
               "All right!" she muttered, as a glow of evil triumph warmed her disfigured face,
                  and her thin lips parted in a demoniac smile. "It was a hard struggle, but a vain
                  one! There is an opposition of spheres in this house, and the medium of its
                  activity is Adele Weir. Twice has she set me at defiance, twice thwarted the
                  spirits. It must not occur again. Am I to be set at naught by a stripling of a
                  girl like this?"
               After standing over the unconscious child for some time longer, and using sundry
                  tests to make sure that she was completely locked in magic slumber, Mrs. Fordham
                  turned away, and, passing through the door, closed it, and was going down stairs,
                  when a slight noise caught her ear. Glancing up in the direction from which it
                  came, she caught sight of Adele watching her from the passage above. It was only a
                  momentary glimpse; for, on finding that she was observed, Adele retired from sight
                  instantly.
               Mrs. Fordham paused, stood thinking for a little while, and then slowly returned
                  to the room. She entered and examined the lock on the inside. It held a key. This
                  was removed and passed into the wards on the other side.
               "Thus I make surety doubly sure," she said to herself, again closing the door,
                  which she locked, placing the key in her pocket. She then went down to the
                  parlor.
               "How is our little trance-medium?" asked Dyer, as she entered.
               "All right," was answered. "Spirits from the lower spheres have battled hard for
                  her, but the strife was vain. She is safe."
               "I congratulate you on the triumph," said Mrs. Weir, enthusiastically. "She is a
                  lovely child," was added, with a touch of mother-feeling in her voice.
               "The most remarkable child-medium I have yet seen." Mrs. Fordham looked at the two
                  visitors before mentioned. "The communications received through her are
                  extraordinary. I am taking record of them daily, and their publication will
                  astonish the world. Society is on the eve of some new developments. It is the
                  night before the morning."
               "Is she tranquil?' asked Mrs. Weir.
               "Entirely so."
               
               "Sleeping?"
               "All the avenues to her soul are locked, and I have the key," said Mrs. Fordham,
                  with triumph in her tones. "Hark!" She paused and listened, her eyes raised to the
                  ceiling. After a few moments of silence, she went on. "I thought there was a
                  movement in the room above. But it was imagination, I presume."
               "Is there no danger of her awakening?" asked one of the visitors.
               "None: only the hand that shut the door of her soul's consciousness can open it
                  again."
               "How wonderful is this power!" said the last speaker. "I tremble sometimes to
                  think what terrible consequences might follow its abuse."
               "There is no danger of its abuse," returned Mrs. Fordham.
               "You think not?"
               "I am sure of it."
               "None but the favored of spirits are intrusted with this power," said Dyer; "and
                  they are protected."
               "Will not the spirits speak through her to-day?" asked one of the visitors.
               "I do not know. There have been opposing influences; but I trust they are removed.
                  In half an hour we will go up to where she is lying in trance-sleep sleep; and
                  perhaps the spirits will move her to utterance."
               "Is she a speaking or writing medium?" was asked.
               "Speaking. Whenever her lips are unclosed, it seems as if you heard a spirit
                  talking."
               Half an hour was permitted to elapse, and then Mrs. Fordham, Dyer, Mrs. Weir, and
                  the two visitors passed with hushed footsteps up to the chamber. At the door Mrs.
                  Fordham paused, and, speaking to Mrs. Weir, said,—
               "Your daughter must not be permitted to enter. The circle cannot be harmonized if
                  she is present."
               "I will see to it," was whispered back.
               The door was then unlocked, and the company entered, each one with suspended
                  breath. Mrs. Fordham preceded; but, ere she had gone half across the room, an
                  exclamation of surprise and disappointment fell from her lips. The child was not
                  there! In less than half a minute every part of the chamber was searched; but no
                  sign of the missing one appeared.
               "She may have thrown herself from the window!" said Mrs. Weir, blank terror in her
                  countenance at the thought.
               The window was opened, but no form lay on the ground beneath.
               
               "Where is your daughter?" demanded Mrs. Fordham.
               Mrs. Weir stepped to the door, and called, "Adele!" Twice, thrice she called; but
                  only echo replied.
               "It is her work!" exclaimed Mrs. Fordham, roused to mad excitement.
               "Impossible!" said Mrs. Weir. "Adele! Adele!" Her voice went thrilling through the
                  house.
               "Search everywhere, from garret to cellar!" Mrs. Fordham spoke in a commanding
                  voice, and then went striding up-stairs and sweeping like a storm from room to
                  room. Chambers, attics, lumber-rooms, closets, cellar, and out-buildings, they
                  searched with scrupulous care; but neither Adele nor the child were found. Both
                  had vanished from the house, leaving no sign.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE RESCUE.
               "THIS is going too far," said Adele, as she came forward again and stood in sight
                  of the room where the child lay in its fearfully-unnatural sleep, after Mrs.
                  Fordham had gone down to the parlors to join Mrs. Weir and her companions. Slowly,
                  listening almost breathlessly, and with silent footsteps, she descended the
                  stairs, and, approaching the chamber, laid her hand upon the door-knob and turned
                  and pressed against it. To her disappointment, she found that Mrs. Fordham had
                  locked her prisoner in and withdrawn the key.
               For a little while Adele stood by the door, her face shadowed with perplexity. She
                  then moved silently away, and, going into her own room, sat down, with a sober
                  face, to think. The right thought was soon suggested. Starting up with a sudden
                  impulse, she went to the door of her own apartment and quickly withdrew the key.
                  It fitted the lock, as she had hoped, and in less than ten seconds she was in the
                  room where the child lay in its
                  deathlike slumber. Carefully shutting the door, she crossed to the bed. The child
                  had not stirred since Mrs. Fordham left the chamber. Stooping down, Adele gazed
                  upon the pure young face, until tears blinded her eyes. Then, laying a hand upon
                  her, she shook her gently. But not a sign of life, beyond the feeble respiration,
                  appeared.
               An expression half surprise, half fear, came into the young girl's countenance;
                  and she stood quite still for an instant. Then, laying her hand again upon the
                  child, she shook her violently, putting at the same time her mouth to her ear, and
                  saying, in a low but eager voice, "Wake! wake up! Come!"
               But she might as well have spoken to the dead. The sleeper's senses were locked by
                  a key that was not in her possession; and so she could neither find the wards nor
                  spring the bolt.
               For a little while Adele remained bewildered and irresolute. Then she made a more
                  violent effort to break the spell that shut the doors of conscious life It was in
                  vain.
               "Time flies. It must be done now, or the opportunity may pass forever. Poor child!
                  Poor lamb in the wolf's grasp! I must, I will, save you!"
               Turning from the bed, as she thus spoke with herself, Adele left the room, and,
                  going to her own chamber, hurriedly put on a bonnet and shawl, and then, coming
                  back, lifted the sleeper resolutely in her arms, and, bearing her from the
                  apartment, locked the door and withdrew the key. For a few moments she stood at
                  the top of the stairs, irresolute as to her next step. Then, laying her burden
                  upon the floor, she went down the first flight and listened. The sound of muffled
                  voices from the parlor was distinct enough to warn her that one of the doors at
                  least was open, and that it would be folly to attempt to leave the house by the
                  front way. There was an outlet back, by means of a narrow alley leading past a row
                  of small houses into a court, and thence to a street running parallel with the one
                  on which Mrs. Weir lived. But, to reach the yard so as to gain this outlet, Adele
                  must descend the stairway, the foot of which was near the back-parlor, and pass
                  out by a door opening within a few feet of the parlor-window. This mode of egress
                  was, therefore, almost as impossible as the first, for the window she knew was
                  open.
               For a little while the excited girl was in despair; and the words, "It is
                  hopeless," were on her lips, when she thought of a low shed out upon which she
                  could climb from one of the second-story windows of the back-building. To think
                  was to act. Hurriedly lifting the
                  child, she passed into the small room over the kitchen, closing the door behind
                  her, so as not to be seen by any one who might happen to come up the stairway. The
                  window was raised: a glance at the shed below showed the distance to be not less
                  than three feet from the window-sill. There was a low table in the room: on this
                  she laid her burden carefully, and then drew it to the window. A quick but
                  searching examination of all the windows overlooking the position she occupied
                  told her that she was free from observation. Next she dropped down lightly upon
                  the shed, and from thence sprung like an antelope to the yard, full six feet
                  below, her form disappearing beyond-the edge of the slanting shed. Fortunately,
                  there was an old table in the yard, which Adele drew up to the side of the
                  outbuilding, and, mounting thereon, without an instant of hesitation, clambered to
                  the roof, and gained the window, just inside of which the child still lay as
                  motionless as if she were dead. It was only the work of an instant to draw her
                  forth and carry her to the eaves of the shed, where Adele laid her carefully and
                  then leaped down upon the table below. Then she took her in her arms and lifted
                  her from the shed, and then jumped to the pavement, bearing the heavy burden still
                  in her arms. Almost like a spirit she vanished through the gate, shutting it
                  noiselessly behind her. Hurrying down the long alley-way and through the court,
                  Adele emerged upon the open street. An omnibus was passing at the moment, and she
                  signed the driver to stop. It so happened that no passengers had yet entered the
                  vehicle, and this made her and her insensible companion the sole occupants when it
                  moved on again. Taking the extreme upper end of the seat, she placed the child in
                  an upright position, so as not to attract the attention of those who might come
                  in, and supported her with one arm.
               The stage moved on for two squares before gaining any accession to the number of
                  its passengers. Then two ladies came in. They looked hard at Adele; also at the
                  child whose face was hidden among her garments. Two men came in next: and then a
                  woman with a little girl. After that, an elderly man entered. He kept looking up
                  and down the cross-streets, and glancing at the passengers on the sidewalks, in a
                  curious, anxious kind of way, as if in search of some one. At last he fixed his
                  eyes on Adele with a gaze so penetrating that it brought the color to her face.
                  From her he looked to the child crouching down in the corner of the seat, and kept
                  gazing at the half-hidden form until Adele by a slight movement threw her body farther forward, so as to conceal it
                  still more from observation.
               Where was Adele going with the rescued child? That question the girl could not
                  herself answer. Escape was the first thing, and flight the second. The passing
                  omnibus had given the second stage in the proceeding. All beyond was still in
                  doubt.
               One passenger after another left, until only Adele with her charge, and the old
                  gentleman, remained. The curiosity of the latter, it was plain to the girl, had
                  become strongly excited, and she began to feel certain that he would not leave the
                  omnibus, nor permit her to do so, without penetrating the mystery of her sleeping
                  companion. With stealthy glances she examined his face, in order to gain such
                  limited knowledge of his character as was possible under the circumstances. Her
                  impression was favorable.
               At last the stage reached the Exchange, and Adele was yet undetermined what to do
                  or which way to go. The possession of an insensible child in such a public place
                  would at once attract notice, and probably draw around her an excited and
                  misjudging crowd. Fear was intruding upon her heart.
               The old gentleman stepped forward to pay his fare, and stood just above her,
                  looking down upon her face and at the child.
               "Is that little girl asleep?" he asked. The voice was kind, and the tones assured
                  the heart of Adele.
               "Yes, sir," she answered, timidly.
               The old man stooped and laid his hand upon the child. Adele bent forward as if to
                  prevent the closer scrutiny he evidently wished to make; but he grasped the
                  sleeper firmly and turned her face to the light. An exclamation of surprise fell
                  from his lips, and he sat down, drawing, as he did so, with resolute hands, the
                  child from Adele's arms.
               "Girl, how came this child in your possession?" he said, sternly.
               "Oh, sir!" exclaimed Adele, with eagerness, "do you know to whom she belongs?"
               "Maddy! Maddy! Wake up, dear! Wake up!" said the old man, turning from the girl
                  without replying. "What ails her? What is the meaning of this strange sleep?" He
                  addressed Adele again.
               "If she belongs to you or yours," said Adele, "take her home as quickly as
                  possible. I have done my part in rescuing the dove from the hawk,—the lamb from
                  the wolf."
               Uncle John Fleetwood, whom the reader has recognised, needed no further prompting.
                  He had a carriage called quietly, and,
                  taking into it both Adele and his recovered niece, was driven rapidly to the
                  residence of Mr. Dainty. On the way he gained such information as Adele permitted
                  him to glean. It was not by any means satisfactory.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE ARREST.
               "FOUND! Found!" The words rang through the house as Uncle John entered, bearing
                  Madeline in his arms. Her rescuer followed with noiseless footsteps and gliding
                  motions.
               Responsive cries of joy and the noise of rapid feet were heard from all parts of
                  Mr. Dainty's dwelling; and by the time Mr. Fleetwood reached the mother's room an
                  eager crowd surrounded him. Tenderly laying Madeline upon the bed, he exposed her
                  pale, sad-looking countenance to view, the sight of which flooded every face with
                  tears.
               "Where is the girl?" he asked, imperatively.
               "I am here." And Adele moved toward the bed
               "What is the meaning of this?" he demanded. "What ails our precious darling?"
               "The sleep is mesmeric," answered Adele, in her low, musical voice.
               "Mesmeric!" ejaculated Mr. Fleetwood.
               "Mesmeric!" exclaimed Mr. Dainty, in anger. "Who has dared to do this?"
               
               "It was Mrs. Fordham," replied Adele.
               "Who is Mrs. Fordham?"
               "The woman for whom you were in search," said Adele, turning to Florence Harper,
                  whom she had recognised.
               "Mrs. Jeckyl!" said Florence.
               "Devil!" almost thundered Mr. Fleetwood.
               "How is this spell to be broken?" asked Florence, coming up to Adele and grasping
                  her arm tightly.
               "No one can break it but Mrs. Fordham. She has locked up her senses, and she alone
                  can open them."
               "Cannot you do it?" Florence asked, eagerly.
               "No," was answered, almost mournfully.
               "Try."
               "It is useless." And the girl shook her head.
               "Did you see it done?" now asked Mr. Fleetwood, turning from the bed where he had
                  been vainly trying to arouse Madeline to consciousness.
               "No, sir. She was alone with the poor little thing."
               "You have seen children put to sleep?" Mr Fleetwood asked the question.
               "Oh, yes, sir. Often."
               "And you've seen them wakened?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Do as you have seen it done, and wake this child if possible."
               Adele moved forward timidly, and, with evident strong reluctance, and standing
                  over Madeline, commenced making passes with her hands, beginning at the breast and
                  moving them upward over her face. The motions were slow at first, but increased in
                  quickness. This was continued for two or three minutes, but without apparent
                  effect.
               "It is of no use," said the girl, stopping suddenly, and as if in despair. "I have
                  no power. The hand that has been at work here is stronger than mine. You must get
                  Mrs. Fordham."
               "Where is she?"
               "At my mother's house."
               "Where does you mother live?"
               "She knows." And Adele looked toward Florence.
               "Take Florence in the carriage," said Uncle John, speaking to Mr. Dainty, "and go
                  with her to one of the police-stations and get an officer. Then drive with
                  lightning speed to the house where the girl's mother lives, and have Mrs. Jeckyl
                  arrested and brought here."
               "Come." Mr. Dainty spoke to Florence, who went hurriedly from the room, and made
                  herself ready in the quickest possible time.
               
               "Will you go?" she spoke to Adele, appearing in a few moments, ready to accompany
                  Mr. Dainty.
               "No," was the quiet answer. "It can do you no good; and harm may come of it to
                  me."
               The carriage which had brought Mr. Fleetwood and Adele from the Exchange was still
                  at the door. Into this Mr. Dainty, after giving his orders to the driver, entered
                  with Florence. At the nearest police-station they obtained an officer, duly
                  instructed to arrest Mrs. Jeckyl if she could be found, and then swept rapidly off
                  toward the northern part of the city. In returning from her previous visit to the
                  house of Mrs. Weir, Florence had particularly noted the names of streets and
                  numbers of houses, so that she had no difficulty in giving the directions
                  needed.
               "This is the house," she said, at last, and the officer signed to the driver to
                  rein up his horses. As when Florence paid her first visit, there was not a sign of
                  life about the dwelling. All the window-shutters were closed, and the dust lay
                  thick upon the sills and door-steps. Grass sprung in little green tufts from
                  between the bricks on the pavement, while small mounds of dirt had grown, by daily
                  light secretions, in the corners where the walls of the house and door-steps came
                  in contact.
               "No one lives here," said Mr. Dainty, as he looked up at the dwelling and noted
                  the many signs of desertion.
               "It is the house in which I saw that girl," replied Florence.
               The officer had already rung the bell. He was lifting his hand to ring a second
                  time, when the door was opened cautiously, and the singularly striking face of
                  Mrs. Weir presented itself. On seeing Florence, whom she instantly recognised, she
                  made a movement to shut the door quickly upon her visitors; but this the strong
                  hand of the officer prevented. As he pushed it wide open, Mrs. Weir turned and ran
                  back along the passage.
               "She will give the alarm, and the woman may escape," said Florence, quickly.
               At this hint the officer sprung forward, and, grasping her arm tightly, arrested
                  her progress at the bottom of the stairway. Mrs. Weir turned instantly, and fixed
                  her black, glittering eyes upon him.
               "What is the meaning of this outrage?" she demanded, in a steady voice.
               "No outrage is intended, madam," said Mr. Dainty, coming forward. "We are in
                  search of a woman named Fordham, who is, as we are informed, in your house."
               "She is not here," was the firm answer.
               
               "Where can we find her?" he asked, in a disappointed voice.
               "I know not. She comes and goes as the wind; and no questions are asked as to her
                  coming or going."
               "Step into this room," said the officer, motioning to one of the parlor-doors.
                  Mrs. Weir obeyed, and Mr. Dainty and Florence went in with her. Quick glances were
                  thrown around the apartments, but they had no other inmates.
               "Remain here," said the officer. "I will search the house. You stand by the door,
                  sir, and do not permit any one to pass to the street."
               Mrs. Weir made various signs of rebellion; but the officer warned her to be quiet,
                  or he would have her taken to the police-station. This threat really frightened
                  her, and she sunk down, almost nerveless, upon a chair.
               "Be quick," said Mr. Dainty, speaking to the officer. "The woman is tall, with a
                  thin, sallow, evil face, and dark, wicked eyes. You can make no mistake."
               The officer left the room. It was nearly ten minutes before he came back.
               "She is not in the house," he said, "and I fear has escaped, as I find an outlet
                  in the rear, leading through a court, into another street."
               "I told you that she was not here," said the woman, a gleam of triumph shooting
                  from her eyes, and her manner exhibiting relief.
               "She must be found!" Mr. Dainty spoke with agitation. "We are on her track, and
                  only need to persevere. This is one of her haunts; and to this house my poor child
                  was brought."
               "She will in all probability return here," said the officer, "if what this woman
                  states is true. But if she were really in the house at the time of our arrival,
                  and made her escape out through the alley and court I have mentioned, we shall
                  have to search for her in another direction. My advice is to send the carriage out
                  of the neighborhood. If the woman should come back and see it standing before the
                  door, she will take the alarm, and not enter."
               "Your suggestion is good," remarked Mr. Dainty. "I will order the carriage around
                  the square. The driver can wait for us in the next street." And he went to the
                  door and gave directions accordingly. Returning, Mr. Dainty said to the
                  officer,—
               "Shall we all remain here, or will you go for additional aid, so as to extend the
                  search?"
               "I think," replied the officer, "that, as this woman is fully implicated in a very
                  serious crime, I had better take her to
                  the police-station. She is evidently a participant in the business, and shows
                  great anxiety about the escape of her accomplice."
               Mrs. Weir's sallow face changed to a more ashen hue at this suggestion.
               "I do not know," added the officer, speaking for effect, "that bail, under the
                  circumstances, will be accepted. She will no doubt be imprisoned until all parties
                  in this most horrible outrage are discovered. Her evidence in the case will be of
                  too much importance for risk of absence, even under bail, to be taken."
               "Indeed, gentlemen," said Mrs. Weir, now thoroughly frightened, "I am innocent in
                  this matter. Mrs. Fordham, who brought the child here, is an entire stranger. I
                  never saw her until very recently."
               "Where is she now? How can we trace her?" demanded the officer.
               "I know not. She went as she came, and I asked no questions."
               "More the fool for that!" said the officer, coarsely. "But I am afraid there is as
                  much of the knave as the fool in the present case. Right kind of people are not in
                  the habit of letting suspicious old women, and total strangers at that, come into
                  their houses and depart at will, yet asking no questions. The story isn't
                  probable, madam."
               "But true, for all," answered Mrs. Weir. "It is just as I have said. Mrs. Fordham
                  came and went, and I asked no questions."
               "And why not?"
               "Because I—I—"
               The woman hesitated.
               "Say on."
               "We are commanded not to cast pearls before swine," she replied, with sudden
                  spirit; "and I shall not cast down things precious to be trampled under your
                  feet."
               "You've got some spice in you, I see," returned the officer, a little amused.
                  "People in your trade generally have. It requires a full portion to carry them
                  through."
               The woman's face flushed as she said,—
               "Explain yourself, sir! What do you mean by my trade?"
               "Oh, that of harboring child-stealing vagabonds and the like! This seems to have
                  been your last occupation. But I am not here to bandy sharp words. My business is
                  to find Mrs. Fordham. If you can direct me to the place where she now is, well; if
                  not, I must arrest you, and you will be held in custody until she is
                  produced,—perhaps longer."
               
               The woman's face turned pale again.
               At this moment the bell rung. Mrs. Weir started up and was moving toward the
                  door.
               "Excuse me, madam," said the officer, laying his hand upon her arm; "but I will
                  attend the door."
               And he drew her firmly back. She made a slight resistance, but the officer held
                  her tightly for an instant.
               "Take her in charge, if you please," he said to Mr. Dainty, "while I see after
                  this visitor."
               Mr. Dainty did not hesitate. Grasping her arm, he said, sternly,—
               "Let us have no trifling! This business may cost you dear. Complicity in crime is
                  no light matter, I can tell you."
               The officer was now at the street-door. As he opened it, a tall woman in black,
                  answering in all respects to the description of Mrs. Fordham, stood ready to
                  enter.
               "Walk in, madam," he said.
               But she stood still, with her keen eyes reading every lineament of his face. She
                  was not satisfied with its expression.
               "Walk in," repeated the officer.
               "No, I thank you. Please say to Mrs. Weir that Mrs. Fordham would like to see her
                  at the door for a moment."
               "Mrs. Weir is engaged," was the officer's reply.
               "Has her daughter returned?" queried Mrs. Fordham.
               "Yes."
               "Ask her to step here."
               By this time Mrs. Fordham had retreated a little, and the officer, seeing that she
                  was about descending the steps, moved suddenly forward, and, throwing one arm
                  around her waist, drew her with a sudden jerk into the passage and shut the door.
                  The movement was so quick, and so unexpected, that the woman was taken entirely
                  off of her guard.
               "You are arrested for child-stealing!" said the officer, ere she had recovered
                  from her surprise.
               "It is Mrs. Jeckyl!" exclaimed Florence, appearing at the parlor-door.
               "Mrs. Jeckyl! Oh, wretch! wretch!" said Mr. Dainty, who had released Mrs. Weir,
                  and now confronted the thoroughly-alarmed woman, who, seeing herself completely in
                  the power of these two men, gave up without a struggle.
               "Shall I go for the carriage?" said the officer.
               "Yes, immediately. But, stay! let me call the carriage, while you hold your prisoner in charge."
               "What are you going to do?" demanded Mrs. Jeckyl, with regaining self-possession,
                  as Mr. Dainty eft the house.
               "My business," replied the officer, "is to make this arrest. "What follows will
                  depend on the character of evidence which may be produced against you."
               "At whose instance is the arrest made?"
               "At the instance of Mr. Dainty, whose child you abducted."
               "I must know your authority!" The woman was growing bolder.
               The officer merely took a metal star from his pocket and fastened it against his
                  breast.
               The effect was instantaneous. The woman's eye quailed beneath his steady gaze.
               "Come," said the officer, as the carriage was heard rattling to the door. She
                  hesitated, but moved as she saw his hand rising to grasp her arm.
               "Do you wish the other woman arrested, also?" inquired the officer, on meeting Mr.
                  Dainty at the door. "She is without doubt an accomplice."
               "I only want this woman now," said Mr. Dainty. "If the other is needed we can send
                  for her."
               "But will hardly find her," muttered the officer. Mr. Dainty did not heed the
                  remark. He was too eager to have Mrs. Jeckyl conveyed to his dwelling to pause on
                  any other considerations. Entering the carriage with Mrs. Jeckyl, Florence, and
                  the officer, he ordered the driver to take them to his residence in the quickest
                  possible time. Heeding the injunction, the driver put the whip upon his horses,
                  and dashed rapidly away.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               BREAKING THE SPELL.
               IT was more than an hour from the time Mr. Dainty and Florence left to go in
                  search of Mrs. Jeckyl, before they returned, bringing the woman with them. During
                  all that period not a sign of life, beyond a feeble heart-beat, did Madeline
                  exhibit. Mrs. Dainty was almost wild with distress, and sat over her child,
                  weeping and wringing her hands. Agnes was calmer, but in deep grief; while Uncle
                  John moved about the chamber in which Madeline lay, as restless as an unshrived
                  ghost. Adele sat by the bedside, her face bent down, and hidden from view.
                  Occasionally Uncle John or Mr. Dainty would ask her a question. Then she would
                  look up, exhibiting a pale countenance, and answer in a low voice that was
                  touchingly sad.
               Many times had both the mother and Mr. Fleet-wood renewed their efforts to break
                  the fearful spell that lay upon the unconscious child. An age of suspense they
                  endured until Mr. Dainty's return.
               At last a carriage was heard at the door. Uncle John went to the window.
               "They have come!" he said, greatly excited, as he saw Mr. Dainty step to the
                  pavement. "There is an officer!" he added. "And there is Mrs. Jeckyl! Oh, the
                  wretch! yet how glad I am to see her!"
               Breathless expectation followed. Adele arose from her place by the bedside, and
                  shrunk away into a remote part of the room; while Agnes came nearer to Madeline,
                  and laid her hand upon her. The mingled sounds of voices and footsteps were heard
                  along the passage and on the stairs, and then the chamberdoor opened, and Mr.
                  Dainty entered, followed by Mrs. Jeckyl, the officer, and Florence.
               On the stern face of the woman sat a dark, defiant scowl. She looked at Mrs.
                  Dainty, at Agnes, and at Uncle John, with unflinching eyes, but did not speak.
                  Quick glances were then thrown about the room, and Adele, half hidden by one of
                  the window-curtains, was only partially seen, but not recognised.
               "For what purpose am I here?" she asked, looking at Mr. Dainty.
               "Simply to undo your evil work," he replied. "You see that child?" and he pointed
                  to the bed.
               
               Mrs. Jeckyl turned her eyes upon the form of Madeline, though scarcely moving her
                  head.
               "Well, what of her?" she spoke, very coldly.
               "She lies there wholly insensible, as you can see."
               "I am not a physician," the woman retorted, with a sneer. "Why don't you send for
                  your doctor?"
               "Right for once!" said Uncle John. "Why was not that thought of before?" And he
                  went quickly from the room, and gave direction to one of the servants to go with
                  all possible speed for the doctor.
               "This is your work, as we are told," Mr. Dainty replied, in answer to Mrs.
                  Jeckyl's remark. "And you are here to unbind what you have bound. And I pray you,
                  in Heaven's name, to do it speedily!"
               Mrs. Jeckyl laughed a low, gurgling, malignant laugh.
               "You give me credit for more than I claim," said she. "I know nothing of your
                  child. If she is sick, call in your physician, as I have already suggested."
               At this moment there was a sudden rustling of the window-curtain, and Adele came
                  forward into the room, her eyes fixed steadily on the face of Mrs. Jeckyl, and her
                  young lips compressed and resolute.
               "You do know something of the child." She spoke out boldly. "For you brought her
                  to my mother's house. Her present condition is the work of your hands, and you can
                  restore her in a moment if you will."
               Mrs. Jeckyl's countenance grew almost livid with rage; and she glared at Adele, as
                  if seeking to blast her with her burning eyes. But the young girl stood without a
                  quailing glance, and looked up steadily into her face.
               "It is as I say, and you know it." There was no sign of fear or embarrassment in
                  the voice of the brave young girl.
               "Then act quickly!" said Mr. Dainty.
               "Oh, Mrs. Jeckyl, help us if you can! Break the spell that rests on our dear
                  child!" Mrs. Dainty clasped her hands and spoke imploringly.
               But the woman stirred not from the place where she stood.
               "She can do it if she will." It was Adele who spoke, and her voice was clear and
                  confident.
               Mrs. Jeckyl again scowled upon her, like a wild animal at bay.
               "I have sent for the doctor," said Mr. Fleetwood, returning to the room where the
                  excited family stood hovering around
                  the bed on which Madeline lay. "We were simpletons not to have done this before.
                  My faith is stronger in him than in this impostor. It will be found, I think, that
                  Madeline's unnatural sleep is the effect of some drug, or of fright, or
                  injury."
               A grim smile parted the lips of Mrs. Jeckyl.
               "She can bring her to in a moment, if she will," persisted Adele. "I've seen such
                  things done many, many times."
               "No one asked you for information," said Mrs. Jeckyl, turning in an excited manner
                  toward the girl.
               "This is mere trifling," spoke out the police-officer, sternly, and he advanced to
                  the side of Mrs. Jeckyl. "Why was she brought here?" And he looked toward Mr.
                  Dainty.
               "To remove from this child the spell she has cast upon her through some infernal
                  art."
               "So I understood. Very well, madam, let it be done at once."
               Mrs. Jeckyl stood, in evident debate with herself, for some moments.
               "If I do as you desire, what then?" She addressed Mr. Dainty.
               "Quick! quick! Mrs. Jeckyl!" now broke in Mrs. Dainty. "Oh, save my child! She
                  will die! Break this terrible sleep!"
               "I will do it only on one condition," said the woman.
               "Name it," replied Mr. Dainty.
               "I am now in the hands of an officer?"
               "You are; and arrested on the serious charge of child-stealing."
               "The condition is this: that I be permitted to leave your house, and that no
                  effort be made to arrest me after my departure."
               "Make no conditions with her," spoke out Mr. Fleetwood.
               "As you like," answered the woman, coldly.
               "I am not sure that I can make conditions now," said Mr. Dainty. "You are already
                  in the hands of the law."
               "Then I will not touch your child. She may sleep until the day of doom, for me!
                  And she will sleep until I choose to awaken her."
               "Wretch! Fiend! Devil!" ejaculated Uncle John, moving about the room, greatly
                  excited.
               "Thank you!" said Mrs. Jeckyl, with a quiet sneer.
               Mr. Dainty now drew the police-officer aside, and held a low, hurried conversation
                  with him.
               "Restore this child, if it is in your power to do so," said the latter, turning
                  from Mr. Dainty and approaching Mrs. Jeckyl.
               
               "Only on the terms I have stated," replied the woman, resolutely.
               "I will suffer you to depart from here alone."
               "That will not do. I must have an honorable pledge that no attempt will be made to
                  arrest me after I leave."
               "I shall make no attempt, but simply report what has been done," said the officer.
                  "If the Chief of Police again issues orders for your arrest, they will be
                  obeyed."
               The woman thought for some moments.
               "I may depart at will?" she said, looking from the officer to Mr. Dainty.
               "Yes." Both replied.
               She moved to the bedside, uncovered the face of Madeline, and stood for nearly a
                  minute gazing down upon it. All was still as death in the room, and hearts beat in
                  muffled measure. Repressed excitement was intense. Then the woman laid her hands
                  upon the child's temples, and held them there almost a minute longer, then took
                  both of her hands and clasped them within her own, seemingly to impart the warmth
                  of her own body. After that she began a few slow, upward passes, which were
                  gradually increased in rapidity. A sight convulsive start was the first sign of
                  returning animation; a shudder next ran through the child's frame; then she moaned
                  plaintively. The anxious group, now bending around the bed, held their breaths.
                  Mrs. Dainty was close beside Mrs. Jeckyl, and the face of Florence Harper hung
                  over Madeline, a little way from that of the necromancer. Now there came the flush
                  of quickening pulses into the child's face; now its expression began changing to
                  one more pleasant to look upon; now a feeble smile played around the arching lips;
                  and now the lids unclosed, opening slowly, as if just overcoming the pressure of a
                  sweet slumber, and revealing the bright blue eyes beneath.
               At this instant the face of Mrs. Jeckyl was withdrawn.
               "Mother! Oh, mother! Dear mother!" said Madeline, stretching up her arms and
                  clasping the neck of Mrs. Dainty, who in turn threw her arms around the child,
                  caressing her in the wildest manner, and almost devouring her with kisses.
               "Be calm, Madeline, for Heaven's sake!" whispered Uncle John in the ears of his
                  niece.
               "Oh, I have had such a terrible dream!" said Madeline, sobbing, her face still
                  hidden in her mother's bosom.
               "All leave the room but Florence and her mother," said Mr. Fleetwood, in a
                  whisper. "This crowd will only excite her mind. If she thinks it all a dream for the present, so much the
                  better."
               Acting on this hint, all retired but Florence and Mrs. Dainty. Mrs. Jeckyl was not
                  with them. She had already glided from the chamber, passed down the stairs, and
                  was now hurrying away from the house with footsteps quickened by fear. The officer
                  kept his word, and permitted her to escape.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE ANGEL STRONGER THAN THE DEMON.
               "I HAVE wronged you, Miss Harper," whispered Mrs. Dainty.
               It cost the weak, proud woman an effort to make this acknowledgment. But
                  Madeline's arms were around both of their necks, and the child was clinging to
                  both with a half-trembling eagerness. This confession made all the rest easy.
               "Return to us," she added, "and be to my children what you once were."
               "Do come back again!" It was the pleading voice of Madeline. "Oh, I wish you had
                  never gone away!"
               Florence felt a shudder run through the child's body, as if some fearful image had
                  been presented to her mind.
               "Say you will come back, and take your old place, Miss Harper," urged Mrs.
                  Dainty.
               The arm of Madeline which was around her mother's neck withdrew itself and joined
                  the arm that circled the neck of Florence.
               
               "Say yes! Do say yes, Miss Harper!" And the child's clasping arms were drawn very
                  tightly.
               "Yes," said Florence, as she kissed the child.
               "Oh! I am so glad! So glad!" cried Madeline, overcome with joy at this concession.
                  "If you had never gone away!"
               "We will be friends," said Mrs. Dainty, taking the hand of Florence Harper and
                  pressing it warmly. "I did not understand you before. But I see clearer
                  to-day."
               "Let the past be forgotten," answered Florence. "All are liable to misconception.
                  I was faithful to your children; and I will be so again."
               Then, whispering into the ears of Mrs. Dainty, she added,—
               "I fear we are exciting Madeline beyond what is prudent."
               "You are right," answered the mother. "We are forgetting ourselves."
               Madeline was still on the bed. Gently disengaging the arms that were around her
                  neck, Florence looked smilingly into the face of Madeline, and said, in a cheerful
                  tone,—
               "Come, Maddy dear! you're wide enough awake now, after a long sleep."
               "How long have I been asleep?" the child asked, curiously, glancing, as she spoke,
                  toward the windows. "Is it morning?
               "No: the day is nearly done. It lacks scarcely an hour to sunset."
               "Is it so late?" Madeline looked serious, and her face passed from transient light
                  into shadow.
               "Yes. You have slept a long time. But come, dear, you must get dressed for
                  tea."
               Madeline looked up at Miss Harper with a kind of vague wonder in her countenance,
                  and then let her eyes wander slowly about the room, as if searching for some
                  person or object.
               "Haven't I been away from here, Miss Harper?" she inquired, looking at
                  Florence.
               "Why do you ask that question?"
               "I'm sure it isn't all just a dream. That Mrs. Jeckyl! Oh, dear! I feel so
                  strangely!" And Madeline laid her hand upon her breast.
               "Don't think of any thing, dear, but the happy present," said Florence, smiling
                  into the little girl's face.
               But the eyes of Madeline were filling with tears, and their expression had become
                  very sad.
               "Oh, it was so dreadful!"
               "What was dreadful, Maddy?" her mother asked.
               "I don't know," she answered, in a bewildered manner. "I saw it all just now; and now it's
                     gone again."
               "What is gone, love?"
               "I thought she was going to kill me." The child spoke as if to herself.
               "Who, Maddy?"
               "It was Mrs. Jeckyl. She had me in a room. Oh, dear, mother! I don't know what's
                  the matter with me!"
               And the child shuddered, while an expression of almost abject fear came into her
                  face.
               "You are safe at home, my love," said Mrs. Dainty, in a soothing voice. "There is
                  no Mrs. Jeckyl here, but kind Miss Harper instead. And she is going to stay with
                  us."
               'That's best of all," replied Madeline, partially recovering herself, and looking
                  up into the face of Miss Harper. "I was so sorry when you went away and that
                  dreadful woman came in your place."
               "Won't you rise now?" said Florence, taking Madeline by the hand and drawing her
                  gently upwards. The child yielded, and sat erect in bed. Mrs. Dainty brought a
                  frock, and a change of under-clothing, and both she and Florence busied themselves
                  in removing the soiled garments of Madeline and replacing them with such as were
                  fresh and clean. The excitement of all this quickened and diverted her mind. When
                  fully attired, and ready to join the anxious, expectant family, Florence said to
                  her,—
               "I think your father and Uncle John are in the sitting-room. Shall we go
                  down?"
               She held out her hand. Madeline drew back for a moment.
               "Come, dear?" Florence spoke cheerily. "I know Uncle John wants to see his
                  pet."
               Madeline took the hand of Miss Harper, who led her down-stairs and into the
                  sitting-room. Mr. Dainty, old Mr. Fleetwood, Agnes, and little George were there.
                  Miss Harper gave each a warning glance, which was understood.
               "Wide awake, pet?" said Uncle John, in a cheerful, affectionate voice. "What a
                  nice long sleep you have had!"
               Mr. Dainty and Agnes avoided any remark, or, indeed, any exhibition of more than
                  common interest. George ran up to Madeline, kissed her lovingly, and drew his arm
                  around her waist. But he had been cautioned by his sister, and so made no allusion
                  to recent exciting events.
               "Georgie," whispered Madeline, putting her lips close to her brother's ear, "Miss
                  Harper is coming to live here again."
               
               "Is she?" responded the little boy, with a suddenly illuminated face.
               "Yes, indeed. A'n't you, Miss Harper?" And Madeline looked up into the face of her
                  governess.
               "If you want me?" was the smiling reply.
               "Oh, that's grand!" said George, striking his hands together and jumping a foot
                  from the floor. "Did you hear that, Uncle John?"
               "Hear what?" asked the old gentleman.
               "Miss Harper is coming back again!" answered the boy. "Oh, I'm so glad!"
               Mr. Fleetwood threw an almost grateful look upon Florence, as he said,—
               "You have friends here, Miss Harper. Children are no hypocrites."
               "If this is true, as I hope it is, let me welcome you with a most sincere
                  welcome," said Mr. Dainty, coming forward and giving his hand to Florence.
               Mrs. Dainty entered at the moment. She had lingered in the chamber after Florence
                  left.
               "It is true," she spoke out, with womanly frankness. "I have asked her to return,
                  and she has kindly consented. We shall all know each other better in time, I
                  hope."
               The flushed cheeks, drooping eyes, and unsteady lips of Miss Harper showed
                  emotion, not triumph; and no eye that then read her countenance mistook its true
                  expression.
               Uncle John thanked his niece with his eyes, but said nothing.
               "A'n't you glad? I am!" And George danced about the room, in his wild, impulsive
                  way. "Hurrah for Miss Harper, and death on Old Snakes!"
               Young America was losing himself.
               "Georgie! Georgie?" Agnes spoke in warning and reproof. Mr. Dainty raised his
                  finger; and Uncle John said, "Hush?" But the boy's blood was up, and he rattled
                  on:—
               "But didn't I give it to her just now? Didn't I make her mad, though? Old Snakes!
                  I reckon they heard me round the corner. If she comes here again, I'll shoot her!
                  Old rip! Old hag! Old Snakes!"
               "George! Stop this instant!" said Mr. Dainty, in a stern voice.
               "Was she here?" asked Madeline, her face growing suddenly pale.
               Agnes took the boy's hand and led him away.
               "Come with me to the school-room," said Florence, with sudden animation. "I want
                  to see how it looks there." And she drew Madeline toward the door. "We had some
                  pleasant times there, hadn't we, Maddy?
                  Do you remember the stories I used to tell?"
               They were already in the passage.
               "Oh, yes, indeed!" was answered. "And they were such beautiful stories!"
               "Would you like to hear another? I know a great many," said Florence.
               "If you please, Miss Harper. I always love to hear your stories; they make me feel
                  better."
               "Oh, it looks as natural as can be!" said Florence, speaking with animation, as
                  she entered the study-room. "Here is my arm-chair, just in the old place. There! I
                  am in it again, feeling quite at home and comfortable."
               "And I am in my little chair, close by your side, and waiting for a story," said
                  Madeline, who was already feeling the spirit of her companion and true friend as
                  well as teacher.
               "The story, is it?" And Florence bent down and left a kiss upon the sweet,
                  upturned face. "Very well; my promise shall be kept. Now, let me think: what shall
                  the story be?"
               Miss Harper lifted her eyes, and sat thoughtful for some moments. Then, reaching
                  her hand toward a table that stood near, she took up a Bible, saying, as she did
                  so,—
               "I used to read you some of the stories in this precious volume, and I think you
                  always loved to hear them. Shall it be a Bible story now?"
               Florence was looking down upon the face of her pupil. Its expression suddenly
                  changed into one of strong repugnance, and, with an impatient gesture she
                  said,—
               "No! I don't want to hear a Bible story!"
               Florence was shocked by the tone and manner of the child more than by her
                  words.
               "Not a story from the Divine Book, Maddy dear?" she said, in a voice touched by an
                  irrepressible sadness. "Oh, you cannot mean what you have said! Angels are present
                  with us in the holy word; and they bring to our souls peace and happiness. Let me
                  read to you about the birth of our Saviour in Bethlehem."
               Miss Harper opened to the second chapter of Matthew: as she did so, Madeline
                  turned her head away. Miss Harper began,—
               "Now, when Jesus was born——"
               The instant these words reached the ears of Madeline, she sprung upon the volume
                  in the hands of Miss Harper, and would have torn the open pages, if she had not
                  been prevented. Her countenance was flushed almost to congestion, and her eyes
                  gleamed with an evil light.
               
               "Don't read that! I won't hear it! I hate it! she exclaimed, passionately.
               Florence felt a cold shudder run through her frame. Very still she sat, and
                  silent, holding the hands of Madeline. For nearly a minute the hush as of death
                  pervaded the room. Then she released the passive hands she held, and laid one of
                  her own upon the child's head, smoothing the soft hair with a gentle pressure.
               "Once—it is not many years ago—there was a dear little baby." The lips of Florence
                  were close to the ears of Madeline, her voice was very low, the tones even and
                  tenderly modulated. "I do not think there was ever a sweeter baby born into the
                  world. It had the roundest of rosy cheeks, that were softer than any velvet; eyes
                  as blue as spring's first violets; and rich brown hair clustering, in the tiniest
                  little curls that ever were seen, all over its head. As this beautiful baby lay in
                  its mother's arms, it looked like a cherub more than like an earth-born baby."
               Florence paused, for Madeline had placed both hands over her ears, so that not a
                  word could reach the sense of hearing. She waited, with forced calmness, until the
                  hands were removed. Madeline did not look up into her face, but kept her eyes
                  resting on the floor.
               "There were other attendants on that baby, besides those visible to human
                  eyes."
               The hands of Madeline were raised quickly, but the closing words of the sentence
                  arrested the movement.
               "The mother did not see them; the father did not see them: but still they were
                  there."
               The hands of Madeline began to fall, and her ear slightly turned, listening,
                  toward Florence.
               "I said they were not visible to human eyes," resumed Miss Harper. Madeline looked
                  up, beguiled into wonder. "But they were as really present, and as near the baby,
                  as its parents. No,—not both of them," The last sentence was spoken in a changed
                  tone, as if it involved some special meaning.
               "Not both? Who were they?" asked Madeline, her interest beginning to be
                  excited.
               "The one that stood near the babe," said Miss Harper, "had the form of a beautiful
                  woman just passed upward from sweet young girlhood. Her countenance was lovelier,
                  and purer in expression, than that of any face ever seen by you in a picture. She
                  bent over the babe with clasped hands, gazing down upon it with looks of wondering
                  love; and when it smiled her face grew suddenly radiant. The other," (Miss
                  Harper's voice fell lower, and took on
                  a graver tone,) "stood in a distant corner of the room, almost crouching down, as
                  if held there by some superior power. Very different was she from the pure being
                  who bent over the child. Her face wore a frowning, malignant expression. Instead
                  of curling golden hair gracefully falling around her neck and upon her shoulders,
                  dark, tangled locks stood out from her head, or crept down over her face, like
                  serpents."
               "Who were they?" asked Madeline, now thoroughly interested.
               "One was the baby's guardian angel; the other, an evil spirit,"
               Madeline raised her eyes to the face of Miss Harper with looks of deeper
                  wonder.
               "The angel's presence," resumed Florence, "was alone sufficient to hold that evil
                  spirit, who wished to hurt the tender babe, at a distance; just as good affections
                  in our hearts have power to hold the bad and selfish ones so far away that they
                  can do us no possible harm. Day by day that infant grew larger, and brighter, and
                  happier; but never for a moment did the angel remove, nor for a moment cease to
                  spread around the babe a sphere of tender love, of innocent and holy calmness. And
                  the mother, and all who drew near to look upon the babe or to hold it like a
                  precious thing in their arms, felt this angelic sphere as something tender, pure,
                  and loving." 
               "But what of the bad spirit?" asked Madeline, with increasing interest.
               "The bad spirit," answered Florence, "remained also, and its evil eyes were always
                  upon the babe. But the presence of that celestial being kept her ever at the same
                  distance, and seemed to hold her there, as if by a powerful arm. She could not
                  draw near to the babe, nor even make it aware of her presence.
               "Day by day the child continued to grow and to become more beautiful, until four
                  months of its sweet life had passed. Still the angel and the bad spirit kept
                  unweariedly their guard over and watch upon the babe. Occasionally a slight shade
                  would now cross the angel's face, and always at the same instant a gleam of
                  pleasure would lighten the dark countenance of the watchful fiend."
               "A fiend, Miss. Harper?" There was a slight pallor on the face of Madeline, and
                  the interest it expressed was verging on to the painful.
               "I will call one a fiend, as I call the other an angel. To do good is angelic,
                  while to do evil is fiendlike. None but a fiend could take pleasure in doing harm
                  to an innocent babe. Well, as I was saying, after this darling baby was a few
                     months old, the angel's face would
                  at times be shadowed; and then a gleam of malignant pleasure would flash over the
                  countenance of the attendant fiend. And now I will tell you the reason. Do you
                  wish to hear?"
               "Oh, yes, Miss Harper! Tell me the reason," answered Madeline, all attention.
               "The babe, even as early as I have said, displayed an evil temper. It grew angry,
                  pushed its mother away, and resisted her. This troubled the guardian angel, and
                  this it was that gave the fiend delight. But these fits of passion were but
                  transient, passing away as the morning cloud and the early dew, under the sunny
                  influence of that blessed guardian angel. The fiend was still repelled,—still kept
                  at a distance. But she wearied not with waiting. She knew that her time would
                  come,—that the angel would not always have power to hold her in the distance."
               Miss Harper paused, and looked into the face of Madeline. There was something in
                  its deeply interested expression that a little puzzled her.
               "Shall I go on?" she asked.
               "The fiend didn't hurt the baby, Miss Harper? The angel didn't go away?" Her voice
                  was earnest almost to eagerness.
               "The angels never leave us of their own accord. We drive them away, and then,
                  instantly, evil spirits take their places. This is so from childhood, even to old
                  age. It was so with the baby of whom I am telling you; it is so with your brother
                  Georgie now; so with you; so with me; so with every one. We choose our own
                  companions, always; and they are evil or good. No angel can be near to us when we
                  are angry with our brother, when we hate, when we are selfishly seeking our own
                  pleasure in a total disregard of others; and the moment these bad affections push
                  the angel attendants away, evil spirits draw near, and by their malignant power
                  increase our anger, hate, and selfishness, and make us wretched in consequence;
                  for bad passions always produce unhappiness"
               Madeline looked very serious,—almost sad.
               "Is it so with all of us?" she asked, in a low voice.
               "It is so with all of us, dear. But shall I tell you more about this baby?"
               "Yes."
               "No, Maddy, the evil spirit was not permitted, to do the baby harm: the loving
                  angel appointed to be the guardian of its infantile life did not depart."
               "But you said that the bad spirit knew that her time would come?" interrupted
                  Madeline.
               Florence sighed. "Am I bearing her beyond her depth?" she said, questioning with herself. There was a moment or two of
                  silence. Then she resumed—
               "The baby had a good mother, and to her mind the angel was all the while
                  suggesting right ways of influencing her precious darling; and so, as the babe
                  grew older, its mind clearer, and its experience wider, that loving mother was a
                  partner with the angel in guarding it from evil and in sowing in its young mind
                  the seeds of goodness. Now, Maddy, just think for a moment of the mind of a babe
                  as a garden all prepared in the spring-time for seeds. If true thoughts and gentle
                  and good affections are sown in this garden, good and beautiful plants will spring
                  up; but, if false thoughts and bad affections are scattered upon the ground,
                  poisonous weeds will grow. You can see that?"
               "Oh, yes," answered Madeline.
               "Well, as I was saying, the baby had a good mother; and she sowed good seeds in
                  its infantile mind, and as these began to grow the angel saw pure and beautiful
                  things there, and so kept very near. If weeds had been suffered to spring up in
                  this garden and hide or destroy the heavenly plants, the angel would have been
                  repelled by these evil things, while the bad spirit, seeing in them what was
                  delightful, would have approached, and hurt the baby by stimulating them to a more
                  rapid growth. Do you understand my meaning?"
               "I think so."
               "One of the first things that was taught to this baby, as its mind began to open,
                  was the existence of God."
               Florence spoke low and reverently, while her eyes were fixed upon the countenance
                  of her attentive listener. She saw a slight impulse strike the child's features,
                  and flush of sudden feeling veil them.
               "Of that good God who had sent his pure angel to be its guardian," she added, in a
                  still lower and more reverent voice.
               The light returned again to Madeline's face.
               "'How shall I do this?' asked the mother, in her own heart; and the reply came.
                  She did not know that it was the angel's voice that gave the wished-for answer. So
                  she took the little one's hands in hers one evening, clasped and raised them
                  upward, and said, 'God bless little Amy.' The baby was too young to repeat the
                  words of her mother, or even to comprehend their full meaning; but the angel, who
                  bent very near, breathed a holy feeling into her tender spirit, and she had a
                  faint impression of something higher than the visible, and up to which she might
                  look for blessing. How sweetly the
                  angel smiled at this! how darkly frowned the watchful fiend! The first idea of God
                  was given; and that was a great gain, for the angel could now be more intimately
                  present with the child in this idea. So far the angel was triumphing over the
                  fiend."
               "Are angels present with us when we think of God?" asked Madeline, interrupting
                  Miss Harper, and speaking with the manner of one who felt an interest in the
                  question.
               "If we think of him reverently, they are."
               "How, reverently, Miss Harper?"
               "As great, and good, and holy," said Florence; "for then we shall desire to be
                  like him, and angels are always present with us when we desire to be good."
               "And do they help us to be good?"
               "Always. To them it is the most delightful of employments."
               The eyes of Madeline drooped. She sighed faintly, and remained silent. Florence
                  waited for some moments, and then went on, speaking slowly and impressively:—
               "Tenderly loved and wisely guarded, the first moons of the baby's life waxed and
                  waned, and at last a golden year of its life was completed. The idea of God, once
                  conceived in the child's mind, grew daily into a more distinct impression. Her
                  guardian angel never let that first, best impression become dim, and the good
                  mother was a co-worker with the angel.
               "'Mamma, read,' said little Amy, one day. She was just beginning to repeat a few
                  small words. The best book in the world was lying on the table, close by the
                  mother's side, and she turned to it and let her eyes rest upon the open page. Then
                  a strange thing happened. Both the angel and the evil spirit drew near to the
                  child. Tender interest and holy love were on the face of the angel; anger, hate,
                  and fierce determination on the countenance of the fiend. The angel knew that
                  every sentence from the holy book that entered the child's mind and fixed itself
                  in her memory would remain there, a link in the chain by which her spirit might be
                  joined to heaven; and the fiend knew that just in the degree that her mind was
                  filled with the holy precepts and divine narratives of the
                  Bible would he pass harmless through the trials and temptations of her future life
                  and rise superior to the powers of darkness. And so the angel bent with the
                  tenderest solicitude over the child, while the evil spirit strove to disturb her
                  mind or awaken in it some evil passion. But the influence of good was strongest,
                  and as the mother read the little one
                  leaned her head and listened with fixed attention. Thus she read:—'Now, when Jesus
                  was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold there came
                  wise men from the East to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born king of the
                  Jews? for we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him.' The
                  evil spirit could not abide in the presence of this word of truth, as it entered
                  the mind of an innocent little child, and so retired to a distance, almost
                  writhing in hatred and pain. The mother read on:—'When Herod' the king had heard
                  these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had
                  gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of
                  them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea,
                  for thus it is written by the prophet: And thou, Bethlehem, in the land of Juda,
                  art not the least among the princes of Juda, for out of thee shall come a
                  governor, that shall rule my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had privily called
                  the wise men, inquired of them diligently at what time the star appeared. And he
                  sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child,
                  and when ye have found him, bring me word, that I may come and worship him also.
                  When they had heard the king, they departed; and lo! the star which they saw in
                  the east went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was.
                  When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were
                  come into the house, they saw the young child, with Mary his mother, and fell down
                  and worshipped him; and when they had opened their treasures they presented unto
                  him gifts,—gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.'"
               Florence had triumphed; for Madeline was listening to this story of the Nativity
                  with deep attention. And so she kept on, repeating from memory the whole
                  chapter.
               "And now," continued Florence, "not a day passed in which that innocent little one
                  did not ask her mother to read; and the mother read to her, at least once every
                  day, some story from the Bible, so that, as she grew older, her memory was full of
                  precious histories, in the thought of which her guardian angel could be present
                  with her. She loved to hear of little Samuel; of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt
                  by his brethren; and of the blessed Saviour, who went about doing good.
               "And the child grew, and grew, until babyhood was passed and the sweetness of
                  infancy gave place to a more earnest life. But always the day opened or closed
                  with some lesson from the holy book;
                  and, when that was read, the angel drew very near to the child, while the fiend
                  shrunk afar off. No matter how many selfish feelings the evil spirit had been
                  successful in awakening through the day, thus grieving the watching angel; when
                  the Bible was read her power was gone, and she shrunk away in fear from its divine
                  brightness.
               "And, still as the child grew, her mother taught her to pity the poor, the sick,
                  and the suffering, and to find pleasure in doing kind offices instead of only
                  desiring to have good things for herself. In all these teachings the angel was
                  very near, helping the mother, and overcoming the fiend's influence, which was
                  ever active. Often it happened that the fiend would approach the child in an
                  unguarded moment, and fill her mind with selfish thoughts or stir her heart with
                  an evil passion. For a little while she would have power over her; but the angel
                  had a dwelling-place in the child's mind, and, entering, would subdue the enemy
                  and cast her out. What was that dwelling-place, Madeline?"
               Miss Harper looked lovingly into the face of her earnestly-listening pupil.
               "I don't know,' was answered.
               "Shall I tell you?"
               "Oh, yes, I wish to know."
               "Why?"
               Madeline did not answer.
               "Would you like angels to have a dwelling-place in your mind?"
               "Oh, yes, Miss Harper."
               "That dwelling-place," said Florence, very impressively, "was formed of the
                  blessed words of truth she had learned from the Bible. Into these the angel could
                  enter and abide; and she did enter, and by the power of celestial love drove out
                  the fiend."
               "Long years afterward," continued Florence, "when the child, grown to be a woman,
                  had taken her place in the world as one of its actors, meeting its cares, trials,
                  crosses, and temptations, she was able to overcome in all the life-battle she was
                  called to fight. Evil spirits assailed her, and sought the destruction of her
                  soul. They were around her in the morning, at mid-day and evening. But angels were
                  also present with her, and present with power, for in her memory they found
                  passages from the word of God, and they abode in them with all their protecting
                  influence, and helped her to fight the enemies of her soul, even to their final
                  overthrow. I very much fear that, if her mother had not filled her memory with
                  stories and precepts from the Book of books, these evil assailants ants from hell would have overcome in her great
                  life-battle. But she had angels on her side; and God's angels are always more
                  powerful than demons. One of these blessed beings can put ten thousand evil
                  spirits to flight. Oh, then, let us make them our friends! Let us prepare
                  dwelling-places for them in our hearts, where they may always abide and shield us
                  from the powers of darkness. They dwell with us in the divine teachings of this
                  holy book."
               And Florence, speaking with tender solemnity, lifted the Bible from the table and
                  held it open before Madeline.
               "Fill your mind with its heavenly lessons. Let the angels come to you and make
                  their abode with you in its divine precepts. Take it to your heart, dear
                  Madeline!"
               Madeline stood almost rigid for a moment or two, as if life were suspended. Then,
                  with a gush of tears, she caught at the book and clasped it passionately to her
                  breast.
               "Amen! God be praised!" The lips of Florence parted, as her wet eyes sprung
                  upward: there was a low murmur on the air; and these were her words of
                  thankfulness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               AN UNEXPECTED REVELATION.
               IN the excitement attendant on the restoration of Madeline to conscious life,
                  Adele had been forgotten. Uncle John was the first to remember her. It was
                  immediately after the withdrawal of Florence with her charge to the
                  study-room.
               "Where is the girl?" he asked, suddenly glancing around.
               No one could answer the question.
               "Did you leave her in your chamber?"
               Uncle John spoke to his niece.
               "I do not think she is there," replied Mrs. Dainty.
               "I hope she has not left the house," said Uncle John. There was concern in his
                  voice, and he moved, as he spoke, toward the door. "We are largely in her debt,
                  and she, I think, needs our protection."
               "She shall have it!" Mr. Dainty spoke with emphasis. "Go, Madeline, and see if she
                  has remained in your room."
               Mrs. Dainty went to her chamber.
               
               "Not here!" She uttered the words just audibly. A few moments she stood, her eyes
                  glancing around the apartment, when a low sound, like a repressed sob, came to her
                  ears. Stepping forward, she drew aside one of the heavy window-curtains. There sat
                  Adele, crouching upon a low ottoman, her face buried in her hands.
               "We were afraid you had gone," said Mrs. Dainty, speaking in a kind voice, and
                  laying her hand gently on the girl's head.
               Adele looked up, but did not answer. Her singularly beautiful face, in which the
                  softness of childhood still blended with woman's firmer outlines, was pale and
                  very sad. Mrs. Dainty, whose nerves were still all ajar, felt something like awe
                  steal into her heart as she looked upon the countenance which was upturned to
                  hers.
               Just then Uncle John, whose anxiety about the young stranger would not permit him
                  to await the return of his niece, entered the room. His face brightened as he saw
                  Adele.
               "Ah, my brave girl, you are here. We were afraid you had left the house," he said,
                  encouragingly.
               Adele arose, and stood, with timid, downcast look, before Mrs. Dainty and Mr.
                  Fleetwood.
               "We owe you more than thanks," said the latter.
               "The service you have rendered us is beyond all price. How shall we repay the
                  obligation?"
               Adele raised her dark eyes and looked steadily into the face of Mr. Fleetwood.
                  There was a strange depth and beauty in those eyes, and something mournful and
                  pleading. Mr. Fleetwood felt their appeal.
               "What is your name?" he asked.
               "Adele," replied the girl.
               "Adele—what?"
               A slight flush came into her face; but she did not answer until after a silence of
                  several moments.She then said,—
               "Adele Weir."
               "Do you wish to return to your mother?"
               This question disturbed the girl. There was evidently a strong mental
                  conflict.
               "If mother was as she used to be. But—";The feelings of Adele overmastered her,
                  and she again covered her face. Shuddering sobs almost convulsed her frame. They
                  were not loud, but repressed as if by the whole strength of her will.
               "If mother was as she used to be." Self-possession was restored, after a brief
                  struggle. "But she is not, and I am afraid never will be. Since she became a
                  medium, she has not been like my mother of old. The spirits tell her a great many
                     strange things, and she believes
                  all, and does just what they say. Oh, dear! it is dreadful! I have not had a happy
                  moment since the knockings, and writings, and strange doings began. And I don't
                  like the people who come to our house. Some of them, I know, are not good. There's
                  a Mr. Dyer. His heart is full of wickedness, I am sure, for none but a wicked man
                  ever had such greedy eyes. I was not afraid of him, but more of myself, when he
                  came near me. I felt as if I would like to kill him."
               "Did he ever offer you an insult?" asked Mr. Fleetwood.
               "Once."
               "What of it?"
               "I rebuked him with such strong words that he seemed frightened for a moment. I
                  don't know how I looked: it might have been murder, for I felt it."
               Adele had grown excited.
               "Who else visit at your mothers house?" further inquired Mr. Fleetwood.
               "Oh, a great many people. Circles meet there every night, and sometimes every day.
                  But I never saw any good that came of it all. The spirits tell strange things, but
                  I can't see that any one is made better. Mother hasn't been made better, I know. I
                  am afraid her right reason is gone. When I was a very little girl, she belonged to
                  the church, and used to read the Bible a great deal. She always read it aloud when
                  I was with her; and so I got my thoughts full of verses and
                  stories, until I could say almost chapters by heart. But mother believes now that
                  spirits are making a higher revelation than the Bible, and that its teachings are
                  of but small account in comparison. I am afraid that if the spirits were to tell
                  her to do almost any thing that is forbidden in the Bible, she would do it. Isn't
                  it dreadful?"
               "Dreadful indeed!" said Mr. Fleetwood. "But you believe in the Bible?"
               "Oh, yes,—yes! At first they put me to sleep, and tried to make a medium of me. I
                  believe that I did write and talk some. But when I got back into my real self
                  again I had such awful feelings that I was sure it must be wrong. And so I prayed
                  God to teach and help me. And I think he did. Their power over me grew less and
                  less; and at last I was able to throw it all off. Oh, sir, I do not think it would
                  be right for me to go back again."
               "You must not return," answered Mr. Fleetwood, positively. "God heard your prayer,
                  verily, and has granted you a deliverance."
               The lashes of the girl's eyes fell slowly down upon her cheeks, and there came into her face a
                  meek, sad, yet thankful, expression.
               "You will remain here for the present," said Mr. Fleetwood. "To-morrow we will
                  talk over your future, and decide what is best to be done. Think of us as your
                  true friends, and fully depend upon us for protection. If your heart is right,
                  Adele,—that is, if you wish to be and to do right,—you have nothing to fear, and
                  every thing to hope."
               "I have no other desire!" was the tearful answer.
               Dusky Night was beginning to weave her web of darkness. Shadows were gathering in
                  the rooms: the stillness of twilight came stealing down upon sense and feeling.
                  Half an hour later, and the family were gathered at the tea-table. There were Mr.
                  and Mrs. Dainty, Uncle John Fleetwood, Agnes, Madeline, and George.
               "What will you have, dear?" said Mr. Dainty, looking toward Madeline, after he had
                  helped Uncle John and his oldest daughter, Agnes.
               "I don't want any thing," she answered, her face slightly
                  reddening as she spoke, and her eyes turning toward the door, as if she were
                  expecting some one.
               "This toast looks very nice, Maddy. Let me give you a piece?" Mr. Dainty spoke
                  with gentle persuasion.
               "Can't I eat with Miss Harper?" And Madeline pushed her chair a little way back
                  from the table.
               Mrs. Dainty's eyes met those of her husband. Her face grew troubled and
                  irresolute; his evinced a puzzled state of mind. Uncle John looked at his niece,
                  and mutely signed for her to say yes.
               "If you prefer doing so," answered Mrs. Dainty, replying to Madeline. "But I would
                  rather have you take tea with us."
               Consent and objection at the same time only tended to push the child's mind
                  further away from an even balance. She had stepped back from the table with a
                  light motion as consent passed her mother's lips, but stood suddenly still, with a
                  clouded face, at the objection.
               "Run along, dear," said Uncle John, in a cheerful voice. "Mother says yes."
               Madeline moved a pace or two, and then stopped. Her chin was drawn down, her brow
                  contracted, her lips pouting.
               "Go, go, dear! Mother is willing." Mrs. Dainty saw her error, and now, hoping to
                  retrieve it, spoke with pleasant animation.
               Madeline looked up at her mother, as if in doubt of her sincerity. Mrs. Dainty
                  smiled tenderly, and said, in a loving voice.—
               
               "Kiss me first, dear."
               Madeline's face brightened. The kiss was given, and then she went away with light
                  footsteps.
               "I'm going to wait too," said George, sturdily, as he pushed back his chair. "I'd
                  rather eat with Miss Harper than with anybody in this house."
               And, before his father could interfere to stop him, Young America was out of the
                  dining-room.
               "I don't like that." Mrs. Dainty looked annoyed.
               "Children are all democrats," said Uncle John.
               "I don't wish mine to be democrats," answered Mrs. Dainty, curtly.
               "They will get no harm from eating with Florence,—my word for that,—but good,
                  rather."
               "But I don't wish my children to eat with dependants and inferiors." Mrs. Dainty
                  drew up her chest and drew down her chin, and looked all the aristocratic
                  importance she knew how to assume. In the eyes of Uncle John she succeeded in
                  attaining simply the ridiculous. Quick indignation thrilled along every nerve of
                  his body, and cutting rebuke came instantly to his tongue. But prudence whispered
                  a timely caution in his ears, and he only said,—
               "This is neither the time nor the place for discussing that question, Madeline.
                  But after tea I will have something to suggest."
               "On what subject?" inquired Mrs. Dainty, showing the existence of a no very
                  amiable mood.
               "On that which is of most interest to us all,—the good of these children," replied
                  Uncle John. "What is best for them is best to do. I think that is a plain
                  proposition."
               Mrs. Dainty was in part disarmed, and so made no answer. But she did not look as
                  if she were in any better frame of mind. The evening meal was concluded in
                  silence.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               A REVELATION.
               MR. and Mrs. Dainty and Uncle John sat alone in the library, into which they had
                  passed from the tea-table. Uncle John referred to the remark of his niece about
                  the children eating with inferiors. He spoke with unusual sobriety of manner, and
                  in a voice subdued far below its ordinary tone; for Mr. Fleetwood was not only a
                  man of quick feelings, but one who rarely took special trouble in the way of
                  concealment.
               "In what respect, Madeline," he asked, in opening the conversation, "do you think
                  the children will suffer injury by sitting at the same table with Miss Harper?
                  Don't be annoyed at the question. Don't let feeling obscure your mind. There is
                  much of vital importance involved in this matter. Let us come to its consideration
                  moved solely by a desire to see what is right. You are the mother of these
                  children, and your interest in them should be higher than your regard for any
                  social usage or for any mere prejudice. You spoke just now of Florence as an
                  inferior and a dependant."
               Uncle John paused.
               "Well, is she not?" Mrs. Dainty looked steadily into the eyes of Mr. Fleetwood,
                  with an expression that said, My question settles that proposition.
               "In what is she inferior?" asked Uncle John.
               "Your question is absurd, and annoys me," replied Mrs. Dainty, with sudden
                  feeling.
               "Let us put all excitement away, Madeline," said the old man. "It dims perception;
                  and too much is involved just now for either reason or perception to be under a
                  cloud. My question is not absurd, but one upon the right answer to which hang,
                  just now, momentous things. In what, then, is Florence inferior to your children?
                  Is her mind less pure, her intellect of a lower range, her tastes less cultivated,
                  her accomplishments defective in comparison, her love of truth, her honor, her
                  sense of religious duty, below that of your children?"
               "She belongs to a lower grade in society," answered Mrs. Dainty. "And she is, in
                  this family, only as a hireling."
               "Madeline!" (Uncle John's feelings betrayed him into more excitement than he
                  wished to exhibit,) "if you had the wealth of a Rothschild, you could not buy her
                  services! No money-consideration has
                  led her back to this house; and I question much whether she will accept pay for
                  any service she renders."
               "Then," said Mr. Dainty, speaking for the first time, "she cannot remain. I will
                  have no one' labor as a gratuity. We are not paupers!"
               "If you can supply her place to the children," was Uncle John's reply, "she will
                  step aside, pleased, I am sure, to retire from a position in which she is so
                  poorly appreciated."
               "I value her in her place," said Mr. Dainty,—"value her beyond all price. Amount
                  of compensation need be no barrier to her remaining with the children. But if she
                  demand an equality of position with us the case is settled at once."
               "You put my own thoughts into words," said Mrs. Dainty.
               "She has demanded nothing," replied Uncle John,—"suggested nothing, intimated
                  nothing. I saw her, and told her of our trouble. She came, at my solicitation, to
                  help us; and her services can never be repaid. Her presence in the house seemed
                  like the presence of an angel. You asked her to remain, and she consented, but
                  without stipulation. And now, in the beginning of this restored relationship, it
                  is for us to consider well the subject and to define her position. The higher we
                  lift her, so far as external things are concerned, the greater power for good will
                  she possess. The teacher, guide, and daily companion of our children should be our
                  social equal. How else can the governess, to whom so high an office is delegated,
                  lift them up to our level? An inferior the companion and instructor of our
                  children! Think of it. Can the coarse, unskilled hands of an inferior mould into
                  forms of spiritual beauty the yielding and impressible elements of a child's
                  mind,—that sublime structure over which angels bend in silent wonder? An inferior
                  for this work! God forbid! Choose, rather, the wisest and the best, and give her
                  the place of honor in your household. Honor her for her gifts and graces; and your
                  children, honoring her also, will be drawn within the circle of her heavenly
                  attractions. Edward! Madeline! There is an angel in your house to-day. You cannot
                  hold her by the rough hands of gain; she will not be bribed to stay: let me beg of
                  you, then, to reach out to her the right hand of a glad welcome. Agnes, George,
                  and Madeline have already perceived her true quality. Confirm their perceptions by
                  your free acknowledgment, and her influence over them will be immeasurably
                  increased."
               "What do you mean, Uncle John? Speak out in plain words," said Mrs. Dainty.
               
               "Put her upon a social equality with yourself."
               "How?"
               "If she were your sister, what then?"
               "She is not."
               "But if she were? Then she would sit with you at table; she would meet your
                  friends; she would be a trusted companion."
               "She is not my sister," answered Mrs. Dainty.
               "Suppose she were the daughter, or adopted daughter, of a valued friend or wealthy
                  citizen?"
               "That would alter the case. But she is not."
               "Are you sure?" Uncle John's voice fell to a lower tone, and had in it a quiver of
                  feeling.
               "I am sure," said Mrs. Dainty, with confidence.
               Uncle John let his eyes sink to the floor. It was plain that there was something
                  held back in his thoughts.
               "I wish," he said at length, almost sadly, "that I could help you to see below the
                  surface of things,—that you were able to tell gold from tinsel, worth from its
                  counterfeit. All true value lies in quality. You know the quality of Florence
                  Harper. Honor the good, then. Be independent in your sphere of life. Set the noble
                  example of being just. You can afford to do so. Let it be seen as a new thing, and
                  worthy of emulation, that in choosing a companion and instructor for your children
                  you take one worthy to sit by your side and share your favor and confidence. You
                  cannot see into the mind of an inferior and a dependant as you can into the mind
                  of one who is regarded as an equal."
               But Uncle John could not lift the minds of Mr. and Mrs. Dainty up into the
                  clear-seeing region that his own occupied.
               "It is all in vain to press that view," said his niece. "There are certain social
                  distinctions that must be maintained. As to Miss Harper, if her presence as a
                  governess in our family is to be at the cost of your constant interference in the
                  matter of position, I shall be driven to the necessity of dismissing her from my
                  service."
               The little head of Mrs. Dainty balanced itself firmly, and she looked dignified
                  and composed. But she was not prepared for the change that instantly appeared in
                  Uncle John's manner. He stood up very erect, with a firm, decided manner, and
                  said, like a man in earnest,—
               "You will not, I presume, reverse your present decision?"
               "I will not," replied the lady.
               "Then Florence cannot remain." Mr. Fleetwood spoke as by authority.
               "I can't see," said Mrs. Dainty, "that you have any right to control her
                  movements."
               
               "The time is coming, mayhap, when you will see. For the sake of your dear
                  children,"—the old man's voice became unsteady,—"whom I love, with all their
                  faults, almost as well as if they were my own, I consented to let Florence take a
                  position in your family that you regard as an inferior one—"
               "You consented!" interrupted the niece, with some asperity and some
                  surprise.
               "Yes, I consented,—or rather, constrained her to the act."
               "You! What is the meaning of this, Uncle John? What did you know of Florence
                  Harper before she came into this house?"
               "Enough to make me class her with the best and noblest of women! And her conduct
                  here has only confirmed this estimate of her character."
               "I wish you would speak out more plainly, Uncle John." The haughty manner of Mrs.
                  Dainty was breaking down.
               "Her mother's maiden name was Florence Williams," said the old man, in a low,
                  quiet voice.
               Mrs. Dainty's face showed a slight pallor.
               "You remember her?"
               "Yes."
               "The daughter is as pure and true, as refined and accomplished, as was her mother.
                  Now you understand me. In heart, she is my next akin. If I were her father, I
                  could not love her more. The indignities she has suffered in this house, and at
                  your hands, Madeline, have cut me sharply, and they pain, even now, like
                  freshly-opened wounds. It will be hard for me either to forget or forgive them,
                  for they struck like arrows, in tenderest places."
               Mrs. Dainty was speechless with surprise, and the pallor of her countenance
                  increased. Mr. Dainty ventured no remark.
               "I did not wish to make this revelation now," said Mr. Fleetwood. "But you have
                  forced it upon me. My hope was that you would be clear-seeing enough to comprehend
                  her true character, and give her a place by your side because she was worthy to
                  sit there. I thought that you would be able to comprehend the force of what I said
                  just now about the importance of making your children's trusted companion and
                  instructor your social equal, in order that she might all the while be lifting
                  them up toward the elevated position you desired them to occupy. But pride
                  obscured true perception. And so I have been forced to an earlier declaration than
                  I desired of my adopted daughter's true relation."
               "Adopted daughter!" Mrs. Dainty looked confounded.
               "Even so, Madeline. Even so! And, as I have said, if she were my own child I could not love her
                  more tenderly. True, wise, noble-hearted, self-abnegating girl! To me it is a
                  cause of wonder that your eyes were not able to see the angel in your house."
               "I am bewildered, Uncle John," said Mrs. Dainty, greatly subdued. "Leave me now,
                  that I may collect my thoughts."
               "As you collect them," replied Mr. Fleetwood, "I pray you to examine each with the
                  closest care. Only true thoughts lead to right actions. Let there be no error in
                  your summing up,—no fatal defect in your conclusions. There are two paths
                  diverging before you: Madeline, spoiled child of a dear sister! beware, lest you
                  take the wrong one!"
               And he went, in evident agitation, from the room.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               REVIEWING THE MATTER.
               "THAT alters the case," Mrs. Dainty spoke suggestively, raising her eyes from the
                  floor, and looking at her husband. It was nearly five minutes after Uncle John had
                  left the library.
               "Yes, that alters the case," was the half-dreamy response of Mr. Dainty. "That
                  alters the case," he repeated, and then relapsed into silence.
               So far they were agreed.
               "That artful girl—"
               Mrs. Dainty paused, for she was not entirely certain in regard to her husband's
                  present estimate of Miss Harper.
               "Do you think her artful?" inquired Mr. Dainty looking at his wife.
               "See what influence she has gained over Uncle John."
               "That may be explained on other grounds," said Mr. Dainty.
               "What are they?"
               "He has himself referred to them."
               
               "I thought he had forgotten Florence Williams years ago, or that, if he remembered
                  her at all, it was with indifference or dislike. She jilted him meanly. But I was
                  always glad of it."
               "Madeline," said Mr. Dainty, speaking in a decided way, "we cannot change the
                  present condition of things: that each of us may see at a glance. And the question
                  for us to ponder is, can we afford to let our feelings rule, and so break with
                  Uncle John? There is no use in beating around the bush. No use in fretting
                  ourselves. The horns of our dilemma are visible as the sun at noonday, and we must
                  make our election. Uncle John has made his: that is certain."
               "And do you really think he will give us and our children up for that girl?" said
                  Mrs. Dainty.
               "I am sure of it. Did you not see how he was moved when he said that he loved her
                  as if she were his own child? I marked it well. I have seen him disturbed a
                  hundred times in my life, but never as he was this evening."
               Mrs. Dainty sighed deeply.
               "We shall have to humor him," said Mr. Dainty.
               "And let that upstart triumph over me!" Mrs. Dainty burst into tears. Pride could
                  not endure the thought.
               "Are you not prejudiced against her, Madeline? She has never seemed to me
                  presuming."
               Before Mrs. Dainty could reply, the library-door was pushed open, and Madeline
                  came gliding in. From her manner it was plain that she had come to make a request,
                  and also plain that she was in doubt as to its reception.
               "Mother," she said, as she paused a few steps from Mrs. Dainty.
               "Well, dear?"
               "Can't I—" The child hesitated, and her face colored.
               "Say on, dear."
               "Can't I sleep with Miss Harper?"
               A strongly-uttered negative was on the lip of Mrs. Dainty, when a warning look and
                  gesture from her husband forced her to keep silence.
               "Can't I, mother?" urged the child. "Say yes. Do, mother!"
               Madeline was unusually earnest.
               "Why do you wish to sleep with Miss Harper?" asked her father.
               "Oh, because she is good, and I love her."
               "Don't you love sister Agnes?"
               "Yes, I love her." The tone of Madeline's voice fell.
               "Isn't she good?"
               
               "Not like Miss Harper."
               "Not like Miss Harper?"
               "No."
               "What is the difference, darling?" And Mr Dainty, interested in spite of himself,
                  drew an arm around Madeline and pressed her to his side.
               "God has made her good," said the child, speaking low and reverently.
               This answer sent a strange thrill through the heart of Mrs. Dainty. The father
                  asked no other question.
               "Can't I sleep with her to-night, mother? Say yes, just for to-night."
               "Yes, for to-night," answered Mrs. Dainty, speaking as one constrained.
               Madeline threw her arms around her mother's neck, and, kissing her, said, in a
                  light, fluttering voice,—
               "Oh, I'm so glad!" The she flew away, like a happy bird in the warm spring
                  sunshine.
               "There is one thing very certain, Madeline," said Mr. Dainty, as the child
                  vanished from the room: "Miss Harper's influence upon the children is good, and
                  for their sakes, if no other considerations were urged, we had better let Uncle
                  John have his way We can tolerate her."
               Mrs. Dainty shook her head.
               "Toleration is not going to do," she answered. "Entire social equality is
                  demanded; and nothing less will satisfy either of them."
               "I am not sure that Miss Harper has demanded anything. Uncle John said she had
                  not, and that she was here only upon his strong solicitation. It is barely
                  possible, Madeline, that you have misunderstood her from the beginning. At least,
                  one thing is now certain. Her social position will be changed by Uncle John's
                  formal adoption. She will be lifted to our level, and society will recognise her.
                  So far we will be all right with the world."
               "There is something in that," said Mrs. Dainty, a trifle softened. "But will she
                  remain as governess to the children?"
               "We can sink the word 'governess.' Let her be their companion and instructor."
               "Only another name for the same thing," remarked Mrs. Dainty. "The position is
                  menial."
               "I have thought differently, since Uncle John's remarks a little while ago," said
                  Mr. Dainty. "They struck me as having great force."
               "What did he say? I was so excited and outraged that I scarcely comprehended
                  him."
               "He said that the teacher, guide, and companion of our children must be socially
                  equal, or she cannot lift them up to our level. And he asked, with to me starting emphasis, 'Can the coarse,
                  unskilled hands of an inferior mould into forms of spiritual beauty the ductile
                  elements of a child's mind,—that sublime creation over which angels bend in silent
                  wonder?' 'Choose,' he added, 'the wisest and the best; and give her the place of
                  honor in your household.' There is force in that view of the question,
                  Madeline,—great force; and our sad experience with Mrs. Jeckyl should be felt as a
                  solemn warning. If menials and inferiors are to be instructors of our children,
                  will they not deprave their tastes instead of elevating them? Can an impure
                  fountain send forth sweet waters? We cannot gather grapes of thorns, nor figs of
                  thistles."
               Mrs. Dainty sat with her eyes cast down, and a thoughtful, sober expression on her
                  face.
               "For the sake of our children," She said, looking up, after the lapse of some
                  moments, "I ought to be willing to do almost any thing. But this is a hard
                  requirement."
               "I do not believe," answered Mr. Dainty, "that Miss Harper will ever intrude
                  herself offensively upon us. In no instance since she has been in our house have I
                  observed the slightest tendency in that direction."
               "I have had better opportunities for observation," was the reply," and read her
                  deportment somewhat differently. Why, if she were to the very manor born, she
                  could not bear herself with greater ease nor show a higher self-possession. There
                  is the tone and carriage about her of one who acknowledges no superior. It is this
                  in the girl that has always annoyed me."
               "You may have looked through a distorting medium," said Mr. Dainty.
               "It is possible," was answered, in a subdued voice. And then another long silence
                  followed. It was broken in upon by the entrance of Agnes, their oldest daughter.
                  She pushed the door open quietly, and, seeming her father and mother alone, was
                  about retiring, when the former said,—
               "Come in, daughter."
               "I only wanted a book," remarked Agnes.
               "Come and sit down here. I have something to say to you about Miss Harper," added
                  Mr. Dainty.
               Agnes looked curiously at her father.
               "What about Miss Harper?" she asked, as she drew a chair to his side.
               "You like her?" Mr. Dainty spoke in a tone of inquiry.
               "Oh, yes, father." The answer was warmly uttered.
               "Why?"
               "Because she is kind and good."
               
               "Do you wish her to remain here?"
               "I wouldn't have her go away for all the world!" said Agnes, speaking with strong
                  emphasis.
               "Why not?"
               "What would become of Madeline?" was the earnestly-spoken inquiry.
               "Of Madeline?" Both Mr. and Mrs Dainty looked with surprise at Agnes.
               "Yes: that dreadful woman would get her again. Maddy would steal off, as she did
                  before. Oh, father, don't let Miss Harper go away! she's the only one who can get
                  along with sister now. She is so wise, so good, so loving, and so patient. I
                  looked at her a little while ago, as she sat reading in the Bible to Madeline, and
                  thought her face shone like that of an angel. I wished then that she were my
                  sister, instead of only our governess. Dear father, I things Miss Harper must have
                  been born a true lady."
               "Agnes," said Mr. Dainty, after musing for some moments, "Uncle John knew her
                  mother."
               "Did he?" The face of Agnes brightened.
               "Yes: he knew her a great many years ago."
               "Then he had seen Miss Harper before she came here?"
               "Yes; and it was because he had faith in her goodness and intelligence that he was
                  so desirous to have her remain as your governess. We had no knowledge of all this
                  when she came here, but he told us about it this evening. And now she is going to
                  be one of us; that is, she will be as our daughter and your elder sister."
               "How glad I am! how glad I am!" exclaimed Agnes, striking her hands together,
                  while tears filled her eyes. "But, mother, you don't say any thing!" And she stood
                  up and looked earnestly into her mother's face.
               "Can you accept her as an equal?" asked Mrs. Dainty, almost coldly.
               "She is wiser and better than I am," replied Agnes, humbly. "If she will accept me
                  as a sister, my heart will yield to her joyfully. Dear mother, take her into favor
                  and love, for she is worthy."
               "Leave us now, daughter," said Mrs. Dainty, in a softened voice. "We will talk
                  about this another time."
               And Agnes, after kissing her mother affectionately, withdrew from the library.
               "The thing is inevitable." Mrs. Dainty was not by any means reconciled, as both
                  tone and manner indicated.
               "But easy."
               "Easy?"
               "Yes, and may be accepted gracefully. Let us be thankful that Miss Harper is not a proud,
                  selfish, designing girl, whose first effort would be to produce alienation between
                  us and Mr. Fleetwood."
               The thoughts of Mrs. Dainty reverted at once to the insolent manner in which she
                  had conducted herself toward Miss Harper, and her efforts to degrade her in the
                  family; and a wave of apprehension swept across her selfish heart.
               "But," continued Mr. Dainty, "of this I do not imagine there is any thing to fear.
                  Miss Harper I regard as above suspicion. There is no doubt of her being able to
                  influence your uncle against us if she should be so inclined. Let us act wisely,
                  and not produce in her that inclination. Madeline, you see as clearly as I do the
                  doubtful position we now occupy. The tables are suddenly turned upon us, and we
                  are to-day in the power of an obscure young girl upon whom we have looked down as
                  the humble governess of our children. It is no use to strive against the
                  inevitable. We must either accept or reject her. If the former, it will have to be
                  done heartily. Neither coldness nor reserve will answer. Miss Harper is
                  clear-seeing, sensitive, and high-spirited. Her relation to Mr. Fleetwood gives
                  her a position of equality, and any attempt on your part to degrade her, in even
                  the slightest thing, will be felt and resented by both."
               "I see; I see," answered Mrs. Dainty, moodily. "But, when a thing has to be done,
                  only fools hesitate. I will discipline my feelings to-night, and tomorrow put on
                  toward this usurping girl a new exterior. Don't fear but that I shall play my
                  part."
               "It may cost you a struggle," said her husband, "but the strife will soon be over.
                  I hope much from her gentle nature, and much from her clear perception of right.
                  She will not, I am sure, take a mean advantage of this great diversion in her
                  favor."
               "Time will show," was the almost sullen response.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               GETTING RIGHT.
               NO word of caution had been spoken in the ears of Agnes by either her father or
                  her mother; and so, with a heart full of joy at the news she had heard, she ran to
                  the chamber where Florence was alone with Madeline, and, throwing her arms around
                  her neck, kissed her, and said,—
               "Dear sister! Dear sister!"
               Florence returned the embrace, and kissed Agnes tenderly.
               "Dear sister!" murmured the excited girl, again pressing her lips to the cheek of
                  Miss Harper.
               "I am your true friend, Agnes," said the young governess, calmly—"your true and
                  loving friend."
               "Be nearer than a friend; even as a sister. Father says that now you are to be as
                  a daughter in the house. Uncle John has told him all. Oh, I am so glad! so
                  glad!"
               The face of Miss Harper grew pale, and she sat very still for some moments.
               "Maybe I shouldn't have told you," said Agnes, looking concerned. "But my heart
                  was so full I could not help it."
               "Where is your mother?" asked Florence, after a pause.
               "In the library, with father," replied Agnes.
               "Will you remain for a little while with Madeline? I wish to see your mother. You
                  will stay with your sister, dear, until I come back?" And she stooped over
                  Madeline.
               "You won't stay long, will you?"
               "No. I will return soon." And she arose and left the chamber.
               Since the remark of Mrs. Dainty, with which the preceding chapter closed, no words
                  had passed between her and her husband. They were still sitting in the library,
                  when the door was pushed quietly open, and the subject of their recent
                  conversation entered. A glance at her almost pale face showed that her feelings
                  were strongly agitated. Her manner, as she crossed the room toward Mrs. Dainty,
                  was subdued and respectful. The latter rose as Florence approached her. The
                  struggle with herself was powerful, but brief. Suddenly her cold face was broken
                  by rippling smiles, and, with a warmth of tone and manner that was remarkable,
                     considering the real state of her
                  feelings, she said, grasping the young girl's hand, and kissing her,—
               "We have heard all, dear Miss Harper, and take you to our home and hearts. Be to
                  us as a daughter, and to our children, who love you, as an elder sister."
               "Welcome! Thrice welcome!" said Mr. Dainty, offering his hand.
               Florence was so much overcome by this unexpected reception that she was unable to
                  reply. Her face remained pale and strongly agitated. Before self-control was
                  regained, Mr. Fleetwood entered the library.
               "See, Uncle John," cried Mrs. Dainty; "we have already taken this dear, good girl
                  into our love and confidence. She shall be as our daughter."
               Mr. Fleetwood was taken by surprise. He stood still for a moment or two, half
                  bewildered. Then, comprehending the scene, he advanced to Florence, and, drawing
                  an arm around her, said, with much feeling,—
               "The trial is over, dear child! There are no more rough paths for your tender
                  feet."
               And he pressed his lips against her pure forehead. She could bear up under the
                  weight of emotion no longer. Sobs convulsed her, and, as tears poured over her
                  cheeks, she hid her face upon the old man's breast and wept passionately. Even the
                  worldly, calculating heart of Mrs. Dainty was touched, and Mr. Dainty drew his
                  hand quickly across his eyes to dash away the blinding drops.
               "I promised Madeline to return very soon." Florence was the first to gain entire
                  self-control. She spoke in a low but steady voice, as she looked up. "And now I
                  must go back to her. I need not say that my heart is deeply touched by this
                  unexpected occurrence. You offer more than I have any right to claim,—more than I
                  desire. Let me still be to your children as in the beginning. I came as their
                  teacher; I have learned to love them; I am sure that I can do them good."
               "The children's teacher, and the mother's friend!" said Mrs. Dainty, whose
                  feelings were taking a higher tone. She saw herself in the right path, although by
                  constraint, and felt that the way before her was easier to walk in than she had
                  dared to hope.
               "Yes,—the mother's friend," Mr. Fleetwood spoke slowly and with
                  emphasis; "for none else is worthy to be the children's instructor, companion, and
                  guide."
               While he was yet speaking, Florence retired from the room.
               "You have done well, Madeline," added Mr. Fleetwood, as the door closed on Florence, "and better a great deal than I had
                  reason to expect. In bending down to one like Miss Harper, and raising her up to
                  the social level you occupy, there is no loss on your part,
                  while the sphere of life in which you move gains largely by an accession of
                  virtue, intelligence, refined taste, and womanly self-reliance. Depend upon it,
                  Madeline, the benefit is largely in your favor. Florence will give more of good
                  than she receives."
               "She is certainly a remarkable girl," said Mr. Dainty. "In our late trouble she
                  exhibited qualities that now excite my admiration. If our dear lost child had been
                  her own sister, she could not have pursued the search with greater assiduity. We
                  owe her more than we can ever repay."
               "And there is a work," replied Mr. Fleetwood, speaking in a tone of unusual
                  seriousness, "which, if she have the wisdom to execute, will lay us under still
                  higher obligations."
               "Uncle John paused. Mr. and Mrs. Dainty looked at him inquiringly.
               "Maddy is changed."
               He paused again,—then added,—
               "And there is a fearful mystery connected with the change. We trace its beginning
                  from the hour that demon in human guise entered our home, and let the glare of her
                  evil eye fall upon the child. She gained, by some infernal art, control over the
                  will of that child, and led her off a captive, powerless to resist. Thank God, we
                  have rescued her, so far as the body is concerned. But the thraldom went far below
                  the visible and the external. There is yet a spell upon her life,—a spell that
                  must be broken; and I have no hope, except in Florence Harper!"
               A shadow of fear settled on the face of Mrs. Dainty.
               "It is wonderful," continued Uncle John, "with what wise caution Miss Harper is
                  already acting toward Maddy. "Would you believe it? the child not only refused to
                  let Florence read to her from the Bible, but actually sought to destroy the book!
                  And yet the good girl was not turned aside from her holy purpose, but lured the
                  perverse one into the right way. In the end, Maddy listened with deep interest
                  while Florence read of the Saviour's birth. Wise, loving, true-hearted girl! She
                  is the angel in our house, Madeline! Fail not to honor the heavenly guest. She has
                  begun right; let us give her all possible aid, so that the angel may triumph over
                  the demon."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               CONCLUSION.
               ON the next day Adele Weir was taken by Mr. Fleetwood and Florence to the house of
                  Mrs. Elder. The good lady, when she clearly understood the case, and read
                  something of the girl's character and state of mind, did not hesitate about
                  receiving her, and Adele accepted the proffered home and refuge with tearful
                  gratitude.
               Mr. Fleetwood and Florence returned together. As they drew near the house of Mr.
                  Dainty, they saw a woman ascend the steps and ring the bell. Before they came up,
                  the door was opened and the woman entered.
               "Who is that?" asked Mr. Fleetwood.
               "If my eyes do not deceive me," was the reply of Florence, "it is the mother of
                  Adele Weir."
               "No! she would hardly dare venture here."
               "A mother will dare much for her child," said Florence.
               They moved forward quickly, and were soon at the door.
               "Who came in just now?" inquired Miss Harper, in a low voice.
               The waiter shook his head as he answered, "Don't know, miss."
               "What name did she give?"
               "She asked for Mrs. Dainty, but would not send up her name."
               "Let us go into the parlor," said Mr. Fleetwood, in a whisper to Florence.
                  Florence looked assent, and the two passed in. A woman closely veiled sat on one
                  of the sofas.
               "Mrs. Weir!" said Florence, speaking with blended surprise and indignation in the
                  tones of her voice. The veil was drawn aside, revealing the pale face and
                  glittering black eyes of Adele's mother. Her thin lips were firmly set, and the
                  expression of the woman's countenance was resolute.
               "I have come for my child!" she said, in a voice that betrayed much agitation of
                  mind.
               "She is not here," Florence replied.
               "She was brought here," said the woman, fixing her piercing eyes upon the face of
                  Miss Harper.
               "She came here to restore to her mother the child a wicked woman enticed away, and
                  you secreted, making yourself thereby a party to the crime."
               "And is here now?" said Mrs. Weir.
               
               "No, she is not here," answered Florence. "I said that once before."
               "Then where is she?"
               Florence turned to Mr. Fleetwood, and the old gentleman promptly took her
                  place.
               "Beyond the reach of your blighting influence, madam," said he, in his decided
                  way, "and, I trust, forever beyond."
               "Sir, I will not be robbed of my child!" And the woman started to her feet,
                  exhibiting not only strong excitement, but a determined spirit.
               "Your child has fled from you in fear," said Mr. Fleetwood, assuming a calmer
                  voice, "and is now, I trust for her sake, entirely beyond your influence. She has
                  made her election, and, so long as she continues in her present mind, will have
                  friends to guide and protect her. And now, madam, let me warn you, in the
                  beginning, against any attempts to annoy this family. Your daughter is not here,
                  and there-fore all search for her in this direction will be fruitless. If you come
                  here again you will be handed over to the law. And I am not sure that we shall let
                  you escape as it is. The part you have taken in the concealment of the child
                  stolen from this house makes you an accomplice in the crime,—you and the man Dyer
                  also."
               At the name of Dyer the woman started in surprise prise, and a shade of alarm came
                  over her paleface.
               "Mr. Dyer has nothing to do with the affairs of my house," she said, quickly.
               "He is known to have been a party in this wicked transaction." Mr. Fleetwood spoke
                  sternly and positively. "And I shall get the police on his track."
               Mrs. Weir manifested still greater disturbance, which encouraged the old gentleman
                  to continue the assault in that direction.
               "See to it, then, both of you!" he continued. "Such things are not to be done in
                  the broad day and passed over as of light account. You will all of you find,
                  before you are done with this nefarious business, that you have gone a step too
                  far. Mrs. Jeckyl has escaped us; but some one must answer to outraged justice.
                  Florence!" Mr. Fleetwood turned quickly to Miss Harper and said, "Tell the waiter
                  that I wish to see him," adding, in a lower key, "it will hardly do to let this
                  woman escape."
               The closing words reached the ears for which they were really intended, and Mrs.
                  Weir, as Florence turned to leave the parlor, moved toward the door leading into
                  the passage.
               "Stay," said Mr. Fleetwood, speaking to Mrs. Weir "Don't go yet!"
               
               If he had said "Go," instead, she could not have shown a greater willingness to
                  depart.
               "John!" Mr. Fleetwood called for the waiter, in a loud, imperative voice.
               That was enough. Mrs. Weir's alarm was complete, and she fled precipitately from
                  the house.
               A few days afterward Mr. Fleetwood visited the neighborhood in which she had
                  lived, but found her house vacant, and "To Let" on the door.
               The task before Miss Harper was no light one. It required more than a single
                  victory over the evil spirits who had gained, through disorderly rites, power in
                  the child's mind, to dispossess them. Scarcely a day passed in which Madeline did
                  not relapse into moody states or show a strangely perverse will. Patience,
                  gentleness, loving-kindness, all were brought into exercise; and sometimes the
                  contest would be long and painful. But always the angel proved stronger than the
                  demon, and the tried spirit of the child arose, through divine aid, superior to
                  its foes.
               As weeks and months glided onward, the old tranquil states returned, and the
                  gentlest and sweetest of all the children was restored to herself again,—stood
                  clothed and in her right mind. Mrs. Dainty, from whose eyes the veil had fallen,
                  now saw the character of Florence in its true light. There had been no intrusions
                  upon her selfish pride, no humiliating concessions required. A quiet dignity and
                  gentle reserve had marked the conduct of Miss Harper from the hour their new
                  relation began. Instead of having to throw up barriers against the too familiar
                  approaches of an unwelcome inmate, Mrs. Dainty soon found that she must court, if
                  she would have, equal intercourse.
               With an easy grace and unobtrusive self-possession, Miss Harper took her place as
                  one of the family. Before a year had passed, even Mrs. Dainty had learned to
                  confide in her discretion, to defer to her judgment in all things relating to the
                  children, and to regard her as a true friend. Mr. Fleetwood looked on, a happier
                  man than he had been for many years. No tenderer love for a daughter was ever born
                  in a father's heart than that which he felt for the child of his adoption. And he
                  was very proud of her. As she gradually passed into the refined and intelligent
                  circles that opened spontaneously to receive her, and there became an object of
                  unconscious attraction, the old man looked on with a swelling heart, while
                  admiration blended with love and pride. And yet he loved her best of all for the
                  daily duties through which she passed with such an earnest self-devotion. He saw
                  the children of his weak, vain, worldly-minded niece growing daily more and more like their guide,
                  companion, and friend. He had loved them from the beginning for their childish
                  innocence and affection, but love took now a deeper tone, and gathered strength
                  and emotion from the beauty of goodness that daily blossomed in their lives, the
                  sweet presage of fruit in sunny autumn.
               Of Mrs. Jeckyl no more was seen or heard. She vanished like an evil spirit when
                  the sun-rays of truth stream down through the rifted clouds of error. The shadow
                  of her presence had left a blight on the earth; but warm sunshine and gentle dews
                  made the soil fruitful again, and good seeds, planted by careful hands, soon shot
                  up the tender blade and covered the desert place with greenness. Mrs. Weir came
                  not again. The warning of consequences had thoroughly alarmed her, and Adele was
                  permitted to remain under the wise, religious care of Mrs. Elder. Very deeply had
                  her young life been disturbed by the disorderly influences to which she had been
                  subjected in her mother's house; and there were times when the evil spirits who
                  had gained access to her mind found some of the old avenues unguarded, and flowed
                  in with their sphere of error, invading even the outer citadel of natural and
                  corporeal life. But Mrs. Elder knew wherein lay the power of exorcism. She knew
                  that as she filled the mind of Adele full, as it were, of the precepts and
                  narratives of the Divine Word which was "in the beginning," which was "with God,"
                  and which "was God," she would succeed in casting out the spirits who sought to
                  rule her, and set her freed soul upon the Rock of Eternal Ages. She did not labor
                  in vain.
               And so good triumphed. The Angel was stronger than the Demon. The human souls that
                  came forth from God, with God-given freedom of will, were restored to the orderly
                  life into which they were created, free, as reason developed, to select, unbiassed
                  by the intrusion of disorderly spiritual spheres, the paths of life in which they
                  would move through the world. Without such rational freedom, spiritual
                  regeneration is impossible; and any thing that disturbs such freedom cannot have
                  its origin in heaven. So we read the doctrine of life; and, so reading it, we
                  teach.
            
            THE END.
            STEREOTYPED BY L. JOHNSON & CO. PHILADELPHIA.
         
      
      
         
            
            DR. LIVINGSTONE'S TRAVELS & RESEARCHES OF SIXTEEN YEARS IN THE Wilds of South
               Africa
            This is a work of thrilling adventures and hair-breadth escapes among savage beasts
               and more savage men. Dr. Livingstone was alone, and unaided by any white man,
               traveling with African attendants, among different tribes and nations, all strange to
               him, and many of them hostile, and altogether forming the most astonishing book o'
               travels the world has ever seen. All acknowledge it is the most readable book
               published. Price $1.25.
            
               NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
               It abounds in descriptions of strange and wonderful scenes, among a people and in
                  a country entirely new to the civilized world; and altogether we regard it as one
                  of the most interesting books issued within the past year.—Daily Democrat,
                     Patterson, New Jersey.
               
               The subjects treated of are new and strange, and take a deep hold upon popular
                  feeling. The book is having a great run, and will be read by every reading man,
                  woman, and child, in this as well as other lands.—Ashtabula (Ohio)
                     Telegraph.
               
               Those of our readers who would have a delightful book for reading at any hour,
                  will not be disappointed in this work.—United States Journal.
               
               This interesting work should be in the hands of every one. Its interesting pages
                  of adventures are full of instruction and amusement.—Auburn
                     American.
               
               With truth we can say, that seldom is presented to the reading public a work
                  containing such a vast amount of solid instruction as the one in
                     question.—Family Magazine.
               
               It is a rich and valuable book for the general reader; and the admirable style in
                  which the publisher has issued it, will commend it to the favor of
                     thousands.—Christian Observer.
               
               This is a valuable work for the general reader, gotten up in beautiful style. A
                  special interest is given to this volume by the addition of valuable "Historical
                  Notices of Discoveries in Africa." Altogether, it would be difficult to name any
                  work which would more completely meet the popular taste of our day. Those of our
                  friends who have perused "our" copy, speak very highly of it.—Fort. Edward
                     Inst. Monthly.
               
               The present volume is a beautiful 12mo., of 446 pages, numerously illustrated, and
                  contains all of the original, except some of the more dry, scientific details. It
                  is emphatically an edition for the people; and, judging from the rapid sale with
                  which is a meeting, it is fully appreciated by them.—Christian Freeman
                     Boston.
               
            
         
         
            
            T. S. ARTHUR'S WORKS.
            The following List of Books are all written by T. S. ARTHUR, the well-known author,
               of whom it has been said, "that dying he has not written a word he would wish
                  to erase." They are all gotten in the best style of binding, and are worthy
               of a place in every household.]
            
               TEN NIGHTS IN A BAR-ROOM, AND WHAT I SAW THERE.
               This powerfully-written work, one of the best by its popular
                     Author, has met with an immense sale—ten thousand copies having been
                  ordered within a month of publication. It is a large 12mo., illustrated with a
                  beautiful Mezzotint Engraving, by Sartain; printed on fine white paper, and bound
                  in the best English muslin, gilt back. Price $1.00.
               
                  The following are a few of the many Notices of the Press.
                  Powerful and seasonable.—N. Y. Independent.
                  
                  Its scenes are painfully graphic, and furnish thrilling arguments for the
                     temperance cause.—Norton's Literary Gazette.
                  
                  Written in the author's most forcible and vigorous style.—Lehigh Valley
                        Times.
                  In the "Ten Nights in a Bar-Room," some of the consequences of tavern-keeping,
                     the "sowing of the wind" and "reaping the whirlwind," are followed by a
                     "fearful consummation," and the "closing scene," presenting pictures of
                     fearful, thrilling interest.—Am. Courier.
                  There is no exaggeration in these pages—they seem to have been filled up from
                     actual observation.—Philadelphia Sun.
                  We have read it with the most intense interest, and commend it as a work
                     calculated to de an immense amount of good.—Lancaster
                     Express.
                  We wish that all lovers of bar-rooms and rum would read the book. It will pay
                     them richly to do so.—N. Y. Northern Blade.
                  It is sufficient commendation of this little volume to say that it is from the
                     graphic pen of T. S. Arthur, whose works will be read and reread long after he
                     has passed away. He is as true to nature, as far as he attempts to explore it,
                     as Shakspeare himself; and his works, consequently, have an immense
                        popularity.—New Haven Palladium.
                  There are many scenes unequaled for pathos and beauty. The death of little Mary
                     as scarcely be surpassed.—N. Y. Home Journal.
               
            
            
               WHAT CAN WOMAN DO?
               12mo, with Mezzotint Engraving, Price $1 00
               Our purpose is to show, in a series of life pictures, what woman can do, as well
                  for good as for evil. We desire to bring her before you as a living entity, that
                  you may see her as she is, and comprehend in some small degree the influence she
                  wields in the world's progress upward, as well as her power to mar the human soul
                  and drag it down to perdition, when her own spirit is darkened by evil passions.
                     Extract from the Preface.
               
            
            
               STEPS TOWARD HEAVEN; OR, RELIGION IN COMMON LIFE.
               Price, $1.00
               
                  NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
                  It panders to the doctrines and tenets of no particular sect, and will be found
                     an excellent book to place in the hands of young people.—Savannah
                        Georgian.
                  It is a work well calculated to do good, and to put into the hands of the youth
                     of the country.—Enquirer.
                  This work will interest the reader, and at the same time teach lessons of
                     practical value.—Ch. Messenger, Vt.
                  It is designed to show that the beauties and endearments of Christianity are to
                     be developed amid the stern realities of every-day life.—Vermont
                        Messenger.
                  It is a timely and good book, and should be widely read, especially by young
                        Christians—Central Ch. Herald, Cincinnati.
                  Mr. Arthur is already well known as an earnest man, whose object has been to do
                     his part in spreading the doctrines and teachings of the Christian religion;
                     and in the present volume he urges the necessity of charity, and endeavors to
                     impress upon the reader the fact that religion is for daily life, "and cannot
                     be put aside at the tranquil close of Sabbath evenings."—Courier and
                        Enquirer.
                  More decidedly religious in its character than Arthur's other works, though it
                     is neither doctrinal nor sectarian.—Ch. Times, Chicago.
                  The pen of T. S. Arthur never tires. In this new volume, we 
                        preceive
                        perceive
                      that he is still laboring successfully in producing brief stories,
                     the aim of which is moral. He says truly, when he declares at "no special
                     theology is taught in this volume," by which he means, we suppose, that
                     controverted dogmas are not introduced. His main point is, "Religion, to be of
                     any real use to a man, must come down into all his daily duties, and regulate
                     his actions by a divine standard."—Exeter News Letter.
                  No special theology is taught in this volume. It addresses itself to no
                     particular sect or denomination. It has no aim but to assist men to grow
                     better, and thence, happier.—Salem Gazette.
                  Arthur has produced few more satisfactory books than this.—Atlas and
                        Bee.
               
            
            
               THE HAND WITHOUT THE HEART; OR, THE LIFE TRIALS OF JESSIE LORING.
               Price, $1.00
               The point of this story is expressed in the title; and the story itself is a
                  sharply drawn illustration of the folly and madness of linking together two
                  immortal souls by the tough chains of selfish interest, pride, or baser passion.
                  The lesson taught is one of deep significance; and thousands of hearts will throb
                  in almost wild response, to the life experiences of Jessie Loring, who in all the
                  bitter trials of her unhappy union, swerved not a hair's breadth from honor,
                  principle, or religious duty, though temptation same in its most alluring shape.
                  As the type of a true woman, she is worthy to be embalmed in the memory of every
                     reader.—Southern Argus.
            
            
               THE YOUNG LADY AT HOME.
               
                  2 vols. in one Price, $1 00
            
            
               
               ARTHUR'S SKETCHES OF LIFE AND CHARACTER.
               A octavo volume of over 400 pages, beautifully Illustrated, an bound in the best
                  English muslin, gilt. Price $2.00.
               
                  NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
                  The present volume, containing more than four hundred finely-printed octavo
                     pages is illustrated by splendid engravings, and made particularly valuable to
                     those who like to "see the face of him they talk withal," by a correct likeness
                     of the author, finely engraved on steel.—Neal's Gazette.
                  In the princely mansions of the Atlantic merchants, and in the rude log cabins
                     of the backwoodsmen, the name of Arthur is equally known and cherished as the
                     friend of virtue.—Graham's Magazine.
                  We would not exchange our copy of these sketches, with its story of "The
                     Methodist Preacher," for any one of the gilt-edged and embossed Annuals which
                     we have yet seen.—Lady's National Magazine.
                  The first story in the volume, entitled "The Methodist Preacher, or hights and
                     shadows in the Life of an Itinerant," is alone worth the price of the
                        work.—Evening Bulletin.
                  It is emphatically a splendid work.—Middletown Whig.
                  Its worth and cheapness should place it in every person's hands who desires to
                     read an interesting book.—Odd Fellow, Boonsboro'.
                  "The Methodist Preacher," "Seed-Time and Harvest," "Dyed in the Wool," are full
                     of truth as well as instruction, and any one of them is worth the whole price
                     of the volume.—Lowell Day-star, Rev. D. C. Eddy, Editor.
                  There is a fascination about these sketches which so powerfully interests the
                     reader, that few who commence one of them will part with it till it is
                     concluded; and they will bear reading repeatedly.—Norfolk and Portsmouth
                        Herald.
                  Those who have not perused these model stories have a rich feast in waiting,
                     and we shall be happy if we can be instrumental in pointing them to
                        it.—Family Visitor, Madison, Ga.
                  No library for family reading should be considered complete without this
                     volume, which is as lively and entertaining in its character, as it is salutary
                     in its influence.—N. Y. Tribune.
                  The work is beautifully illustrated. Those who are at all acquainted with
                     Arthur's writings need hardly be told that the present work is a prize to
                     whoever possesses it.—N. Y. Sun.
                  We know no better book for the table of any family, whether regarded for its
                     new exterior or valuable contents.—Vox Populi, Lowell.
                  The name of the author is in itself a sufficient recommendation of the
                        work.—Lawrence Sentinel.
                  T. S. Arthur is one of the best literary writers of the age.—Watchman,
                        Circleville Ohio.
                  The name alone of the author is a sufficient guarantee to the reading public of
                     its was passing merit.—The Argus Gallatin, Miss.
                  Probably he has not written a line which, dying, he could wish to
                        erase.—Parkersburg (Va.) Gazette.
               
            
            
               THE WITHERED HEART.
               12mo., with fine Mezzotint Frontispiece. Cloth Price $1.00
               This work has gone through several editions in England although published but a
                  few weeks, and has had the most flattering notices from the English Press.
            
            
               Lights and Shadows of Real Life.
               With an Autobiography and Portrait of the Author. Over five hundred pages, octavo,
                  with fine tinted Engravings. Price $2.00.
               
                  NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
                  In this volume may be found a "moral suasion," which cannot but affect for good
                     all who read. The mechanical execution of the work is very beautiful
                        throughout.—New Haven Palladium.
                  It is by far the most valuable book ever published of his works, inasmuch as it
                     is enriched with a very interesting, though brief
                        autobiography.—American Courier.
                  No family library is complete without a copy of this book.—Scott's
                        Weekly Paper.
                  No better or worthier present could be made to the young; no offering more pure
                     charitable, and practicable could be tendered to those who are interested in
                     the truly benevolent reforms of the day.—Godey's Lady's
                     Book.
                  The paper, the engravings, the binding, and the literary contents, are all
                     calculated to make it a favorite.—Penn. Inquirer.
                  This volume cannot be too highly recommended.—N. Y. Tribune.
                  More good has been effected, than by any other single medium that we know
                        of.—N. Y. Sun.
                  The work should be upon the centre-table of every parent in the
                        land.—National Temperance Magazine.
               
            
            
               LEAVES FROM THE BOOK OF HUMAN LIFE.
               Large 12mo. With Thirty Illustrations and Steel Plate. Price $1.00
               A single story is worth the price charged for the book.—Union, Newburyport,
                     Mass. "It includes some of the best humorous sketches of the
                  author."
            
            
               The following Books are bound in uniform style as "ARTHUR'S COTTAGE LIBRARY," and
                  are sold in sets, or separately, each volume being complete in itself. Each volume
                  is embellished with a fine Mezzotint Engraving.]
               
                  THE WAY TO PROSPER. AND OTHER TALES. Cloth, 12mo., with Mezzotint Engraving,
                     Price $1.00
                  TRUE RICHES; OR, WEALTH WITHOUT WINGS. AND OTHER TALES. Cloth, 12mo. with
                     Mezzotint Engraving, Price $1.00
                  ANGEL OF THE HOUSEHOLD AND OTHER TALES. Cloth, 12mo., with Mezzotint
                     Engraving, Price $1.00
               
            
            
               
               GOLDEN GRAINS FROM LIFE'S HARVEST-FIELD.
               Bound in gilt back and sides, sheep, with a beautiful Mezzotint Engraving. 12mo.
                  Price $1.00.
               
                  NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
                  It is not too much to say, that the Golden Grains here presented to the reader,
                     are such as will be productive of a far greater amount of human happiness than
                     those in search of which so many are willing to risk domestic peace, health,
                     and even life itself in a distant and in hospitable region.
                  These narratives, like all of those which proceed from the same able pen, are
                     remarkable not only for their entertaining and lively pictures of actual life,
                     but for their admirable moral tendency.
                  It is printed in excellent style, and embellished with a mezzotint engraving.
                     We cordially recommend it to the favor of our readers.—Godey's Lady's
                        Magazine.
               
            
            
               "Arthur's Home Library."
               [The following four volumes contain nearly 500 pages, Illustrated with fine
                  Mezzotint Engravings. Bound in the best manner, and sold separately or in sets.
                  They have been introduced into the District, Sabbath-school, and other Libraries,
                  and are considered one of the best series of the author.]
               
                  THREE ERAS IN A WOMAN'S LIFE. Containing MAIDEN, WIFE, and MOTHER. Cloth,
                     12mo., with Mezzotint Engraving, Price $1.00. "This, by many, is considered Mr.
                     Arthur's best work."
                  TALES OF MARRIED LIFE. Containing LOVERS and HUSBANDS, SWEETHEARTS and
                     WIVES, and MARRIED and SINGLE. Cloth, 12mo., with Mezzotint Engraving, Price
                     $1.00. "In this volume may be found some valuable hints for wives and husbands,
                     as well as the young."
                  TALES OF DOMESTIC LIFE. Containing MADELINE, THE HEIRESS, THE MARTYR WIFE,
                     and RUINED GAMESTER. Cloth, 12mo., with Mezzotint Engraving, Price $1.00.
                     Contains several sketches of thrilling interest."
                  TALES OF REAL LIFE. Containing BELL MARTIN, PRIDE and PRINCIPLE, MARY ELLIS,
                     FAMILY PRIDE, and ALICE MELVILLE. Cloth, 12mo., with Mezzotint Engraving, Price
                     $1.00. "This volume gives the experiences of real life by many who found not
                     their ideal.
               
            
            
               A BOOK OF STARTLING INTEREST.
               THE ANGEL AND THE DEMON.
               A handsome 12mo. volume. Price $1.00
               In this exciting story Mr. ARTHUR has taken hold of the reader's attention with a
                  more than usually vigorous grasp, and keeps him absorbed to the end of the volume.
                  The book is one of START LING INTEREST. Its lessons should be IN THE HEART OF
                  EVERY MOTHER. Onward, with a power of demonstration that makes conviction a
                  necessity, the Author sweeps through his subject, fascinating at every step. In
                  the union of THRILLING DRAMATIC INCIDENT, with moral lessons of the highest
                  importance, this volume stands forth pre-eminent among the author's many fine
                  productions.
               
                  NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
                  A story of much power, imbued with that excellent moral and religious spirit
                     which pervades all his writings.—N. Y. Chronicle.
                  This volume is among his best productions, and worthy of a place on every
                     centre table.—Clarion, Pa., Banner.
                  This is a most fascinating book, one which the reader will find it quite hard
                     to lay aside without reading to the last page.—Albany, N. Y., Journal
                        and Courier.
               
            
            
               THE GOOD TIME COMING.
               Large 12mo., with fine Mezzotint Frontispiece, Price $1.00
               It is like every thing emanating from that source—worth reading.—Toledo
                     Blade.
               It is characterized by all the excellencies of his style."—Phila
                     Bulletin.
               It is a book the most scrupulous parent may place in she hand of his
                     child—P
                  Transcript.
               
               
                  The Old Man's Bride, Price $1.0
                  Heart Histories and Life Pictures, Price $1.0
                  Sparing to Spend; or, The Loftons and Pinkertons, Price $1.0
                  Home Scenes, Price $1.0
               
            
         
         
            LIFE AND MEMORIALS OF DANIEL WEBSTER.
            Two vols. in one. By Gen. S. P. LYMAN. Price $1.00.
            
               EXTRACT FROM PREFACE.
               The Personal Memorials, which compose so large a portion of these volumes, are
                  from the pen of Gen. S. P. Lyman, whose intimate and confidential relations with
                  Mr. Webster afford a sufficient guarantee for their authenticity. They are
                  believed by the publisher to embrace a more copious collection of original and
                  interesting memoranda, concerning the life and character of the great Statesman
                  whose recent death has created so deep a sense of bereavement throughout the
                  country, than has hitherto been given to the world.
            
         
         
            COOK'S VOYAGES ROUND THE WORLD.
            Two volumes in one, Price $1.00
         
      
   
