
    ----CITATION----
        W. T. B.. The Recluse of the Conewaga; or, The Little Valley of the Blue Spring .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5742 wright2-0223
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE RECLUSE OF THE CONEWAGA;
               OR, THE LITTLE VALLEY OF THE BLUE SPRING.
               A Legend of Adams County.
            
            BY W. T. B., A JUNIOR OF DICKINSON.
            
               
                  
                     "War and love have various cares;
                     War sheds blood, and love sheds tears,
                     War has swords, and love has darts,
                     War breaks heads, and love breaks hearts."
                  
               
            
            
               CARLISLE: 
               E. CORNMAN, PRINTER.
            
            1853.
         
         
            
            TO THE BELLES LETTRES SOCIETY, OF DICKINSON COLLEGE, THIS VOLUME IS
               RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED.
         
         
            PREFACE.
            This little volume, it is evident, was not written for the perusal of our venerable
                  Seniors.—By no means!—Whoever heard of a Junior
               presuming to offer the production of his unfledged mind for the enlightenment of a
               Senior?—"Ea vero dimentia sit." Lest, however, some one of this honorable body should
               chance upon it, it might be well enough to state, that the Author endeavored to
               gratify the imagination more than the understanding, in its composition and
               style.
            In depicting the several transactions, enacted at "Rogue's Harbor" and "Bloody Run,"
               as well as the street-fight at Germantown, the excitement of mind attendant upon it,
               denied strict adherence to rhetorical rules; and, consequently, many defects are
               observable. Had we, however, in view of this fact, consulted our own inclination,
               this little volume would not have been introduced to public notice; but, yielding to
               the desire of our classmates and fellow-students, with much compunction and regret,
               we publish it, well-knowing that its imperfections will remain unnoticed by the wise
               and intelligent, and heeding little—if at all—the objections of others.
            
               THE AUTHOR.
            
         
      
      
         
            The Recluse of the Conewaga; or, The little valley of the blue spring
            
            THE RECLUSE OF THE CONEWAGA;
            OR, THE LITTLE VALLEY OF THE BLUE SPRING.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Far in a wild, unknown to public view,
                           From youth to age a reverend hermit grew,
                           The moss his bed, the cave his humble cell,
                           His food the fruits, his drink the crystal well;
                           Remote from man, with God he pass'd his days,
                           Prayer all his business—all his pleasure praise.
                        
                     
                     PURNELL.
                  
               
               INTRODUCTORY.
               The college year had terminated. The anniversary exhibitions together with the
                  customary exercises attendant upon Commencement had all passed. I stood alone in
                  the much admired, much frequented campus, fronting Dickinson College. It was the
                  tenth day of July. The sun had just begun to peep over the mountains, and send his
                  bright beams over the valley, dispelling the darkness of night and liquifying the
                  sheeted mists into sparkling dew-drops. The thick grove of locust, situate on the
                  western division of the campus, poured forth upon the gales its delicious perfume,
                  which, intermingling with the luscious odor of the full-blown clover and the
                  fragrance of the mignionette, lulled my senses into a dreamy forgetfulness, in
                  which I might have remained—perhaps forever!—had not the warbling robin and
                  blue-bird, together with the heat of the sun's rays, which was becoming intense,
                  made me sensible of my existence.
               I shouldered my rifle, which had been leaning against a veteran oak, and whistled
                  for my dog, who like myself, had been overcome by the genial influences of the
                  morning, and had stretched himself upon the downy sward.
               After having furnished myself with the ammunition requisite for a hunt, I sallied
                  out of the campus enclosure, and bent my steps toward the "Conewaga" where I
                  arrived early the next morning, greatly fatigued with the journey.
               I will now explain to the reader the primary object of this hunt, which he has
                  doubtless considered to be scarcely equal to the pleasure, that awaits the wearied
                  student at home.
               Some eight years ago, when the down of virility had not yet appeared on my chin, I
                  was permitted, through the intercession of very dear friends, to attend my uncle,
                  in a notorious fishing frolic, which had been for some time projected at the "Conewaga" creek.
               
               It is needless to fatigue the reader with a detail of the incidents and issue of
                  this frolic, further than to recount an adventure, which happened to myself, and
                  which terminated in the disclosure of the following legend.
               While standing on the shore, and gazing into the magnificent stream, at a
                  considerable distance from the party, the moist earth beneath my feet, suddenly
                  gave way and precipitated me into the creek. I was so terrified by the thought of
                  instant death, that I swooned before I sunk beneath its surface.
               After a long and death-like trance, I revived; and, on opening my eyes, I found
                  myself lying on a mat of husks, in a small and dismal-looking tenement, from the
                  appearance of which, I supposed it to be unoccupied. I was soon undeceived
                  however, by the entrance of its inmate, who, by the smiles upon his furrowed
                  cheeks,—engendered, doubtless, by the obvious recuperation of my faculties,—and,
                  by his tender, consoling words, soon succeeded in relieving me of all my fearful
                  anticipations.
               My uncle, in the meantime, having been informed of my disappearance, instituted a
                  search, and soon found his way to my humble couch; when my preserver informed him
                  of my misfortune, and the manner in which he rescued me. I visited this old hermit
                  frequently; and entertained such a filial affection for him, that the dreamy days
                  of Winter—when I was denied the privilege of meeting him—seemed almost like so
                  many centuries.
               The last time I called upon him, I found him occupying his favorite seat, erected
                  between two gnarled, umbrageous oaks, that rise high into the air, from the shore
                  of the Conewaga. It was early in the morning—a fine summer morning under the
                  oaks,—the oak that had long been the tacit companions of my dear old friend. The
                  sun was just rising above the semi-pellucid waters of the creek, and lit up the
                  beauteous valley—the valley of the "Blue Spring"—like an emerald. The noisy
                  blue-bird and the robin—as noisy as any at sunrise—were chirping among the
                  branches over our heads, and all went merry as a marriage belle!
               My tears flowed copiously, as I beheld the emotion and obvious anguish of heart,
                  evinced by the old man, when I informed him of my determination to go to college,
                  and, consequently, of the termination of our frequent and affectionate interviews.
                  After the first ebulitions of impassioned grief had subsided, he remarked that the
                  thread of his existence had well nigh run out; that soon his seat under the
                  oaks—the dear old oaks, whence oftimes he had ejaculated his Ave Maria and Pater
                  Noster, would sink into decay and be forgotten; that the wild flowers would
                  bud,—open the velvety petals, and die, over his head, but no inscribed tablet
                  would indicate to the traveler the spot where he lay!
               I beseeched him to give himself no uneasiness on that score, as I considered
                  myself obligated, by the bonds of friendship and love, to attend to that last and
                  most sacred duty.
               He appeared greatly relieved; and, when the setting sun and the thickening shades
                  of night, admonished me to depart, he took me by the hand, conducted me into his
                  lodge, and, having removed a slide, on the back part of his cross,—supported by a
                  huge post sunk deep in the ground,—he drew forth a small, cylindrical drical tin
                  box, which he placed in my hands, enjoining me, at the same time, never to
                     unseal it until I was assured of his death!
               
               Having vowed implicit obedience to his request, I prepared to return home. I will
                  not prolong this introductory chapter, by depicting the scene of our last parting.
                  It can be better imagined than described!
               The reader may now be better able to appreciate the object of my hunt—the hunt of
                  my old friend. The mist hung thick over the majestic creek as I wandered toward
                  his hut. The "Chapel " bell was tolling its solemn peals; and far down the road I
                  beheld a solemn spectacle,—a pageant of death! Borne on the shoulders of four
                  stout friars, came the bier, and on the bier was the polished coffin, containing
                  all that was mortal of—my holy, affectionate friend!
               I mingled in the crowd and praised my Maker for having brought me thus opportunely
                  to witness the burial and funeral rites of my friend, and pour forth upon his
                  newly-covered grave the heartfelt tribute of long-cherished friendship and
                  intimacy,—the tears of sorrow and affliction.
               After the services were concluded, I sauntered carelessly along in the direction
                  of my late friend's secluded abode; and, what was my astonishment, on approaching
                  the dilapidated tenement, to behold this inscription on its portal: "Let no
                     one enter this structure, after my decease, but my ONLY friend!"
               I will not tire the reader with an account of the feelings, which possessed me, or
                  the heart-rending affliction, which the above inscription engendered; suffice to
                  say that a major part of the day had gone by, before I could summon sufficient
                  courage to cross the threshold! As soon, however, as I entered, I perceived a
                  billet, lying upon one of the arms of the cross. I took it up, and lo!—my initials
                  were inscribed upon it! I opened and read it; and all, dear reader, of its
                  contents, which you may know, is, that he gave me permission to present to the
                  public, the legend of the Recluse of the "Conewaga."
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        "'Tis uproar all; like tipsy bachanal
                        The crowd to arms precipitately spring;
                        And now are heard fierce cries, seditious calls,
                        Shields clash, hoarse trumpets stern defiance fling."
                     
                  
               
               The consternation and enthusiasm, which pervaded the country and agitated every
                  patriotic breast, after the battle of Brandywine, burst forth in the little valley
                  of the "Blue Spring," in the most vivid coruscations of patriotic fervor. For
                  several days after the reception of the tidings, the bell of the "Conewaga Chapel"
                  was tolling its solemn peals and assembling the patriotic denizens of the valley
                  to hear of—the slaughter of their countrymen!
               
               The holy Father Coleman was unceasingly engaged in exhorting his little flock,
                  from the pulpit, to join in the cause of freedom, and was fervently imploring the
                  Almighty to strengthen their arms in the day of battle, and fill their souls with
                  patriotism and valor, to repel the invaders of their country, the murderers of
                  their kindred!
               The shouts of the excited multitude, as they were wafted through the valley, upon
                  the tepid gales, were echoed by the hills, and floated over the bosom of the
                  waters, arousing the torpid and striking the old and feeble with deathly
                  terror!
               Imbosomed in a grove on the shore of the Conewaga, stood a crumbling tenement,
                  whose external appearance and internal arrangement obviously marked the want of a
                  woman's untiring hand, while the air of seclusion, that reigned about the place,
                  bespoke for its inmate the bitter, corroding silence, which his heart so much
                  coveted, and his stern nature strove to preserve.
               As soon, however, as the enthusiastic shout echoed in his little fabric, the fiery
                  temperament of the Recluse, caught up the strain, and rushing out, in the
                  direction of the Chapel, "God and Liberty," "Washington and the Continental
                  Congress," burst from his lips and started the multitude, who, in their turn, as
                  soon as they recognized him, made the welkin ring with the repeated shouts of "the
                  Recluse, the Recluse!"
               A small band of some ten or twelve horsemen, with the Recluse at their head, was
                  speedily organized; and as they presented themselves to the assembled concourse,
                  on that fine sunny morning, with the banner of the cross floating over their
                  heads, the little valley of the "Blue Spring," again resounded with the
                  enthusiastic exclamations of its patriots.
               After receiving the blessing of Father Coleman, the troopers sallied forth, and
                  wended their way along the shady bank of the Conewaga, with hearts eager to join
                  their countrymen in the struggle for freedom. As they rushed through the village
                  of "Rogue's Harbor," the affrighted citizens poured forth to meet them, exhibiting
                  on every side, their amazement and trepidation. On, like a torrent, they swept
                  through the narrow streets, with their streaming banner playing in the breeze,
                  while the shouts of "God and Liberty," "Washington and the Continental Congress,"
                  rising on the gale, thrilled their souls and sank them still deeper in the
                  whirlpool of enthusiasm and excitement!
               A strange and stirring sight met their eyes as they journeyed over the field,
                  which a few days before had been moistened by the warm blood of their
                  countrymen,—the battle field of Brandywine! "The sun sat high in his meridian
                  tower," lighting up the plain, and discovering to their vision, the pools of
                  blood, that had flowed like water from the veins of their kindred!
               "Enough!" cried the Recluse, "forward valiant sons of the Conewaga," and sinking
                  their spurs in the flanks of their chargers, they dashed furiously over the field,
                  disdaining longer to behold the scene of blood, and eager to avenge their
                  countrymen in the conflict, which they were assured would be commenced on the
                  morrow.
               The virgin goddess, Aurora, had just opened the portals of the sun, with her "rosy
                  fingers," and, old Sol, driving into the purple horizon, shed his golden flashes
                  over the sky, and was driving the dusky shades of night before him, when the
                  shrill notes of the trumpet and the thundering roar of cannon, wafted on that
                  misty morning's air, broke upon the ears of the Recluse and his band!
               While halting for a moment to consult as to the course they should pursue, in
                  order to join the main army, suddenly a troop of horse, was descried in the
                  distance, sweeping towards them and evincing by their uniform of green, and by
                  their muscular proportions, that they were the sons of freedom, coming to greet
                  their brethern in arms.
               They were received by the Recluse and his followers, with a shout of joy and
                  exultation; and, as soon as they had halted on the plain, the gallant sons of the
                  "Blue Spring," with the banner of the cross, waving over their heads, planted
                  themselves in their rear, and the whole cavalcade swept back to the scene of
                  action with the invincible "Mad Anthony" at their head!
               The battle was raging with all the fury of the storm, the cannon were belching
                  forth their thunder and their iron; the dusky troopers were dashing on in their
                  hurricane charge, trampling the corpses of British hirelings, and hurling death
                  and destruction into their ranks!
               As the roar of the artillery gently raised the veil of mist from the field, the
                  British ranks were seen to waver, and several divisions, which had been terribly
                  thinned, by the incessant charges of the continentals, were withdrawing into
                  Germantown, when the quick eye of the Recluse, observing the diversion, kindled up
                  like a flame, and calling to his comrades to follow, away, like the winds they
                  rushed in pursuit, with the gallant Rangers of Wayne by their side.
               Their wild shout as they rode over the plain, soon attracted the attention of the
                  pursued, who, reinforced by a detachment sent for that purpose, faced about and
                  prepared to receive them.
               "On! noble sons of the Conewaga," shouted the Recluse, "vengeance for the blood of
                  Brandywine!"
               "Charge!" rang the voice of Wayne along the line of his valiant Rangers, "on
                  them—and remember Paoli!"
               Half-mad with excitement, their steeds appearing to breathe fire, from their
                  dilated nostrils, leaped frantically over the ramparts of steel, while their
                  riders utterly reckless of life, hewed down the opposing columns with their
                  scimitars till the street became red with their blood!
               "Blood for blood," cried the Recluse, as his ponderous scimitar cleft the skull of
                  the Hessian, "on them, boys—vengeance for the blood of Brandywine!"—and his
                  majestic form towering in the air, his countenance flushed with excitement, and
                  his flowing ringlets of hair waving in the breeze with each bound of his charger,
                  he dashed over the masses of the slaughtered, with the banner of the cross
                  fluttering in the tumult, striking consternation into the hearts of the hirelings
                  and appearing like a spirit risen from the bloody field of Brandywine!
               The British ranks were speedily broken and put to flight; and as the ardor of the
                  Recluse began to yield to his exhausted strength, for the first time, since the
                  engagement commenced, he took a calm survey of the scene spread out before him,
                  and gazed around for his followers, of whom but two survived the onslaught.
               
               One of these being unhorsed and slightly wounded, and a troop of British horsemen,
                  issuing from one of the cross streets, being seen to bear down towards them, the
                  Recluse, seizing him by the girdle, in which his vacant scabbard was still
                  hanging, raised him to the front of his saddle, where he bade him cling firmly;
                  then furiously plunging the rowels of his spurs into the withers of his foaming
                  steed, with his remaining companion by his side, he rushed upon his nearest
                  opponent and his powerful scimitar falling upon his head cleft him to the
                  groin!
               "God and Liberty," he shouted, dashing on toward the next Hessian, who, rapidly
                  advancing, with his gleaming sword extended in the air, would have lopt off his
                  head in an instant, had not his gallant comrade, observing the well-directed blow,
                  parried it off; and with one sweep of his scimetar, sent the upper part of his
                  huge trunk heavily to the ground, while the lower part, adhering firmly to the
                  saddle, as the steed wheeled about and gallopped up the street, presented to the
                  awe-struck Hessians a spectacle, which obviously diminished their speed, and
                  elicited a simultaneous exclamation of horror, and fear!
               "Now for the retreat!" cried the Recluse, and followed by his companion, they
                  galloped down the wide street and soon left the astounded troopers far in their
                  rear!
               The Rangers under Wayne had left the ground, as soon as they discovered the
                  discomfiture of the enemy, and were making good their retreat in the direction of
                  the main army, when the Hessian cavalry, coming to the rescue of their infantry,
                  apart, rushed in pursuit of them, while the remainder, as we have seen, thundered
                  down upon the Recluse.
               The former having failed to overtake "Mad Anthony," were returning to join their
                  comrades, when the Recluse and his companion came into view; and, having disposed
                  themselves properly in order to intercept them, they moved slowly onward.
               On came the Recluse in his wild career, like an earth-shaking thunderbolt, his
                  ponderous scimetar extended in the air, reflecting the golden rays of the sun, his
                  eyes flashing fire, his nostrils dilated, and his countenance flushed with
                  excitement, looking like the bloody god of war himself!
               As he drew nigh to the phalanx of cavalry drawn up to oppose him, "God and
                  Liberty," burst from his lips, and waving the now bloody banner of the cross over
                  his head, and determined, not to perish unrevenged, he shouted to his companion to
                  follow in his rear, and, sinking his spurs into his reeking charger, he rushed
                  upon his adversaries, striking right and left with his keen-edged scimetar, which,
                  as it cut the air from side to side, poured a stream of blood over the Recluse,
                  that almost blinded him.
               He had well nigh cut a path through their ranks, when the cry of
                     "Quarter!" rang in his ears, and wheeling about, he beheld his
                  companion unhorsed, and a fiendish Hessian about to sink his sword in his skull;
                  when, pouring all his strength into his arm, with one sweep of his scimetar he
                  clove him to the saddle; and then hurling his weapon into the air, he fell
                  exhausted upon the neck of his charger!
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        In thee alone, my brightest, fairest, best!
                        My wandering heart seeks refuge like the dove;
                        Bearing the olive branch of peace and love,
                        To find sweet shelter in its ark of rest;
                        My flight has been wide o'er the angry wave,
                        Nor bower nor tree nor mantling vine was there;
                        But, like rich pearls deep in some ocean cave,
                        Where hidden all things beautiful and fair."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Oh! the heart that has truly loved never forgets,
                           But as truly loves on to the close,
                           As the sun-flower turns to her god when he sets,
                           The same look which she turn'd when he rose."
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               The young man whom the Recluse had raised to the front of his saddle, as we have
                  narrated in the previous chapter, disengaged himself from his position and cast
                  himself to the ground, as soon as he perceived the bristling array of the troops,
                  drawn up to intercept them; and dragging himself, serpent-like, into a gully by
                  the way side, succeeded in eluding the vigilance of the enemy, whose every eye was
                  intensely riveted upon the mad-like countenance of the Recluse, as he came toward
                  them.
               The latter and his companion, however, were forthwith despatched, under a strong
                  guard to Germantown. While passing through the streets, with his huge frame
                  enveloped in the blood-stained banner, many a tear trembled upon the
                  terror-stricken countenances of the patriots, and even the fiendish gratulation of
                  the loyalist was subdued into admiration and awe.
               As the conflict had, for the most part, taken place, in the town it was beheld by
                  the peaceful citizens with the most intense anxiety; and, although presenting a
                  spectacle at once shocking and horrible, it had beguiled many a young damsel to
                  peep through the curtain of the window, and enunciate the most heart-piercing
                  exclamations of compassion and anguish, as she beheld the noble sons of the
                  Conewaga, fall under the stroke of the ruthless hireling.
               When they approached the gothic mansion occupied by Major-General Gray and his
                  family, the eyes of the Recluse again began to dance in their sockets and assume
                  their accustomed brilliancy and animation. Nothing daunted by the savage aspect of
                  his guard, who, by their significant looks of revenge and mortal hatred, but too
                  plainly evinced the treatment he would meet with at their hands, the Recluse,
                  raising his majestic form in his saddle, unwound the banner from his person, and,
                  waiving it in the air, in defiance of the threatening gesticulations of his guard,
                  and at the same time, shouting, in tones of thunder, "God and Liberty,"
                  "Washington and the Continental Congress," he bounded from his charger and
                  followed his highly enraged custodians into the mansion.
               His voice was still pulsating on the gale, when a shriek, issuing from one of the
                  apartments of the upper story, rang through the air, and filled the assembled throng with wonder and alarm. As soon as
                  this prophetic scream burst upon the ears of the Recluse, his whole frame trembled
                  with emotion, and sinking down upon the floor of brick, his every muscle seemed
                  paralyzed, while his countenance, bedewed with the tears of joy and long-concealed
                  grief, wore a heavenly appearance and discovered the insuperable felicity of his
                  soul.
               It was approaching the hour of midnight when he awoke from his halcyon dream of
                  joyfulness, and passing through the thick darkness that encompassed him, striving
                  to catch some glimpse of external light, a gentle breeze 
                     emenating
                     emanating
                   from a small aperture in the wall, fanned his cheek and discovered the
                  orifice, for which he was searching. Moving eagerly toward it, he struck his foot
                  against an object, that threw him against the wall with such violence as to
                  deprive him of reason for some minutes.
               When he recovered, he found himself lying on the breast of his companion, who had
                  been immured with him, and who, overcome by the arduous struggles of the day, had,
                  unconsciously, sunk into a profound sleep. The latter after narrating what had
                  occurred during his aberration, and describing the position of the cell in which
                  they were incarcerated, soon aroused the Recluse to a consideration of their
                  circumstances, and urged him to meditate upon the means of their escape, in order
                  to preserve that life and strength, of which he had been utterly reckless, but
                  which was now as dear as earthly happiness could render it.
               Moving, therefore, toward the aperture, to which he had previously directed his
                  attention, in order to examine the wall, and find, if possible, a frangible point,
                  upon which to commence operations, he distinctly heard the measured tramp of the
                  sentinels, as they paced their wearisome rounds about that wing of the edifice.
                  Placing his ear to the orifice, he quickly perceived the impracticability of
                  making a breach in that quarter, as the sentinels were so numerous as to maintain
                  a continuous tramp, to and fro, immediately in front of the opening; owing
                  doubtless to the dilapidated state of the wall.
               Decision of character was one of the most striking qualities in the constitution
                  of the Recluse, and hence, unlike many others, who surrender themselves up to
                  despondency, at the first appearance of insurmountable difficulties, he did not
                  despair; but, laying this out of the question, an acute observer might have
                  readily discovered from his manifest tardiness and obvious indifference and want
                  of ingenuity, that he was not as desirous of effecting his escape as the
                  portentious circumstances of his position would naturally demand.
               His companion quickly perceived this; and adverting to the incidents that occurred
                  on their arrival at the mansion, he easily divined the cause, and, therefore
                  seemed rather to encourage his indisposition than to urge him to renewed efforts,
                  partly on account of his fraternal affection for him, and, because of his belief
                  in the Recluse's having a very dear acquaintance at hard, through whose
                  interposition he expected they would be released.
               He was not deceived in his expectations: for he had scarcely arrived at this
                  conclusion, when the glimmering rays of a waxen taper shot through the darkness
                  and lit up the whitened walls.
               As soon as the flickering light fell upon the dreamy eye-balls of the Recluse,
                  shaking off that apathy, in which his tranquil meditations had submerged him, he
                  darted toward the avenue, whence it proceeded, and, in a moment, a faint,
                  suppressed scream of unbounded felicity, in which "William," "Ida," alone were
                  intelligible, echoed along the walls, and divulged the fires of the souls, whence
                  it issued.
               We shall not attempt to describe the gratitude, which glowed in the hearts of
                  these hitherto unfortunate lovers, to the Almighty, for having thus unexpectedly
                  restored them to happiness and to each other. Their long, fervent, though
                  speechless embrace denoted the most intense inward joy, intermingled with vagrant
                  fears for the future.
               
               The story of Ida Bradley and William Forney, dear reader, is a story of the
                  heart—a story of true, genuine love—of love as immortal as the soul!
               Ida was a charming girl of fifteen—a laughter-loving, prattling girl, with a
                  countenance resplendent with smiles and beauty, and a complexion, whose blooming
                  fairness contrasted elegantly with her dark silky tresses, which fluttered in the
                  breeze, so smooth and mellow were the lights and shadows; when William Forney, a
                  young gentleman of respectability and scholastic refinement, was engaged by her
                  father to act in the capacity of a tutor in his family. Could he have but forseen
                  the calamitous circumstances, in which he was involving himself and family, by
                  this installation, he would have shrunk from its fulfillment, as the bird from the
                  entrancing gaze of the serpent.
               The continual associations consequent upon the positions of Ida and her tutor,
                  soon produced an intimacy, the more affectionate and confiding, the longer it was
                  nourished. In the sunny days of summer, when they rambled over the green meadow in
                  the rear of the mansion, and along the purling streamlet, winding through it,
                  breathing the balmy air, laden with the mellifluous fragrance, exhaled by the wild
                  flowers, springing up spontaneously on its banks, their young hearts bounded with
                  delight, and swelled with the enrapturing prospects of the future, which their
                  lively imaginations, inspired by the glowing appearance of everything around them,
                  had painted with the brightest hues of the rainbow, upon the silvery transparency
                  of hope!
               Three summers had thus passed by—summers of unalloyed felicity—summers of love!
                  The slender, romping Ida of fifteen had blossomed into the full-formed maiden of
                  eighteen. The smiling countenance of youthful fruition, had yielded to the
                  thoughtful expression of the loving heart.
               Her parents, arrogant, self-opinionated and ostentatious of their nobility of
                  descent, had long noticed the intimacy that subsisted between the young folks, but
                  had never a thought, that their daughter whom they supposed to be possessed of a
                  disposition, kindred to their own, would condescend to associate with the
                     dependant—as they contemptuously termed him—with any other motive
                  than to learn from his communications, the maxims of philosophy and wisdom, with
                  which they were so richly interspersed.
               Indeed this latter consideration was the primary cause of their intimacy, as Ida
                  had, in primis, sought his society with no other object; little thinking that it would result in involving her soul in
                  the deepest chasm of love, which could be gratified only after years of intense
                  suffering. Well-knowing the haughty disposition and extravagant scruples of her
                  father, as well as the violent opposition he would make to the chosen of her
                  heart, she would not encourage her beloved to press his suit, until the agonizing
                  suspense of their souls, rendering their existence almost insupportable, urged
                  upon them the necessity of making a proposition, which would determine at once
                  their future happiness or misery.
               The appointed day arrived—a glowing May-day; and, early in the morning, Ida and
                  William had repaired to their accustomed seat on the shady bank of the little
                  streamlet in the meadow, where they were busily engaged in concerting measures to
                  be adopted, in the event of her father's disapprobation.
               The sun shone brightly over the green verdure, melting the sheeted mist, resting
                  on the brook, and gilding the soft dew-drop with silver and gold. The robin and
                  martin enlivened the air with their songs, and the busy bee was humming among the
                  flowers and extracting their sweets.
               The beauties of the morning failed not to dissipate the melancholy, into which
                  their serious meditations had thrown them; and, being encouraged by the
                  pleasureable prospects surrounding them, they interchanged vows of eternal love
                  and constancy and proceeded toward the mansion, with hearts replete with anxiety
                  and cherishing the fond hopes of success. As they approached the house, they
                  beheld the baronet standing alone under the shade of a large oak, evidently
                  absorbed in some wild speculation. Ida observing him, whispered to her companion
                  to accost him immediately, and then bounded behind an angle of the wall to await
                  the issue; not, however, without fearful forebodings as to the result.
               The interview was short and decisive. The baronet considering himself and family
                  highly insulted by the request, and enraged at the boldness with which he was
                  addressed, would have instantly struck the offender to the earth, had not the
                  muscular proportions and unwavering firmness of the latter, deterred him. As it
                  was, however, he contented himself with ordering him to quit his presence forever,
                  and threatening to visit him with condign punishment, should he ever deign to
                  cross the threshold of his house!
               The storm that raged in the heart of Forney, as he gazed with scorn and contempt
                  upon the baronet, was about to burst over the head of the latter, when,
                  recollecting himself, he rushed toward the road, determined never again to behold
                  the earthly tenement, that retained the jewel of his heart. The darkness that
                  succeeds the vivid flashes of lightning was never more unfathomable, than the
                  black despair of his soul.
               He had just reached the gate of the enclosure, and stretched forth his hand to
                  hurl it open, when a shriek close behind him arrested his progress, and, turning
                  around he received the delicate form of Ida in his arms. His anger and despair
                  melted away into the soothing balm of love; and, pressing her fainting form to his
                  heart, while he gazed upon her marble features, Love, Hope, and Despair shot
                  electrically through his majestic frame, now effusing his countenance with playful
                  smiles, now with radiant sparklings of joy, and now with all the blackness and
                  torture of hell!
               Ida had witnessed all that transpired between her father and William; and, when
                  the violent ebullitions of wrath of the former burst upon her ear, she left her
                  place of concealment and was fast approaching them when Forney darted off toward
                  the gate. Passing by her father, with the fleetness of the hind, her tiny feet
                  scarcely touching the sod, with despair marked upon every feature of her deathlike
                  countenance, she flew after her beloved, with her arms stretched forth,
                  imploringly, as if some monster of the forest were every moment about to pounce
                  upon and devour her.
               Not a sound escaped her lips in her flight until she saw that her lover was about
                  to pass from her forever, when a shriek from the depths of her soul, rent the air,
                  and bounding forward she fell fainting upon his breast.
               The baronet beheld this maniacal conduct of his daughter with abhorrence, and his
                  wrath being enkindled, he rushed toward them, like a demon loosed from the fiery
                  torments of hell!—and seizing his daughter, while he forced her arms from their
                  embrace, he bore her away to the mansion. Forney, almost heart-broken, looked
                  after them until the thick foliage of the shrubbery concealed them from his view,
                  and then he rushed away from the premises, to go—he knew not whither!
               The shades of night overtook him in a dense forest, wandering, in sorrowful
                  silence, over the prescriptive dominions of the reptiles of the earth, now
                  reverting to the happy scenes of his childhood, now to the afflicting occurrences
                  of the day. His horrible situation never disturbed the equanimity of his mind; and
                  self-preservation, one of the first laws of our organization, was obviously alive
                  in his bosom.
               When the light of day began to appear in the east, his thoughts returned to the
                  determination he had expressed to Ida on the previous morning of embarking for
                  America. He immediately resolved upon that course, and, finding the main road, he
                  soon came to a small town, at no great distance, where, taking a coach, he
                  speedily approached the busy thoroughfares of Liverpool. Having made the necessary
                  preparations for a voyage, he embarked upon a vessel, destined for the New World,
                  and in a short time was safely landed, in the commercial city of Baltimore.
               Desirous of finding a quiet resting place, where he could brood over his
                  misfortunes and worship his Maker, and where the contending elements of the busy
                  world would not disturb the tranquility of his abode, he quickly forsook the noisy
                  city and journeyed northward, until the placid little valley of the "Blue Spring,"
                  with the mighty Conewaga cleaving it in twain, burst upon his view.
               Treading along its noiseless bank, he beheld, in the distance the holy Chapel of
                  St. Paul, with its walls of granite and whitened dome reflecting the beams of the
                  noon-day sun, and appearing like a mass of silver emerged from the lucid bosom of
                  the Conewaga. Passing by the temple and entering a little grove close by, he fell
                  upon his knees, and pressing to his lips the little cross of gold, suspended from
                  his neck by a chain of the same material, which Ida had thrown over his head on
                  the fatal morning, he poured out his soul in thanksgiving and praise to the Almighty, for having thus brought him
                  into his own sacred valley—the valley of the "Blue Spring"—the valley of the
                  Lord.
               He soon erected for himself a small cabin, and nursing the wild flowers, that grew
                  luxuriantly about it, and pruning the grove, his habitation soon presented an
                  appearance of cheerfulness and romantic beauty, that never failed to attract the
                  eye of the traveler, and call forth an exclamation of surprise and rapture.
               In this little paradise dwelt William Forney, the Recluse of the Conewaga; known
                  and beloved by every denizen of the valley, respected for his intellectual
                  refinement, revered for his unremitting piety, the light of the valley, the
                  patriot of the revolution!
               The deep seclusion of three years had reigned over the serenity of his abode, when
                  the startling intelligence of the battles of Lexington and Bunker Hill, came
                  wafted over the placid bosom of the Conewaga, arousing the inhabitants of the
                  valley, and filling their souls with patriotism and wrath. These tidings,
                  doubtless highly exaggerated by the indignant populace, produced a new train of
                  thoughts in the mind of the Recluse, which, affording an agreeable variation to
                  his monotonous meditations, failed to bring about the dereliction of his
                  seclusion. This, as we have previously intimated, did not take place until the
                  thundering of the battle of Brandywine and the account of its issue, swept over
                  the valley, and urged its inhabitants to buckle on their armor and unsheath their
                  swords, in defence of their liberty, for the protection of their homes.
               A deep and apparently tranquil sleep followed the successive paroxysms in which
                  the delicate form of Ida writhed for hours after she had been conveyed to the
                  mansion by her father. Her countenance pale as the snowy whiteness of the pillow,
                  on which, it reclined, wore an expression of the deepest distress. Her soul, so
                  delicately and exquisitely susceptible—so full of hope and innocence seemed to
                  have taken its flight from its earthly tabernacle and flown to the etherious
                  regions of bliss!
               With the light of morning, however, came a recuperation of her faculties: the
                  gentle depletion and anodyne of the physician having had their proper effect.
                  Having lain in a quiescent state for some minutes, suddenly a smile of joy played
                  over her sylph-like features, dissipating their deathly paleness and pouring forth
                  the radiant hues of the rose and lily upon her cheeks. This manifestation
                  obviously indicated the truth, that a bright ray of hope had shot athwart her
                  heart and displayed in the mirror of the future a realization of all her
                  expectations.
               She was aware of the destination of her beloved, and determined to make all the
                  efforts, that her versatile imagination could suggest, in order to join him in the
                  land of his exile. To aid her in this undertaking, she had a cousin in the city of
                  London, Mrs. Gray—formerly Clara Bradley—who had eloped with her husband,
                  Major-General Gray of the British army, several years previously.
               Encouraged by the warm asseverations of success and the untiring intervention of
                  her cousin, Ida never despaired of the successful issue of her enterprise; and
                  when the proper time approached, at which her health would permit, and she could
                  with any plausibility prevail upon her still disaffected parents to grant a cave
                  of absence from the mansion, she made all haste for London, where she arrived,
                  just in time to embark with her cousin for the New World.
               This sudden change in the fortune of Ida, so consonant with her own feelings—so
                  adventitious—so foreign to her most sanguine expectations, revived her drooping
                  heart and made it as happy as the terrific storms of the ocean, and the long,
                  transatlantic voyage would admit. As the sun arises out of the quiet bosom of the
                  ocean, and grows warmer and warmer as he ascends to his meridian, so the germ of
                  hope, deep-rooted in her breast, waxed stronger, and stronger, as she approached
                  the land that nourished the idol of her soul.
               It is not our intention to fatigue the reader with a detailed account of the
                  voyage, or the fruitless attempts made by our heroine and her cousin, to discover
                  the retreat of her beloved, during the two years previous to their removal to
                  Germantown. We will leave the imagination of the reader to fill this vacancy, with
                  the remark, that the warm heart of Ida was not insensible to the injuries
                  inflicted by her countrymen upon the noble sons of America; and, moreover, that
                  she soon espoused their cause; feeling, doubtless, that the home of the exile was
                  the home of her heart.
               When the Recluse—as we shall again call him—and his companion, surrounded by their
                  guard, approached the mansion, as we have narrated in the preceding chapter, the
                  noise and confusion, their sudden arrival occasioned, attracted the attention of
                  Ida, who was sitting alone in her chamber, in a state of deep melancholy, having
                  again despaired of ever beholding the loved object, now about to enter under the
                  same roof with herself!
               
               The mutual recognition of the two lovers and the events that immediately
                  succeeded, the reader has already been acquainted with.
               How long the Recluse and his Ida remained in the trance of felicity, in which we
                  left them, we are not with any degree of accuracy informed; it was sufficiently
                  long, however, to fatigue his watchful comrade, who, having gazed upon them for
                  some time, had withdrawn to the outer apartment of the cellar, in order to make
                  some observations with respect to the vigilance of the sentinels, and the
                  practicability of enlarging the before-mentioned aperture, so that if no other
                  means were presented, and they should be favored by the negligence of the guard,
                  they might effect their exit through the opening and secure their escape.
               Cautiously advancing to it, he listened intently for the footsteps of the
                  sentinel, but all in his immediate vicinity was as quiet as the grave, save the
                  tumultuous throbbings of his own heart. Then, having braced his nerves, he
                  attempted to displace a large stone, when a musket ball whistled by his car, and
                  buried itself in the wooden sill of the house.
               The report of tho musket aroused the Recluse and his beloved from their stupor,
                  and calling to his companion to follow, he said:
               "Come, my dear Ida, let us go hence, the night fleeth away and the morning
                  cometh."
               With her eyes filled with tears, but tears that glistened with joy, she obeyed;
                  and conducting them up a narrow flight of stairs she brought them into the hall of the mansion, when lifting her
                  eyes toward heaven, she ejaculated:
               "Blessed be God for his goodness to us, and for restoring to me my beloved! and
                  now, William, since your life—which may God preserve—depends upon your speed, fly
                  quickly hence! In the rear of the church you will find your steeds! The army, for
                  the most part, is moving into the city. We shall remain here for a
                  short time. Flee, and come soon to my rescue!"
               Pressing her for a moment to his breast, "next week, my dear Ida, I will be here,"
                  said the Recluse, and beckoning to his companion to follow, he sprang into the
                  street, and made all haste, for the church, situate about three hundred yards
                  westward of the mansion.
               The noise of their footfalls, resounding in the stillness of the night, aroused
                  the drowsy sentinels, some of whom, suspecting that their prisoners had escaped,
                  rushed into the cellar. They soon found the truth of their conjectures and shouted
                  to their remaining comrades on the outside to fly in pursuit.
               In the meantime the Recluse and his friend came to the church, and finding their
                  steeds ready saddled, as they were told, they sprang upon them, just as their
                  pursuers became audible in the distance.
               It was a moment of intense interest. While hope excited the pursuers to a delirium
                  of delight, the Recluse and his companion felt an anxiety that almost amounted to
                  alarm.
               The moon had just gone down, and the fixed stars were twinkling, while the planets
                  with steady and many-colored ray, were gazing on the peaceful earth, whose quiet
                  was only disturbed by the clatter of the feet and the heavy breathing of the
                  steeds. "Away, away, on pinions, that out-strip the winds" dashed the Recluse and
                  his comrade, as the shout of their pursuers broke upon their ears.
               With the approach of day ended the chase; the British troopers fearing to venture
                  over their prescribed limits.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               'Twas a lovely morning—the morning of the 7th of October, 1777,—a gay, jovial
                  morning with the denizens of Rogues' Harbor.
               The lofty poplars in front of the inn, commonly known by the formidable
                  appellation of the Black Bear, flung their lengthy shadows far across the square,
                  affording an agreeable retreat from the warm rays of the sun, and a grateful
                  relief to the eye from the glittering yellow surface of clay.
               A party of Indians, perhaps twenty or thirty, had already assembled about the inn,
                  and, as was their custom, were preparing their bows and arrows, and planting deep
                  in the ground, each his own post, with the proper incision at the top, for the
                  reception of such piece or pieces of coin, as the spectator might feel willing to
                  insert, and which the wily savage possessed himself of, by displacing it, at the
                  distance of fifty yards.
               As this was the day of the "fair," some half-dozen men and as many old women were
                  busily engaged in putting up stalls, for the reception of their viands and
                  trinkets, which the assembling multitude, from the village and vicinity, eagerly
                  purchased and stowed away.
               Among the numerous concourse, that had collected together, standing under the
                  shade of one of the poplars, was a group of young men and maidens, evincing by
                  their comely attire and modest deportment, their English extraction and good
                  breeding.
               Conspicuous above all, in this little group, was Mabel Johnston, a maiden of
                  surpassing loveliness, and possessed of an intellect, that shone forth the more
                  brightly, as it was nourished in this region of superstition and profound
                  ignorance. Her blue eyes—beaming with all a woman's love for the gallant youth,
                  who stood by her side—contrasted beautifully with her massive forehead of snowy
                  whiteness, and the locks of golden hair, which, falling in soft undulations around
                  her neck and shoulders, floated luxuriantly upon the morning breeze.
               Many of the Indians had already succeeded by their skill, in possessing themselves
                  of the where-with-all to obtain the morning potion at the bar; but there was one,
                  whose post was planted nearest the above mentioned group, who, by his vestments
                  and lofty bearing, together with his obvious indifference to the "game," evinced his superiority over the rest, while his dark luminous eye and
                  open manly countenance denoted a mind of more than ordinary penetration, and a
                  heart susceptible of the charms of beauty. He was attired in a bear-skin robe of
                  glossy black, which reached from his shoulders to the calves of his legs. A broad
                  leathern belt, variously dyed, from which his tomahawk and scalping knife
                  depended, confined the robe, at his waist, and displayed the well moulded
                  configuration of his person. His arms were covered with wrappers of otter-skin,
                  whose soft, silky fur glittered in the sunlight. These were full and flowing, and
                  were stitched from the shoulder to the wrist, with soft threads of half-tanned
                  dear-skin, having interwoven in each of the great stitches, a profusion of
                  variegated porcupine quills. On his head, unlike the other warriors, he wore a
                  small cap, made of beaver-skin, with a heavy plume of party-colored feathers. His
                  feet were encased in mocasins, which were adorned with beads and shells, and, in
                  the usual manner of the Indians, with curiously painted figures; forming on the
                  whole, a singularly beautiful and gaudy costume. This was Conowa, a noble young
                  chief, who, with about three hundred warriors, had encamped upon the Alleghanies,
                  in the neighborhood of what is now called Laurel Hill, some two years previous to
                  the opening of our story. They were in the habit, saith the legend, of making wide
                  incursions into the country, South and West, especially following up the several
                  chains of mountains, joining on to the Alleghanies, and that by accident rather
                  than by inclination nation or
                  premeditation, they had found their way to the "Macha Hills."*
                  
               
               
                  *Now called Pigeon Hills.
               
               Henry Palmer—the young man before alluded to, as standing by the side of Mabel
                  Johnston—being struck by the majestic appearance and noble bearing of Conowa, had,
                  early in the morning, called her attention to him, intimating, at the same time,
                  that her attractions were not unnoticed by the young chief. Whether she considered
                  this observation, coming as it did from him, as being merely an effusion of his
                  own prejudiced heart, or, whether, she did not plainly comprehend the allusion,
                  and consequently, gave it no consideration, it was obvious that she did not notice
                  the incessant glances of the young chief, until a considerable portion of the
                  morning had passed by, and his soul, intoxicated by his long and passionate
                  admiration of her charms, seemed to illumine his whole countenance, and burst
                  forth in streams of sparkling radiance from his eyes.
               Having glanced for a moment at the Indian and observed the impassioned gleams,
                  that shot across his 
                     rudy
                     ruddy
                   visage, Mabel, pressing closer to her companion, with anxiety and fear
                  stamped upon every feature of her now richly illuminated countenance,
                  whispered:—
               "Behold that Indian's gaze, Harry, how intently and painfully fixed—how powerfully
                  penetrative! I really feel alarmed."
               "There is no cause for fear, my dear Mabel; I predicted truly this morning, when I
                  called your attention to him. The development of his features, and the glowing
                  brilliancy of his large, expressive eye, fully assured me of his greatness of soul
                  and susceptibility of the softer emotions of love. I'll wager," added he
                  playfully, "if you put up this piece of coin for him"—at the same time placing a
                  guinea in her hand—"that he will fail to displace it!"
               In order to gratify that womanly desire, or, perhaps, rather to test the
                  perspicacity of her companion and satisfy herself with regard to the young chief's
                  good or evil intentions, Mabel advanced to the post, inserted the coin, and then
                  withdrew to his side, to await the issue. Conowa lowered his eyes under the ardent
                  gaze of the spectators, and, perhaps, with an inherent consciousness of his own
                  ability; but, after a moment of hesitation, in which he displayed the contending
                  emotions of his soul, he slowly raised the well-bent bow—discharged the arrow—and
                  immediately withdrew from the scene; either cognizant of his disgraceful failure,
                  or indifferent as to its issue. Mabel's heart shrunk within her, when she saw the
                  arrow flit by the post, and the immediate disappearance of the Indian. For a
                  moment every feature of her countenance seemed paralized, and the pink's soft hue
                  gradually vanishing from her cheek, melted into the snowy paleness of death!
                  Silent, intent, like the rayless orbs of a marble statue, were her large eyes
                  riveted upon the unmoved coin!
               "Mabel, my dear Mabel," exclaimed Henry, passionately, as he beheld the tremulous
                  motion and death-like appearance of her features; "what on earth has befallen you?
                  I am sure that the young Indian meditates no harmful designs, although he has but
                  too truly manifested the invincible power you possess over him. The disgrace,
                  which his failure will inevitably bring upon him with his tribe,
                  together with the transient love and humiliating estimation of the savage, for the
                  female race, will soon make him forgetful of this adventure, at least, as far as
                  his love for you is concerned, and urge him to retrieve his reputation as a
                  skillful warrior."
               However incompatible this assertion would seem to the sentiment he expressed a few
                  moments before, it nevertheless effected a total revolution in the mind and
                  feelings of Mabel, who now began to recover herself, and assume her accustomed
                  gravity and staidness.
               The disappearance of Conowa was soon followed by the stealthy withdrawal of the
                  remaining Indians, many of whom, it was plain, were highly enraged by his
                  opprobrious failure and furtive departure. This movement on the part of the
                  Indians, together with the evident declension of the sun, aroused the multitude
                  from that stupor, into which their assiduous attention to the games, had thrown
                  them, and made them sensible of the approaching shadows of night.
               The placid serenity of twilight had just began to settle over the village, and the
                  genial queen of night, in all her majesty and pearly lustre, poured forth her
                  quivering streams of silvery radiance, which, reflected by the yellow streets of
                  clay, and the snowy whiteness of the houses, enveloped Rogue's Harbor in a flood
                  of light, that gave it the aspect of midday ;—when, suddenly, the clatter of
                  horses' feet broke upon the stillness, and three chargers, fleet as the wind,
                  wound up the narrow street, sending fire and gravel from their heels, while their
                  riders made the welkin ring, with the shouts of "God and Liberty," "Washington and
                  the Continental Congress!"
               Hundreds of men, women and children simultaneously rushed up the streets, and
                  crowded around the panting riders to hear the astounding reports, which their
                  sudden appearance but too plainly foretold. After the lapse of a few moments, the
                  older of the three, a large, muscular man, apparently about thirty years of age,
                  with features considerably worn and weather-beaten, yet pre-eminently handsome,
                  dismounted from his charger, and threw off his surtout and military cap; and as
                  the rays of the moon lit up his noble features, the whole multitude, with one
                  accord, exclaimed, the "Recluse of the Conewaga!"
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               Mabel and Henry had departed from Rogue's Harbor, about half-an-hour before the
                  arrival of the Recluse and their other friends; and, while the latter was arousing
                  the multitude by a recital of the skirmish, in which he had been engaged, and, by
                  depicting to their excited imaginations, the deplorable situation of the American
                  army, in consequence of the desertion of many of the enlisted soldiers;— the former were gaily wending their way,
                  by the light of the full-orbed moon, through the magnificent woodlands, which then
                  almost encompassed the beauteous little valley of the Blue Spring,—in the
                  direction of the "Conewaga Chapel;" near which, on the mossy bank of that clear
                  stream, stood the old-time mansion of Colonel William Johnston, looking down upon
                  the waters, from its green, shady eminence.
               The Colonel and his lady were anxiously awaiting the return of the young folks,
                  and were busy in conjecturing the possible causes of their detention, when a loud
                  rap at the hall door announced their arrival, and at once put an end to all their
                  fears.
               While gayly recounting the romantic adventures of the day, and excusing their
                  tardiness by pleading the beauty and serenity of the evening, suddenly the
                  euphonious notes of the bugle were heard in the distance, so soft and melodious,
                  that they almost seemed an echo to the tones of the lute. They all ran,
                  simultaneously, to the door, and Mabel and Henry, recognizing the strains of the
                  bugles, bounded over the downy sward, in front of the mansion, passed across the
                  bridge, and in a few moments, were locked in the arms of their brothers, whose
                  blood-stained apparel denoted the recent conflict, in which they had been
                  engaged.
               While this mutual interchange of fraternal affection and joy was transpiring, the
                  majestic form of the Recluse came into view; and he was received by the young
                  folks, with a shout of exultation which plainly showed their affection for
                  him.
               A jovial evening was this in the old mansion—the gray old mansion on the bank of
                  the Conewaga.
               The repeated exclamations of joy and surprise, from the faithful old servants, as
                  they severally made their appearance, soon succeeded in bringing the holy Father
                  Coleman from the Chapel—close by—where he had been earnestly petitioning the God
                  of Gods to preserve his oppressed children, who had gone forth to meet the enemies
                  of their country.
               The Recluse met him on the threshold, and, snatching him up in his herculean arms,
                  bore him into the mansion; not, however, without forcing sundry significant groans
                  from his capacious corporation, by the violence of his embrace.
               The lively disposition of the Recluse, so vastly discrepant to his former habitual
                  taciturnity, was not unobserved by the holy father, who, during the entire
                  evening, and, even while the former was relating the incidents of the battle,
                  through which his valiant band had passed, was, nevertheless continually revolving
                  in his mind the probable causes, which combined to effect such a change in his
                  deportment.
               The Recluse failed not to notice the sedate mood and meditative expression of the
                  holy father, and, being fatigued by his long journey, he retired with him to the
                  Chapel, where, having praised the Holy Virgin for her guardian protection and
                  received absolution, he candidly confessed the circumstances, that had intervened
                  to effect the abandonment of his former secluded habits, and which, if affairs
                  terminated as he ardently hoped, would eventuate in his restoration to happiness
                  and usefulness.
               What had thus so benignly occurred to change the destiny of the Recluse, and
                  render his future so replete with exhilarating prospects, the reader has been
                  informed of in the preceding chapter.
               The Recluse arose early, the next morning. His sleep had beef deep and refreshing.
                  Sauntering along the placid creek, he approached his little cabin in the grove.
                  The exciting events of the last few days, the most eventful of his life, rushed
                  through his mind in quick succession. The remembrance of the bitter past, was now
                  sweetened by the hopes of the future; and his heart was gladdened by the
                  expectation of soon possessing his long lost Ida.
               Henry Palmer arose, likewise, with the sun; and, having been acquainted, by his
                  brother—who had just returned with the Recluse—of the romantic adventure of the
                  latter, as well as his determination to return as soon as he could procure the
                  co-operation of a few friends, he started off in the direction of the Chapel,
                  intending to await his appearance. Walking carelessly along the bank of the creek,
                  suddenly a sound broke upon his ear, at first, low and unintelligible, but, as he
                  drew nearer, it became more and more distinct, until finally he recognized the
                  voice of the Recluse. Not wishing to molest him in his orisons, he withdrew toward
                  the creek.
               But a short time elapsed until he saw him issuing from the grove, and proceeding
                  toward the Chapel. Following speedily after him, he soon overtook him and
                  immediately declared his intention to attend him in his expedition.
               Whatever forebodings the Recluse may have had, as to the difficulty of obtaining
                  co-adjutors in his perilous undertaking, they now quickly vanished; and, having
                  always cherished a fraternal affection for, and placed all confidence in Henry
                  Palmer, he unhesitatingly revealed to him all the circumstances of his late happy
                  meeting with his beloved, and the course he intended to pursue to effect her
                  rescue.
               Feeling that delay was dangerous, he told Henry to be ready the next morning, and
                  they would be off "to the wars again." The bell now began to toll for Mass, and
                  mingling in the throng, that poured in from all sides of the valley, they together
                  entered the Chapel.
               While they proceed in the worship of God, return thanks for His mercies, and
                  solicit His guidance and protection in the enterprise they are about to engage in,
                  allow us to transport the reader, in imagination, to the camp on the Macha
                  Hills—the camp of the red-men.
               The Indians had returned from Rogue's Harbor; and, with their faces painted in red
                  and blue stripes, their heads shaved close, except a tuft of hair on the crown,
                  and the upper parts of their bodies bedaubed with a mixture of yellow and black,
                  they presented a hideous spectacle, as they moved in a circle of about thirty feet
                  in diameter around a fire of pine logs.
               Within this circle sat some three or four young warriors, beating upon a sort of
                  gong, made of a large keg, over one of the ends of which a skin was stretched.
                  With these, rude as they were, very good time was preserved with the performers,
                  both in the inflection of their bodies, and the movement of their features.
               
               Conowa had not yet made his appearance, and the anxiety, which his absence
                  created, in his tribe, was shown by the frequent and searching glances they
                  bestowed upon all sides of the camp. Their suspense finally became so great, as to
                  produce a perfect cessation of the dancing and music; and, uttering the terrible
                  war-hoop—as was their custom at the termination of their orgies—they retired to
                  their seats around the fire.
               After the lapse of a few minutes, the breathing stillness was broken by one of the
                  warriors, who leaped up and struck the "flag-staff," they had erected, with the
                  butt end of his rifle. This ceremony they termed "striking the post;" and whatever
                  was then said, might be relied upon, as being either the truth, or, what the
                  person so doing, esteemed to be the truth; and in case of an exaggeration or
                  palpable falsehood, the offender was immediately disgraced.
               All eyes being riveted upon him, he proceeded to state what he had observed in the
                  conduct of their chief; during the day, and to explain the probable causes of his
                  disgraceful failure and stealthy disappearance, when a scream echoed along the
                  hills, and a young Indian maiden, named Wyannowe, came rushing into the camp, and
                  announced the approach of the chief.
               Wyannowe, or the Blue Bird, was the daughter of one of the oldest warriors, who
                  had become illustrious in the tribe for his skill and valor. Her figure though
                  exquisitely proportioned and graceful, was diminutive; and her dark, sparkling
                  eyes and darker hair, shone brilliantly, but softly, over her strikingly feminine
                  countenance, of blended red and yellow. Her tiny feet, enveloped in moccasins of
                  deer-skin, displayed their beauteous proportions; while her many colored garment,
                  hung over with glittering feathers, gave a romantic air to her wild beauty. She
                  had long loved Conowa; and, being happy only in his presence had left her home in
                  the 
                     Alleghenies
                     Alleghanies
                  , to accompany him hither.
               Whether the young chief was aware of her attachment or not, he always bore himself
                  toward her, with the most rigid formality; and, in the present instance, when she
                  was informed of his absence and had stolen away, resolved to find him before she
                  returned, he changed his direction, as soon as he saw her, uttering, at the same
                  time, an exclamation of disgust, which brought that scream of anguish from her
                  heart.
               The individual who had struck the post, resumed his seat; and, as the light tramp
                  of the chief, broke the awful stillness, the swarthy countenances of the warriors
                  lit up with joy, forgetting their recent animosity, and exhibiting their
                  attachment to him.
               Conowa approached within a few feet of the ominous circle and halted; seemingly in
                  doubt whether to advance or recede. Gazing for a moment upon his warriors, he
                  quickly perceived that they meditated no evil against him; and being overjoyed at
                  the prospect, so adverse, to what he might have reasonably expected, he sprang
                  toward, and bounded into, the midst of them.
               They all rushed instantly around him, and expressed their satisfaction at his
                  return, in the liveliest manner. As soon as the tumult subsided, and the warriors
                  took their seats, Conowa stepped forward to address them. He spoke of his
                  delinquency, and the causes which produced it, in the most pathetic manner; and,
                  when he saw that his warriors were affected by his narration, and interested in
                  his case, he laid before them a proposition, unfolding his designs, to which he
                  solicited their acquiescence. The affirmatory exclamation ran around the ring, at
                  first low and ambiguous, but, as it proceeded, it swelled louder and louder, until
                  it seemed as though the hills had burst forth in volcanic thunder.
               There was but one dissenting voice; unheard, however, in the outburst. It was
                  Wyannowe's. She had heard the rehearsal of Conowa, and the unanimous concurrence
                  of the Indians to assist him in his undertaking.
               What there was in this enterprise to affect her so materially, will be disclosed
                  in the following chapter.
               If the reader will be kind enough to run down the hills, and accompany us up the
                  banks of the Conewaga—it's but a short journey—we will re-enter the little valley
                  of the Blue Spring, and see what has transpired in our absence, and what the
                  morrow may bring forth.
               
               After the Holy Father had pronounced his Benediction, the Recluse and Henry Palmer
                  withdrew from the chapel, and directed their steps toward the mansion of Col.
                  Johnston.
               William Johnston, Jr.—the young man, who had been slightly wounded, in the street
                  fight at Germantown, and succeeded in making his escape, at the time, and in the
                  manner, we have elsewhere recorded—fell in with the Recluse and John
                  Palmer—Henry's brother—at the Susquehannah river, on their way home. His wound,
                  though slight, had, by neglect, become virulent, and, consequently painful; and,
                  as soon as he entered his father's mansion, he called in Barney McClain, the
                  coachman who had been taken prisoner by the Indians, at Braddock's defeat, and had
                  learned from them the healing art,—to prepare an application for him. The Recluse
                  was desirous that the latter should accompany himself and Palmer, in the
                  expedition, on the morrow, and was now approaching the mansion to make inquiry
                  with respect to his ability. They found him sitting under the shade of a
                  wide-spreading Elm, in the yard, listening to Barney, narrating his adventures
                  among the "red skins," apparently free from pain, and in excellent spirits. The
                  countenance of the Recluse brightened up, when he addressed him, as if assured of
                  the latter's fitness and desire to return with him to the rescue. Nor was he
                  deceived in his expectation; for the emollient application of Barney allayed the
                  irritation, and rendered the injured parts perfectly easy.
               The romantic mind of young Johnston was highly gratified by the request.—He
                  assured the Recluse that unless something should intervene, over which he had no
                  control, he would be in readiness to join him in the morning.
               The sun was by this time sinking behind the hills, when, the hour to start being
                  appointed, they withdrew to their respective homes—the Recluse abiding with father
                  Coleman,—to make whatever private arrangements they might deem necessary.
               The Recluse had, as yet, made no plans of procedure; and his ardent, passionate
                  nature never cherished a thought of disappointment in his undertaking.
               
               As the light of day began to spread over the valley, the euphonious notes of the
                  bugle, aroused the Recluse, from the deep slumber, into which he had sunk, toward
                  morning, and hastily equipping himself, he joined his companions, who were mounted
                  and ready to set out. Not a cloud could be seen in the sky, save a fleecy little
                  speck in the cast, which, gilded by the bright rays of the sun with silver and
                  gold, seemed like a pillar of fire, indicating to the travelers the course, they
                  should pursue. As they passed by the mansion of Col. Johnston, the latter and his
                  daughter were just entering their coach, intending to accompany them as far as
                  Rogue's Harbor. The balmy air of the morning made the heart of "old Barney" leap
                  within him, as he sat in his high seat, proudly flourishing his whip, and
                  directing his spirited steeds in the course of the horsemen. When they drew nigh
                  to the village, their ears were greeted, with the shouts of hilarity, which they
                  found, on their arrival, to be produced by the Indians, who had again assembled
                  hither, and were engaged in play at ball.—Not wishing to be detained, the Recluse
                  and his comrades took leave of their friends—one of whom the reader will remember,
                  was very dear to Henry Palmer—and made a hasty departure from the village. While
                  they are journeying toward Germantown, and deliberating together as to the best
                  mode of 
                     proceedure
                     procedure
                  , we will remain for a short time, at Rogue's Harbor, and observe the
                  events about to transpire here.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               The game was very exciting. Hundreds of men, women and children had flocked into
                  the capacious square, and were intently gazing upon the Indians, who were
                  exhibiting their feats of strength and agility.
               Having secured his horses and obtained a "wi bit of the crater," at the Black
                  Bear, Barney McClain mingled in the concourse, not a silent spectator of the
                  scene. Although considerably advanced in age, he still possessed a good share of
                  his youthful vigor and vivacity; and, having always cherished a mortal enmity for
                  the "bloody nagers," on account of the cruel treatment he received, when detained
                  a prisoner, in their hands, many a vengeful look he cast upon them, as they
                  bounded by him in pursuit of the ball.
               "By the five crasses, but I'll be afther having a wi bit o' sphort with the
                  figured divils inyway," said Barney as the ball flew by him, and several Indians
                  were coming toward him, in pursuit of it. he quickly snatched up a club, that lay
                  near him, and held it behind him, until the last of the Indians came bounding up;
                  when hurling it rapidly before him, with a circular motion, he threw the savage
                  violently to the ground. Springing to his feet, in an instant, the Indian rushed
                  upon Barney, who received him in his embrace, and, raising him, in his powerful
                  arms, dashed him again to the ground. In a moment he was up again; and, with his
                  eyes flashing fire he sprang upon Barney, with such violence as to bear him to the
                  earth. The latter clasping him in his iron grasp, would have forced the life's
                  blood from him, had not the remaining Indians, uttering their terrific war-whoop,
                  came to his rescue, and disengaged him from his torturing position. The yell of
                  the Indians and their inimical movement, brought all the males, in the concourse,
                  around the combatants; and Colonel Johnston leaving his daughter Mabel on the back
                  porch of the inn, ran to the assistance of Barney. He had hardly entered the
                  throng, when an Indian came stealing around the corner of the inn, and, springing
                  on the porch, snatched up Mabel, in his brawny arms, and, dashing through the
                  vestibule into the alley, in the rear of the building, he soon emerged into the
                  large open space, north-east of the town, usually designated the Common. He here
                  mounted a steed that he had previously stationed under a bushy young mulberry,
                  and, tenderly supporting the now lifeless form of Mabel, before him, he rushed
                  over the Common into the open road, and directed his course toward the range of
                  mountains, now forming a boundary line between Cumberland and Adams counties.
               At a given signal the Indians vanished from the village;—all taking different
                  directions. As soon as the disappearance of the Indians was observed, the Colonel
                  and Barney withdrew to the inn. Not finding his daughter at the place he had left
                  her, he ran into the house, supposing her timidity had occasioned her withdrawal.
                  He was soon undeceived, however, by the report of a young maiden rushing in from
                  the adjoining house, pale with affright, whose cries had been hitherto drowned by
                  the clamorous outbursts on the square.
               The announcement of the seizure of Mabel, spread through the multitude still
                  thronging the square, like wild-fire, and, as Colonel Johnston was known and
                  respected by everybody, large parties soon formed themselves, and started out of
                  the village in pursuit.
               As soon as the maiden delivered her statement, the Colonel and Barney ran to the
                  stable, saddled and mounted their horses and dashed over the Common, toward the
                  Macha hills; the latter swearing to avenge himself upon the "bloody nagers,"
                  should he ever overtake them. All night long was the little Dutch village of
                  Rogue's Harbor, and the dense woodlands, that encompassed it, on every side,
                  scoured by different parties in pursuit of the Indians and their victim.
               The Colonel and Barney never halted until they reached the hills; and finding the
                  camp of the Indians entirely deserted, and every thing in the immediate vicinity,
                  denoting that it had not been lately evacuated; and furthermore, reverting to the
                  incident, that had occurred at the village, a few days previously, as narrated to
                  him by his daughter, he at once concluded that her seizure was premeditated, by
                  the Indians, and that they were moving toward the Alleghanies.
               He conjectured truly; and, if the reader will remember our visit to the Indian
                  camp, a few evenings ago, and the proposition, that was made by Conowa, and so
                  cordially received by his warriors; but which, not comprehending it, we did not
                  then explain to him, the above is the exact import of the affair, with the addition of the plan of operations,
                  already enacted in the village, though somewhat hastened by the sinister conduct
                  of Barney.
               "Great God!" cried the Colonel, as this truth flashed across his mind and the big
                  tears began to chase each other down his furrowed cheeks, "she will certainly be
                  murdered."
               "Divil a bit o' that will they do," said Barney, as he overheard the ejaculation
                  of the Colonel. "The bloody nagers will niver think o' that till they git to their
                  camp. Sure Barney McClain would'nt be decaived afther being in their hands for
                  five and sixty days?"
               The truth of Barney's remarks aroused the Colonel, who, feeling that no time was
                  to be lost, sank his spurs in the flanks of his steed, and followed by Barney soon
                  approached the yet noisy village. As soon as they entered the square, the
                  terrified citizens flocked about them, anxiously enquiring after the success of
                  their excursion. The Colonel briefly related what he had seen, and reported the
                  conclusion he had arrived at; expressing a hope, at the same time, that he might
                  obtain the services of a few persons, who would be willing to join in the
                  immediate pursuit of the Indians.
               He was not long kept in suspense; for, as the light of day began to dawn over
                  Rogue's Harbor, and he was awaiting the consultation of the assembled throng, a
                  small band of horsemen came dashing down the street, and halted in front of the
                  concourse.
               One of them the brother of Henry Palmer, who the reader will recollect,
                  accompanied the Recluse to Germantown in his first expedition—stepping forward to
                  the Colonel, informed him, that the Indian with his daughter, had been seen the
                  previous evening, passing through the valley, in the direction of the mountains;
                  and that he had collected the small band before him to go to her rescue.
               The appearance of the horsemen inspired the younger portion of the concourse, with
                  renewed courage, and while the Colonel and Barney were preparing to join them,
                  some half dozen exhibited themselves mounted and ready to set out.
               "Hope, sweet Hope!" revived in the breast of the Colonel, as he beheld the little
                  squadron of horse awaiting his commands. His thoughts, for a moment, reverted to
                  his military days, and, flushed with the assurance of success, he put himself at
                  their head, and with Barney for a guide, they sallied out of the village, at
                  sunrise.
               
               While these things were transpiring at Rogue's Harbor, Conowa—for it was none
                  other than he—with his loved charge in his arms, was rapidly pursuing his course
                  toward the mountain. He had not diminished his speed, until he had gone a
                  considerable distance, and his steed began to falter and give other signs of
                  exhaustion under his weighty burden; when, springing to the ground, he would run
                  along by his side, with Mabel in his arms, occasionally halting, an instant, and
                  placing his ear to the ground to listen for the approach of the pursuers.
               As we have before intimated, Mabel had fallen into a paroxysm, as soon as the
                  Indian seized her; and she remained insensible the greater part of the journey.
                  When she recovered, however, the Indian was bathing her temples with an
                  embrocation, that soothed their violent pains; and gazing upon his countenance,
                  she recognized the noble features of Conowa.
               Her thoughts instantly reverted to the incidents, that occurred at Rogue's Harbor,
                  a few days previously, when he discovered by his conduct, the insuperable power,
                  she possessed over him. These reflections had a talismanic effect upon her
                  feelings; and the affectionate regard for her convenience,manifested by Conowa,
                  plainly evinced the nobler feelings of his heart, and her perfect security from
                  danger under his protection. Beside she knew that her father would leave no means
                  untried to insure her rescue; and, from the anxious expression, that hung over the
                  Indian's features, as well as the incessant glances he bestowed on all sides of
                  him, as they advanced, she had no doubts but that the former would speedily
                  overtake them.
               While they ascended the craggy mountain, the last rays of the declining sun were
                  dancing upon the tops of the lofty trees, and the valley, stretching out beneath
                  them, as far as the eye could reach, assumed the sober livery of twilight. They
                  followed the bank of a small rivulet, that came dashing down the mountain, now
                  gushing out into numerous little channels, and now gathering into one transparent
                  volume, here winding about gently rising knolls, and then leaping over rocks into
                  the chasms below, until they reached the brow of the mountain. Their path now took
                  a westerly direction, for the most part, leading along the summit, but,
                  occasionally it inclined to the one side or other of the declivity, as huge rocks
                  would rise up before them, or the clumps of young pines became impenetrable.
               Mabel was perfectly free from fear. As they entered the gloomy solitudes of the
                  wilderness, and the cool breeze of the mountain began to make itself felt, the
                  watchful chief wound his blanket about her delicate form and laid her head upon
                  his breast, where the pitchy darkness of the forest and the universal stillness
                  soon closed her eyes in a deep sleep. The terrific howling of the wild beasts and
                  the monotonous hootings of the owl, alike fell unheard upon her ear. She was away
                  in the dream-land—skipping along the stilly banks of the Conewaga—plucking the
                  wild flowers, and weaving for her companion—her Henry—a chaplet of affection—a
                  wreath as unending as her love. The incoherent ejaculations, that occasionally
                  burst from her lips, and the playful smiles, that danced over her lovely features,
                  sent a thrill of joy through the heart of Conowa, as he watched over, and
                  protected her, from the bushy limbs of the trees, and pressed her fondly to his
                  loving breast.
               The sun had been up for some time when Mabel awoke from her slumber; and, on
                  opening her eyes, she was agreeably surprised to find herself on a soft couch of
                  leaves. At a short distance from her, Conowa was busily employed in roasting a
                  steak of venison for their breakfast. Being refreshed by her long sleep, she arose
                  quickly; and, seeing a stupendous mass of rock, not far off, she tripped over the
                  mossy surface and began to ascend it, when she heard the footsteps steps of the Indian close behind her. She was about
                  to stop, when he came to her side, and threw his blanket over her shoulders,
                  saying at the same time, "pale face git cold," and immediately returned to his
                  seat by the fire.
               This affectionate care for her welfare and open evidence of the fine sensibility
                  of the young chief's heart, caused the tears of sympathy and sorrow to flow down
                  her cheeks, as she clambered up the moss-covered rock. When she arrived at the
                  summit of it, a most magnificent panorama spread out before her. For miles to the
                  east, south and west, it was one unbroken view. The dense forests, stretching out
                  on every hand, bathed as they were, in the mellow glories of the morning sun,
                  seemed in the distance like a vast lake; while far down, beneath her feet, as it
                  were, extended a 
                     beautious
                     beauteous
                   valley, bounded, on the one side, by the mountain, and on the other, by
                  a gurgling streamlet, from which clouds of light vapor were rising in spiral
                  wreaths, as if to welcome the genial blaze of the rubied sun. In vain she gazed to
                  the east for those, whom her heart told her were coming to re-capture her; not a
                  trace of humanity could she discern in all that vast expanse. How far they had
                  traveled, she could not, with any degree of accuracy, determine; but, when she
                  beheld the composure of the Indian, and the careless ease, in which he was
                  indulging, she began, for the first time, to despond; and, descending from the
                  rock, she sobbed aloud, until she had given vent to her overcharged heart. As soon
                  as Conowa observed that she was weeping, he ran up to her, and tenderly brushing
                  the warm tears from her cheek, he gave signs of the most intense inward
                  suffering.
               "Oh, cruel Conowa!", screamed Mabel, "why have you brought me into this wilderness
                  to perish?"
               "Conowa not cruel—he love the pale face—shan't die in the woods. He take her to
                  his wigwam, and he draw the water—he raise the corn and he cook the venison. The
                  heart of Conowa die, if the pale face leave him!"
               The pathetic manner, in which the latter clause was uttered, struck a cord, in the
                  heart of Mabel, that vibrated with the deepest sympathy, and dried up the
                  fountain, that had been gushing from her eyes. Partaking freely of the
                  well-roasted venison, the chief placed before her, her spirits again assumed
                  something of their accustomed buoyancy; and, being raised to the saddle, where she
                  was tenderly held by Conowa, who ran along by her side, they resumed their
                  journey, still holding a westerly direction.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               Eumoke's rock—as it is still called—was thus the scene of another painful
                  transaction; less afflicting, however, than the former. The subjoined account of
                  it, we copy from an old time chronicle, which, we think, may be relied upon:
               "Eumoke was a beautiful Indian girl, the daughter of a warrior of great notoriety,
                  commonly designated the Strong Arm. She had pledged herself, it appears, to a
                  young warrior of her own tribe, who had, for a long time, been very much attached
                  to her. Her parents, however, were violently opposed to their alliance, and
                  desired her to marry an old chief, conspicuous for his wisdom and influence in the
                  nation.
               The marriage ceremony having been deferred from one cause or another, for a long
                  time, and her parents becoming wearied with her frequent expostulations, a day was
                  appointed for their union. All her efforts, in the interim, to avoid it, proving
                  abortive, and determined rather than violate her former vow, to sacrifice herself,
                  when the appointed day arrived and the preparations were making for the nuptials,
                  she stole away, unnoticed to the rock, and, bounding from its dizzy height, she
                  was instantly dashed to pieces on the rocks beneath!"
               The feelings that possessed Mabel as they threaded the narrow path were peculiarly
                  torturing. Her delicate sensibility, so averse to the infliction of pain, caused
                  her to ponder over the unfortunate position of Conowa, with deeper distress than
                  over her own unhappy condition.
               As the sun began to sink behind the western hills and shoot his streaks of silver
                  and gold over the towering oaks, ushering in the genial hour of twilight, they
                  emerged from the dense woodlands and began to descend the western declivity of the
                  mountain. The darkness of night had already settled over the broad expanse of the
                  valley from which, at a short distance from the mountain, a dense column of smoke
                  rose perpendicularly into the air, looking black as Erebus at its base, but
                  growing whiter and clearer as it ascended above the mountain, until the lingering
                  rays of the declining sun bathed it in a flood of golden light.
               Mabel was scarcely able to suppress the joyous emotions, which this, the first
                  indication of human existence she had beheld the entire day, had created in her
                  bosom; but as they descended into the vale and began to draw nigh to the huge
                  column of fire, flashing and blazing up in the air, her joy was quickly changed
                  into fear, as the light disclosed the swarthy countenances of the Indians, moving
                  to and fro, through the camp.
               When their approach was observed by the Indians, a simultaneous shout broke the
                  stillness, and echoed along the mountain side, like the distant roar of thunder.
                  Springing from their seats around the fire, they rushed forward to meet their
                  chief, and congratulate him upon his success.
               Mabel swooned away, as soon as the terrific whoop of the savages broke upon her
                  ear. She fell from her horse into the arms of the ever watchful Conowa, who bore
                  her into the wigwam prepared for himself, where she lay in a death-like trance, till his soothing applications
                  and the cool air of the morning restored her. When she opened her eyes and saw the 
                     omninous
                     ominous
                   movements of the Indians, who were assembling together in a group, in
                  the middle of the camp, and showed by their gesticulations and clamorous colloquy,
                  that they anticipated the approach of their pursuers, a ray of hope shot athwart
                  her bosom, so auspicious and cheering, as to effuse a smile of joy over her
                  countenance and dispel the fears, which had subverted her reason.
               Her hopes were soon strengthened by the appearance of Conowa, who came rushing
                  into the wigwam, with anxiety and alarm exhibited on every feature of his
                  countenance, and, lifting her softly in his arms, he bore her forth and raised her
                  upon the steed, that was ready bridled for the journey.
               The warriors were moving along before her, in their characteristic gait, with
                  great caution, casting occasional furtive glances behind them, and keeping the
                  course of their females and escort, whom they usually kept a day's journey in
                  advance.
               On the arrival of Conowa in the camp, he had immediately despatched a small band
                  of warriors to the mountain, in order to maintain a watch during the night, and,
                  in the morning, to 
                     reconoiter
                     reconnoiter
                   the eastern declivity and the valley. As soon as daylight dawned over
                  the landscape below, they descried Colonel Johnston and his troop drawing up to
                  the mountain; then, returning instantly to the camp, they informed their chief of
                  the proximity of their pursuers, when the council was held, and the sudden
                  movement took place, which we have just noticed.
               The Colonel and his troop had taken a more westerly direction, as Barney assured
                  them that the precaution of the Indian would incline him to avoid the clearing,
                  somewhat farther to the east, and strike into the forest, that appeared in the
                  distance to extend to the mountain.
               In this, as we have seen, he was deceived; for under the cover of night, the chief
                  had issued into the clearing in order to accelerate his speed and gain the brow of
                  the mountain, before his pursuers could overtake him, where, he knew he could
                  elude their observation, and conceal himself at a moment's warning.
               When, therefore, they arrived in the valley running parallel with the mountain,
                  and Barney had searched in vain for a path up the acclivity, they proceeded along
                  the base of it, in a western course, until they came to the point, where they had
                  been seen by the Indians, and where they struck upon a path leading up the
                  acclivity.
               After he had examined the impressions in the sand for sometime, and endeavored in
                  vain to discover their tracks, Barney concluded, that the Indian had either
                  dispensed with the horse, or had led him up the mountain at some other point,
                  where his ascent could not be so readily detected. While they threaded the
                  circuitous path, each leading his steed by the bridle, Barney, somewhat in advance
                  of the rest, was closely examining every broken twig and visible impression upon
                  the leaves and sand, to find some vestige, that would assure him of Mabel's having
                  journeyed that way. All his former sagacity and skill were brought into
                  requisition; yet, the higher he ascended, the less evidence was there of what he
                  sought, until coming suddenly upon a deep indentation in the sand, what he
                  conceived to be the truth, flashed across his mind; and, looking back toward his
                  followers, he shouted:—
               "By the holy St. Stephen an' the twelve apostles, barrin one o' them, who was a
                  thraiter, Barney McClain was niver among the bloody divils for five and sixty
                  days, to be chated in this way. The red-faced thafe was afther thinking that her
                  wi foot would make too prethy a mark to be seen by ivery body; but, the divil take
                  auld Barney McClain, if he don't give the same bloody sarpent some lead for his
                  breakfast and a wi bit o' puwder and wadding, for sasoning and desart;" and
                  bounding up the steep acclivity, he soon reached the brow of the mountain, where
                  he again began his critical examinations; and, by the time the party had all
                  gained the summit, he had discovered the tracks of the horse, and the proper
                  course to pursue.
               After halting for a few moments to 
                     recuit
                     
                   themselves and horses, and listen to the seemingly elaborate
                  explanations of Barney, who was always eager to enlarge upon the traits of Indian
                  character and discover his own familiarity with them, they again mounted their
                  steeds, and following their guide, were soon buried in the dense foliage of the
                  forest.
               As the reader is aware, they came upon the path at a short distance from the
                  place, at which, it wound down the mountain; and, hence, they had journeyed but a
                  short time, when they emerged from the woods, and began to descend rapidly into
                  the valley.
               The Indians, with their habitual sagacity, had taken every precaution to conceal
                  the place where they had encamped; and, while the greater part of them with their
                  chief and Mabel, were rapidly advancing toward the Alleghanies, a few still lurked
                  in the impervious undergrowth, that skirted their late camp, to watch the
                  manœuvres of their pursuers, and see whether they would discover their recent
                  occupation of the ground.
               They were not kept long in doubt; for as soon as Barney approached the ground, and
                  saw the green twigs and the piles of newly-gathered leaves, lying here and there,
                  over the camp-ground, he burst into a loud laugh, which evidently denoted his
                  knowledge of the ruse de guerre, and which well
                  nigh put an end to his earthly career.
               It happened that the young warrior, whom he had handled so roughly in the unhappy
                  transaction at Rogue's Harbor, was one of the number, who were lying in ambush;
                  and, as soon as he recognized the guide, his savage heart burned for vengeance,
                  and, in defiance of the threatening array of troopers and his own hazardous
                  position, he fired at Barney, and leaping into the path, he bounded along its
                  windings with the fleetness of a deer. The ball whistled by the ear of the guide,
                  and buried itself in a young sapling close behind him. Looking, instinctively, in
                  the direction it came, he beheld the Indian vaulting into the path; and rushing
                  immediately in pursuit, with his eye keenly fixed upon him, until they issued upon
                  a narrow clearing, Barney slowly raised his rifle and fired; and, bounding into
                  the air, while he uttered with his last breath the fear-inspiring war-whoop, the
                  young warrior fell across the path a lifeless corpse!
               "By the black god, Ploutus, and all the other infarnal daities, the snakin' dog will niver be after sending iny more o'
                  his lead afther decent people, inyway," said Barney, as he rejoined his
                  companions, who were anxiously awaiting his return.
               "So you shot him, Barney?" interrogated the Colonel, wishing to indulge his
                  garrulity for a moment.
               "Faith an' I did that same thing; and the divil take his bloody saul, but he came
                  nigh makin' a martyr o' me, inyway. You see the red faced sarpent jist lay in the
                  bushes yander, and as soon as he saw that auld Barney was makin' his reck'nings
                  about thir camp, and laughed at their decavin' contrivances to secrate it, the
                  divil's own son that he was—if so be that his infarnal majesty have any—was afther
                  belavin' that a dead man tells no sacrets; and, faith, he knows the truth o' that
                  inyhow; for if the inimy hear nothing of us, till he tells them, the divil burn my
                  eyes, if we don't fall upon them like a thunderbolt afore morning."
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Valor in vain, in vain despair,
                        Nerves many a frantic bosom there
                        Furious with the unequal strife,
                        To cling with desperate force to life.
                        There fighting still, with mad endeavor,
                        As on the dizzy edge they hover,
                        Their bugle breathes one rallying note,
                        Pennon and plume one moment float;
                        Then, swept beyond that frightful brink
                        Like mist, into the chasm sink;
                        Within whose bosom, as they fell,
                        Arose as hideous, wild a yell
                        As if the very earth were riven,
                        And shrieks from hell were upward driven."
                     
                  
               
               Having carefully inspected the arrangements of the camp, and examined every thing,
                  that the sagacity of Barney could detect, they entered the narrow path, and pushed
                  forward as briskly as the numerous obstacles in their way would permit. The
                  discoveries they had made, in addition to the well-founded predictions of their
                  guide, filled them with the hope of soon falling in with their enemy and obtaining
                  the object of their journey.
               They were not a little chagrined, however, when night came upon them, to discover
                  nothing, that would indicate their propinquity to the Indians. They had travelled
                  the whole preceding night, and many of them, unaccustomed to such hardships, were
                  almost unable to proceed, and jogged along more asleep than otherwise, when
                  suddenly, the shout of an Indian rang in their ears and aroused them from their
                  stupor.
               Barney, as usual, was in the advance, critically examining the path and its
                  borders of young pines; and moving as stealthily and lightly over the coppice as
                  if he had followed the "bloody nagurs" all his life. He had got a considerable
                  distance from the drowsy troopers, and was quietly stealing along, now dodging
                  under the impending branches, and now gliding into the bordering thicket, when the
                  moon, just peeping over mountain into the valley, showed him an Indian, who was
                  standing in the middle of the path, at a short distance from him, in the act of
                  loading his rifle; obviously ignorant of his near approach.
               Springing from his shady canopy, he raised his rifle, as if about to fire and
                  moved rapidly toward the warrior. As soon as the latter perceived his perilous
                  condition, aware, that any defensive movement on his part, would instantly draw
                  the discharge of his adversary, he threw down his musket, and deliberately awaited
                  his approach.
               When Barney observed this manœuvre of the Indian and arrived within a few yards of
                  him, he lowered his rifle and motioned his captive to advance in the direction
                  whence he himself had come. The warrior immediately obeyed; and, moving along with
                  his eyes apparently fixed on the ground, until he came to the side of his
                  antagonist, he instantly wheeled about and sprang upon him with the agility and
                  fierceness of a tiger.
               The passive submission of the Indian, as well as his stealthy pace, had prepared
                  Barney for his reception; and, as soon as they closed, they came to the earth,
                  twining their muscular arms about each other in pliant and subtle folds. Thinking
                  that he would be able to hold his wiry adversary until his comrades should arrive,
                  the guide had made no preparations for a close combat; and, with the exception of
                  a heavy steel ring, which he was accustomed to wear, on all such occasions,
                  containing a small circular blade, which was opened by means of a spring, he was
                  entirely destitute of defensive weapons.
               They appeared at first to be pretty equally matched; and, the violent exertions of
                  the Indian to obtain his knife, which had fallen from his girdle, at the first
                  onset, and lay at a short distance from then, were effectually resisted, until the
                  guide began to feel his strength yielding to the powerful struggles of his
                  antagonist, when, sinking the keen blade of his ring into the main artery of his
                  arm, he renewed his embrace with all the power he possessed; while the purple
                  stream poured from its duct and moistened the dust beneath them.
               The Indian appeared not to notice the puncture; but maddened as it were, by the
                  inhalation of his own blood, and hearing the approach of the troops, he sprang to
                  his feet, with the ponderous body of the guide still clinging to him, and, with
                  his last whoop rattling in his throat, he fell dead to the earth!
               "By our Lady," cried Barney, as the troopers came up to the scene, "the mumphy
                  villan will never be after paying the docther, inyway; and I jist made a wi hole
                  in his arm, to remind him of Barney McClain, when he gits on his new
                  huntin'-grounds. Sure, the poor divil is bether off; too, for his huntin'-grounds
                  hereaway, begin to be carcumscribed, and he won't have the bother of dyin' agin;
                  besides, he has the good wishes of meself; which no other bloody varmint, like
                  him, was iver afther gettin' before."
               
               "Blood and thunder!" exclaimed Barney, as he raised his eyes from his bleeding
                  victim, and beheld a column of smoke worming along the forest at a short distance
                  westward.
               "Kurnel, du ye mind that now?" he continued, while he pointed it out. "There's
                  where the ragged varmints are kapin' themselves; and the divil spile my vision if
                  Barney McClain don't have a look at ivery one o' their purty countenances afore
                  mornin'," and, leaving the Colonel and his men, with the injunction to abide his
                  return, he cautiously dodged into the thick margin of the path, and was soon
                  concealed from view.
               "Faith there's good luck betides me in the hivins," said he to himself, as he
                  softly crept over the coppice, and an impenetrable mass of clouds came rolling
                  from the west, obscuring the light of the moon, and overwhelming the valley with
                  pitchy darkness. The wind, likewise, began to sweep over the plain, filling the
                  air with the purple foliage of the forest, as if to heighten the sombre gloom,
                  that fell from the impending canopy of the clouds.
               Encouraged by this favorable interposition of the elements, the guide moved
                  forward at a brisk pace, until he arrived in the vicinity of the camp, when he
                  turned a little to the north, and ascended a bushy ridge, immediately in the rear
                  of it, where he halted and began to make his observations.
               The deep moanings of the wind seemed to have lulled the brawny warriors to sleep;
                  and, as the dense column of flame shot up in the air, flashing and 
                     waveing
                     waving
                  , with each blast of the gale, the guide could distinctly see the dark
                  forms of the warriors, as they lay by the fire, their hands still clutching their
                  rifles, as if expecting, every moment, the assault of their pursuers.
               The camp was favorably situated at the base of a high ridge, enclosed on three
                  sides, by thick hedges of hazel, and limited on the south, by a rapid streamlet,
                  which, dashing over its rocky bed, added its monotonous roar, to the shrill
                  whistlings of the winds. The increasing violence of the gusts, seemed to deepen
                  the slumber of the Indians, as they lay around the fire, as motionless and
                  heedless as the dead.
               "Now's the time to 'stinguish the varlets," muttered Barney, as he fleetly strode
                  back to his companions; whom, when he came up, he quickly, but correctly, informed
                  of the disposition of the camp, and the auspicious opportunity to assail it.
                  Concurring in opinion with the guide, the latter briefly instructed them, as to
                  their course of procedure, and, as the Indians were almost double their own
                  number, he particularly enforced upon them, the necessity of withholding their
                  fire, until they were sure of their fatality.
               "Whinever ye hear the scrach of an owl, march up to the camp, and let them have
                  it," said Barney, as he disappeared in the underwood, and hastened to resume his
                  former position.
               They had not long to wait; for thay had scarcely renewed their priming, when their
                  ears were greeted with the preconcerted signal, and, moving rapidly, though
                  circumspectly, with the Colonel at their head, they soon reached the little
                  stream. Noiselessly fording it, they entered the camp, and, each man singling out
                  his victim, fired; and then brandishing their rifles in the air, they rushed upon
                  them. In an instant, the shrill war-whoop rang through the camp, and the warriors
                  bounding upon their enemies, dealt their blows with the swiftness of
                  lightning.
               The battle raged with all the fury of the storm; frightfully congenial with the
                  clashing of the elements overhead. Here two combatants, having lost their arms in
                  the contest, were rolling over the ground in the death gripe. There a huge
                  warrior, plunging his knife into the heart of his opponent, lay panting in his
                  stiffening embrace. Yonder in a whirlwind of leaves and dust, stood two muscular
                  combatants, each having clenched the throat of the other, gazed in his eyes until
                  they protruded from their sockets, and, with the death-rattle gurgling in their
                  throats, they fell lifeless to the earth.
               The vivid flame of pine logs, in the middle of the contest was reflected by the
                  short sword of the trooper, and the scalping knife of the warrior, as they clove
                  the air and clashed together; and, fanned by the stormy gusts of wind, the
                  sparkling sheet bent over the combatants and poured a flood of light over the
                  scene, as if to guide the fatal steel to its destination!
               For a moment, the intermingled cries of the wounded and the exulting shouts of the
                  victors would rise above the din and echo along the mountain, and then, in
                  horrible contrast, the gloomy silence of death would succeed; and the gales,
                  sweeping close to the earth, seemed to whisper their dull moanings to the
                  dead.
               As soon as his companions had fired, Barney rushed toward the wigwam, at the
                  northern limit of the camp, and seeing Mabel crouched in one corner of it, he
                  snatched her up in his arms, and flew toward the path, where the horses of the
                  troopers had been stationed. He had gone but a short distance, when he felt the
                  grasp of a warrior upon his shoulder, and, telling his terror-stricken charge to
                  flee, he turned about, and seizing his adversary, he wound his keen little blade
                  around his neck, and then flung him into the bushes. Wheeling about to follow
                  after Mabel, another savage, came gliding up behind him, and springing upon him,
                  with the fury of the lion, he brought him to the ground; when, flourishing his
                  glittering knife about to sink it into his bosom, a third came bounding up, and
                  not perceiving the combatants interwoven with the bushes, he rushed over them and
                  struck the bloody knife from the hand of its possessor!
               Taking advantage of the loss of the fatal opportunity, the guide bound the pliant
                  form of his antagonist to him and effectually subverted his efforts to regain his
                  weapon; and, when the latter had exhausted all his strength, in evident struggles,
                  Barney dispatched him in the same unique and unfailing method he had the
                  other.
               Hearing the groans of his companions and perceiving through the gray dawn of day,
                  some half dozen Indians approaching the summit of the ridge, bearing the
                  apparently lifeless form of Mabel, in their arms, he dejectedly sauntered into the
                  enclosure. A rustling of the leaves, on its southern border, denoted that the
                  contest had not yet terminated; and snatching up a tomahawk, he sprang to the
                  spot, and its sharp edge falling upon the neck of his adversary, sent his head
                  whirling into the noisy streamlet!
               "Great God!" exclaimed the Colonel, as the guide dashed the hideous, headless form
                  from his person, "Are we all that survive?"
               
               "Sure the bloody varlets have made a clane work o' it, inyway," said Barney,
                  mournfully, while he endeavored to stench the blood effusing copiously from
                  several deep gashes, in the arm and side of the Colonel. "Look to the rest," said
                  the latter, "they are surely not all destroyed?"
               "By the golden crass," said Barney, moving toward the centre of the camp, "I fear
                  me th' are cauld enough; but it's not miself, that's going to let these
                  unchristian thaves exult over their murdhers, as long as there's puder and lead in
                  the land. Faith, if auld Barney must follow the reptiles himself, he will kill
                  ivery one o' thim and fetch his young misthress home yet. Oh, by mi saul, if the
                  Recluse were here, would'nt he make the rampaging nagers think that the divil
                  himself was upon them!"
               "Up, boy!" he shouted, as he released one of his comrades from the stiffened
                  embrace of a savage; "sure you have opened a passige in that nasty varmint big
                  enough for daylight to look through inyway!"
               "Where are the rest?" interrogated the young man, bounding to his feet and
                  appearing as though he had just awoke from a deep sleep.
               "Faith, th' are layin' around on all sides o'—no, by the holy Virgin!" exclaimed
                  he, as young Palmer and two others made their appearance in the enclosure,
                  returning from their unsuccessful pursuit of the Indians; "th' are not all kilt
                  yit!"
               They now together took a calm survey of the disfigured and horrible scene.—The
                  sensations produced in their minds as they distinguished the mutilated bodies of
                  their companions, were painfully sorrowful. Death was everywhere; and in his most
                  revolting and hideous aspects.
               The blood of the trooper and warrior as they lay in each other's embrace, flowed
                  down in one warm current, and tinged the foliage of autumn with a deeper dye;
                  while the reeking exhalations seemed to have already attracted the hungry raven,
                  that was soaring over the little field, eagerly waiting an opportunity to descend
                  into that recess, where its abhorrent food so plentiously abounded.
               When they had examined all the bodies of their comrades, and a sickening sensation
                  produced by the appaling sights, that met their eyes, on every hand, began to
                  steal across their bosoms, they turned away from the revolting spectacle and went
                  to the Colonel, who had somewhat recovered from his exhaustion, but was unable to
                  rise in consequence of his excessive loss of blood.
               With the exception of Barney, who had witnessed many a more disgusting scene, and
                  ever cherished against the Indians,—for reasons before mentioned,—the most bitter
                  enmity, which this fatal struggle contributed greatly to heighten, they all wore
                  an expression of the deepest dejection; and as they conveyed the portly person of
                  the Colonel to the wigwam, and heard his groans of despair and lamentations over
                  the noble youths, who lay weltering in their blood before him, their souls were
                  aroused from their depression; and, urged on by the frightful anathemas of Barney,
                  they declared their eagerness to follow in pursuit, exterminate the remaining
                  savages, and fulfill the object of their expedition.
               "Faith you spake accordin' to rason inyway," said the guide, "and if you'll tramp
                  in the footsteps of auld Barney McClain, for four and twenty hours, it's himself
                  that'll 'stinguish ivery one o' the rampagin divils, and deliver his young
                  misthress—the holy Virgin preserve her—from her thraldom."
               "Do you stay with the Kurnel," he continued, addressing the younger of the four,
                  "and kape the wild basts from demolishin' him; for sure they grow as fast here, as
                  parties in Ireland."
               He then instructed the young man how to dress the wounds of the Colonel, and, gave
                  him such other advice as his new position seemed to require. The dead bodies were
                  next deposited in their final resting place, at a beauteous spot on the bank of
                  the brook, and the remaining horses were brought into the enclosure. All things
                  being now ready, with the blessing of the Colonel resting upon them, they struck
                  the trail of the Indians, and in a few moments were again lost in the
                  wilderness.
               This, dear reader we believe to be an authentic account of the conflict—variously
                  accounted for—which terminated so fatally on the banks of that little stream in
                  Bedford county, Pa., which preserves its tradition to posterity by its own
                  cognitive denomination—Bloody Run.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           In this wild world the fondest and the best,
                           Are the most tried, troubled, and distressed.
                        
                     
                     CRABBE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge
                           Had stomach for them all,
                        
                     
                     SHAKS. OTHELLO
                  
               
               The sun was just rising above the Macha Hills, as three travelers might have been
                  seen to wend their way in an easterly direction, along a rugged road leading to
                  the Susquehanna rivet. It was a fine October morning; and many-colored Autumn
                  tinged the trees with its soft hues, and nipped the purple foliage with its frosty
                  breath.
               Although it was the main road, upon which they journeyed, the infrequency of
                  travel in those days, rendered it exceedingly unpleasant—if not laborious—to
                  pursue it. On either side it was confined by a dense margin of underwood, and the
                  lofty oaks and chestnuts stretching their branches across it, as if to greet each
                  other, formed an impervious canopy over head.
               The "bird of night" appeared unconscious of his encroachment upon the day, and was
                  swooping along before them, uttering such dismal, inharmonious cries, as would
                  have confounded a priest of 
                     Appolo
                     Apollo
                  , were he to have undertaken their divination. One of the travelers was a
                  short distance in advance of the other
                  two apparently, however, ignorant of it. His downcast look and utter disregard of
                  the movements of his steed, betokened the greatest perturbation. The occasional
                  smile that would struggle over his features, vanished almost as soon as it
                  appeared.
               His two companions rode tacitly behind him, evidently amazed at his unique
                  deportment. Sometimes, where the road would permit, they would ride side by side,
                  and whisper words, perhaps of like import with the following:— 
                     
                        "There's something in his soul,
                        O'er which his melancholy sits in brood;
                        And, I do doubt, the hatch, and the disclose,
                        Will be some danger."
                     
                  
               
               In this 
                     ambiguons
                     ambiguous
                   manner they proceeded for nearly half-an-hour, when they found that the
                  pathway rose in an ascent, which became the more shaggy and difficult of pursuit,
                  the farther they advanced, until the interwoven bushes and vines rendered their
                  progress almost impracticable.
               The Recluse—for it was he—was still jogging along in advance, in the same
                  inexplicable mood; the obstacles in his path, and the frequent plunges of his
                  steed, not appearing to disturb the concentration of his thoughts. Suddenly,
                  however, his horse halted, and made a movement as if to wheel about, when his
                  rider raised his head with a quick jerk, as if aroused from a frightful dream, and
                  discovered, a few yards before him, a large panther perched upon the branch of a
                  tree extending across the road, in the act of bounding upon him. He instantly
                  seized the reins and whirled his steed about with such violence as to hurl him
                  with himself into the bordering thicket.
               The panther thereby missed his mark and rolled down the declivity, over the rocks,
                  for some distance. Maddened with pain, he roared furiously, and before the horse
                  and rider could recover themselves, he made a desperate plunge at the former, with
                  jaws distended, ready to sink his sharp tusks into his victim. As he flew through
                  the air, the simultaneous reports of three rifles echoed along the forest, and a
                  thick sheet of smoke veiled the scene.
               The beast received one of the random shots and fell short of his victim. He had
                  scarcely touched the ground till he made another bound; and the shrill, wild cry
                  of the horse, as the panther sank his claws, into his tremulous flesh, denoted his
                  success.
               In an instant, the Recluse was by his side and partially concealed by the bushes,
                  the breech of his rifle falling upon the head of the animal crushed it. His steed
                  as if cognizant of his deliverance—and perhaps he was, though it differs
                  little—began to raise himself, leisurely, to his feet, and gave no signs of any
                  material injury, save a few lacerations on his back, from which the blood was
                  slowly trickling down.
               "Surely we have strayed from the road," said the Recluse to his companions as they
                  gathered around the lifeless beast. "I thought my steed was sagacious enough, to
                  discriminate the highway, over which we traveled but a few days ago. I feel
                  assured, my dear Johnston," he continued, in a playful manner, addressing one of
                  the young men, "that you were aware of our mistake, eh?"
               "I was," replied the youth, and communicated the fact to Palmer; "but, as I knew
                  your familiarity with these parts, and supposed that you had determined upon a new
                  and perhaps shorter route across the hills; and, more especially, because you were
                  obviously revolving in your mind something of perhaps paramount importance, not
                  unmixed with pain, I considered it my duty to follow and not to break the spell,
                  that was upon you, with any puerile suggestions my forebodings might
                  occasion."
               "Speak not thus," quickly rejoined the Recluse, "you know full well the reliance I
                  have ever placed in your 
                     perspicasity
                     perspicacity
                   and judgment;—indeed the success of our undertaking will depend entirely
                  upon your ingenuity. This rencounter truly appears providential; for I verily
                  believe that night would have found us in our own loved vale."
               "Were it not for the presence of this animal, I should suppose that we were in
                  close proximity to the camp of the Indians. However, tempus fugit—time flies—let us endeavor to regain the main road as
                  speedily as possible, we must reach our destination by to-morrow's sun."
               "What now!" he exclaimed, as he perceived young Johnston making an incision in the
                  dead animal, "What on earth are you about?"
               "Well," replied the latter, "I'm under the impression that this beast's hide will
                  be of some service to me, if I rightly comprehend the part I am to act, in this
                  comedy or tragedy, whichever it turns out to be." "
                     Morever
                     Moreover
                  , my dear friend," he continued, as he threw the skin across his saddle,
                  and mounted his steed, I beseech you not to entrust the difficulties which are to
                  be overcome, to hands so inexperienced and unskillful as mine. Have you not shown,
                  in this same village, we are journeying to, your puissance to demolish those
                  sombre-looking hirelings by platoons, and to frighten their pompous generals into
                  hysterics! If artifice must be resorted to, however, I flatter myself, that the
                  wisdom and experience of Barney McClain, may—although in a very indifferent
                  manner—be brought into service through my hands."
               "After we have crossed the Susquehanna, which is but a short distance ahead of us,
                  I will acquaint you with a circumstance, which renders my position in this
                  enterprise, particularly hazardous," said the Recluse, as they quickened their
                  pace, and approached the mighty river, which dashed over its rocky bed, and sent
                  into the air dense, spiral wreaths of vapor, that wholly excluded the observation
                  of the opposite shore; and made their passage across it, exceedingly difficult, if
                  not dangerous.
               The monotonous roar of the cataracts added its fear-inspiring voice to augment the
                  terror of the transit; and, when they had crossed and ascended the precipitous
                  bank, a storm of wind, suddenly rising, filled the atmosphere with clouds of the
                  frost-bitten foliage, and whistled through the forests of oak and chestnut,
                  increasing the sombre gloominess of the wood and presaging the approach of
                  Winter.
               Silently they journeyed in their rugged path, each appearing engaged with his own
                  thoughts;—none heeding the impediments, over which his steed was floundering.
               
               Henry Palmer was particularly languid. An unhappy expression had hung over his
                  fair countenance the entire morning; occasioned, mayhap, by some evil
                  presentiment, as to the result of the expedition, or, possibly, it was nothing
                  more than the 
                     thoughfulness
                     thoughtfulness
                   of the lover's heart.
               Little did he think that the idol of his soul, was in the possession of a savage,
                  who was bearing her away into the gloomy solitudes of the wilderness, perhaps,
                  never again to return to her home—the delightful valley of the Blue Spring,—and
                  cheer his heart with her fond smiles and musical voice, singing her little sonnets
                  of love, and breathing forth the unquenchable fires of her soul, which had so
                  often kindled up the latent spark, that his over-anxious heart would, by times,
                  almost extinguish by its deep melancholy, and cause it to blaze up with renewed
                  ardency and fervor.
               The difficulties attendant upon the fording of the river, together with the
                  tumultuous impetuosity of the storm, had caused the Recluse to remain silent, with
                  respect to the intention he had expressed of disclosing to his comrades, what had
                  occurred to render his own situation so hazardous, and the reason that the success
                  of their mission, depended entirely upon their hearty co-operation and ingenuity;
                  but, when toward evening the gusts had subsided, and they had emerged into a
                  broad, commodious road, the Recluse coming up to the side of the young men
                  said:—
               "As the winds have somewhat abated, and we are favored by a more pleasant road, it
                  behooves us, before night sets in, to deliberate together, upon the best mode of
                  procedure. Our success is wholly dependant upon a well-concerted stratagem, into
                  the concocting of which all our contrivance and machination must be brought. I
                  have heard nothing with regard to the disposition of the British army, but
                  sanguinely hope that all offensive operations, for this summer's campaign, have
                  ceased, and that it has gone into winter quarters."
               "I hardly think that you shall incur any danger whatever; but my having a private
                  enemy, at the very threshold of the enterprise, renders me very liable to be
                  taken; in which case, the interposition of the Almighty alone could avail to
                  secure me from the infliction of the most horrible death. This extremity of
                  danger, I have before alluded to, and will now proceed to detail:"
               "Major General Gray and I were fellow-students at a University in England. Of an
                  arrogant disposition, he united with his other naturally unseemly imperfections, a
                  pompous, imperious manner, and a vengeful, passionate temper. It will be readily
                  conceded that a being possessed of such a despicable nature, would soon incur the
                  odium and disaffection of his classmates, as well as the disregard of his
                  dignitaries. This, naturally came to pass soon after his matriculation; and,
                  enraged by the sinister appearance of every thing around him, he gave himself up
                  to the most unbounded licentiousness, and indulged in intoxicating liquors to such
                  an extent, as to make a very beast of himself!"
               "It was about this time, that an incident occurred, which brought upon me the full
                  measure of his wrath, and which might have resulted fatally to me, had not the
                  intervention of the vice-chancellor, subverted his fiendish schemes, and took me
                  into protection."
               "I will not relate, in detail, the circumstances of the transaction; suffice it to
                  say that he laid his polluted hands upon the stainless person of a young lady,
                  with violent intentions, and, being close by, and having heard her scream, myself
                  with several others flew to her assistance. Arriving at the spot before my
                  friends, I struck the offender to the earth, and released his victim from her
                  perilous situation."
               
                  
                     
                        "To hell, allegiance! vows to the blackest devil
                        Conscience, and grace, to the profoundest pit!
                        I dare damnation: to this point I stand—
                        That both the world's I give to negligence,
                        Let come what comes: only I'll be revenged,"
                     
                   shouted the demon, as he sprang to his feet, his countenance burning with
                  rage, and his bloated eyes almost bursting from their sockets."
               "He would have sprung upon me in a moment, had not my companions having by this
                  time reached the spot, stood by me and manifested their readiness to intervene.
                  Uttering the most virulent anathemas against me, he staggered away toward his
                  lodgings."
               "The report of the transaction, as if born on the wings of the winds, was
                  circulated among the students, with the greatest rapidity, and quickly reached the
                  heads of the College, who, in consideration of his previous reprehensible conduct,
                  immediately decreed his expulsion. Mortified beyond measure, by the sneers and
                  disrespectful treatment he received on every hand, he did not afflict us long,
                  with his presence, but made a hurried departure from the University."
               "Through the intervention of his family and connexions, he soon afterward obtained
                  a commission, in the British army; and, as luck would have it—for it certainly was
                  propitious to me—he was ordered a year or two ago, to this continent, to eradicate
                  the germ of freedom sown deep in the hearts of its people, and nourished by the
                  divine effusions of the Almighty. Surely he is an impotent instrument to contend
                  against the armed warriors of the King of Kings!"
               The Recluse finished his narration, just as the moon, resplendent in her fullness,
                  began to emerge into the bespangled vault, and pour her rays,—her soft, quivering
                  rays of silver—over the wide-extended plain. The gusts of wind, were, apparently,
                  hushed to quiet, when the radiant countenance of Luna, wearing her most bewitching
                  smiles, as she floated in her vast domain, exhibited herself. The evening was
                  delightful; far from being so uncomfortable as the driving storms of the day
                  betokened. They had journeyed a considerable distance; and thirty miles—seemingly
                  growing longer as they advanced—still lay before them. Their steeds, however, gave
                  no indications of fatigue, and frisked along apparently as lively as they had been
                  in the morning. The spirits of their riders were equally exhilerated; and, as they
                  jogged along the smooth, commodious road, their shadows dancing in the moonlight,
                  and their hearts in their bosoms, the difficulties, that at first seemed
                  insurmountable, now appeared as frivolous as child's play.
               The heart of the Recluse bounded against its bony casement, when they drew nigh to
                  the village, that contained its invaluable jewel, as though it desired to be emancipated from its prison. His
                  countenance, now flushed with the hopes of success, and now, while the vagrant
                  alternations of fear and doubt affected him, in aspect gloomy and sad, wore a
                  changing ambiguous expression, that would have perplexed a beholder to comprehend
                  its signification.
               Just as "gray morning rose in the east," they descried a little piece of woodland,
                  situate about two hundred yards north of Germantown, rendered highly eligible for
                  their quarters during the day, on account of its wild, entangled growth and the
                  impervious border of young pines facing the main road.
               "There," said the Recluse, as he beheld the grove, "is all the shelter we can
                  avail ourselves of for the day; and, forsooth, it is more suitable than I had
                  anticipated. My summary glance at it, when the Hessians were on my heels, left me
                  in doubt, whether its narrow limits would sufficiently elude observation; but, by
                  our Lady, a gun-shot would never disturb the village in these times."
               "What hinders our entrance into the town?" interrogated the vivacious
                  Johnston.
               "Why, my dear friend," quickly rejoined the Recluse, "if the enemy still hangs
                  about these regions—and there is every reason to believe that it does—we would be
                  in continual jeopardy of being taken and perhaps recognized, when all efforts to
                  effect our object, would not only prove fruitless, but also render us incapable
                  ever to accomplish it. And beside, if Gen. Gray happen to be with his family—which
                  would be a sinister circumstance, indeed, and, I fear, would totally subvert our
                  enterprise—I would most certainly be discovered, in in which case, as I remarked
                  last evening, I would meet with the instantaneous infliction of such torture, as
                  the callous heart of the avenger only throbs to invent."
               Having wound around the grove to its south-western border, they effected with no
                  small labor, a passage into the centre of it, where they dismounted, and made such
                  regulations, as their convenience seemed to demand; when, sitting together upon
                  the soft bed of leaves, the Recluse, with that earnestness of expression, which
                  words will assume, when they come from a heart as deeply interested as his, thus
                  addressed his companions:
               "You are manifestly aware, my dear friends, of the obstacles, which we have to
                  encounter and overcome in the successful prosecution of our design. I have made
                  known to you the safest course of 
                     proceedure
                     procedure
                  , that my anxious heart could suggest, and have heard your opinions and
                  profited by them. The first step necessary to be taken, is, as I have just said,
                  to ascertain whether Maj. Gen. Gray is residing with his family in the village, or
                  is still at his post in the army. To determine this, I am constrained to solicit
                  one of you, who under whatever habit, he may deem the most impenetrable, and will
                  least expose him to scrutiny and detection, may be able to make a visit to the
                  village; and, provided the General be absent, to strive, under some pretext or
                  other, to obtain admission into the mansion, and advise the object of our
                  expedition of the vicinity of those, whom she is doubtless daily expecting. And
                  furthermore, my dear Johnston, I think that you alone are adequate to the
                  undertaking, both on account of your knowledge of the situation and internal
                  arrangement of said mansion and the mutual acquaintance between my Ida and
                  yourself, and likewise on account of your powers of imitation."
               "I am at your service," said Johnston, hardly giving the Recluse time to finish
                  his peroration, while the playful smiles on his countenance denoted the
                  gratification he anticipated in the performance of his part of the play; "give me
                  whatever instruction and commands, you deem advisable, and I will straightway set
                  out upon my errand."
               "Take this my noble-souled fellow," said the Recluse, while he placed in his hands
                  a little billet-doux, in the Latin language—the language, which he himself had
                  taught the elfish, laughter-loving Ida, and in which he had first discovered to
                  her the consuming fire of his soul, by the dedication of a lyric, which, a propos,
                  the reader may be willing to peruse:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TO IDA.
                           
                              The sparks that shot from thy sweet eyes
                              Kindled a flame within my breast,—
                              A flame as bright as that which dyes
                              The clouds that swim along the west.
                           
                           
                              'Tis not the flame the lightning flings
                              In livid gleams across the skies,
                              Which just has time to flash its wings,
                              Then in its natal moment, dies.
                           
                           
                              'Tis not the sun's meridian blaze,
                              That dries the mournful night's pearl tears;
                              Scorched by whose hot and glaring rays,
                              Fair nature's face a languor wears;
                           
                           
                              O no! this flame is clear and bright,
                              (And now I feel it in me burn)
                              More like the pure and steady light
                              That flows from Cynthia's silver urn.
                           
                           
                              The spark was struck by thy bright eyes,
                              'Twas fann'd to flame by thy sweet breath,
                              Cherished by thy sweet love 'twill rise
                              And higher burn 'till quenched by death.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Placing the note in his bosom and disarranging his apparel, in such a manner, as
                  to present a facsimile of Jonathan from way 
                     deown tu Varmount
                     
                  , he strode forth in the same way they had entered, and struck an
                  hypothenuse to the triangle, formed by the grove and the highway. As soon as he
                  came to the broad street, gently winding down into the village, he observed one of
                  those philharmonic wanderers, who, in modern times, are vulgarly called
                  "organ-grinders," slowly plodding along, but a short distance ahead of him.
               Running up to, and kindly addressing him, he soon prevailed upon the wearied
                  itinerant to accompany him back to the grove, where, having informed him of his
                  design, and liberally compensated him for the use of his instrument and
                  vestments—which later he forthwith donned, and which admirably fitted him—he again
                  issued into the road, and moved on to the village.
               The spirits of the young man were highly elated by the unique metamorphosis in his
                  appearance, and by his new vocation. He felt assured that he could accomplish complish his object with much ease, and
                  without subjecting himself to suspicion.
               The mellow strains of the organ were much more attractive in those days than now,
                  and the infrequency of those musical visitants, rendered them at all times
                  acceptable and pleasing.
               Having adopted the characteristic gait of the original, and bending low, as if the
                  weight of the instrument disallowed a more erect posture, he slowly wended his way
                  into the village. He was in doubt, at first, whether he should restrain his pipes
                  until he arrived in the vicinity of the mansion, or, whether it behooved him to
                  salute each small fabric, as he proceeded. After a moment's deliberation, he
                  concluded that the latter would be the safer, although the more tedious method to
                  pursue; and, having reached the nearest tenement, situate upon the same side of
                  the street with the mansion, he ground out a portion of "Auld Lang Syne"—or
                  something very similar—with great zest and vigor; but, as he perceived no
                  appearance of life about the place, he passed on, until he came to a
                  substantial-looking building, whence he beheld the gray edifice occupied by Gen.
                  Gray.
               He again halted and went on with the unfinished tune; and, in a shorter time than
                  we can write it, the windows and door of the house were thronged with rosy-cheeked
                  maidens and flax-headed urchins, intently listening to the music; and the former
                  whispering to each other in "Dutch," and scrutinizing the performer, as though
                  they saw under the unseemly exterior, a heart as ardent and enthusiastic as their
                  own.
               Johnston noticed the animated countenances and penetrating glances they bestowed
                  upon him; and, occasionally, as their admiration of the music—but more especially
                  of himself—would educe expressions of applause, from their rubicund lips, he had
                  the greatest difficulty to suppress the joyous emotions, which these
                  demonstrations excited in his youthful heart.
               After he had played several tunes for them, and delayed as long as the
                  circumstances of his vocation would admit, he shouldered his instrument and 
                     hastended
                     hastened
                   toward the mansion.
               William Johnston, Jr., alias the organ-grinder, was a lover of nature's charms;
                  and the beauteous, romantic scenery, which enveloped his home—his home in the
                  valley of the "Blue Spring"—had afforded him ample opportunity to indulge his
                  passion. Particularly was he fond of flowers; and the luxuriant spontaneousness of
                  their growth, on the banks of the Conewaga, and the attention he had given to the
                  science of Botany, rendered him familiar with their classification and the natural
                  families.
               On this account, he carried with him in all his excursions, little treatises on
                  the production and interpretation of flowers. It happened that he had with him at
                  this time, a small volume, very neatly bound, entitled the "Language of Flowers;"
                  and, as he leisurely strode toward the mansion, he took the billet of the Recluse,
                  and, having written under its superscription; "I will be back again to-morrow.
                  Inform me then, in what manner our design can best be consummated, by means of
                  this book," he slipt it within the folds of the volume, which he bound tightly
                  with a cord.
               The perfect silence, that reigned about the mansion as he approached it, gave evil
                  forebodings, as to his success; but, as soon as the liquid notes of his instrument
                  streamed upon the gale, the massive portal before him, grated on its rusty hinges
                  and swung heavily back, disclosing the delicate form of a maiden, whose silken
                  tresses of black, fluttering loosely about her neck and shoulders, heightened the
                  ashy paleness of her 
                     countenace
                     countenance
                  , which but too truly foreshadowed the melancholy of her soul.
               The youth recognized her in a moment, and having arranged the notes of the organ,
                  he commenced a familiar air, which he accompanied with his euphonious voice,
                  singing the following floral stanzas:
               
                  
                     A willow, old, on the margin stood
                     Of a rippling stream that softly crept;
                     Sighing a song in solitude,
                     To the flowers that on its bosom wept,
                     When the Peri of the Flowers trip'd,
                     In her matchless beauty o'er the glade;
                     She placed in my hands this little book,
                     Then, sat her 'neath the willow's shade.
                  
                  
                     A Blue-bell zone her waist enclasped,
                     Of the Pink's soft hue her garments were;
                     The Rose and Lily shone in her face,
                     The graceful Cactus wreathed her hair.
                     While the Mignonnette its fragrance gave
                     To many a zephyr, that by it ran,
                     She snatched her Harp from the willow's bough
                     And, blooming Maid, to thee she sang.
                  
                  
                     There's not a flower that gems the side
                     Of this clear rill I oft stroll by;
                     there's not a playful wave can glide,
                     Whose sun-lit beauties catch my eye;
                     There's nought of pure or bright I see,
                     But the Queen of Flowers thinks of thee.
                  
                  
                     When I behold the radiant blaze
                     Of Sol just peeping o'er the billow,
                     When I behold his evening rays
                     Sink lightly on their gorgeous pillow,
                     When aught of pure or bright I see
                     I'm but reminded, Maid, of thee.
                  
                  
                     There's not a bird whose varied wing
                     Displays a thousand glittering dyes;
                     There's not a beauteous flower can fling
                     Its dawn of glory o'er the skies;
                     There's nought of pure and bright I see
                     But its first whisper is of thee.
                  
                  
                     When I behold the stars of night
                     (A lonely hour at eve beguiling,)
                     Pour down their streams of quivering light,
                     Like groups of youthful Angels smiling;
                     When aught of pure and bright I see,
                     Its first smile, always, seems for thee.
                  
                  
                     I send thee, then, this spotless Book
                     And would resemble it to thee,
                     For nought a flitter emblem is
                     
                     Of what thou ever seem'st to be,
                     For nought within these lids I see
                     But musically speaks of thee.
                  
                  
                     Ye flowers tell the Maid that's young
                     And shuns to have her graces spied,
                     That, had ye in lone deserts sprung,
                     Ye must have uncommended died.
                     Tell her when aught of pure ye see
                     Ye say at once "the Maid and Thee."
                  
                  
                     Go teach her flowers, that though ye fade
                     Still from thy leaves will fragrance rise;
                     That Goodness time's rude hands evade;
                     That Virtue lives when Beauty dies.
                     Teach her—to dwell in purity
                     Insures a sweet eternity.
                  
               
               When he came to the stanza commencing, "I send thee, then, this spotless Book,"
                  suiting the action to the words, he snatched the volume from his bosom, and gently
                  tossed it into the hands of Ida.
               As soon as she caught the book, she ran to her chamber, and having unwound the
                  cord and opened its lids, the billet-doux fell upon her lap. She quickly snatched
                  it up and tore it open; and, as her anxious eye scanned each letter of its
                  soul-inspiring contents, a thrill of joy ran through her frame and dissipated the 
                     palor
                     pallor
                   on her countenance, whose soft features, the tears of love and excessive
                  felicity copiously bedewed.
               By inadvertently mentioning the name of her lover, one day, in the presence of
                  Maj. Gen. Gray, she discovered the fiendish malevolence, that the latter cherished
                  against him; but, as he was now absent with the army, and there was no indication
                  of his speedy return, Ida gave herself no uneasiness on that score; and,
                  therefore, felt as though her rescue was already accomplished. Her note, however,
                  pressed the necessity of using expedition, and appointed a place of meeting at
                  sun-set; but, as that luminary had already disappeared, and night was
                  overshadowing the earth, this, she knew, was impracticable.
               "Well," said she to herself, while she stood at the window of her chamber, and
                  gazed upon the pearly disc of the gibbous moon, "William will not leave
                     without me; and to-morrow, oh! to-morrow, how happy we will be! Shine on
                  ye paly stars—ye diamonds in blue! Why gaze ye all at me? Do ye see the raptures
                  of my soul?—the kindly vicissitude of my fortune? Methinks ye do.—Sparkle, twinkle
                  on, then;—laugh and dance in your interminable domain! Tomorrow's eve will find me
                  as happy and free as ye are;" and kissing her taper fingers to the moon, she lay
                  down to sleep.
               Being freed from the torture of suspense, and her heart over-flowing with sweetest
                  hopes, her eyes were soon closed in a deep, tranquil sleep, from which she awoke
                  not, until the sun had gone several hours of his diurnal journey.
               As soon as Johnston had finished his song, he raised his instrument to his
                  shoulders, and, having observed a group of youths at a short distance, intently
                  regarding him, he bent his steps toward them, and, when he arrived at the spot,
                  having relieved himself of his burden, he approached the oldest of the boys, and
                  predicting from his ruddy, healthy countenance, and honest, manly look, his origin
                  and simplicity of heart, he made a low bow and immediately addressed him.
               "I hope, my friend, that my music inharmonious as it is, hath cheered thee a
                  little in these turbulent times?"
               "Indeed, it has fallen upon my soul, like the 
                     emolient
                     emollient
                   balm of a physician. You speak truly when you say these turbulent
                     times. The deadliest scourge that the Almighty could inflict upon us,
                  would be scarcely more intolerable, than this hellish massacre of our kindred and
                  friends,—the despoiling of our property and homes, and the violation of our civil
                  and sacred institutions, by the hands of these hireling invaders!"
               "The blood of our fathers," he continued, while his countenance glowed with
                  indignation, and his bosom swelled with the fullness of his wrath, "now moistens
                  the fields, from which they reaped our nourishment and support! What an array of
                  slaughtered spirits will rise up at the judgment bar, against the author of this 
                     sacriligious
                     sacrilegious
                   war! Truly the King of Kings will mete it unto him, even as he hath
                  meted it unto us."
               "I have come from the far-west," interrupted Johnston, as he perceived the grey of
                  twilight stealing over the village, and fearing lest the speech of the young man
                  might draw others into their circle, and thereby prohibit the inquiry he wished to
                  make;—"where the blood-thirsty fiends dare not appear, and where the unerring aim
                  of the back-woodsmen, would fell them, as it doth the more subtle inhabitants of
                  the wilderness. But tell me, who occupies that antiquated edifice, whence I have
                  just come? Methinks it contains a world of Beauty!"
               "A pompous General of the British army, named Gray, with his family, I believe,"
                  replied the youth.
               "In truth, the unbroken silence that hangs about it, but illy betokens its
                  occupation by a blustering General?" said Johnston enquiringly.
               "The General scarcely ever makes his appearance here; and then only when he has an
                  efficient guard in attendance. He appears to think himself unsafe out of the city,
                  the arrant coward!—and, if he ever does present himself in these regions, without
                  good backing, we will deprive the British King of his services, for awhile, and
                  let him lie at anchor, where the blood of his slaughtered victims, like dusky
                  spectres, shall haunt him in his dreams, and follow him in his wanderings!"
               Having learned all he desired, he again raised his instrument to its accustomed
                  place, and bid the patriotic youth adieu. The suspense, which he knew his long
                  absence would engender in the Recluse, made- him quicken his pace; and the smooth
                  moon-lit street, echoed his steps in the twilight stillness, and enabled him in a
                  short time to reach the little arbor, where his companions were silently and
                  eagerly awaiting his return.
               His presence soon dispelled the prevailing gloom, and his smiling countenance
                  anticipated him in the rehearsal of his successful mission and the glad tidings,
                  which he bore. After he had explained to them the ingenious method, by which he
                  had succeeded in placing his message in the hands for which it was intended, and told them the obvious prediction of
                  its import on the part of the receiver; together with his romantic adventure
                  previous to, and his happy interview immediately after, his so doing, the Recluse,
                  highly agitated, interrogated:—
               "What on earth has prohibited her compliance with my petition?—since you say that
                  there be no obstacles to impede her action? I begged her to meet us at sun-set, at
                  the eastern angle of the wood; and her non-appearance at the appointed time,
                  together with your protracted absence, filled us with the saddest forebodings.
                  However, as you have been in the vicinity, and seem to have met with no
                  difficulty, you can, doubtless, explain the matter satisfactorily."
               "That I can," replied Johnston, in his jovial manner, as the truth, at one sweep,
                  flashed across his mind. "It was after sun-set when she received your note; and I
                  feel exceedingly sorry that I was not acquainted with its contents—in which case,
                  I am positive that our design would already have been accomplished, and we be on
                  our homeward journey. I wonder, moreover, that the expediency of accelerating my
                  visit, as much as possible, never crossed my mind.—However, 'everything is for the
                  best,' is an old proverb, and I shall dine at the mansion to-morrow, when Ida will
                  inform me of the place where, and the time when, our meeting and departure shall
                  take place."
               The explanation of the young man allayed the irritation of the Recluse, and the
                  propitious prospects of the morrow, restored the cheerfulness of his mind, and
                  caused the machinations of his perturbated heart to vanish, like mist before the
                  morning sun.
               They now partook of some food, which they were careful to supply themselves with
                  on their journey hither; and, after Johnston had laid before them his plan of
                  operations for the morrow, and assured them of their perfect security in the grove
                  they collected the fallen foliage in a pile, and having wound their blankets about
                  them, they stretched their wearied limbs upon the mound, and were soon wrapped in
                  the embrace of sleep.
               Although unaccustomed to such exposure, their long and wearisome journey, as well
                  as the incessant anxiety of their minds, rendered their sleep sweet and dreamless;
                  and the enfeebled rays of the sun and the black-birds and crows were dancing on
                  the tops of the trees over their heads, when they awoke.
               Johnston instantly arose and began to make preparations for his visit. He now
                  donned the Green Mountain suit, which he had been compelled to relinquish for that
                  of the organist, the 
                     preceeding
                     preceding
                   morning. The transformation—externally—was complete; and his lofty,
                  steeple-crowned hat gave him so grotesque an appearance as to educe a hearty laugh
                  from his companions.
               The youth was again in his element; and to increase the merry cast of his hat, he
                  gathered a parcel of many-colored feathers and stuck them on all sides of it.
                  Determined to have a substantial dinner for his pains, he took his panther-skin
                  under his arm and strode forth to the village once more.
               "Faith, I'll murder the Yankee jargon this day; and, should I meet with one of
                  that nation I am mum, for certain," he muttered to himself, as he hastily moved
                  down the quiet street.
               The industrious denizens of Germantown, were, as usual, busy in their daily
                  avocations; and, with the exception of a few dirty-faced, ragged-tailed urchins,
                  that ran away, as soon as they saw him, our hero met with no molestation; and,
                  between a walk and a trot, he moved up to the door of the well-remembered edifice.
                  He thumped against it with the butt end of his musket, with such force as to
                  bring, from the back part of the building, three round, shiny-faced blacks, whom,
                  as soon as they opened the ponderous portal, in as bold and imperious a manner as
                  he could assume, he interrogated: "What are ye a looking at, you snowballs you?
                  Did you never see a live bein' but your musty selves? Git eout of the way and let
                  me cum in."
               The two younger darkies vanished; but the other stood firm; and, when the young
                  man had ceased speaking, he enquired rather gruffly, "what he wanted." "What does
                  that consarn you, you tarnation lump of charcoal?—jist git eout of the way and let
                  me cum in," and placing the muzzle of his musket, as he spoke, against the most
                  protuberant portion of his corporation, he gave him a shove, that sent him
                  sprawling upon the floor.
               The noise produced by the fall of the negro, soon brought Lady Gray to the
                  vestibule, and several dragoons, who remained about the mansion, to the front of
                  it. As soon as Johnston observed the former, he bowed Jonathan Slick-fashion, and
                  said!
               "Good mornin' tu yu, marm, I'm Hezekiah Townsend, from Townsendtown, 'way deown tu
                  York. I cum to see the Gineral, marm, on very partic'lar bissiness. That black
                  varmint there, wanted to know what it was; and I jist give him a little smell of
                  my iron, to make him more perlite to gintlemen, when they cum this way. Well
                  marm," he continued, "kin I see the Gineral? I have some mighty important
                  bussiness tu tell him."
               "The General, sir, is not at home," replied Mrs. Gray, "won't you walk in?"
               "Thankee, marm," said our hero, as he stepped into a superbly furnished
                  apartment.
               "Pray be seated, Mr. Townsend," said his hostess, as she perceived him staring
                  wildly about the room; "You may confide to me whatever information of importance,
                  you bear for General Grey, as I expect his return in a few days."
               "Wal that's jist what I was a thinking on," said Johnston, as he again made a low
                  bow, which, unfortunately, precipitated his towering "solger hat," to the floor.
                  "I'le be darned to darnation if I don't think there's some traction—as poor old
                  Richard used to say—atween that ar' purty carpet and my hat. The folks deown tu
                  Townsendtown always say that 'Birds of a feather flock together,' an', by the
                  livin' hokey, my solger-hat is abeout a leetle the nicest in these parts; an' the
                  way it makes these Liberty-men—as they calls 'em—look, whenever I pass 'em, beats
                  all the menageries in creation."
               "Howsomever," he proceeded, "I must tell you my business, as it's 'tarnal near tu
                  dinner-time an' I'm all-fired hungry. Oh! if I was down to hum, would'nt my marm
                  kill the fatted calf? Wal she would!"
               "Wo'nt you stay and dine with us, Mr. Townsend?" interrogated Lady Gray. "Our
                  dinner hour is near at hand."
               "Wal, I deon't care if I du. I deon't like to go 'mongst strangers much, anyway; an' these fillars abeout here,
                  look as savage as if they were all ebenezered tu 'tarnation at me; but I du say,
                  if they'd a bin deown to Bosting, when the Gineral was thar, an' made such a
                  scatterment 'mong the blue-coats, darned a one of 'em would stick himself up so.
                  You see when the Gineral was deown in Townsendtown, I showed him as purty a nest
                  of those liberty-fellars as ever 'sembled together; and I guess he wasn't long a
                  stowing' 'em safe in York! Wal he wasn't. An' when he left our diggins tu cum up
                  tu here, he give me particular orders to watch the tarnal oneasy critturs; and, if
                  I ever found any more of 'em a squatting together, I should bring him the news
                  instanter."
               "Wal, no more nor six weeks agone, I was tramping through our district an' cum on
                  one of these parties a sittin' at the mouth of a dark cave, which looked eenmost
                  as if it would swallow 'em. I felt a kinder skeered at first, myself, but I got in
                  the bushes and heard 'em a talking abeout meowing down the Tories—as they calls
                  us—like grass; my ebenezer 'gan to riz, an' I run hum 'termined that Gineral Gray
                  should hear of it, as soon as my nag John—his name is Johnathan, but I calls him
                  John for short—as soon as my nag John could scamper over to here; an I du say he
                  goes over the ground eenmost as smooth as grease.
               "Wal, now I'm raly sorry that the Gineral hain't tu hum; for these "rip and cut"
                  fellars—as they calls themselves—should all be tucked up, instanter. When I seen
                  them, they were all ebenezered abeout something, an' swore they'd roast every Tory
                  deown thar like a fat pig, on a Christmas. They'll not touch Hezekiah Townsend,
                  for double-sartain; if he has tu hunt a week for the Gineral, he shall know every
                  word of it, afore I go down to hum. But thar's Pap an' Marm an' our Anegeline—an'
                  I du say she is an Angel—they calls 'em Tories too; an' my blood biles in me, when
                  I think how that th'are circumvoluted with these ragga-muffins. Arter I'm gone,
                  an' the Gineral cums hum, afore I see him, I wish, Mrs. Gineral, that you weold
                  tell him that Hezekiah Townsend, of Townsendtown, was here to see him, and has
                  trapped as nice a nest of them ar' sneaky rats as he ever heard on: an if he comes
                  deown to our section, he'll open the trap, an' give the critturs into his hands,
                  as safe an' sound as my grand-mother's turkey rooster."
               He had just finished his narration, when dinner was announced; and following his
                  mistress into the dining-room, he seated himself to a more sumptuously filled
                  board than he had anticipated.
               Ida had overheard his conversation with her cousin, and instantly recognized his
                  voice. She then ordered the domestics to hasten the luscious meal, while she ran
                  to her chamber to finish the requested response. As soon as she had completed it
                  and placed it between the folds of the little volume, which she bound tightly in
                  the same manner as she had received it, she put it in her bosom—after bestowing a
                  few kisses upon it—and ran back to the dining room, having furnished herself with
                  a pretext for its return, provided the youth had made no fabrication for the
                  occasion.
               When Mrs. Gray and her guest entered the apartment, the latter, of course,
                  received an introduction to Ida; and could the former have discerned the cognitive
                  glances, that passed between the young folks, he might have easily detected the
                  vivacious Johnston in the Vermonter envelope.
               The affected embarrassment, the ludicrous bowing and scraping, &c., &c.,
                  of the latter, caused his hostess to turn away in order to conceal the smiles,
                  which they produced, and which effectually shielded him from exposure.
               After they had seated themselves around the heavily laden board, and Johnston had
                  partaken plenteously of the substantial fare, he glanced toward Ida and
                  enquired:
               "Have you ever bin deown tu Townsendtown, Miss?"
               "No sir, I have no recollection of the place," she modestly replied.
               "Wal, I always thort that our gals deown thar, and our Angeline, specially, were
                  the purtiest critters on arth; but I'll be darned tu darnation, if the gals up tu
                  here deon't beat them all holler. What will my sweet—I mean our Angeline say, when
                  I tell her abeout the lasses—sweet gals up tu here? Won't she wriggle her
                  shoulders and look as sassy as a turkey-gobler? Wal she will. And then, when I
                  'gin tu talk abeout the shining curls, as smooth and glittering as if they'd a bin
                  soaked in spermaisty ail, for a fortnit, dangling abeout their necks; and thar
                  rosy cheeks, and lips sugared all over with love-letters scraped deown, how she
                  will raise her ebenezer, and look as pouty as a mouse in a cage! Oh! Julicum
                  Cæsar, what crossed the Rubicund! weon't I larf outright and teaze the oritter?
                  Wal I will. I'll do nothing else for a hull season.
               "I cum across a fellar this mornin'," he continued, changing from soliloquy to
                  narration, "with a music-machine on his back—a tarnation clever fellar he was tu,
                  for he wound out as much music for me, free-gratis, for nothing, as I could hear
                  tu; and if I hadn't a had sich a mighty bissiness with the Gineral—a life an'
                  death bissiness—I'd a staid eenmost the hull day with him. Howsoever he's a goin
                  down tu Townsendtown with me, and he axed me, when I started up tu here, tu look
                  eout for his book, which he gave tu a gal up tu here, somewhere, as his heart was
                  intirely carried off by the beauty of the crittur."
               "He gave me the book," quickly interrupted Ida, blushing, but inwardly rejoiced at
                  the simple circumvention of the young man; "and you will confer a favor upon me by
                  returning it to its owner," she said as she produced it and extended it towards
                  him.
               Johnston took the book, and wrapped an enormous cotton handkerchief about it, for
                  fear of "spileing" it, as he said, and then carefully laid it in his steeple
                  crowned hat; and as he rose from his seat and moved toward the vestibule to
                  depart, he said:
               "I du say the musicianer will be glad for it, and I'll take it tu him, right
                  straight, lest he may git tired a waitin' on me. If I deon't find the Gineral,
                  marm," he continued, addressing Mrs. Gray, "I'll call agin, afore I start tu
                  Townsendtown."
               "We shall be happy to see you at any time, Mr. Townsend," replied Lady Gray, as
                  the former crossed the threshold and hurried from the mansion.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               As soon as Johnston and Mrs. Gray had left the dining room, Ida tripped off to her
                  chamber to make arrangements for her clandestine departure.
               Mrs. Gray and herself had always borne a sisterly affection for each other, and,
                  as we have in an early part of our narrative recorded, the former actively engaged
                  herself in the promotion of the design of the latter. The bitter denunciations of
                  her husband, however, against the object of her pursuit, obviously diminished her
                  efforts, and rather inclined her to dissuade her persevering, ever-loving cousin
                  to abandon her researches.
               On this account, therefore, Ida had never revealed to her, the happy interview she
                  had had with her lover when he was detained in the mansion, and still less the
                  fact of her intervention to release him. She knew, likewise, as matters were
                  arranged for the present, that she needed no external aid, and, however much, she
                  desired to disclose to her cousin, the benignant alternate, in her fortune, the
                  fear of being retarded in her movements, restrained her from making a revelation,
                  and imposed upon her the necessity of acting cautiously and promptly in the
                  affair.
               She now selected from her ward-robe such apparel as she deemed requisite to
                  protect her from the chilly winds of the night; and then, having seated herself to
                  indite a note to her cousin, setting forth in detail an explanation of her unique
                  demeanor, &c., suddenly she heard the clatter of horses feet in the distance.
                  Somewhat alarmed at the ominous sounds, she threw aside her sheet and ran to the
                  window; whence, in a short time, she beheld with surprise and trepidation, the
                  approach of Gen. Gray and his staff!
               For a moment her heart was replete with the bitterest emotions of despair; but,
                  when the lively gratulations from below, broke upon her ears, she aroused the
                  drooping energies of her soul, and determined, at all hazards to keep her renewed
                  appointment. The day was fast waning away, and having supplied herself with
                  everything she thought requisite for the journey, she left her sweet little
                  chamber, and, for the sake of eluding observation, stole out of the house by the
                  back door, whence a narrow alley wound around to the main street.
               As she tripped over the ground, her tiny feet, keeping time with the quick
                  beatings of her heart, scarce touched the sod. Like a child in the thick darkness
                  of night, every sound, that caught her ear, sent a cold chill through her frame,
                  and quickened her pace, until she emerged into the main street, when she assumed a
                  more ordinary gait.
               The little grove was in view—the place where she was to meet him, whom her soul
                  longed for, as the hart panteth after the water-brook ;—him, who was to crown her
                  happiness forever. Her steps naturally accelerated, and she was fast approaching
                  the appointed spot, when the noise of heavy footfalls, behind her, arrested her
                  progress. She instantly turned about, and what was her anguish of soul to behold
                  the supercilious person of General Gray!
               The weight of her affliction almost bore her to the earth; but, as the General
                  drew nigh, and she felt the importance of concealing her design, she quickly
                  dispelled her confusion, and received him with apparent joyfulness and warmth.
               "Why, General,—how do you do!" she exclaimed taking his proffered hand; "I left
                  the mansion but a short time since, and no one informed me of your return!" "I
                  just arrived; and feeling somewhat indisposed, I concluded to join you in your
                  evening walk, which your absence from the mansion, led me to believe, that you
                  were, as usual, pursuing."
               Having acknowledged the kindness of the General, she kept him busily engaged, as
                  they walked along in the exposition of her repeated interrogatories, and thereby
                  retained his constant attention until they came to the grove. Her quick eye soon
                  discriminated the forms of the Recluse and his comrades, moving lightly behind the
                  thick border of pines; and having called his attention to the observation of
                  something on the opposite side of the road, she intimated her wishes, and offered
                  an opportunity for their accomplishment.
               The Recluse failed not to comprehend the manœuvre, and gave the signal to his
                  companions. Before the General could wheel about, the young men bounded from their
                  cover behind him, and, while the one fastened him in his embrace, the other
                  proceeded to bind his hands and divest him of his weapons. The Recluse and Ida
                  were mounted on their steed in an instant, and swept off from the scene, like a
                  phantom. When the General caught the triumphant gaze of his enemy, he made the
                  most violent exertions to extricate himself; and, doubtless his superior strength
                  would have prevailed, had not one of his own pistols been presented to his breast,
                  which arrested his struggles.
               Having bound his arms tightly and taken up his weapons, the youths were just
                  mounted on their steeds, when they heard the near approach of horsemen and an
                  imperious shout from the General. Driving their spurs into their steeds, they
                  rushed from the spot, and urged their beasts to the utmost speed, in order to
                  overtake the Recluse, and apprise him of their pursuers. Notwithstanding the
                  ponderous burden of the horse of the latter, the few minutes, which had been
                  purposely given him, enabled him to proceed several miles before they came up with
                  him.
               "We must increase our distance from them, before the moon rises," said the
                  Recluse, after he had heard the unwelcome tidings; and spurring up his steed, he
                  darted forward, with his loved Ida nestling close to his heart, and his vigilant
                  companions by his side.
               The all-pervading silence was broken only by the regular strokes of the hoofs, and
                  the heavy breathing of the horses, as they sped over hill and dale. After they had
                  traveled in this way for about a half an hour, and the steed of the Recluse began
                  to lag under his burden, they drew up for a moment to ascertain the whereabouts of
                  the pursuers.
               They had no sooner halted than the apprehensive sounds, broke upon their ears; and
                  Johnston having exchanged horses with the Recluse, rode unnoticed into the woods,
                  that extended along the way, while the others dashed onward at full speed. He had
                  not long been in ambush, when he descried one of the horsemen men, considerably ahead of the others, rushing over
                  the ground, as if he saw the object of his pursuit, and was about to grasp it.
               The youth cautiously raised his rifle, and, as soon as the rider came up fired.
                  The horse of the latter made a spring into the air, and, giving forth a wild cry,
                  fell dead to the ground. Vaulting into his saddle, Johnston struck out into the
                  road, and, riding a short distance, loading his rifle as he proceeded, he
                  re-entered the forest. He well knew that the report of his discharge would quicken
                  the speed of the troopers, as well as that the thick darkness of the forest, added
                  to their delirious excitement, would, in all probability prevent the recognition
                  of their fallen comrade.
               He was not long in discovering the truth of his supposition; for, the next rider
                  coming up, his steed, terrified at the unusual appearance in the middle of the
                  road, sprang violently to one side, and threw him to the ground. Johnston heard
                  the cry of the fallen dragoon, and again dashing out into the road, he pursued the
                  riderless horse, which ran on in his own direction. He soon overhauled and secured
                  him.
               The Moon now began to rise and shoot her long, pale streaks of light through the
                  woods. The sudden effusion of her rays, urged the youth to speed forward, and
                  gliding swiftly along, under the shady canopy of the impending branches, until he
                  arrived at the summit of a steep hill, he halted and looked back for his pursuers.
                  Not a sound broke the breathing quietude of the night, save the occasional whoop
                  of an owl, or the momentary movement of some quadruped upon the leafless oaks.
                  Feeling satisfied that the pursuit was relinquished, he rode briskly on, and led
                  his captured horse by his side.
               The sun had been up for some time, when Johnathan overtook his friends, who
                  exhibited their anxiety for his safety, by the liveliest demonstrations of joy and
                  gratitude.
               "Ah, Hezekiah"—said Ida, intermingling the jocose with the grave, "I had the most
                  fearful forebodings as to your welfare. Had those vengeful Red-coats—as your
                  countrymen, yea, and my countrymen, call them;—overhauled you, nothing on earth
                  could have saved you from the excruciating death of a spy! They are truly
                  "blood-thirsty tigers," who spare neither women, nor children in their relentless
                  course. Did you meet with any of them?"
               "Wal, I did," replied Johnston, assuming his Townsendtown air, and in the same
                  manner going through the 
                     rehearsel
                     rehearsal
                   of his adventures during the night.
               "Is it possible that you thus thwarted those bravadoes!" exclaimed Ida after he
                  had finished his narrative. "I always thought, from what I had been told by these
                  valiant officers, that the Colonists were exceedingly ignorant and unskilled in
                  the use of arms; but, I am happy to find that there are some, who are able to
                  teach them lessons, which the military schools of Britain can never inculcate, and
                  which many of them, like the recommendations of Caius Marius, a Roman General,
                  will bear back to their fatherland, 
                     indellibly
                     indelibly
                   engraved upon their bodies."
               "And now, my dear William," she continued turning to the Recluse, "how much are we
                  indebted to these noble youths, who have left their peaceful homes and kindred,
                  and endangered their lives for our happiness! May the Almighty smile benignantly
                  upon them, and ever preserve their hearts, as uncontaminated and philanthropic as
                  they now are!"
               "Amen!" quickly burst from the warm heart of the Recluse, and then succeeded a
                  long and religious silence, which remained unbroken, until they arrived at the
                  Susquehannah river.
               Unlike the awful appearance, which the river and neighboring ridges wore a few
                  days previously, with the exception of the loud gurgling of the waters, the most
                  placid calmness universally prevailed. The morning—the autumn morning was a
                  delightful one, The sun steadily approaching his meridian shone clear and bright;
                  and the vast amphitheatre of the heavens, blended its bright azure with his golden
                  lustre and assumed a purple hue. The leafless trees shooting into the air,
                  reflected back the splendors of the sky. Calmly and slowly the majestic River
                  lolled along as if its mighty volumes delighted to linger beneath the grandeur of
                  the aspect, which here presented itself.
               After they had crossed the river, and clambered up the verdant bank, they halted a
                  moment to admire the romantic and richly picturesque scenery spread out before
                  them.
               "The ways of Providence are, indeed, inexplicable," said the Recluse to Ida who
                  was tenderly leaning on his arm. "How free and undefiled, roamed the red man along
                  this magnificent stream, before the deteriorating influences of the white man were
                  thrown about him. In the child-like simplicity of his heart, he worshipped the
                  great Manitou, who spoke to him from the storm, whose voice he heard through the
                  rushing of the waters. Unlike many of his more refined contemporaries, the
                  revolution of the heavenly bodies, the uniform alternations of light and darkness,
                  the perfect felicity of all terrestrial creatures from the Elephant, the largest
                  mass of flesh, to the Mosquito, that can revel in a cubic inch of air—all
                  convinced him of the existence of an over-ruling being, all-powerful, beneficent,
                  just!"
               It was now verging toward mid-day, and several hours travel still lay before them.
                  They hastily partook of some refreshments, and the young men having given due
                  attention to the horses, they again pushed forward, en route for the Conewaga.
               The wild and shaggy path over the mountain ranges, which run almost parallel with
                  each other, and perpendicular to the river, restrained Ida from indulging her
                  humorous disposition; and the party moved tacitly on, until they had crossed the
                  numerous ridges, and issued into an extensive clearing, through which, in a
                  westerly direction, ran a circuitous, but commodious road.
               "Now, my dearest Ida," whispered the Recluse, "we will soon reach our home—our
                  home in the quiet valley of the Blue Spring; when, in the holy Chapel of St. Paul,
                  our happiness will be speedily perfected. Although of itself a paradise, how many
                  days of misery, of mental and corporeal suffering, have I dragged out in that
                  glorious vale! And now, as if to countervail them, how many years of unbounded
                  felicity may we not anticipate? I can now gaze with rapture upon the translucent
                  waters of the Conewaga, and the sublime
                  landscape circumjacent. I can retrospect to the past and bring before my
                  imagination those painful reminiscences, only to augment my present joy."
               "Ah, my dear William," said Ida, as her eyes moist with the warmth of her
                  feelings, met his, "the years that were so full of sorrow to you, passed not more
                  congenially over me. What have I left undone to secure this hour of fruition? I
                  have forsaken home, parents, friends—all; traversed the hoary deep, suffered the
                  harshest treatment of enemies, to yield myself to thee!"
               "Thy love—all thy love, dearest of my soul is fully reciprocated!" exclaimed the
                  Recluse, while the ebulitions of his heart, melted by her soul-stirring words,
                  distilled from his eyes in big tears!
               "Let us forget the past—the past that has been so cruelly overshadowed for us. Let
                  us now begin a new life—a life of joy, of piety, of peace;" said Ida soothingly,
                  as she beheld the violent outburst of the Recluse produced by her excited
                  declamation.
               "Yea, my adorable Ida, your presence in this country, but too truly manifests the
                  trials and afflictions you have undergone; and oh! what a debt of gratitude I owe
                  you, for having delivered me from a dungeon of wretchedness, from an existence of
                  unparalleled misery!"
               The tender, enrapturing endearments and soul-inspiring blandishments of Ida soon
                  dispelled the melancholy recollections, which had overflooded his soul; and the
                  merry shouts of the boys, who had rode somewhat ahead, announced their
                  approximation to the Conewaga.
               The sun was fast sinking in the west, when they entered the little valley—the wood
                  embordered valley. The sweet shades of evening began to stretch themselves over
                  the face of nature. The "breeze's rustling wing" was in the tree. The Conewaga
                  rolled heavily and slowly over its smooth bed; scarcely breaking the silence with'
                  its low murmur. The distant waterfall which the confluent streams of springs made
                  to echo throughout the whole extent of the valley, could now be but faintly heard.
                  The lonely whip-poor-wills stationed themselves in the groves and meadows, and
                  seemed to sing a requiem to departed summer.
               A few minutes ride brought them to the mansion of Col. Johnston. The
                  non-appearance of the latter, as well as that of Barney McClain, who was always at
                  his post, struck the youths with amazement. For a moment they gazed silently at
                  each other, when the Recluse and Ida coming up, they all dismounted and ran over
                  the lawn into the mansion. As they rushed into the hall, an undefinable scream,
                  proceeding from an adjacent room, burst upon their ears. In an instant they were
                  gathered around the fainting form of Mrs. Johnston, who had swooned away in a
                  delirium of joy, having seen Ida as she skipped over the sward.
               The holy father Coleman was by her side, where he had, day after day, since the
                  departure of Col. Johnston, endeavored to alleviate the grief of the disconsolate
                  mother; and, by spiritual exhortations to patience, and by frequent supplications
                  to the Almighty for the lost one, and those who had gone to her rescue, he had
                  succeeded in supporting her drooping soul.
               Having warmly greeted the Recluse and Ida, as well as the heart-stricken youths,
                  the venerable father detailed the unhappy incident, that had occurred in their
                  absence, and the fears that he entertained on account of the long-continued
                  detention of the Colonel and his band.
               "We must hasten to their assistance," said the Recluse, arousing the young men,
                  who were overwhelmed by the unexpected disaster. "Let all things be in readiness
                  by to-morrow's sun."
               The absorbing grief of Henry Palmer quickly abated, when his thoughts recurred to
                  the transaction, which he had witnessed, in company with Mabel, at Rogue's Harbor,
                  and which, he doubted not, originated the primitive design of her seizure. An
                  instantaneous glow of hope radiated in his countenance, as the circumstance, which
                  induced the Indian to the commission of the act, appeared to him to be
                  satisfactory evidence of her safety. He knew Conowa well; having frequently seen
                  him in the village; and his sober, manly aspect, so unlike that of his followers,
                  had attracted his attention and admiration. He, therefore, believed that the noble
                  sensibilities of the young Chief, would influence him, on his own application, to
                  restore him his beloved.
               Young Johnston, however, having no such extenuating circumstance, discovered the
                  deepest grief, and his youthful mind viewed the situation of his sister, as being
                  in the highest degree immutable and perilous, The distressing condition of his
                  remaining parent, in addition to the portentious deductions of father Coleman,
                  augmented his despairing melancholy; and he would have forthwith started in
                  pursuit, had not Henry Palmer suggested to him the mitigating circumstances in the
                  case, and apprized him of his own seemingly consistent prognostications.
               The youth, thereupon, was greatly relieved; and the cooling applications of the
                  Holy Father soon restored the dejected mother to consciousness. He hastily
                  informed her of the ameliorating incident, which Palmer had related, and impressed
                  her with the belief of the security and speedy re-capture of her daughter.
               "The sun of peace will soon disperse the gloom of these distressful hours," said
                  the good father, as he perceived a gleam of joy, occasioned by his recital, steal
                  athwart the pallid features of the bereaved one. He then made known to her the
                  return of the Recluse and his Ida—both of whom had retired from the apartment. The
                  tender-hearted matron insisted upon an immediate interview with the latter, and
                  the compliant father proceeded to an adjoining room, where the young folks were
                  making preparations for the morrow, and quickly returned with Ida, who was
                  instantly received in the embrace of the enfeebled mother, with the fullest
                  expressions of affection and sympathy.
               This parental manifestation, melted the heart of Ida to tears, and opened to her
                  mind the kindly regard that was attached to her lover. The cold formalities and
                  sensibilities of the world, which she had met with on every hand, so dissimilar to
                  the present exhibition of heavenly beneficence, and ever inimical to the glowing
                  warmth of her own soul, were never implanted, nor nourished in this sacred valley,
                  whose inhabitants, even to this day, we are constrained to extol for their big-souled generosity, their
                  philanthropy, and the purity and unremitting exercise of their religion.
               They are for the most part farmers; and the products of their well-tilled fields,
                  furnish them abundantly, with all the necessaries of life. They are frank,
                  hospitable and intelligent. To vice and dissipation they are strangers, and their
                  wealth and plenty never sink them into luxury.
               
               Reader, should you ever wish to withdraw yourself from the friendless, unfeeling
                  world, and seek a spot, where the balm of Gilead luxuriantly grows, and the
                  physicians, who are faithful in its administration numerously dwell, go to the
                  little valley of the Blue Spring—to the shady banks of the Conewaga.
               If thy soul be overburdened with grief and longs for a peaceful seclusion from the
                  busy haunts of men, the all-pervading serenity of this modern Auvernum, will
                  afford you every solace your heart can desire. Here you may behold the beauties of
                  nature, in their richest garb—all-varied and unceasing.
               Contemplate, for a moment, the smooth-rolling Conewaga—now, an expansive mirror of
                  limpid purity—a mirror reflecting from its bosom the mellow ray of the morning,
                  the dazzling brightness of the noon-day, and the many-colored spangles of the
                  evening sun. How placidly its waters move, when Æolus has locked up the
                  winds;—indeed you doubt whether they move at all! Your eye rivits itself upon the
                  middle of the stream,—and, fixedly gazing, you bend down and raise up slowly,—but
                  to you it stirs not. The visual organ then inactively recedes toward the bank,
                  where you are standing, and watches intently the little ebb and flows, about the
                  narrow pools at your feet; but these deceiving plashes would have you believe that
                  the waters ran up stream! So purls the waters of the majestic Conewaga, in the
                  melting sunshine of summer,
               
                  
                     Through many a grove of genial shade,
                     Through many a flowery mead.
                  
               
               'Tis early spring-time now; and the tumultuous blasts of March have not yet ceased
                  their boisterous howlings. Can you hear or see the movement of the waters, now?
                  Yes, like the low rumbling of the distant thunder, echoes the dashing stream, as
                  its bosom heaves with the numerous rivulets, that pour down the hill-sides, and
                  bound upon it.
               The Conewaga has lost its 
                     pelucid
                     pellucid
                   cast, and now looks like a vast stream of molten gold! It is, therefore,
                  still grand to look upon; and the big dam, at the mill, blending its monotonous
                  roar with the heavy moanings of the aged oaks, which emborder it, deepens the
                  sublimity of the scene.
               We have now a beauteous May-day, and, as there is nothing to prevent us, we will,
                  with all due reverence, enter the magnificent Chapel of St. Paul, and ascend to
                  its silver-capped dome. The Chapel sits upon an eminence, high above every other
                  object in view, and the cupola, in which we are standing, is, perhaps, two hundred
                  feet above the surface of the creek, which reflects the whole front of the edifice
                  from its transparent bosom.
               Let us first turn our eyes toward the south. The forests of oak and chesnut,
                  which, at the time of our story, stretched for miles over the undulating lands,
                  are now circumscribed to as many acres. They, still, however, serve to protect the
                  valley from the purturbed inroads of the outer world, and form a sublime margin to
                  the picture.
               To the west our eyes extend over a soil, at one time gently swelling into
                  agreeable elevations, and, at another, spreading itself into vales of the most
                  enchanting verdure, interspersed with orchards, arbors, and happy-looking farm
                  houses.
               To the north they extend over a succession of high ridges, cleared to their
                  summits, and, although, comparatively beneath us, they embarrass our view; and the
                  blue mists, that hover over the mountains, more grand and lofty, arrest them in
                  their excursions.
               Eastward we naturally follow the gentle sinuosities of the Conewaga, upon either
                  side of which, fields, gardens, meadows, and rich pastures, spread over the face
                  of the valley, producing in their seasons, the lovely flowers, fruits and foliage
                  of spring, summer, and autumn.
               The verdant splendors of spring are magnificently displayed, on all sides of the
                  valley. The light gales, laden with the ambrosial perfume of the blossoming fruit
                  and locust trees, and breathing revigorating coolness from the waters, tremulously
                  agitate the foliage of the groves, and waft by us on their lithesome wings.
               The robin, martin and blue-bird, enliven the air with their songs, and the cluster
                  of oaks and weeping willows, that surround the Chapel, rings with varying, artless
                  melody, while the refulgent beams of the sun, gild the circumambient landscape,
                  with a thousand forms of beauty and loveliness.
               The Conewaga has divested itself of its yellow hue, and assumed its wonted
                  lucidness. Slowly and calmly it moves along, as if its inanimate waters delight to
                  linger beneath the influence of the enchanting spell, that is here thrown over the
                  face of nature; but, as soon as it leaves the quiet precincts of the valley, as
                  though enraged at the rugged, winding course it has to pursue, it dashes, like the
                  furious war-horse, over its rocky bed, and foaming, and roaring, pours its waters
                  over a high precipice, into the swelling bosom of the Susquehanna.
               Yonder, about three hundred yards from the Chapel, is the gem of the valley—the
                  Blue Spring. Where in the world does it find an outlet for the waters, that
                  incessantly bubble up to its surface?—you ask, as your eye vainly searches the
                  solid mounds of earth that enclose it on every side. Not a drop of the limpid
                  water escapes from its confines! Strange! "passing strange!" There with the
                  lustrous blue of the summer sky upon its face, it sits in the lap of a green
                  sward, motionless, but pure, and like the sea without bottom!
               We will not vouch for the truth of the latter assertion; but, the oldest
                  traditions of the valley, and many of its present inhabitants—doubtless, however,
                  without critical investigation—affirm the truth of the statement. From a recent
                  examination of the spring, and its environs, we have come to the conclusion, that
                  a subterranean duct communicates with the creek, which thereby receives the
                  unceasing discharges of the spring, and that the latter has a bottom!
               
               At the time of our story, its waters were supposed to possess many medicinal
                  properties, and, being on the Chapel grounds, great attention had been directed to
                  its preservation and embellishment. At present, it is wholly neglected; and the
                  younger portion of the residents are scarcely able to point out its situation.
               The "Conewaga Chapel" stands, as we have elsewhere remarked, upon an
                  eminence, on the south-eastern bank of the stream. Its massive walls of grey stone
                  have well resisted the corroding influences of time. The grounds appertaining to
                  it, were ceded to the Jesuits by Lord Baltimore; explicit evidence of the
                  settlement of the valley, by the Catholics, at a very early period.
               We are not informed of the precise date of the erection of the "Chapel;" but infer
                  from the various accounts we have gathered, that it was built almost a century and
                  half ago. Of course it has undergone many repairs in the interim, and, lately, it
                  received an appendage, which renders it more capable to accommodate the hundreds
                  of worshippers, who flock hither, upon the Sabbath to breathe of the heavenly
                  effusions that are poured forth within its precincts.
               We hope the reader will pardon this monster digression. The description, which we
                  have attempted seemed to demand a place in our little book, and the conclusion of
                  this, the first portion of our narrative, appeared relevant to its admission.
               
               The Recluse and his two companions set out on their journey, the next morning,
                  before the sun. They followed the well-beaten track of the Colonel and his band.
                  The return of her son, and the explication relative to the condition of her
                  daughter, had greatly relieved Mrs. Johnston; and while the charming Ida was by
                  her side—whence she would not permit her to withdraw—the affliction that had
                  preyed so heavily upon her heart, melted away; and hope, like an ever-bubbling
                  fountain, boiled up in her bosom, and apparently restored her accustomed
                  cheerfulness.
               The magnificent view of the valley from the mansion, so pleasing to the romantic
                  mind of Ida, caused the days, during the absence of her betrothed, to pass by with
                  less anxiety and suspense, than they would, otherwise, naturally have done; and
                  his piety and the infallibility of success, which always attended him, gave
                  additional security for her safety.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               
                  
                     
                        "How slow the languid moments move,
                        How long to him their lapse appears
                        In whom remorse, or fear, or love,
                        Concentres griefs untold by tears,
                        The gathered agony of years!
                        But o'er the Indian Warrior's soul
                        Uncounted and unheeded roll
                        Long hours, like these in watching spent,
                        The moments that he knows within,
                        When on the glorious war-path sent,
                        Are calm as those which usher in
                        The thunders of the firmament."
                     
                  
               
               How painful are the recollections of home and those we love, when our situations
                  are such as to preclude all hope of ever beholding them! When that blasting
                     cohort, fear, misery, despair, has taken possession of our souls,
                  and incessantly marshals itself and attacks our hearts, how deeply does it sink us
                  in the gloom of despondency!—how quickly it accomplishes the annihilation of the
                  vital principle! Self-preservation, to a considerable degree, is disregarded!—life
                  has lost its charms, and its prolongation is no longer desirable! The pleasures
                  derived from the perception of what is beautiful in nature, augment the affliction
                  of the mind, while the increasing terror of a horrible death, inspired by the
                  portentious appearance of every thing, by which we are surrounded, produces the
                  most violent agitation and leads to the dethronement of reason.
               Such was the pitiable condition of Mabel, after the battle of Bloody Run.—All hope
                  of release from captivity was banished by the unsuccessful and fatal encounter.
                  The suspense, in which she was kept, with respect to the fate of her aged father,
                  and her lover, of whom, the former, she felt assured, was engaged in the
                  sanguinary conflict, and the latter she knew to have accompanied the
                  Recluse—almost drove her to madness!
               The Indians had suffered the greatest loss in the battle, owing, upon the one
                  hand, to the advantages which the storm and the darkness of the night, furnished
                  the assailants, and, on the other, to the consummation of the orders, as given by
                  Barney McClain.
               This disaster, so foreign to their expectations, had greatly disaffected them
                  toward their Chief; and, but one of the six, that survived, remained obedient to
                  his commands. He and Conowa, alternately, bore the fainting form of Mabel in their
                  arms, until they had gotten a good distance from the camp, when they halted, and
                  prepared a sort of litter for her conveyance. The young Chief still displayed the
                  greatest concern for her convenience; and many a tender glance did he cast upon
                  her countenance, as he strode along by her side, and watched the rose fading from
                  her cheek and a livid paleness stealing, across her features.—Her fine form was
                  rapidly wasting under the calamities, which preyed upon her, and the exposure
                  consequent upon her situation.
               
               The four unfriendly warriors moved swiftly along in the advance, evincing the
                  utmost indifference to the progress of the Chief, who, with his companion, labored
                  severely to keep within view of them. Conowa was highly agitated at the unseemly
                  conduct of the warriors, and showed great uneasiness with respect to his reception
                  by the tribe on the Alleghanies. He could readily foresee the commotion, which the
                  loss of his followers would produce, and the execrations it would bring upon him,
                  from the older warriors, the widowed and the fatherless. Moreover the plausibility
                  of his conduct would not be appreciated by the injured parties, and that awful
                  vengeance, which alone can remunerate the savage heart, would, there was every
                  reason to suppose, be gratified, either by the banishment of himself from the
                  tribe, or the execution of his adored captive.
               With respect to the former, his mind was not ill at ease; for the most desolate
                  and solitary region he could conceive of, would, by the presence of Mabel, be
                  converted into a paradise for him. The latter he determined to prevent, though his
                  own life be sacrificed in the event.
               Wyannowe—the elfish Wyannowe, was another object—of no small account, either—of
                  consideration. Her passionate temperament and jealous disposition, linked to her
                  all-absorbing, but misplaced love, all of which, he had long since been acquainted
                  with, presented embarrasments of the greatest moment. Beside, her father, one of
                  the discontented warriors before him, would, he feared, urge on and assist her, in
                  the prosecution of any scheme, which her aggrieved heart could fabricate to his
                  detriment.
               As far as regarded the security of his own person, however, he had nothing to
                  apprehend; well-knowing that all her efforts would be directed against the one he
                  loved, when she perceived his devotedness to, and continual watch over her.
               Such were the thoughts that occupied the mind of Conowa, as they were rapidly
                  approaching the Alleghanies. The violent storm of the night, was 
                     suceeded
                     succeeded
                   by a glorious, sunshine day, and the interminable forest, through which
                  their path lay, sufficiently tempered the rays of the sun, and made their journey
                  by far more agreeable—at least to the Indians—than the opposing ruggedness of the
                  way, would have led them to suppose.
               All day long they traveled, in this equivocal manner, and, when the shadows of
                  night began to fall over them, they reached the cloud-capped Alleghanies.—The
                  chilling winds, as they swept through the deep ravines of the mountain, kissed the
                  pale cheeks of Mabel, and restored her, partially, to consciousness—to a
                  consciousness, alas! of her frightful condition!
               The sonorous hootings of the owl, and the cries and roar of the wild beasts,
                  increased her terror, while the mountain, black and inauspicious, rising up before
                  her like some huge monster, seemed to welcome her arrival.
               The warriors in advance, still pushed rapidly onward and began to ascend the steep
                  acclivity, without regarding in the least the movements of their Chief. The
                  latter, on the other hand, and his fellow-laborer, put forth all their exertions
                  to keep up with them, foreseeing the disadvantage which would accrue, if these, so
                  inimical to his interest, should arrive at the camp before him.
               The ascent of the mountain was very laborious; the path sometimes extending
                  diagonally, winding around the shaggy rocks, that projected from the acclivity,
                  and sometimes, following the verge of a precipice, whence the yawning chasm below
                  looked black as Erebus, while it echoed the roar of the rivulet, that rushed
                  through it.
               Toward morning the moon arose, and her paly rays falling, perpendicularly, upon
                  the mountain side, lit up the path, and somewhat lessened the difficulty of the
                  ascent. To Mabel the night seemed almost endless, and the impracticability of
                  changing her position, in her rude couch, added a painful inconvenience to her
                  absorbing grief. The entire night was passed in retrospections, the most sorrowful
                  and afflicting. Her overburdened heart found not relief in sleep. Dim visions of
                  the past—the happy past—would float across her mind, in brief array,—making her
                  forgetful, for the moment, of her present misery—only to augment her anguish by
                  their volatile transitions.
               Home—the home of her childhood—the home of her love, and the pleasing
                  reminiscences therewith connected, like a gleam of sunshine would flash before
                  her; and then, like the same, when a massy cloud swims fleetly by, would they
                  vanish.
               Higher and higher, they rose in their ascent, and more, and more intricate became
                  the labyrinthian path. The numerous transparent springs, which gushed out the
                  mountain side, and sent their noisy streamlets down the declivity, attracted no
                  attention; and the nearer they drew to the camp, the faster they moved onward. The
                  moon was gayly floating upon her sea of blue, but her white rays were beginning to
                  lose their brilliancy, as the grey of morning began to climb up the eastern
                  horizon.
               When they gained the mountain-top, the rubied sun looked full upon them, emitting
                  life and freshness to both animate and inanimate nature. The wonted light,
                  however, revealed to Conowa, a truth, which threw him into the greatest confusion,
                  and caused him, involuntarily, to halt. His comrade, mute with astonishment,
                  gazed, first at Mabel, and then at him, as if eagerly desiring an explanation. The
                  Chief immediately motioned him to observe their enemies, in front of whom but
                  three remained, the other having gone ahead, as soon as they turned the angle on
                  the summit, for the express purpose, as Conowa surmised—and that rightly too—of
                  making an exposition of affairs to, and exciting the sympathies of, the tribe
                  against him.
               For a moment the two Indians regarded each other in profound silence, as if each
                  awaited the deliberations of the other. Finally, the Chief made a movement, which
                  was instantly succeeded by a similar one, on the part of his assistant, and
                  snatching up their burden, they sprang forward with the agility of the deer, and
                  rushed by the hostile warriors, who were carelessly—and studiedly so, too—jogging
                  along in the well remembered path.
               The latter appeared very much surprised at the manœuvre, and supposing that the
                  sagacity of the Chief, had penetrated their delusory scheme, and was hastening to
                  avert its prosecution, they darted off after him, 
                     determind
                     determined
                   to prevent his reaching the camp before their messenger, though his life
                  be the forfeit of his failure.
               
               Self-preservation was again excited in the soul of Mabel, as she flew through the
                  air, expecting every moment, by some misstep or blunder, on the part of either of
                  her bearers, to be hurled down the declivity and dashed to pieces. Her lustrous
                  ringlets of hair fluttered in the breeze. The sudden change from the
                  characteristic gait, to the utmost speed, by the Indians, led her to suppose that
                  they were threatened by 
                     iminent
                     imminent
                   danger, and aroused her from that death-like stupor, into which her
                  resigned submission to fate, had plunged her.
               The inconvenience, under which Conowa and his adjutor labored, soon became evident
                  to the former, as he felt himself growing weary, and the footsteps of the
                  warriors, coming up in his rear, became audible. Intimating his desire to his
                  companion, as they made a sudden turn in the path, they bounded into the bordering
                  thicket, where they remained until the other Indians had passed by, when, having
                  ordered his friend, to protect his charge and abide his return, Conowa again
                  sprang into the path, and summoned all his strength to outstrip them.
               The old camp-ground was still about two miles distant; so that there was ample
                  space for the Chief, incited by the two-fold danger, to overtake his adversaries
                  and reach the goal before them. Almost as soon as we can write it, he was beside
                  them, and, making a leap to pass one of the warriors, quick as thought, wheeled
                  about and bounded against him. The violence of the concussion brought them both to
                  the ground; with the advantage, necessarily, in favor of Conowa, who, instantly
                  cognizant of it, seized, upon it, and dealt his antagonist a blow, that stunned
                  him.
               Springing to his feet, he was off again in a moment, and, but a short time
                  elapsed, until he again neared his competitors. Fearing lest another diversion to
                  detain him would be attempted, he kept close behind them, until they came to an
                  acute angle in the path, when, vaulting into the air, with all his strength he
                  cleared the bushy space, and lit in the way before his enemies, whom, amazed at
                  the feat, he soon left far in his rear. A few minutes sufficed to bring him within
                  the confines of the old camp-ground. He had scarcely entered it, before he saw the
                  elfish form of Wyannowe; coming, like a spirit, to greet him. The deserted
                  appearance of the premises filled him with astonishment; but six or eight of the
                  hundred wigwams, which had studded the ground, remaining.
               Wyannowe was quickly by his side, and to his numerous interrogatories, with
                  relation to the sinister condition of the camp, she with much gladness, responded,
                  and informed him of its evacuation by their warriors, long since, and depicted the
                  signs which still existed and made known the causes of departure, and the
                  direction taken by the tribe.
               This system or mode of picture writing, as practiced, by the North American
                  Indians, is well exemplified, in the annexed quotation.*
               
               
                  *NOTE.—"In Schoolcraft's Journal of travels through the North-western regions
                     of the United States, we are told that the party in passing from the river
                     St. Louis to Sandy Lake, had, with their Indian attendants, gotten out of
                     the way, and could not tell where they were.
                  The Indians not knowing what might be the result, determined to leave, at a
                     certain place, a memorial of their journey, for the benefit of such of their
                     tribe as might come in the direction afterwards. In the party, there was a
                     military officer, a person, whom the Indians understood to be an attorney,
                     and a mineralogist; eight were armed; when they halted they made three
                     encampments.
                  The savages went to work and traced with their knives, upon a piece of birch
                     bark, a man with a sword, for the officer, another with a book for the
                     lawyer, and a third with a hammer, for the mineralogist; three ascending
                     columns of smoke denoted the three encampments, and eight muskets the number
                     of armed men."
               
               Elated by these unexpected and joyous tidings, Conowa, abruptly turned away from
                  Wyannowe, and made all haste to return for Mabel. One half of the burden, that had
                  weighed so heavily upon his heart was removed; and, with the aid of his
                  attendant,—who, unfortunately, deserted him, when they entered the enclosure—he
                  hoped to 
                     evercome
                     overcome
                   every emergency, which the incidents of the day might originate, until
                  the morrow, when he determined to follow after the tribe.
               The messenger, that had been sent by the disaffected warriors, had anticipated
                  Conowa, in reaching the camp; in consequence of the latter's detention, by the
                  circumstances we have noted; and when the latter came into view, the squaws and
                  youths—who, the reader will remember, traveled in advance of the warriors—had
                  assembled around the panting Indian, eager to hear his accounts, and predicting
                  their fatal import.
               The appearance of the chief, at this juncture, made known by Wyannowe, drew the
                  attention of the assembled throng, and caused the warrior, in their midst, to
                  delay his rehearsal. As soon, however, as Conowa was observed to withdraw, the
                  savage again plucked up courage, and went through with his protracted
                  narration.
               Wyannowe was filled with joy, when she beheld the Chief enter the camp; and her
                  versatile imagination had depicted to itself the failure of his enterprise—all for
                  her especial benefit,—for her subsequent happiness; but, when, after she had
                  tenderly and explicitly related everything, that she thought would interest him,
                  she saw him quit her so unkindly and unceremoniously, and hasten away in the
                  direction he had come, her heart was pierced with the intensest agony, and, for a
                  moment, she stood fixed to the spot. As soon as she recovered herself, wild with
                  despair, she ran after the Chief; still, however restrained, by the knowledge of
                  her own insignificancy, from making any overtures to him.
               Conowa, busy with his own musings, which were now by far pleasanter than they had
                  been, for a long time, did not perceive the elfish form, gliding like a sunbeam,
                  in his wake; but, when he came to the place, where he had left Mabel, and himself
                  and his companion, raised her up and issued into the path, a hollow, unearthly
                  shriek broke upon their ears, and the ardent, passionate Wyannowe fell across the
                  way before them, with a gleaming knife clutched in her grasp, which she intended
                  to plunge into her bosom, but nature kindly withdrawing her reason, averted the
                  fatal blow!
               Here was another object to awaken tenderest emotions in the heart of Mabel, and
                  abstract her thoughts from the consideration of her own terrible position.— Various and equivocal were the
                  conclusions, at which she arrived, and every thing, that the surrounding
                  indications could suggest, save—strange to tell—the truth in the case, received
                  due deliberation. It was well that she knew not the fact; for, her soul, so full
                  of sympathy and compassion, would have received an additional weight of misery to
                  bear.
               Involuntarily the two Indians shrunk back from the prostrate form of Wyannowe, and
                  both being cognizant of the circumstances, which led to the peculiar
                  manifestation, they looked upon the wretched maiden, beautiful even in deformity,
                  with sensations of the deepest sorrow and commisseration. At length Conowa took
                  Mabel upon his own shoulder, and ordered his companion to bear Wyannowe,—having
                  first divested her of her weapon,—and together they hastened to the camp.
               As the latter was raised by the Indian, "Conowa!" she faintly articulated, and her
                  finely tapered arms, she flung, convulsively, around his neck. They had not gone
                  far, however, in this manner, before she opened her eyes, and, bursting from the
                  arms of the savage, she bounded into the bushes, when, casting a glance at Conowa,
                  she gave a wild, piercing scream, and then ran away; sometimes taking the
                  direction of the camp, and again pursuing a quite different course, until she was
                  lost to sight.
               Wyannowe was frantic! and, as she apparently flew through the air, her glossy
                  black hair waving on the gale, and her hands tearing her garments from her bosom
                  into shreds and hurling them in all directions, she presented a spectacle at once
                  shocking and deplorable.
               Conowa regarded these maniacal exhibitions with evident alarm, and watched the
                  mysterious being, until the interposing obstacles hid her from his view, when,
                  uttering the usual exclamation, "Hugh!" himself and his associate again started
                  off.
               A goodly portion of the day had, by this time, waned away, and the sun's disc was
                  waxing larger and redder, as he sank behind a misty cloud in the western horizon.
                  As they came near to the camp, their ears were greeted with a most inharmonious,
                  unceasing yell; and, on the northern portion of it, where most of the wigwams
                  stood, a revolting scene presented itself.
               The widowed squaws and offspring of the warriors, who were slain at Bloody Run,
                  were filling the air with shrill cries, and some were plucking the hair from their
                  heads, and lacerating their countenances and bosoms, until their blood distilled
                  from the incisions, and gave them a frightfully abhorrent appearance. Others threw
                  themselves upon the ground and gave vent to their feelings, in the most dissonant
                  howlings and contortions of the body.
               The wildest confusion every where prevailed; and, perhaps, a half-hour elapsed,
                  before the warriors, who had delivered the distressing tidings, succeeded, by
                  certain assurances of revenge and protection, in restoring them to comparative
                  quietness.
               These demonstrations awakened in Conowa apprehensions of a very unpleasant, if not
                  fear-engendering nature; and he halted on the border of the camp, as if in doubt
                  whether to advance or recede. He soon came to a determination, however, well
                  knowing that any cowardly demonstration, on his part, would be interpreted to his
                  detriment, and, possibly, give rise to consequences of a serious character. He,
                  therefore, stalked boldly into the enclosure, and advanced with unwavering step
                  toward the agitated concourse.
               The intermingled cries and lamentations of the squaws and youths, increased as he
                  drew nigh, and, although apparently undaunted, he evinced a most painful
                  uneasiness. Luckily, one of the wigwams stood about a hundred yards from the
                  others, in front of which the furious scene was being enacted. Seeing that it was
                  unoccupied, Conowa, with his charge entered it. With trembling hands he set about
                  making the alterations and improvements which their occupation of it, for the
                  night, required; and darkness had come upon him before he had satisfied himself of
                  the efficiency of his arrangements.
               The clamor had gradually subsided, and the breathing silence, that succeeded,
                  seemed the more profound and unbroken, as the day had been stormy and riotous.
               The wigwam sat—as did the others,—in the bushy margin of the camp-ground; being
                  constructed of skins, depending from crosspieces, which laid in the forks of the
                  young saplins, that thickly studded the mountain-top.
               We will leave Mabel and Conowa for the present, after, first, having taken a
                  glance at them,—for we are enabled to do so, by the brilliant light of the blazing
                  fire, which the latter has kindled, and which, being immediately in front of the
                  wigwam, illuminated its interior nicely—to return to the Recluse, Colonel Johnston
                  and "auld" Barney.
               Conowa is setting at the ingress of the domicile; a little to one side, in order
                  that the light may penetrate every part of it, and he can have an unembarrassed
                  view of things internal as well as external; for his mind is flooded with fears,
                  and the deathlike silence of the night, speaks to him of danger. His trusty rifle
                  is beside him. His head hangs negligently upon his breast; but his eyes are
                  open—wide open, rolling in their sockets and surveying, accurately, every movement
                  in their vicinity. The tremulous motion of a twig, or a leaf, in the intermissions
                  of the cracklings of the fire, makes him shudder and, warily, take hold of his
                  rifle.
               As for Mabel, the genial blaze has shown her the downy couch of leaves and skins,
                  prepared by the loving Conowa for her, and she has availed herself of it,
                  exhausted by the fatigues of the journey, and sick at heart, with the innumerable
                  apprehensions, that overwhelm her. The well-roasted venison, before her, remains
                  untouched. Her eyes are closed and their heavy lashes throw dim streaks of shadow
                  over her pale, forlorn-looking countenance. May she sleep sweetly!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               
                  
                     
                        All's to be fear'd, where all's to be lost.
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               As we have remarked, in a preceding chapter, the Recluse and his two
                  companions—William Johnston, Jr. and Henry Palmer—set out from the Conewaga, early
                  the next morning after their return from Germantown.
               The morning was a delightful one. A re-invigorating breeze blew fresh and steady
                  from the west. The sun rose into a sky unclouded and beautiful.—These, as far as
                  they went, might have been esteemed auspicious omens; and we opine that they were.
                  They certainly exhilarated the young men, as they loped through the thick
                  woodlands, following the beaten path of the Colonel and party.
               "Were it not better to strike for the main road at once? We could reach it much
                  sooner, and, in all probability, the trail inclines toward the clearing, in which
                  event, we would save considerable time and trouble?" interrogated Johnston,
                  addressing the Recluse, as they rode side by side, and began to ascend a steep
                  hill.
               "I am disposed to believe that your father pursued the route of the Indians, who,
                  doubtless, took the nearest course to their destination;—and, beside, in our
                  present course, we have the judgment of Barney McClain."
               "You're right," rejoined the youth, the latter consideration having waved all
                  doubts from his mind; and, having gained the brow of the hill, they galloped
                  onward as swiftly as the winding, rocky path would permit.
               Unlike their recent expedition, in which but one of them was truly concerned, they
                  all now felt interested—deeply interested, and the Recluse, almost as much so as
                  either of the others, partly on account of the belief, that grew out of the
                  circumstances, in respect to the time and place of the seizure, and which caused
                  him to feel uneasy from the fact of his own unintentional agency therein, and
                  partly because of his fraternal affection for Mabel.
               Henry Palmer was greatly agitated, and constantly urged his steed onward, so that
                  his associates were sometimes far in his rear. However easy he appeared on the
                  preceding evening, with regard to the security of his beloved, it was now obvious
                  from his eagerness and sedative mood, that some doubts had arisen in his mind,
                  which he was unable to resolve.
               The shock, which her sudden seizure would occasion, he feared, must have been too
                  overpowering for the delicate form of Mabel to have withstood; and then so
                  tenderly reared as she had been, the hardships and exposure, her condition,
                  unavoidably imposed, could scarcely be endured for any length of time.—Revolving
                  such things in his mind, he heeded not the Recluse and Johnston behind him, until,
                  having reverted to the last scene enacted at Rogue's Harbor, and taken into
                  account the conduct of Barney McClain, when a thought flashed across his mind, as
                  painful as it was sudden, he wheeled about, and in as composed a manner as he
                  could assume, addressed the Recluse:—
               "I have just been thinking about the transaction at Rogue's Harbor, and am dubious
                  whether the solution I have given of it, be the correct one. The unfortunate
                  intrusion of old Barney upon the games of the Indians, may have stimulated them to
                  vengeance, and led to the committal of the deed; in which case, the situation of
                  Mabel, may be far more dangerous, than we have heretofore conceived of;
                  especially, if she be not under the protection of Conowa!"
               "That were, indeed, a lamentable phase in our fortune," replied the Recluse, after
                  he had mused several moments, upon the feasibility of the suggestion,"we must
                  look, however, upon the bright side of the future, and hasten to join our
                  friends."
               It was almost mid-day, when they arrived at the mountain. Their steeds were
                  covered with sweat, foam and dust. Having dismounted and given them rest for a
                  short time, they took the reins and led them up the declivity. When they reached
                  the summit they halted a moment to breathe, and then vaulting into their saddles
                  they pushed on again in the trail. Ten minutes' ride brought them to the point,
                  where the path wound down the mountain-side into the valley, and in as many
                  minutes more, they had descended and began to move swiftly over the plain.
               "What have we here?" said the Recluse, while he entered the camp, where the
                  Colonel and his party had the first obvious intimation of their proximity to the
                  Indians; "this has, without doubt, been very lately vacated."
               "Jupiter Hammon!" exclaimed young Johnston, who had ridden toward the opposite
                  extremity of the camp and beheld the ghastly features of the savage, who had
                  vengefully fired at Barney, and had been slain by him: "The battle has commenced
                  and the Indians have fled;" he shouted at the top of his voice; and grasping the
                  reins, he dashed over the revolting obstacle into the path.
               The Recluse and Palmer followed, at full speed, which they kept up for some time,
                  when, not finding any additional evidence to substantiate their conviction, they
                  relaxed into their ordinary gait, and silently and with great regret, at their
                  deception, rode along.
               Soon after Barney McClain and his companions left Bloody Run, in pursuit of the
                  Indians, with their victim, Colonel Johnston sunk into a purturbed sleep which was
                  caused by his loss of blood, and the utter prostration of his bodily vigor and
                  spirits.
               The youth that had been selected by Barney, to remain with, and watch over, the
                  Colonel, seemed very well satisfied to act in the capacity assigned him, and, sat
                  by the couch of the sufferer, to await his commands; and busied himself, in the
                  meantime, in loading and preparing the rifles, which he had gathered from the
                  battle field, in order to meet any emergency that might arise.
               As the Colonel rolled about uneasily upon his couch, the incoherent expressions,
                  which he frequently gave utterance to, denoted the most bitter mental agony, and
                  gave sad forebodings, as to the result of his sufferings. Ever and anon as these
                  wild ejaculations would burst from his lips, his attendant would bound from his seat and bend over him, eager to
                  offer his services in whatever they might be required; but the eyes of the aged
                  veteran were invariably closed, and his tongue refused to tell the misery, which
                  was consuming him.
               All day long he lay in this precarious situation, and it was not until the light
                  of day had faded away, and night—dark night had enveloped the plain, that he gave
                  any token of recovery.
               "Build a fire in the camp, my son," at length spoke the hoary-headed veteran,
                  whilst he endeavored to raise himself into a sitting posture, but being unequal to
                  the task, sunk back again upon his bed, "its light may be the means to conduct
                  some friend to our humble lodge."
               These words had scarcely passed his lips, when a splashing was heard in the
                  rivulet, and three horsemen came rushing into the enclosure. Dumb with
                  astonishment, the youth sprang out of the wigwam, rifle in hand, and, not
                  recognizing the intruders, put himself in a posture of defence; but, before he had
                  time to determine upon anything, he was bound in the arms of the Recluse.
               Johnston and Palmer ran into the wigwam; but not being able to discern anything
                  through the deep gloom of its precincts, were about to pass out again, when a
                  fervent, but half-smothered exclamation, from the lips of the Colonel arrested
                  their steps. They stood motionless, at the egress, in doubt whence the sound
                  proceeded, and the Colonel surmising their withdrawal, began to breath more
                  freely, and praise his Maker for having thus again delivered him from those whom
                  his sick heart bespoke to be enemies.
               His voice hardly struck the air, before the son recognized its cadence, and,
                  shrieking out "my father," threw himself upon the breast of the prostrate
                  sufferer.
               The Recluse with his captive now entered the wigwam, and, after the Colonel and
                  his affectionate son had given vent to their surcharged hearts, the former, by the
                  assistance of the Recluse, was enabled to rise and sit up on his couch. He then
                  proceeded to detail the incidents of their unfortunate expedition, beginning with
                  the incipient scene at Rogue's Harbor, and going through a relation of all the
                  particulars connected with it, adding, parenthetically, his own convictions, with
                  regard to certain unaccountable occurrences, and finishing with a vivid, but still
                  deeply mournful description of the battle and its fatal consequences,
               "We must hasten to join Barney," said the Recluse, after the Colonel had ceased to
                  speak, and, through exhaustion, sunk down upon his bed; "every moment renders the
                  interposing distance greater, and, the mountain fastnesses are but too well known
                  to the savages. Barney is, doubtless, close upon them; but the Indians are too
                  many to be overcome by his small force. We will make the number equal, and I have
                  no doubts, but that we shall speedily vanquish them."
               "Our horses are ready," said Henry Palmer, just then appearing in the wigwam,
                  having selected three, the finest of the steeds, which had been kept in the camp,
                  after the battle, at the suggestion of the youth, who had abided with the
                  Colonel.
               The younger Johnston was at a loss what to do, whether to remain with his aged
                  parent and comfort him in his affliction, or go to the rescue of his sister. The
                  old gentleman perceived the dilemma he was in, as he cast an enquiring look, now
                  at him, and then, at the Recluse;—for a bright flambeau now lit up the dismal
                  tenement, and, likewise, gave it a rather cheery, comfortable aspect. "Flee to the
                  assistance of our dear Mabel. I am out of danger,—the Lord be with you," said the
                  tender-hearted parent, finally.
               The youth sprang to the side of his father and while he embraced him, he bedewed
                  his silvered locks with tears, and then, without uttering a word, he bounded from
                  the wigwam, and followed by the Recluse and Palmer, they mounted the well-rested
                  steeds and striking into the trail soon buried themselves in the glooms of the
                  wilderness.
               The fatal issue of the battle and the partial discomfiture of his friends, in
                  addition to the sad situation of the Colonel, greatly depressed the spirits of
                  Henry Palmer; and as he rode through the forest, unheeding the tangled growth,
                  over which his steed was plunging, and contemplating upon the probable
                  consequences, which the late disastrous engagement might produce, new fears came
                  crowding upon his soul, and began to hurl him headlong into despair.
               "Might she not already have been sacrificed to the vengeance of the savages?—he
                  soliloquized, "and could her delicate frame possibly withstand those repeated
                  misfortunes!—Never!" he almost spoke aloud, and heaving a hollow sigh—a sigh of
                  despair, his head fell upon his breast. "Cheer up!—my dear brother in misfortune!"
                  said the Recluse conjecturing the cause of his grief, and his susceptible heart
                  deeply sympathizing with him. "There is no doubt as to the perfect safety of
                  Mabel, so long as Barney McClain is in her vicinity. The faithful, sagacious
                  Irishman will thwart them in every scheme, they can contrive; and I will wager, he
                  is almost treading upon their heels, and foresees their every design. Did he not
                  deliver your own dear mother," he continued, turning to Johnston, and becoming
                  animated, "when she was held a captive at the springs, whence flows the beauteous
                  Juniata? Did he not have a whole tribe of Indians to contend against, himself?—and
                  didn't he slay a greater number of them, than he has to battle with, now? While
                  Barney lives, our dear Mabel will live; he will shield
                  her to the latest moment of his existence!"
               Day light now began to show itself in the east, and the sun, with his coronet of
                  rosy spangles, ascended, majestically, into a clear sky—the harbinger of a
                  delectable day.
               The words of the Recluse fell, like balm, upon the desponding heart of Henry
                  Palmer; and the youthful Johnston smiled at the eulogium pronounced upon his old
                  favorite. The glories of the morning likewise aided to disperse the sadness, which
                  impended over them; and they now rode on with livelier spirits and lighter hearts,
                  than they had yet possessed, since they left their lovely Conewaga.
               The blueish mist, that hovered over the hills, in the distance obscured the
                  observation of the Alleghanies, to which they supposed, they were fast
                  approaching; and, it was not until several hours ride, that the lofty mountain
                  became visible. Their path became exceedingly rough as they advanced, and
                     retarded their progress very much,—so
                  much, indeed, that night overtook them, before they reached that stupendous mass,
                  which was then considered the boundary of civilization in the new world.
               Undaunted by their laborious journey, they began to clamber up the craggy
                  acclivity, with renewed vigor, fearless of the yawning chasm, upon the verge of
                  which their path sometimes extended, and which emitted horrific, discordant sounds
                  from its black and pluvious realms, as if it were filled with demons, just broke
                  loose from the fiery torments of Hades, vieing with each other to enunciate the
                  most hideous accents!
               The minds of the travelers, as they silently jogged along, were too busily engaged
                  in subduing other fears, which would naturally arise, to regard these frightful
                  exhalations. The fact of their not having yet fallen in with Barney McClain and
                  his adjutors, now produced various and fluctuating impressions upon their
                  hearts.
               Had they have had the light of day in their favor, however, they might have easily
                  distinguished, from the green twigs, that were lately broken, and many other
                  ostensible signs, which the considerate Hibernian left in his wake, their
                  approximation to their friends. The summit of the mountain was almost gained and
                  the Recluse was on the point of congratulating his companions, upon their safe
                  ascent, when the loud and repeated warblings of a solitary bird echoed through the
                  dense wood, that crowned the Alleghanies.
               "There's Barney McClain!" shouted Johnston, while his countenance beamed with
                  delight, and his young heart bounded for joy. "There are no martins, nor robins,
                  this time of year; and I know that old Barney can imitate any living creature;"
                  and, spurring up their horses, they reached the brow of the mountain in a few
                  minutes.
               "Och, bi my saul, an' its not dhraming that I am," said the fearless guide, as he
                  issued from behind a large tree, where he had taken his post, and came up to the
                  horsemen.
               "I expected ye, this long time; an' a sorry thravel you've had, besure; but divil
                  the much further nade ye go, for these runaway thaves, I guess, have camped not
                  far off, an' we will have a look at 'em about mornin'."
               "Have you seen the Indians since they left the battle-field?" inquired Johnston,
                  pressing closer to the guide.
               "Do ye mind that, now!" exclaimed the latter with marked astonishment at the
                  interrogatory. "Sure, ye don't think that auld Barney would thravel this far,
                  without seein' the bloody varlets? Faith, I've bin in gun-shot o' them all day;
                  and if it hadn't 'a' bin for our swate young misthress, whom two of the cunnin'
                  bastes carried in the rear, they'd 'a' had a many a good smell o' my puder afore
                  this, inyway."
               "Where are the savages?" asked Henry Palmer, eagerly, the latter sentence having
                  aroused him from his reverie, to the consciousness of his presence.
               "Well you see when we came nere the mountain, we had to secrate ourselves in the
                  bushes, an' wait till the nagers got up;—and divil a bit do I like to wait on
                  nagers, either,—and so they got a little the start o' us; but they'll be afther
                  stoppin' for the night, somewhere, hereabouts, and then we'll pay them a short
                  visit, jist to let them know, that we haven't forgot them, and feel much interest
                  in them, you know; and—"
               "What has gone with the young men and my brother, who attended you?" interrupted
                  Palmer, the thought of the latter's kindly intervention in his behalf, and his
                  fraternal affection, arising, for the moment, above every other consideration.
               "Bad luck to me, inyway! Do ye mind that, now! Here I've bin a standin' an'
                  relatin' these things, while the boys are abidin' us. Whin I heard yee's a coming
                  up the mountain, I told the boys to go ahead, while I staid to greet ye, for I
                  hadn't any doubts, but that it was ye that I heard a comin'. Now we must hurry up
                  the cakes—as my swate Betty used to say—and look to our inimies."
               He then quickly led forth his horse from the place where he had concealed him, and
                  moving into the dark and toilsome path, he was followed by the others at a rapid
                  pace, which soon brought them up to their friends; who had been slowly riding
                  along, in wonder at the protracted absence of their guide, and uneasy as to the
                  result of it.
               After having warmly saluted each other, they rode on briskly, until the
                  wide-spreading light of the camp-fires, reflected on the heavens, burst upon their
                  view; when, at the suggestion of Barney, they dismounted and led their horses into
                  a thick clump of hazel, where they hastened them; and then, they warily strode
                  toward the camp, guided by the admonitions and hortatory counsel of Barney.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               Mabel Johnston and Henry Palmer were reared together. Habits of intimate
                  association from early youth, awakened in them the warmest attachment, which
                  subsequent years only served to strengthen. The lively picturesqueness of the
                  scenery, which encompassed their homes in the little valley of the Blue Spring, so
                  congenial to the romantic sensibilities of their souls, was admirably adapted to
                  inspire them with love ; and Henry claimed the sprightly, blue-eyed maiden as his
                  bride, while yet the rosy tints of youth played lightly upon her cheek.
               Although the heir of a scanty inheritance, it was deemed sufficient for the
                  daughter of his father's bosom friend—Col. William Johnston; who,ever repugnant to
                  the unnatural, eligible consideration of the world, smiled upon the son of his
                  deceased friend, and blessed him, as he asked the boon so dear, and urged no other
                  plea, than their long-cherished, reciprocal love.
               
               His character for virtue, honesty and truth was not unequal to her own; and, as
                  the Colonel was richly possessed of this world's goods, the disproportionate
                  legacy of the youth was but little heeded. The vast extent of land owned by the
                  former, entirely enclosed the Chapel premises, and the farm of the Palmer heirs
                  was contiguous to it.
               The valley of the Blue Spring was a world within itself—a world large enough and
                  pretty enough, too, to meet every desire of Mabel and Henry. The commotions of the
                  outer world came not to disturb the felicity of their dreams; their youth was
                  passed in one continuous cycle of pleasure, unrestrained by the formalities of
                  etiquette, unchanged in the vicissitude of time. The cottage of the Recluse was
                  their favorite resort, and full many a garland of roses, and pinks, and lilies,
                  interwoven with the flagrant mignionette, and soft-petaled blue-bell-zone, did the
                  joyous Mabel pluck and weave for her Henry.
               The delicious shade of the grove, too—which enveloped the cottage—how it delighted
                  their young hearts, to revel in its cooling bosom, and watch the sunbeam as it
                  danced upon the billowy wave. Oftimes they would sit for hours, upon that
                  comfortably constructed seat of the Recluse, under two large oaks, in the shadow
                  of whose wide-spreading branches, they would watch the rapid movements of the
                  sleek pike at the bottom of the creek, and the still more rapid whirlings and
                  twistings of the younger portion of the finny tribe about the glassy surface.
               There was nothing to mar their happiness in the least, save the endlessly
                  miserable condition of the Recluse, the secret of which they had long known. How
                  often did they expostulate with and beseech him to drown the sorrows that were
                  rankling in his heart! How affectionately they 
                     carressed
                     caressed
                   and frolicked around him, endeavoring, in every wise, to draw a smile
                  upon his stern countenance! And how it grieved them to find all their devices in
                  pursuit of that end, fruitless!
               Ah! they knew not the depths of his love, the roots of which spreading wider and
                  sinking deeper in his heart, like those of the forest oak, were the only support
                  of his existence! Although he was unusually happy in their presence, and spoke in
                  a lively manner, of the joys in store for them ;—for that was the most pleasing
                  thought he cherished,—a rigid sternness was ever observable on his features; and,
                  moreover, a mournful expression, would, at such times, heighten their melancholy
                  cast.
               Mabel and Henry were to be married, the very eve on which she was borne, by
                  Conowa, into the Indian camp, on the 
                     Alleganies
                     Alleghanies
                  ! Ever since her capture, she fondly hoped that she would be released
                  before that day, in order that the engagement might be fulfilled, and her lover be
                  spared the pains, which, she knew, her absence, on his return, would inflict;—but
                  now, as she lay upon that downy couch, and cast an occasional, sidelong glance at
                  Conowa,—which never escaped his notice, but rendered him still more vigilant—the
                  painful sensations which these thoughts begat, almost overwhelmed her.
               There were no extenuating circumstances; Conowa loved her to madness; and the
                  inimical demonstrations she witnessed during the day, on their journey and on
                  their entrance into the camp, in connexion with the frantic solicitude of the
                  Chief, were ostensible evidences of the general disapprobation he had incurred,
                  and rendered it highly probable, that, having gone thus far, his heart, brave and
                  immutable as it was, could not be prevailed upon, by any minor considerations.
               The universal stillness, that succeeded the violent outbursts of the evening, to
                  the mind of Conowa, portended evil; while the occasional discernment of a savage,
                  as he stealthily moved from wigwam to wigwam, and 
                     reconoitered
                     reconnoitered
                   his own position, gave additional apprehension.
               To both Mabel and Conowa the night seemed almost endless, and many a lingering
                  glance did he cast toward sun-rise, to watch for a glimpse of approaching day. The
                  stars shone brightly,—almost as brightly as in the cold, long nights of
                  Winter;—and not a cloud interposed to dim their sparkling lustre.
               It was now drawing on toward day break. The disappearance of Wyannowe had not been
                  noticed in the general tumult, and she had been wandering through the forests, in
                  a state of mental aberration, ever since she flew from the presence of Conowa.
                  Finally she came within the precincts of the camp, and sauntering along, presented
                  herself pale and haggard, at the ingress of the lodge, which was then occupied by
                  the warriors, who were busily engaged, in deliberating upon the best means of
                  sating their vengeance on the chief.
               An involuntary exclamation of surprise ran around the circle, as they beheld the
                  spirit-like form before them. Silent, intent, they looked upon the maniacal being,
                  while she beat the air with her arms, and made the wildest gesticulations and
                  contortions. In their present excited condition, such a manifestation alone could
                  avail to abstract their attention from the weightier matters then pending; for the
                  Indian has always considered that an irrational being is not of earth, nor born of
                  man.
               An unbroken spell of quietness, pervaded the assembly for some minutes.—All
                  watched the varying features of the parent, as he gazed, with pain and terror,
                  upon his child; who 
                     retured
                     returned
                   his gaze, and, by and by, as if by mesmeric or psychological influence,
                  began to give signs of restoration to reason. As soon as this became evident, the
                  father, divining the cause of her intolerable sufferings, sprang from his seat and
                  placed a knife in her hand.
               The significations, which attended the action, were but too fully comprehended by
                  the "Blue Bird;" and her vengeful, hardened heart—hardened by her cruel treatment
                  and despair—delighted to consummate the mission.
               It was now that sombrous hour before daylight, when darkness hangs her thickest,
                  blackest folds over the earth, and sleep seems sweetest. Gliding into the
                  bordering hedge, Wyannowe sped, like a shadow, as noiseless and dark, in the
                  direction of the wigwam of Conowa. The latter still maintained his watch and
                  position; his long vigil did not make him remiss. Mabel, however, having consigned
                  herself to the beneficent guardianship of the Almighty, and consoled herself with
                  his manifold, infallible promises, had in this auspicious hour, sunk into a
                  profound sleep.
               The fire was still flashing and blazing up, and now illumined the interior of the
                  wigwam more brightly than ever. Conowa's countenance likewise appeared redolent with smiles; for the hour of
                  danger he supposed to have passed. His eyes were intently fixed on Mabel,—too
                  intently, indeed, for he scarcely saw the dark arm that protruded through the bear
                  skin, immediately over her, until the gleaming knife it held, and was about to
                  plunge into her heart, reflected the sparkling blaze upon his face.
               His deadly rifle was directed toward it, on the instant; but, oh! the spastic
                  feelings, that convulsed his frame, in that instant! Death on either hand must
                  ensue! It was Wyannowe!—and oh! the consequences! The fatal blow was descending—he
                  fired, and the knife but grazed the pale cheek of Mabel!
               The report of the rifle as it reverberated along the mountain top, blended
                  horribly with the unearthly scream which followed it. Before it had ceased to
                  vibrate upon the air, the shrill war-whoop rang through the camp, and by the
                  little speck of light, which now shot off from the east, Conowa perceived the
                  dusky forms of his enemies to come running fleetly toward his lodge. He instantly
                  sprang into it, and stood over the prostrate Mabel, and then, having reloaded his
                  rifle, and made ready his other defensive weapons, he awaited their arrival.
               Mad with excitement and rage, two of the warriors came bounding into the wigwam;
                  but the well-poised rifle of the Chief, and the fiery flashes that shot from his
                  eyes, brought them to a stand. While these whooped and shouted to excite the
                  attention of Conowa, two muscular forms emerged steadily through the bearskin and
                  grasped the tiger-like Chief in their arms. The latter made a desperate plunge to
                  free himself, and the three fell together in front of the fire. The rapid
                  evolutions of their bodies on the ground, at first, prevented the other warriors
                  from assisting; but, the two proving themselves too powerful for him, soon held
                  him fast enough; and then, with the aid of the others, they bound him to a
                  tree,—for, he knew not, cared not, what purpose!
               Half dead with affright, they now bore the shrinking, quivering Mabel from the
                  wigwam, and likewise bound her to a sapling, directly opposite Conowa.
               The Indians then vanished for a moment—a moment of extreme torture to the Chief,
                  who well knew what was to ensue, but one of great relief to Mabel, who surmised
                  their departure. They quickly returned, however, and then it was that she received
                  a full knowledge of the awful catastrophe, which was to befall her.
               A delicate mind is always a quick interpreter. She was to be burned!—burned
                  alive!—before the eyes of Conowa!—for whose punishment the immolation was to be
                  made!
               A cold chill ran through her frame, as she opined this calamity, and colder still
                  was the dewy moisture that settled on her brow! The bitterness of that moment,
                  when the happy reminiscenses of by-gone days, in panoramic view, floated swiftly
                  before her imagination, was too deep for expression. The paly ray of a lone star
                  lit upon her paler cheek, as if to soothe its chilling torture! Her eyes were
                  turned heavenward; her lips moved—but gave forth no utterance! Motionless as a
                  statue, she stood by the tree, to which she was fastened, and which with the sharp
                  thongs almost rending her flesh, supported her.
               The agony, that shone upon the countenance of Conowa, as he 
                     descerned
                     discerned
                   the fiendish gratulations of his enemies, who were indulging themselves,
                  for a moment, in dancing around their victim, was too painful for his ardent soul
                  to bear; and he struggled to free himself, until he blood trickled down from his
                  lacerated limbs, and he became exhausted.
               At length the fire for the sacrifice was kindled, and a little column of smoke
                  began to rise, when a solitary whip-poor-will struck up his plaintive song, and
                  immediately a rustling of the bushes close by, was heard, from which the Recluse
                  and his associates emerged with a shout, that made the welkin ring.
               Henry Palmer, not heeding the savages, ran quickly ahead toward the fire.—One of
                  the warriors made an effort to spring upon him; but a ball from an unseen rifle
                  that instant entered his breast! By this time they had all come to the spot. The
                  Indians perceiving the advantage they had lost, by carelessly leaving their rifles
                  at the wigwam, about a hundred yards off, stood quiet, intending to close in with
                  their enemies as soon as they neared; but, as Henry Palmer had hurled aside the
                  burning faggots, and, having released his fainting Mable, was bearing her away,
                  the war-whoop of vengeance burst from the savages, who all rushed around him,
                  knowing that they would not be fired at, and thirsting for the blood of their
                  victim.
               The diversion was so sudden and unexpected, that the Recluse scarcely knew how to
                  proceed. One of the warriors seized the curling ringlets of Mabel in his fingers,
                  as her head reclined upon the shoulder of Henry, and was about to dash his
                  tomahawk into her brain, when another fire, as if from heaven, sent a bullet into
                  his skull! The remaining savages, rendered desperate by their perilous situation,
                  flung their tomahawks at Mabel and Henry, and then made for the bushes. The report
                  of five rifles instantaneously followed this movement, and, the Indians fell dead
                  to the ground!
               A convulsive bound on the part of Mabel, elicited by the report of the rifle,
                  almost precipitated herself and Henry, and saved them from the glittering weapons,
                  which flew over their heads and quivered in a large oak beside them. The battle
                  was now over.
               "Well now I guess these divilish thaves will niver bother anybody in the future,"
                  said Barney, while he descended from his lofty station in the tree, where' he had
                  posted himself, in order to amaze the Indians, and watch calmly the progress of
                  the battle; determined that none of his comrades should fall, which the deficiency
                  of arms, on the part of the warriors, assured him, might be affected.
               An exclamation from Conowa, whom they had not as yet noticed, now drew their
                  attention; and they all turned about with their rifles ready to fire. "Save him!"
                  shrieked Mabel, in most compassionate accents, just restored from her paroxysm,
                  and clinging more firmly to her lover and preserver; "Let him live!"
               Both her orders were obeyed. The withes, that had tormented him so cruelly were
                  severed; and weak and broken-hearted the majestic form of Conowa sank down to the
                  ground. Mabel then tenderly dressed his wounds, in the doing of which, she could
                  hardly restrain from tears, as he looked upon her, with despair pair—black despair fixed on every feature, of his
                  countenance, and muttered faintly, "Conowa die, if the pale-face leave him!" The
                  party all now drew around the prostrate Chief, and scanned his fine proportions,
                  as he lay supine, with his arms folded upon his bosom.
               Mabel was exceedingly pained at his unequivocal wretchedness; and clinging more
                  closely to Henry—the horrible fears of the morning still shivering her nerves—she
                  watched the ever-varying lineaments of the Chief, while his heart heaved and
                  swelled as if it would break asunder its bony casement. "Faith we'd bether be
                  afther starting off; inyway; one of these nasty varmints has given us the slip,—by
                  the Virgin it was no lead of auld Barney's that let him off, ither!—and may be
                  he'll be afther bearing the news to some other quarter, whence another race o'
                  these divils might come upon us;" said Barney, as he led forth the horses, which
                  he had gone for directly after the Indians had been vanquished.
               A tear of heart-felt commiseration trembled upon the pallid cheek of Mabel, as her
                  lover raised her to the saddle; and, having mounted his own steed, he rode along
                  by her side in the rear of the others.
               The sun was now shining full upon them, and gilded the leafless oaks with his own
                  radiant hues. The young men, elated by their success were profuse in their
                  panegyrics upon "old Barney," who amused them with egotistical rehearsals of his
                  own adventures among the "Red divils," and soon made them forgetful of the
                  hardships, which they had lately encountered, by the droll expressions and comical
                  mimicry, in which he delighted to indulge.
               It was far otherwise with Mabel and Henry. They heeded not the joviality of the
                  party; but each listened intently, to the narration of what had occurred, in the
                  interim, in the experience of the other.
               The pungent trials of Mabel, as her gloomy feelings forced her to relate them,
                  pathetically, drew many a heavy sigh from the loving heart of Henry; while his
                  accounts, although that which had reference to the rescue of Ida and the thought
                  of soon meeting her, gave her a momentary pleasure—grieved her heart, when she
                  heard of the sorrowful condition of her aged father; notwithstanding the
                  circumlocution, by which the youth endeavored to make it appear very lenient,
                  premising that her presence would greatly re-invigorate the Colonel.
               They had by this time, traversed the whole extent of their mountain path, and they
                  now began to descend. Henry led his steed by the bridle, and, walking beside
                  Mabel, held her tenderly upon her seat. The mountain air seemed propitious to her;
                  the death-like 
                     palor
                     pallor
                   of her face began to dissipate, as her fears passed lightly away, and
                  her thoughts became more settled and calm.
               A deep tint, like that of a rose bud at its first opening, marked a little spot on
                  her cheek; the precursor of renewed animation. Henry perceived this, and he
                  inwardly rejoiced at its prognostication.
               When they were come to the foot of the mountain, the youth again mounted his
                  steed; and they were slowly riding along as before, when a rustling in the
                  underwood close by, was heard, and looking in the direction it proceeded, they saw
                  the stately form of Conowa, now almost bent to the earth with the weight of his
                  agony, approaching them.
               A shout from Henry brought the whole party to a halt. Mabel was not in the least
                  alarmed; but her heart was almost melted within her, when she gazed upon the
                  broken-hearted warrior, who came up to her side, and discovered such a depth of
                  misery, as would have moved the most callous to have beheld.
               "Oh! won't the pale-face be squaw to Conowa?" he firmly interrogated, with a
                  distress so poignant as to contort the features of his face!
               Mabel was so deeply affected by this manifestation, as not to be able to reply for
                  several minutes; but the torturing suspense she knew she was inflicting, at length
                  compelled her to respond.
               "No! no! the pale-face must go back to the wigwam of her father, or the grey hairs
                  will go sorrowing to his grave!"
               The Chief with a heavy groan fell to the ground, and uttered emphatically, "Conowa
                  die!"
               "Come, my dear," said Henry finally, his heart full of emotions the most gloomy
                  and dejecting, "our absence will be a great relief to him ;—we can certainly
                  benefit him, nothing."
               They drew up the reins of their horses, which had been leisurely nipping the
                  scathed verdure, and hastened away from the scene. They had gone but a few rods,
                  however, when a cry of mingled anguish and despair, broke upon their ears, and
                  wheeling about, they saw Conowa on his knees, facing them, with his bosom bared,
                  and a shining knife in his upraised hand, about to plunge into it!
               "Run, Henry!—quick!—save him!" screamed Mabel, as she turned from the revolting
                  spectacle.
               Henry bounded from his steed instantly, and sprang with all haste to the Indian,
                  to arrest the blow; but he came too late! The sharp, ruthless steel had pierced
                  his heart, and he lay in the last struggle of death!
               Many were the tears that were shed over the grave, to which the remains of the
                  noble-souled Chief were consigned an hour afterward. At the foot of Laurel Hill,
                  and on the bank of a purling brook, that gushes from it, stands, or rather, now,
                  lies, the mossy sand-stone, upon which is inscribed very rudely, the following 
                     epigramatic
                     epigrammatic
                   epitaph:
               
                  HERE LIES THE NOBLE CONOWA, A CHIEF OF THE SHEWANEES, A victim of Love.
                     Pax secum.
                      M.
               
               
               The younger Johnston had left the party before this tragedy transpired. He
                  hastened onward to Bloody Run, in order to bear the glad tidings to his father,
                  and prepare him for the reception of his lost child. He found him in a much better
                  condition than he had even hoped; his gratifying intelligence also wrought a magic
                  charm in his mental, as well as—apparently—in his physical constitution. His
                  habitual vigor of body was to a wondrous degree, restored; while his
                  characteristic vivacity and liveliness began to exhibit themselves, in the active
                  preparation he set himself about, to receive his "chirping dove,"—as he
                  affectionately called her—and her rescuers.
               It was midnight when the party arrived at Bloody Run. Although the moon withheld
                  her mellow fulgence, the full-stared heavens diffused a sparkling splendor; while
                  the Pathagorean music serenaded the legions of worlds. Barney, too, made the air
                  vocal with the notes of all sorts of birds; and, occasionally, "to scare the
                  boys," he would produce a low, monotonous growl, not unlike that of the black
                  bear, which was in the same wilderness with him.
               While the men were thus amusing themselves, Mabel and Henry rode swiftly in
                  advance of them; the latter predicting that they were nigh to the Run. When they
                  reached the brow of the hill, against whose bosom, stood the lodge, tenanted by
                  her father, they instantly observed the ruddy flame, which had been kept up for
                  their guidance, and fearlessly plunging over the thick coppice, they entered upon
                  the late battle ground.
               The Colonel was still sitting by the fire with his son, anxiously awaiting their
                  friends; but as soon as they heard the trampling of the horses, they rushed toward
                  the paths and a few moments brought the daring riders to view.
               "My daughter!" exclaimed the overjoyed father, as she leaped from the steed into
                  his arms. He could say no more! The flood-gate of paternal love was opened, and in
                  a warm gush, it poured out; a most grateful relief to a delirium of joy or
                  sorrow.
               The Recluse and his band soon afterward came in; and having congratulated the
                  Colonel, upon his happy restoration, they prepared to remain for the night and
                  start off early the next morning, for their sweet Auvernum—as the Recluse happily
                  styled it—their blissful valley of the Blue Spring.
               
               As it would be wearisome to the reader, we will omit the rehearsal of the
                  proceedings of the two days' journey, which brought our adventurers to their
                  homes. We must state, however, that the Colonel was quite well enough the
                  succeeding morning to set out with them; and that Mabel being now relieved of all
                  her fears, assumed her accustomed sprightliness; and, from the description of
                  Ida—the princely-looking Ida—as given by Henry, who was, without doubt anxiously
                  awaiting her return, with another circumstance, that was to speedily ensue,—which
                  circumstance we would not mention for the world!—nothing, but the distance that
                  intervened, gave her the least displeasure;—and even that was greatly mollified,
                  and, at times, entirely forgotten, by the smiles and tender blandishments of
                  Henry.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           After long storms and tempests overblowne,
                           The sunne at length his joyous face doth cleare;
                           So when as fortune all his spight hath showne,
                           Some blissful houres at last must needs appeare;
                           Else should afflicted wights oft-times despaire.
                        
                     
                     
                        FAERIE QUEENE.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Beneath a moving shade of fruits and flowers,
                        Onward they march to Hymen's sacred bowers;
                        With lifted torch he lights the festive train
                        Sublime, and leads them in his golden chain;
                        Joins the fond pair, indulgent to their vows,
                        And hides, with mystic veil, their blushing brows.
                     
                  
                  DARWIN.
               
               We have frequently had occasion to intimate, in the course of our narrative, that
                  the virtuous charter of the Recluse was duly appreciated by every inhabitant of
                  the valley; and few there were, who had not visited him, in his wood- embosomed
                  lodge, at whose door, the wayfarer never knocked, without being hospitably
                  received, and never left it, without breathing a fervent prayer for its
                  inmate.
               Although a rigid sectarian, his eloquence and erudition, added to his uniform
                  sweetness of disposition and zealous piety, brought to his humble abode, those who
                  were weary and heavy laden of all denominations; and none passed from his
                  threshold, who did not feel themselves spiritually profited, and lauded their
                  gracious Maker for the goodly instrument he had placed in their midst.
               Mrs. Johnston loved him as her own. Under his paternal guidance and instruction,
                  her children had imbibed largely of his own inherent perfections, while the
                  admiration, which his strikingly commanding address engendered, warmed their young
                  hearts into a love for him, not less than fraternal.
               It was not a matter of wonder, then,—although wholly inexplicable to Ida—that,
                  since her arrival at the mansion, every day brought with it an accession of
                  acquaintances, who invariably expressed the highest satisfaction at seeing her;
                  and, being enraptured by her brilliant colloquy and more dazzling charms,
                  evidenced a feeling of regret, when they were forced to withdraw from her
                  enchanting presence. Her entire past history, her queenly appearance and
                  deportment, were breathed over the valley, as if borne by the Peri of the
                  Conewaga.
               Well might the Recluse, thought they, have gone into exile to cherish in his bosom
                  such an image; when their own little world at least, could not
                  furnish another like her!
               These courteous demonstrations infused into her heart the happiest emotions;—and,
                  seemingly, threw off the veil, that hung over the future. She thought that she was
                  surrounded by a new class of beings—beings whose greatest delight was to intensify
                  her felicity, and render the pathway of life, smooth and agreeable ble. Kindness and love breathed from every one,
                  that saluted her; and each succeeding day aided to fill her cup of happiness.
               Mrs. Johnston smiled at the joyfulness of her adopted daughter, and prayed that no 
                     unforseen
                     unforeseen
                   occurrence might break the auspicious spell. Her own afflictions were
                  very much alleviated by her presence; indeed the unspeakable pleasure, which she
                  derived from her company, could not tolerate her absence. To the kindly matron,
                  she was as a guardian Angel; ever hovering about her to meet her wants, and to be
                  a light to disperse the darkness, which would, at times, encompass her. Her soft
                  endearments, her brilliant conversation, her tender watchfulness and attention—all
                  made impressions upon the heart of the good old lady, the most benignant, the most
                  lasting.
               Thus time hung not so heavily upon them, as it must otherwise have done. As we
                  have before said, the goodly dames and maidens of the valley, flocked to the
                  mansion, day after days and when evening would come, and they would depart to
                  their homes, Ida and Mrs. Johnston would sit on the porch, in front of the
                  building, and breathe of the cooling zephyr as it ran up on the stilly wave of the
                  Conewaga; while the rays of the declining sun, casting their golden light upon the
                  rainbow foliage of Autumn, beautified the landscape, and showed forth the glories
                  of the season.
               They were sitting here one evening—a glorious evening—side by side, gazing upon a
                  large cloud, that stretched athwart the western horizon. It was a magnificent
                  sight. It rose like a vast pyramid, not quite so regular in its gradations, but
                  sufficiently so to give it, in the distance, a naturalness of form and
                  architecture, that art could not successfully imitate.
               Its base was tinged with a deep yellow, which gradually softened into a roseate
                  hue, and the apex was of blended purple and blue. These various colors were
                  harmoniously diversified, with the declension of the sun; and it was this sublime
                  variegation, that they were so abstractedly regarding, when the oft-heard notes of
                  the hunting-bugles of the boys, resounded in the breathing stillness; and before
                  Ida and her companion could reach the gate of the yard, Mabel and Henry came
                  bounding over the bridge, and, springing from their horses, rushed into it.
               "My mother, my sister!" shouted Mabel, as she flung her arms about both their
                  necks and pressed them to her bosom!
               In a few moments the Colonel, the Recluse, and the younger Johnston came running
                  in; and then followed a scene of hilarity, past description. Old Barney was as
                  happy as any of them; and he gave vent to his feelings in a lively ballad, which
                  had a most desirable influence upon all of them.
               "Come, girls, let us have a good supper," said Col. Johnston, finally, as they
                  began to brush away the tears of joy; "for it's a long time since we had tea!"
               Away ran Mabel, and her adopted sister, hand in hand, to the back part of the
                  house; and, the former having received the gratulations of the old domestics, a
                  terrible rattling among the "tea things" succeeded; and soon there issued from the
                  kitchen into their dining room, the well-flavored dishes, that put an end to the
                  consideration of all minor affairs, and to which, the weary travelers did ample
                  justice.
               They had scarcely got through with their meal, when the holy father Coleman,
                  having recognized the voice of Barney, made his appearance among them.
               That night the old mansion rang with peals of laughter and merriment; and it was
                  whispered, that Barney, to infinite satisfaction, had the cooks dancing till the
                  kitchen was all topsy turvy!
               Ida and Mabel were constantly together during the evening; and it seemed that all
                  their hopes, with regard to each other, were signally realized. Their mutual,
                  sisterly affection and sympathetic feeling were evinced by the long, speechless
                  embrace, which followed every joyful ebulition in the party. The cognitive
                  glances, that passed between them, while they watched, stealthily, the movements
                  of the Colonel, who had been secretly addressing himself to father Coleman, and,
                  afterward, to the Recluse and Henry Palmer, penetrated their hearts and
                  communicated the most welcome intelligence; especially since he was engaged in its
                  furtherance. "But, my dearest friend, you are certainly apprised of my inability
                  to enter into a matrimonial connection, for a month or two!" said the Recluse,
                  rather sadly, as he was about to leave the mansion, and had been told the
                  arrangements gone into, by the Colonel.
               "I am apprised of no such thing!" said the latter, quickly, "I owe you more than I
                  can ever repay; beside, I have separated my land into farms,—which I should have
                  done long ago,—and have plenty—more than plenty—for all; so see that you be here
                  in the morning with suitable smiles to meet your adorable bride; and trouble not
                  yourself about this, if you value my happiness!" With this he urged him off,
                  unwilling to hear any extenuation he might offer.
               "Now you baggages, be gone!" he said, playfully, as he re-entered the room, "and
                  look to it, that ye wear bright countenances, and equip yourselves with the
                  paraphernalia of brides, in the morning!"
               Looking, enquiringly, at the mother, for a moment, and perceiving the truth in her
                  meaning nod, they ran out of the room. Too overjoyed at the prospect to give
                  utterance to their thoughts, they threw themselves upon their snowy pillows, and
                  were soon wrapt in a sweet sleep, not dreaming of the perils they had encountered,
                  the sufferings they had endured, but only the bliss, which would so soon be
                  vouchsafed to them.
               The next morning ushered in the day, which was to consummate the felicity of these
                  hitherto unfortunate lovers. There was nothing now to interfere with their
                  happiness, no irreconcilable father, no obdurate mother, to interrupt their
                  transports. It was the latter end of October; the sun blended his soft lustre with
                  the landscapes variagated hues; health-inspiring breezes frolicked over the
                  expansive bosom of the Conewaga; the whip-poor-will caroled his lithesome song! 
                     "The air was fragrance, and the world was love."
                  
               
               Father Coleman was up early, and, invested with his sacerdotal robe, manifested
                  excessive joy, 
                     "To tie those bonds, which naught but death could sever,"
                  
                   for those whom he loved so dearly and
                  whose happiness he so longed to complete.
               The melodious peals of the organ now swelled through the chapel, with their
                  varying strains, and denoted that the hour had arrived.
               Forth from the mansion issued the happy group,—too happy, indeed, to break the
                  sacred silence, that obtained.
               First came father Coleman, bearing the diadem of Heaven—the cross. Then followed
                  the Recluse and Ida; after them Henry and Mabel, with Col. Johnston and his Lady,
                  who were succeeded by a goodly number of guests—the whole making a grand
                  procession.
               Mabel and Ida were attired precisely alike, "in robes white as the southern
                  clouds, spangled with silver, and trimmed with superb lace." Their floating curls
                  were confined by wreaths of artificial flowers, whose lustre dared not vie with
                  the brilliant tints of the rose and lily, which were again blended on their
                  cheeks.
               They entered the holy chapel. The organ instantly ceased its melody. A breathing
                  stillness for a short time, pervaded the hallowed precincts; and then the good
                  father arose before them; and, with the Holy Virgin and our infant Redeemer
                  smiling upon them, they were joined in the sacred bonds of wedlock.
               
               The major part of a century has passed away, dear reader, since these events
                  transpired. Many changes have, of course, been wrought in the little valley of the
                  Blue Spring; but amid these changes, the crumbling remains of the mansion of Col.
                  Johnston,—which not many years ago had been converted into a flour mill—are still
                  visible.
               Of his descendants as well as those of the Recluse, although some have left the
                  valley, the greater part still linger in its poetic confines, over whom the bell
                  of the chapel has a magic influence, the Conewaga a bewitching power!
               How often have I angled in that glorious stream, and basked in the sunny smiles of
                  a very near friend, who was a Forney!
               Rogue's Harbor,—now Hanover, did not obtain that opprobrious epithet, from any
                  evil characteristic, on the part of its inhabitants. It seemed to have been given
                  it, by the "ferflucter Marlanders," who were perpetually contending for it, until
                  the epoch of Mason and Dixon's line. We may venture to give its history—which is
                  full of interest—to the world, some time or other, but not soon!
            
         
      
   
