
    ----CITATION----
        Burnham, Geo. P. (1814-1902). Nell Noell .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5956
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               NELL NOELL, 
               THE LIGHT-KEEPER'S TREASURE. 
               A Romance of England, France and Italy. 
             
            BY GEORGE P. BURNHAM.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCH,  
                     121 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
          
       
      
         
            Nell Noell 
             
            NELL NOELL. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE WAIF. 
               
                   
                
               THE fortunate father of so fair and gentle a daughter as the heroine of the following pages, might well pride himself upon the gift! And no one could better appreciate so priceless a family jewel than Harry Noell, the poor Light-Keeper of Beachy Head. 
               In storm and sunshine, when the angry sea dashed wildly upon the rough eastern coast of England, amid the calm or riot of the elements, Nelly was ever unchanged in her devotion to the duties that devolved on her-always ready to aid her good-hearted, but impoverished father, in the arduous routine of his labors. And her share of the daily task that fortune had imposed upon the parent was by no means light or easy; yet she resigned herself cheerfully and earnestly to its performance, forgetful of her own comforts or convenience, unmindful and heedless of all danger or jeopardy, so that she relieved, in any degree, the hardships or the toil to which her loved and affectionate sire was so constantly exposed in his precarious vocation. 
               Few occupations are so thankless, and few positions are so poorly repaid for the risk and responsibilities attendant thereon, as is that of the light-house keeper. Yet these situations are sought after, and are eagerly taken up by the hardy and venturesome, because there is a certain income attending them, from government; and thus-though the emolument be trifling, and too often, entirely inadequate to compare with the perils to be encountered-competent and worthy men are readily found to fill these posts, so important and needful to universal commerce. 
               Harrison Noel-Harry Noell, as he was familiarly called-had long been the poor recipient of the king's favor, in the capacity of light-house keeper, at the perilous point we have alluded to; and, so well did he value the companionship and services of his only child, that he appropriately denominated her his treasure. And indeed this was the only "treasure" he could boast of-for, excepting the plain and scanty furniture that was scattered over his humble dwelling, a rough but serviceable wardrobe, a few books, and a boat or two of small value-he laid claim to no worldly goods or adornments. 
               Yet Harry Noell was happy-content with his lot, idolized by and dearly loving his daughter, whilst in health, inured to the hardships of his calling, and esteemed by the few who knew him, or of him-he had little care for the future, save to provide, if possible, at the proper time, for the coming welfare of his child. Nelly had come to be nearly eighteen years old, and the father looked upon her ripened and yet ripening charms with all a parent's fond solicitude. 
               "I cannot give her fortune," he would say to himself, as he contemplated the future for her, "alack! I have no fortune to bestow! She is so like her angel-mother, too. It would be hard indeed if she must be joined to one who cannot better provide for her comfort and happiness, than her poor father has been able to do." 
               Poor-ambitious-over-anxious Harry Noell! How little did he reflect that his "treasure" was as happy as any bird upon the wing, always joyous and contented in her, humble home-never dreaming of being separated from her parent, and having no wish for any change of life from that which she had only known, thus far, from the cradle, up. 
               "To be sure," Harry would argue, mentally, as he brooded upon the subject, "her mother lost no time, and spared no care in her education, before she was taken away from us; and Nelly has well profited from the instruction bestowed on her. But she has seen little of the world, society would startle her, should she be suddenly thrown upon other than her present resources, and I must look to it, seasonably." 
               When the wind howled along the dreary coast, and when the combers rolled in roughly against the long rocky beach below the light-house, such thoughts as these would force themselves on Harry's mind. The day that was now just closing had been a gloomy one, and the light-keeper found himself alone, thus buried in thought, intent upon some plans of temporal advantage for his daughter's benefit, at such time as he might, peradventure, be taken away from her-or when she should have become "of age." As the evening shadows begun to hang over the land and sea, it was the custom at the light, before sunset to survey the horizon with the glass, and note if any vessels were in sight. While her father lingered in his room, still thinking of what he might do for his daughter's good, Nelly had taken the glass for the customary examination before the lighting of the lanterns-when she descried, far away to windward, a small object that resembled a craft of some kind-upset or dismantled, apparently-and encumbered with a sail or large sheet of cloth. She lost no time in apprising her father of the discovery. 
               "It may be a yawl, or a long-boat-possibly a yacht," said Nelly, as her father hurried on a rough-weather suit, "but I can't make it out exactly. At all events, it is a disabled boat of some kind; for I could distinctly see a large sail, I think, adrift upon the starboard side." 
               "How does it bear?" asked Harry. 
               "Here, to the south-eastward," was the reply, as Nelly handed her parent the glass. 
               "Go you, Nelly," added her father, "and set the lights. The evening is so foggy I can make out nothing whatever. Are you certain the object lay at the southward?" 
               "Yes, father, to the southward and eastward." 
               "The wind has hauled since three o'clock," continued the light-keeper, "and it must drift beach-ward, whatever it may be. Set the lights, and we will go down and keep a good look-out for it." 
               While Nelly was engaged as directed, the old man hastened down to the edge of the lower reef. The rocks jutted their black crowns from out the water, and the surge rolled heavily in from the sea, as both wind and tide were now tending shoreward. The brilliant lights quickly shot up from the top of the cone like building, and the tall tower with its bright glare stood like a huge sentinel with eyes of fire gazing out upon the troubled and heaving waters. The mist thickened, however, and it was soon impossible to see anything but a vast expanse of haze, illumined by the strong light until the surrounding atmosphere appeared like a mass of half-transparent snow. 
               Noell placed a large trumpet to his lips, and at the top of his lungs he shouted "hilli'o! ho-ho!" but the sound died without-an echo on that lonely and ragged shore, when his daughter suddenly hurried to his side once more. 
               "I think, father," she said, "if we should take to the boat and touch at the outer point of the ledge, we might possibly learn more of the party in distress, if it be some unfortunate craft or tender that is crippled." 
               "So we might, Nelly," said the old man, "but do you not observe how the sea runs? It would be no easy task to reach the outer reef, with both wind and tide so strong against us." 
               "But, father, it may be that we may thus save a life or lives, haply, and-" 
               "Right, girl, right; I will go," responded Noell, at once; and he turned towards his dory that lay up on the beach. When he launched it, as he did in a moment longer, Nelly sprang into it, first, and seized the bow oar without a word of remark. 
               "No, my daughter, no," said the light-keeper, "you need not go, to-night." 
               "But I prefer to be with you, father." 
               "Not this time, I can manage very well, alone. Go, see to the lights. It's a hard pull, for the tide is now at half-flood; but I can stem it, and will soon return. Give me the oar." 
               A receding wave at this instant threw the dory into the surf, when Nelly sank upon the narrow thwart, plunged her oar into the water, and cried: 
               "Pull away, father-pull away. We'll soon be there; and, suiting her actions to the word, she settled down to the work with so hearty a will that Noell found himself obliged to lay to it, astern, to prevent the boat from being swamped. 
               "I did not mean you should go out on the water to-night," said her father. "It is cold and rough, and you will not be the gainer by it." 
               "Pull away!" shouted Nelly, good-naturedly, "we've been out on these waters many a worse night than this, surely. Steady, now, not too briskly," she continued, throwing back her long, dark curls that fluttered around her shoulders. "And as to being the gainer, if I can aid a poor sailor, or other unfortunate, who may be in peril upon the great deep, am I not largely a gainer, when I afford such relief?" 
               "Right again, girl-right again. Steady now. How bears the point?" 
               "A mile out, yet-nearly." 
               "Not so far, I think." 
               "We get on but slowly against the current. We are full three quarters of a mile from the Gap. So, pull-now!" 
               A brave girl was Nell Noell, truly, and a sweet creature, too, albeit she could handle an oar, brail up a foresail, or set a jib, as readily as an old salt. But, from her infancy, she had known no other kind of life; and she enjoyed its excitement' and its pleasures vastly, for the occupation, from long experience, had become a "part and parcel of her making-up." 
               "What's that?" suddenly asked old Noell, as he peered up through the haze, at something that was floating sluggishly inward, a cable's length to leeward of the dory. 
               "That's it-that's it!" shouted Nelly, instantly. "Slack your oar! Now, come about." 
               She recognized the object she had discovered two hours previously, and which had drifted thus far toward the beach in the same condition that it was when first seen by the light-keeper's daughter, from the shore. In a moment or two, the dory was alongside the drift, which proved to be a small sloop-rigged yacht, on the way to Dover, from a pleasure trip to Calais. Her mast had been broken, and the mainsail lay extended over the stern and larboard quarter, dragging in the water. A portion of the wreck had been cut away, as it proved, but there appeared no one on board to tell the history of the accident. A grapple was put over the bow, and, aided by wind and current, the dory returned to the beach in safety with the prize. 
               Noell lost no time, assisted by his daughter, in securing the dismantled craft in a place of safety till morning. But, what was their surprise and terror, as they were about leaving the yacht for the night, to hear a slight moan, or sigh, as if proceeding from some one in deep bodily distress, on board the ill-fated vessel! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE OCCUPANT OF THE YACHT. 
               NELLY turned to look upon her father, and if she could have seen his face she would have noticed the alarm that pervaded his features-but, fortunately, it was too dark for any exchange of glances, at the moment-and so Nelly broke the temporary silence, with the query: 
               "Did you hear anything, father?" 
               "It must be so," quickly responded Noell. "A light, Nelly, quickly-a light," and the daughter hastened for a lantern. 
               In the meantime, the light-keeper got on board the yacht, and hailed the supposed sufferer, whose groaning was now clearly audible, from below. Whether there was more than one person there, Noell could not determine; and the weight of the canvass, saturated as it was with water and entangled in the torn rigging, was so great as to prevent him, in the pitchy darkness, from ascertaining but the mere fact (which he could not now mistake) that some one was in pain and peril on board the little wreck. 
               A light was very shortly seen in the distance, and the cheering voice of Nell was heard above the rocks, as she hurried on, shouting, "coming, father-coming!" and, as she tripped along to his side, she asked: 
               "Who is it? Have you found him? What has happened to them?" 
               "I know nothing, yet, Nelly," said the parent; "but, bear-a-hand now, ease up this sheet, so, press the sail over-cheerily! so she moves, now, that is well-bring the light." 
               The lantern was placed on the stern of the boat, and close by the heel of the mast, beneath a heavy splinter, a boot was discovered. In the boot was a man's foot, secured as closely to the side of the vessel as if it had grown there. And, as the search was continued, a body was quickly made out. It proved to be that of a young man about twenty years old, who lay in the lee scupper, upon his face, well nigh drowned, or smothered, and who was instantly raised up from his awful situation, to afford him a chance to breathe, provided it were not too late! 
               The fragment of timber that had pinioned him was then forced away, the mast fell over the side, and the youth was drawn up out of the ruins and the water, almost lifeless. He made no sign, and gave no evidence that the spirit had not fled, save a low, deep sighing, or rather heavy breathing, as if his lungs had been crushed, apparently-and probably-by the mast as it fell. Though Noell repeatedly and kindly interrogated him, he obtained no sort of reply, save groans; and taking him up on his back, as gently as it was possible to handle him, Nelly slowly led the way with the flickering lantern, and the injured man was borne to the light-keeper's dwelling. 
                
               When morning came (after a night passed with watching and bathing and friction), the young man was found to be apparently free from excessive pain, and no bones were found broken. The right foot was badly bruised, and a contusion on the forehead showed that a severe blow must have felled the sufferer, at the time of the accident. Beyond this, and the fever consequent upon such seeming rough usage, the unfortunate man was as comfortable as could be anticipated. He was quite unconscious of his situation, however. Opiates were given him, to alleviate his pains, and he slept, at last, quietly and easily. 
               The vessel was examined and thoroughly overhauled as soon as the day broke. No other bodies were found on board, but the little craft proved to be a beautiful vessel, well appointed and elegantly furnished. Under her stern-rail were found in a gilded scroll, the words "WAIF, DOVER," and the same inscription appeared upon several pieces of furniture in the choicely decorated little cabin. She was strained, and some slight 
                     njury
                     injury
                   had occurred from the breaking of the mast; but otherwise, the yacht was unharmed. For three days, such was the continued illness of the young stranger-no farther information was elicited in regard to the wreck, except what we have related and what was conjectured by the light-keeper and his daughter, who continued to attend their patient with a fatherly and a sisterly care. 
               On the morning of the third day after he entered Noell's house, the young man struggled a good deal, as if dreaming of some fearful scene, in which he was himself an actor. 
               "Hold hard-up, hard, Manfred!" he cried, fitfully, as if giving some earnest directions to a third person, in his sleep. "Now, ease her, gently-let go! let go! Fast, foul! Cut away, cut the main-sheet! For God's sake, quick! There she goes! Hold on, Manfred-ah!" and then he sprang up, wildly, from the low mattress, to be seized by the powerful arms of Harry Noell, who was watching at his bedside at the moment. He relapsed again into unconscious quiet, and his benefactor was as wise as before in regard to the details of his history, or how he was wrecked, save by surmise. 
               As the discoloration of the bruise upon his forehead disappeared, a remarkable brow was developed in the stranger's case. Broad and massive-now peculiarly white and prominent, from his unusual paleness, probably-and very high, this feature was strikingly noticeable. His other lineaments were regular and well fashioned, and he might rightfully be termed an exceedingly handsome youth. His hands were small and white, too, and the delicate fingers and nails showed plainly that he had never seen much of toil or active labor. 
               A small diamond ring of singularly antique shape and setting was discovered upon his finger, which after two or three days Noell drew from his hand. On the inside were the initials P. P. The ring was replaced, and nothing further could be ascertained. After a week's delay (in the hope that the stranger would recover so as to account for the accident), Noell resolved to visit Dover, and ascertain such particulars as might be obtainable, under the circumstances. His intended trip was interrupted, however, on the morning of his finally contemplated departure, by the more favorable aspect of the stranger's symptoms. During the day, he came to himself, once more, and suddenly accosted the light-keeper with the natural question: 
               "Where am I?" 
               Noell was greatly rejoiced to hear his patient speak, and he quickly replied, in a fatherly tone: 
               "You are safe, and in good quarters." 
               "And Manfred?" 
               "Who is Manfred?" 
               "My friend and patr-Manfred." 
               "Yes," continued Noell, humoring his not yet clear mind, "I have heard that name before; but I wanted to know who he is?" 
               "I mean Manfred-my patron. And the Waif," continued the stranger, "what became of her?" 
               "She is safe, also, and is now moored beneath your window, yonder." 
               "And the others," he continued, in a whisper, "the other two. What of them?" 
               The light-keeper saw that he was wandering again, and deemed the exertion too great for him at present. So he told him to be quiet, (and he would tell him more when he had had a little rest. 
               "Tell me," said the patient, suddenly, once more-"who is she that flits about me, here? I have seen her to-day, surely-and before this. How long have I been here? What is her name? Was I not hurt? Who is she?" 
               "That is a friend of yours," said Noell, pleasantly. "Now take some rest, and I will talk further with you when you are refreshed, and are better able to converse." 
               By slow degrees, the wearied and wounded young man revived, and commenced to improve. His fever still clung to him, but he was at length sufficiently recovered to be able to connect the hitherto broken and imperfect account that his friends at the light-house had been so anxious to arrive at. 
               They learned from him, at length, that he had joined a little pleasure party at Dover, and in company with his friend, Manfred, and two others, sailed for Calais, in the yacht mentioned, where they arrived after a pleasant voyage. After a few days passed there, they were returning home, when a squall came up, as they were crossing the Straits of Dover. The little vessel had become unmanageable (from the inexperience of her helmsman), and was thrown first aback, and then coming up, a frightful gust caught her before the mainsail could be controlled. The rigging got foul, the sheet being entangled below, and her mast suddenly crashed over the side, as the "Waif" heeled upon her beam-ends! His companions were all washed into the sea, and he must have shared their fate, but that he found himself, at that instant, fastened to the deck-his foot having been caught by a portion of the fallen mast. 
               After an hour or two the sail eased up and the ruins slipped aft, when the hull righted again, though he was still unable to escape from his frightful position. Before night the yacht shipped a sea, which moved the mainsail forward once more, covering him completely beneath its heavy folds. A loose block attached to the halyards struck him upon the forehead, and he knew nothing further of yacht, companions, or aught in life, until he found himself under the kindly protection of the light-keeper and his lovely daughter. 
               "But you have not yet informed us who is Manfred," said Noell: "I am desirous to know more of him, that I may communicate with him, or his friends, and deliver to him or them his property-for I understand you to say the yacht is his?" 
               "You are right," continued the invalid. "Manfred was my early friend; and he has latterly been a valued patron-whom I fear I am left to mourn for! He can scarcely have been rescued, I imagine?" continued the youth, inquiringly. 
               "That is by no means impossible," rejoined Noell, soothingly, (though he had little cause to hope for such good fortune); "he may have been picked up by a stray vessel, and I shall be glad to know that your friend is safe." 
               "He is the only son of a gentleman of great wealth in London, and is now-or rather he was, in the enjoyment of a handsome allowance. The 'Waif' belongs to Manfred, and under ordinary circumstances he was competent to sail and manage her-a performance he took great pride in. Our other friends, on board at the time of the catastrophe, were his former college mates. But they are lost, I am painfully certain-all lost, lost!" 
               A paroxysm of grief filled his heart at the contemplation of this awful probability, and he burst into tears as he dwelt on this terrible result. 
               "There is much to hope for," said Nelly, at this moment, as she wiped the perspiration from the white forehead of the sufferer. "Surely your own escape from death is sufficiently marvellous to encourage the supposition that your companions may have been saved, as well. Do you bear in mind that the same Power which guided the shattered and crippled bark upon which you were so strangely fettered, into the very wake of our little boat, may have dealt as kindly with your friends, in some other manner? 'God moves in a mysterious way,'" continued the fair being beside him, "and we may well trust to his mercy and wisdom." 
               The youth was silent! He gazed into the soft, blue eyes of the lovely speaker, and he felt the force and beauty of this gentle and touching reproof-so eloquently and kindly expressed, and he then added: 
               "I will hope-I do hope, for the best. Manfred is a noble-hearted fellow, sir. If he still lives, you may readily communicate with him-Roswell Manfred, Gent.:-at Dover. You will find it in your account, I promise you. Manfred will not fail to reward your kindness to his friend, but, for myself, how can I requite the unlimited care I have so unwittingly occasioned you? And, as for your daughter, here-Nelly! I am unable to repay-I never can discharge the debt I owe to you!" 
               "You can, at least, tell us who you are," replied Nelly, with a womanly smile. "We have not yet learned to call you by name; and thus you have the advantage of us." 
               "Yes, yes, I had not thought of that," said the young man. "Sit down, Nelly. Sit by me, sir, if you will-for I am quite strong to-day, and my history (which is humble enough) will be very briefly told." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE ARTIST'S STORY. 
               IT might occur to the reader, naturally enough, that the youth thus indebted to unexpected kindness, at the hands of so fair a creature as now listened for the stranger's recital, would very readily fall in love with so gentle and agreeable a benefactor. Whether or not this were the case, remains to be developed hereafter. He made no display of being thus affected, at any rate, whatever were his secret sensations. Did Nelly care for him, particularly? Did the poor light-keeper's only child, his cherished treasure, conceive a silent passion for the handsome stranger, thus singularly thrown across her path, at a time when such an event would not be deemed a very strange result? Had her manifold attentions to the invalid, her care and nursing and watching all been prompted by motives of benevolence and sense of duty, only? We shall see, as we proceed. 
               "My name," he said, "is Alfred Wilford. My story can interest you but little, I am sure, for it is very common-place in its details. I am alone in the world. You have a father, Nelly, whose counsel and society you enjoy. I have neither father nor mother living. When quite a boy, I was thrown upon my own resources for a sustenance, and all the education I had received was that attainable at a common school. 
               "A taste for drawing and sketching was natural to me, and I turned my attention at an early age to the improvement and cultivation of the little talent I possessed. I practised the use of colors, and have come to be a very imperfect but devoted artist. I am yet only a student, and a copyist. Manfred, my friend, has been more than a brother to me. To his zeal and his aid, pecuniarily, I am deeply indebted for my position and the little success I have enjoyed. 
               "From fourteen to twenty years of age, he gave me the right hand of encouragement, and I am at last placed on a footing that, until now, promised me fortune in the future. If he has been taken away, I am alone, indeed! 
               "I have nothing to add to this," continued Wilford, after a moments' silent grief. "You know me, now, short as has been my story. I was born of poor parents, they were removed by death before I had seen half a score of years, I aimed to become a painter, I have struggled on, alone, until this hour, and I find myself under this roof, indebted to your hospitality, sir-and your care, sweet Nelly, to an amount that, I regret to add, I cannot repay!" 
               "On that score, Wilford," responded Noell, "give yourself no uneasiness. Could we have done less than to search for what we supposed (after discovering the wreck) was a vessel that might contain human beings? After reaching the shore, and hearing your groans, could we have done less than to offer such succor as our positions enabled us to give, or such attentions as the heart of humanity so naturally dictates? You give us too much credit for a small service, that is easily requited. Your exhibition of gratitude is sufficient. Under similar circumstances, I am sure you would have done quite as much for us, or for others who might so unfortunately have been perilled. And now for Manfred." 
               "Yes, you will write to Dover, will you not, directly?" eagerly asked Wilford. 
               "Most certainly I will. I am quite as anxious as yourself to learn if any tidings have been had of your friends. It is now ten days since the accident occurred, and ample time has elapsed to allow of their return to Dover, if they were rescued. Besides this, I have no doubt it will be gratifying to him to learn of your safety, if he survives." 
               "You are right, my dear sir, in your estimate of his friendship for me. Pray address him immediately. If he is able, he will come hither, at once, I am certain." 
               While Wilford slept, after this interview, Noell seated himself at the little round deal table, and hastily penned the following epistle to- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                               
                                 "ROSWELL MANFRED, GENT., DOVER. 
                              
                            
                           "Sir-I am this moment put in possession of your address, under the following painfully interesting circumstances. 
                           "Ten days ago, I picked up, adrift, off Beachy Head Light, a yacht, known as the Waif, and which I have just learned is your property. Upon towing her to the beach, I discovered that she had been dismasted, and I found the body of a young man on board, fastened singularly to the side of the deck, by means of a fallen fragment of the wreck, that caught his foot, and who was otherwise injured and greatly exhausted. 
                           "We secured your vessel, and afforded the young man such relief, then and since, as our humble means would permit. He revived slowly, and to-day we have for the first time heard him speak intelligibly. He calls himself Alfred Wilford, and claims Mr Manfred for his friend. He furnishes us with your address, and I write, by special messenger to ask if you know him, and what shall be done with your property, if this communication finds you. I pray you may have been so fortunate as to have been saved without injury; and hoping this may reach you, safely harbored, I am, in haste, yours, etc., etc. 
                           
                              "HARRISON NOELL, light-keeper. 
                              "Beachy Head Point, Saturday, A. M."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Noell proceeded immediately across the beach, some two leagues, to the nearest house in his vicinity, where he found a courier whom he despatched with this letter to Dover, with directions to search out the person to whom it was addressed and to return, post haste, with such reply as he could obtain. All was uncertainty, of course, for none of the parties at the light had the slightest means of knowing whether any such person as Manfred could be found-or if he ever existed, if he had escaped from the wreck. 
               Nevertheless, hope made the hearts of the light-keeper and his daughter buoyant. They had been long conversant with similar scones of danger and mishap, and they taught themselves to look at the bright side of events until the shadow of the picture had become fact. 
               The hours that passed from the time the despatch left the beach, until they could hear from Dover, proved, as may well be supposed, a dreary and anxious period of time. But Wilford was rapidly improving. His fever calmed, his bruises had healed suddenly, and he recovered his faculties of body and mind in a brief space after his consciousness fully returned. He detailed the unimportant events of his early life to patient listeners, and, as he continued to improve, his benefactors became more and more interested and pleased with his appearance and deportment. 
               "And you tell me the messenger cannot return before to-morrow evening?" said Wilford to Noell, on the day after he left. 
               "Possibly, in the morning of to-morrow," said Noell; "but, if he did not find your friend (or his representative) readily, after reaching town, there may be a delay of a few hours in his return." 
               "It is very tedious, sir, is it not?" 
               "You are anxious, and so am I. But we must wait patiently. If Manfred has not returned to Dover," continued Noell, looking at the chance of his loss, "if he is gone-" 
               "That is it-that is my fear," replied Wilford, feelingly. "Poor fellow! What a night he must have passed, at best, after the accident!" 
               "Was there no other craft in sight when the squall struck you?" asked the light-keeper. 
               "Not within hail. The weather had been fair, though we started from Calais with a cracking breeze. Manfred was impulsive, and, in all his movements, exceedingly self-relying. We suggested after dinner, I remember, that he was carrying too much sail; and the small white cap-clouds that flitted across the heavens after mid-day should have warned him of what we each of us felt satisfied, that the wind was fitful and uneven, and at any moment a gust might injure us. Before four o'clock, the wind shifted, and we were forced to beat up, as we crossed the Straits. After running down, on the larboard tack, some hour or more, we tacked again, and coming about the yacht mis-stayed, her sail backed, and at that moment the gust struck her. The sea was running high, she pitched hard forward, and we heard the crash of the falling mast. I knew but little more. Manfred went off the stern, as we shrieked to him and to each other, my companions disappeared, and night was fast coming on, when I found myself pinioned to the deck-helpless and exhausted." 
               "Yet you say there was a vessel in sight of you, at the time of the disaster?" again asked Noell. 
               "Not at the moment when the gale struck us, I think." 
               "But, during the afternoon?" 
               "Yes. A small brig, in our wake, perhaps three or four miles distant. When we took the shock, the weather had come to be hazy, and the brig was astern of us, but not in view, clearly." 
               "Now there is hope, indeed!" exclaimed the light-keeper, cheerfully. "The brig continued on her course, undoubtedly, and if your friends were swimmers-unless they were crippled in some way-they might have sustained themselves in the water for a long time, and the chances would be in favor of their being picked up. Courage, Wilford! You have never told us of this before. Your friends may yet be safe." 
               "Heaven grant it be so," was Wilford's earnest prayer. 
               "See, father! What is that?" shouted Nelly, at this moment, pointing to a most unusual sight, down the beach, a mile from the house. 
               A horse, at full gallop, was dashing towards the light-keeper's dwelling, scrambling and tumling on among the rocks and hollows of the beach, at a break-neck pace. 
               "It is our messenger, from Dover," said Noell, instantly. "But that can hardly be. Give me the glass, Nelly." 
               He turned the telescope upon the advancing rider, and said: 
               "No, it isn't him, at all events. I thought it improbable that he could have arrived so quickly." 
               "Who can it be?" queried Nelly. 
               "Some accident has happened above the Point, I fear," added Noell. "But, here he is, to explain his errand." 
               The rider dashed up to the door of the light, sprang from his saddle, and throwing the bridle over a corner of the fence, entered the house without ceremony, meeting Noell near the threshold. 
               "What has happened?" eagerly asked the latter. 
               "Wilford, Wilford!" said the young horseman, impetuously-"is he here?" 
               "Manfred! My friend! Thank God-he is alive!" shouted the invalid, wildly, as the side-door opened; and the next moment, the two friends were fast locked in each other's arms! 
               There was joy in the light-house, of Beachy Head that day, of a truth. And none were happier than was Harry Noell and his kind-hearted daughter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               MANFRED AND WILFORD. 
               FOR some minutes after the mutual recognition, no word was spoken by a single member of that astonished, joyful, enthusiastic group. Wilford did not doubt his senses, this time, for he actually pressed to his heart the living form of his dearest friend. But, when the first ebullition of grateful joy was over, he plied his companion with queries so rapidly, without waiting for an answer to either of his anxious inquiries, that Manfred couldn't keep pace with his impetuosity. 
               "Tell me," said Wilford, "are you safe? Were you hurt? How were you rescued? And Henry-Wallace-where are they? Were you long in peril? Did you see no more of the Waif? Come, come, Manfred, this is joy indeed! Tell us-tell my benefactors, here, all about the disaster. I forget-Noell, this is my friend. Nelly, let me present you to Manfred. Ah, my boy, if you're ever so unlucky-which Heaven 
                     forefend
                     forfend
                  ! if you are ever so unfortunate as to be cast adrift or ashore, as helpless as I was, may you find a nurse like Nelly Noell, and as good a friend as I have found herself and her father." 
               Manfred shook the now extended hands of his new acquaintances right heartily; and then in his careless, frank and natural manner, began from the beginning-addressing himself now to Wilford, now to Nell, and then to her father, in a recapitulation of the disaster and the final escape of himself and companions. 
               "Well, miboy," he said, "it's all over now-and, in one word, all of us are safe and sound again. I say all, because I see that you are worth a score of dead men. I am perfectly well, and the boys are both happy and hearty. So, cheer up, once more. Wallace and Harry send all kinds of good greeting to you, and they look for your early return to Dover, which I have promised them shall be accomplished without unnecessary delay. 
               "But, that was a blow though, to be sure!" he added. 
               "You are right, Manfred. Didn't we caution you to reef, though? And didn't you smile at Harry and me for what you were pleased to term our 'fresh-water sailor-ism,' when old Boreas rattled down on our little craft like a fiery tornado?" 
               "Well, well, we escaped, miboy-and I was a little too confident, that's all." 
               "We started from Calais," he continued, turning to Noell, "with a good seven-knot breeze. But the wind changed, and we were forced to beat up the Channel. The boat didn't come about as I anticipated, we missed stays, the squall struck us, and directly we shipped a sea that knocked the timber out of us in a jiffy! All hands, as I supposed, went by the board when the yachtheeled. I saw two of my companions, but heard nothing of Wilford. However, it was too late to think of rendering anybody else service, at that moment, and I struck out on my own account, as the boat passed away, tumbling over the waves to windward, like a crushed eggshell, so violent was the blow for half an hour." 
               "You knew of the brig in your rear?" asked Noell. 
               "I had noticed her two hours before; but the fog and haze was so thick that we could discover nothing, then. Five minutes after we found ourselves in the water, the yacht was out of sight, and I supposed she would sink, after the shifting of her ballast." 
               "But she righted," said Wilford. 
               "Yes; but we knew (and I cared), very little about the boat, any way. Our lives were worth swimming for, so we thought, and we breasted the waves right earnestly, you may be sure. I tell you, Wilford, the boys swam like ducks! But the game was unequal, and the odds were strongly against us. For choice, on my part though I am not easily alarmed, I think I prefer some other bathing-spot that I could name, to that of the middle of the Straits of Dover, in a hurricane!" 
               "But how did you get out of your dilemma?" 
               "O, easy enough, as it turned out. You know, Wilford, the old rhyme about the 
                      
                        "'Good little cherub who sits up aloft, 
                        To look out for the fate of poor Jack-'" 
                     
                  
                
               "I've heard you repeat it," said Wilford, with a smile. 
               "Well, I think the little fellow was close upon the track of the 'Waif' when she went over; and I make no doubt he sent the good brig 'Flora' right into our wake, for we soon descried her, and the trio of yells that we sent up were not lost in the wind-though, as I said before, sir-it did blow, prodigiously. Captain Blanche, God bless his good hearing and his good heart, lost no time in coming to our assistance. He lowered away his boat and we were very soon safely aboard his vessel. The brig lay to, for an hour, when the gale abated. He tacked and filled till morning, in the hope of seeing the 'Waif' again-but she could not be found, and we put away for Dover, with hearts grateful for our own preservation, but deeply saddened by the thought that our friend Wilford had become food for the sharks. As nothing further was heard of the yacht, I concluded she had gone to the bottom! and, thanking my own lucky stars that I wasn't in her to go down, also, I gave up all idea of possessing her again, or of hearing from our missing associate-when your messenger, sir, found me, and brought me your thrice welcome letter. I sprang to my feet, ordered horses, took a relay as often as I could find it, and-here I am, miboy-give us your hand, once more!" 
               Another general congratulation and shaking of hands followed this recital, for all the parties present were very happy; and then Manfred inquired for the first time about the yacht. 
               "You say you towed her up, sir?" 
               "She is moored close by the beach, below us, sir," said-Noell. "Shall we go and look at her?" 
               "Is she much injured?" 
               "Very little, I think," replied the light-keeper. "Her mast is gone, the deck is somewhat cracked, and the rigging is torn out, I find. But, with the exception of these and the damage by the water that rushed into the cabin, she is as staunch and sound as ever. Come, we will examine her." 
               Wilford was unable to walk to the beach, and the other two proceeded to look at the yacht. She lay snugly moored in a sort of creek that made up inland from the shore of the beach, where she was out of the way of harm in, boisterous weather. As had been suggested by Noell, little serious damage had been done to her, excepting the breaking of the mast and its consequences, and Manfred was astonished to find his little vessel in so good a condition. After removing to the shore a few portable articles that were taken from the cabin and the lockers, they returned again to the house. 
               Roswell Manfred was the only child of Eaton Manfred, of Dover, England. He had enjoyed a collegiate education, and was a young man of fair talents, good head and affectionate disposition. The very large fortune which his father enjoyed afforded the son a liberal allowance, and he was too well provided with the world's goods to practise any profession. He kept a fine stud of horses, was a connoisseur in pictures and sculpture, an excellent shot, an intrepid sportsman, and loved his yacht to excess, though he was not a very skilful sailor. His attachments were ardent and strong, and among his early and fast friends, young Wilford, a penniless artist, ranked foremost. Roswell Manfred could appreciate a favor, at its full value, great or small, and those who loved his friends he was sure to love in return. 
               "What shall we do with the 'Waif'?" asked Noell, when they returned to the house, and sat down to a lunch, prepared in their absence, by the attentive Nelly. 
               "The yacht cost me two thousand pounds," replied Manfred. "I will have her overhauled at once, and refitted-and when complete, again, I will present her, with a thousand thanks, to Harry Noell, if he will accept the gift." 
               This announcement took all by surprise, for no one anticipated any such liberality. 
               "My dear sir," said Noell, "this is too much! Really, I could not think of being thus indebted-" 
               "Indebted! Nonsense, man! Do you imagine that we don't know and feel where the indebtedness lies? What you have done for my poor friend, here, you have done for me. The yacht is yours, by right of salvage. You picked her up adrift at sea-and the fitting her up, again, I claim as my right, in partial payment for your kindness to Wilford. I shall insist upon this, without parley. And as for Nelly, I will ask that when she marries, I may be permitted to add something to her dowry. What say you, Noell?" 
               "You are too kind, sir-but I will not oppose your handsome intentions," responded the light-keeper, gratefully. 
               The daughter blushed at the allusion to herself, but, as she had never before heard the word "marriage" uttered, in connection with her own person, and as she considered that event-if certain at all-at least very remote in its probable consummation, she only bowed and thanked the gentleman for his generous proffer. 
               "And now, Wilford, miboy," continued his friend, "how do you feel about returning to Dover? I notice that you are a little timber-toed, yet-but if we can manage to get you across the Point, we can readily obtain a carriage, in which you can ride home comfortably. What do you think?" 
               "As you will, Manfred. I am doing very well here, I assure you. If, however, we can get away, I have no doubt that Noell will gladly be relieved." 
               "So I think; and to-morrow morning we will see how we can contrive it." 
               Shelter was provided in the shed for Manfred's horse for the night, and the new-made acquaintances separated, in the evening, for rest. 
               There was no sleep, that night, however, for Nelly Noell! For the first time in her life she was wretched. Whatever were her thoughts, or from whatever cause arose this extraordinary disturbance in her hitherto uniformly content-it was unknown, unmentioned to any living being. 
               She arose in the morning, the breakfast was served, an additional horse had been procured, and the two young men were ready at last to depart. 
               "I am unable to add anything, pecuniarily, to the liberality of my friend Manfred," said Wilford, as they were about to leave and addressing Noell, "but you have my ardent gratitude, and will always have my prayers for your health and prosperity. The time may come when I can do more than offer you these thankful words. I shall not let slip my first opportunity." Then taking the little diamond ring from his finger, he turned to the daughter, and added: 
               "Nelly, to your kind solicitude and constant care, I am indebted too deeply, to think of rewarding it. But, you will accept this trifle, I know, from me. It is of small account, but it may serve to remind you of the poor artist, hereafter, when he is far away from you. You will permit me to write to you, too-will you not, sir?" he continued, turning to her father, who nodded his assent, "and I will tell you of my success in the future. Take the ring, then-and with it the assurance of my warm and constant remembrance." 
               "A very pretty speech, to be sure!" ventured Manfred, disposed to check a tear that he saw was starting-from the eye of no-matter-who! "Come, miboy, let's get away." 
               The parting was prolonged, but at length they said adieu. And, an hour afterwards, the friends were comfortably ensconced in an ample travelling chaise, on the road to Dover. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               A HOME OF WEALTH AND EASE. 
               BURTON HOUSE, the residence of Mr. Manfred, Sen'r., was a princely estate. It was located a short distance back from the seashore, on the outskirts of Dover, and every element of luxury and beauty and utility found its appropriate place in the grounds and mansion of its wealthy proprietor. 
               The wide domain that circled the dwellings comprised an extended area of acres, over which were tastefully laid out clean hard gravelled roads, which wound through a variety of scenery, for miles in length-affording beautiful drives for the high mettled steeds belonging to the estate, which were constantly abroad, in fine weather, for the recreation of the family and their numerous visitors. 
               A beautiful lake upon the "Great Hill," in the rear of the grounds furnished an ample supply of water for a myriad of fountains and jets that were placed in various portions of the grounds and terraces. Artificial ponds, rare statuary, and elegantly filled parterres were seen at various points. A splendid park, with its groves and clumps of trees, its streams and pleasant vales, skirted the southerly side, for a long distance, over which bounded a hundred noble deer. There was no lack of the useful or ornamental, the artificial or natural, the artistic or the fanciful, to render "Burton House" a magnificent and princely home, a retreat of wealth and comfort and ease. And here, amid the continuous rounds of pleasure and enjoyment that characterize the home of the gentleman of pride and leisure-the proprietor dwelt, surrounded by a retinue of friends and acquaintances who kept the establishment of servants, attaches, horses and hounds in full employment, throughout the entire year. 
               To this home, by invitation of young Manfred, the artist Wilford was now being borne, after his rescue and temporary illness at the light-keeper's humble abode. He had visited Burton House before this, and, at the time of the accident, he was on a visit to his friend, who took him out to Calais on the pleasure trip which so nearly cost him his life. Roswell Manfred had proved a dutiful son, and he was so well beloved by his father, and his parent confided so implicitly in his only child that he was as much the master at Burton House as if the estate were his own, with all attached to it. 
               Nor did he abuse his father's indulgence and princely liberality towards him. No son had ever entertained a deeper feeling of veneration and love for a parent than did the youth of whom we are writing. The confidence and the affection were mutual between them; and the boy was permitted unlimited use of his rich father's very lengthy purse. He lived extravagantly, in consequence-but the old gentleman was wont to say, when some careful friend would suggest that Roswell was living too fast-"well, I allow him two thousand pounds a year, for his private purse, and I cheerfully pay all his bills, beside, as fast as they are presented. If that wont keep him up, why-I must give him more!" 
               At the close of a fine clear day, a strange carriage came slowly up the great avenue that terminated at the front terrace, from which there alighted the two young men whom we last met at the light-keeper's dwelling. Manfred had reached home safely with Wilford, who was now quite recovered, and who was only a little weak from the effects of his late accident and fever. As the recognized friend of his son, Mr. Manfred, Senior, greeted the new-comer cordially, and bade him a hearty welcome, again, to the pleasures and hospitalities of Burton House. 
               "I shall require you to rest awhile, now," said the good old gentleman, kindly; "and no more yachting, boys, at present, do you hear?" 
               This caution was hardly necessary. They had quite enough of sea life to suffice them, for the season, at least. 
               The interior of Burton House, proper, was furnished and appointed in a style of elegance fully equal to the splendid fortune of its owner. The drawing and reception rooms-the great parlors and spacious dining hall-the picture gallery and library, all were superbly finished and decorated throughout. Old Manfred's income was immense, and, like the "fine old English gentleman," that he was, he spared no means no cost, to render his establishment worthy of its wide-spread fame. 
               Within a week from the day of Wilford's arrival, a party of Londoners came down to make an old-style visit at Burton House. Servants, horses, carriages, hunters, dogs-all the appliances of enjoyment at the old mansion, were forth-with put in requisition for the entertainment of the guests, and a glorious time was in prospect. 
               Among the young ladies who formed a portion of this party was one Charlotte Simplon-to whom we must devote a paragraph, en passant. 
               This lady was exceedingly fair to look upon, and her general manner was attractive. She belonged to a family of decayed nobility, and had only a name to subsist on. She was the heir to a moderate fortune, in prospective, however-and, being under the protection of a rich uncle, who favored her, evidently, she did not lack admirers in plenty. But Miss Simplon was a butterfly-a heartless, spoiled coquette-beautiful in form and features, but aristocratic in all her ideas, and scornfully proud to the last degree. She came to Burton House to make a conquest. She had met with young Manfred, and she had ascertained his pecuniary value! 
               Young Wilford was struck with her beauty, and before he realized the consequences, or the importance of the step, he acknowledged to Manfred, junior, that he thought her an angel. 
               "She's a little flighty, miboy," replied his friend. "She soars in a region that you will scarcely reach, I think." 
               "Is she rich?" asked Wilford. 
               "No. She has some expectation, I hear, when some old aunt pops off; and I believe her uncle, who is with her, thinks her a saint; he is wealthy and may die at some time or other; though, by Jove! he looks very little like it now-to be sure," continued Manfred, pointing to a fine robust gentleman of fifty, who sat upon the lawn after a sumptuous dinner, enjoying the evening, shade and air. 
               Manfred rallied his friend upon his confession, and endeavored to dissuade him from thinking farther of the risky beauty. This only added fuel to the flame, and Wilford secretly determined upon pushing his pretensions further. He was charmed with Miss Simplon's manner and conversation, and was soon found in her train of admirers, a prominent and seemingly well-favored gallant. 
               Party succeeded party-balls and routs and rides, by night and day, filled up the entire time of the guests, and a more brilliant season never was passed at Burton House. In the midst of all this round of pleasure, Wilford was constantly brought into contact with Miss Simplon, who entranced him, infatuated him, completely. Her shafts were aimed at young Manfred, and she attempted through his acknowledged friend, to reach the heart (or the hand, at least), of the youthful millionaire. But Roswell treated her with civility and courteous hospitality, only; he entertained not the slightest fancy for such a being, and she saw with mortification that her attempt to ensnare that bird was a signal failure. 
               The surprise and chagrin of young Wilford may be hardly imagined, however, when, upon a chance opportunity, as the guests were about to return to London, he ventured during their garden stroll to take the hand of Miss Simplon in his own, and hint to her his passion. 
                
               "Sir!" she exclaimed, as she scornfully drew back her delicate fingers, and cast upon Wilford a gaze of affected astonishment, "you really are not serious!" 
               The artist declared his love, notwithstanding this rebuff. 
               "Then, sir," she continued, "you do not know me;" and leaving the young man to unravel these few rather expressive words, as she deemed them, the coquette passed quickly to the mansion, unattended. 
               "Laura," she said to her confidante, at evening, "who do you imagine knelt to me, to-day?" 
               "Upon my word, Charlotte, I cannot divine, you are so constantly surrounded with suitors. Was it Manfred?" 
               "No," replied Miss Simplon, "it was not Manfred." 
               "Who, then?" 
               "Why, that insignificant friend of his-the young painter." 
               "Wilford?" 
               "Yes," said the beauty, contemptuously. 
               "And what did you say to him, pray?" 
               "Say? Nothing. I deemed him entirely beneath notice. When he told me he had dared to love me, I said 'Sir!' and left him kneeling among the violets. He has neither name, nor fortune." 
               "But his talent is acknowledged, I hear." 
               "Nonsense, Laura. He is a dependant on Manfred's bounty. I was surprised at his presumption, though it cannot annoy me." 
               The following day the party broke up, and the Londoners departed. Wilford was pensive and thoughtful, but he kept his disappointment a secret. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE REJECTED SUITOR. 
               ALFRED WILFORD had been too sanguine and too self-confident, in his estimation of his own position and attractions. The dashing, ambitious Miss Simplon had no idea of "sacrificing" herself, as she was pleased to term it, to the questionable charge of a poor artist who had neither name, fame, nor gold! Her aim was higher; and, though she had led Wilford on by means of her flirting and coquetry, and encouraged him to propose, in order that she might boast of another victim to her proud caprice, she utterly flouted the idea of receiving him as a suitor for her hand. 
               "No, no, Laura," she added, surveying her handsome form and attractive face in the large mirror of her boudoir, "if he were a Von Bunn, a Matricio, or even a Hurst-anybody who was known in the world, I might favor him, for really he is not a bad-looking man, and converses charmingly. But a Simplon would hardly answer for the wife of a poverty-stricken artist, eh?" 
               "You will scarcely be troubled with importunity from him, I judge," replied her friend. "He has shown too much spirit for that, already." 
               "Spirit! Spirit in a poor painter! Why, Laura, I repeat it, Wilford is a dependant upon young Manfred, who buys his pictures-or whatever they can be called-for the sake of keeping the poor fellow's head above water, but who is aware, notwithstanding his continuous charity, that the young man has very little real talent." 
               "I think you are in error on this point," replied Laura. "I have heard Mr. Manfred remark that he had produced some very fine pictures; and the Duchess of Glenville has contracted with him, lately, for her portrait, I know." 
               "The duchess! Are you sure of this?" 
               "O, yes. Her first lady-in-waiting informed me of it, a week since." 
               "I am sorry I did not know of this, before-for Wilford has asked me, repeatedly, to sit to him for my picture." 
               "And you remember the handsome Lord Tuttleham, whom we encountered at Bath?" 
               "Perfectly well; and a charming gentleman he is, too." 
               "He is the brother-in-law of the duchess, you know?" 
               "Yes, and a gentleman of fortune." 
               "He, too, has ordered a picture of Wilford, recently. So that I think you will allow that he must have a degree of talent, in his way-for both her highness and the Tuttlehams are really acknowledged connoisseurs." 
               "I was very well pleased, Laura, with his lordship, and he treated me with exceedingly gracious politeness. I will sit to Wilford for my portrait. It may prove of advantage-to the young artist, I mean," she quickly added. 
               Wilford sat in his studio, at Dover, a few days after this conversation, engaged upon finishing up the elaborately painted drapery over the bust of the Duchess of Glenville's picture, who had honored him by sitting for her portrait. It was a very capital likeness, the coloring was without fault, and Lord Tuttleham had just given his opinion that it was admirably executed, when a rapping at the door was heard. 
               "Come in," said Wilford. 
               A liveried servant entered, and handed the artist a note, which ran as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MR. WILFORD: You were polite enough to hint that you would like me to sit to you for my portrait. Let me know when it will be convenient ient and agreeable to you to call on me, for its commencement. 
                           "I hope you have recovered from your little fit of passion, lately exhibited! 
                           
                              "Respectfully, 
                              MISS SIMPLON. 
                              "Beckle Terrace, Tuesday."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This was a pretty piece of mockery for young Wilford! He could not comprehend it-but his mind had been previously made up in regard to the aristocratic Miss Simplon. 
               "It is all right," said Wilford, to the servant, after a moment's reflection. "There is no reply." 
               The servant bowed himself out, and returned to his mistress. 
               "Where is your answer to the note?" she inquired. 
               "The gentleman read it, and said 'there is no reply.'" 
               It was now Wilford's turn. As soon as he found leisure, the next day, he forwarded the annexed epistle to 
                      
                         
                            
                              "MISS SIMPLON-Madame: Your note was received. I have been fully engaged up to this hour, of late, in completing orders for a few pictures for her grace the Duchess of Glenville, my Lord Tuttleham, Mr. Manfred and others, who honored me with calls. I am now about to leave England for the Continent, and shall not be able to attend to the commission proposed in yours of yesterday. Respectfully, 
                              
                                 WILFORD."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                  
                
               The artist took care that this missive should find its way to Miss Simplon at an early hour, and having despatched it, he felt relieved. 
               He had really determined, however, to quit his present place of abode, with the design of visiting the schools of France and Germany, and to pass a few years, perhaps, in Italy, among the old masters. He would take out commissions from Manfred and other friends for several copies and originals, and he resolved to earn a name, or never return to his native isle. 
               Manfred had already sent to Beachy Head for the yacht, which had been brought up and docked for refitting. New rigging, a fresh suit of sails, and all the necessary accompaniments of furniture, etc., were put aboard, and when in complete trim once more, she was launched again, to be sent back to her new owner. 
               "Will you join us?" said Manfred to Wilford, when the boat was finally in readiness. 
               "Whither?" 
               "A trip down the coast." 
               "No, I thank you, miboy! No more boating for me." 
               "Nonsense! We are only going down to the light." 
               "What light?" 
               "Beachy Head-come along." 
               Nelly was there-an accomplished skipper had been engaged to pilot the "Waif" to her destination-Wilford was not opposed to visiting his friends, there-the weather was fine-he was no coward-he consented to go, upon Manfred's urgent solicitation. 
               An exceedingly pleasant voyage was that of the little party on this occasion. A fair wind met them in the channel, and they passed down the coast in gallant style from the outset, without change of tack or sheet. A small swivel gun upon the bow of the "Waif" had been loaded for the purpose, and upon arriving abreast of the light-house, at nearly sunset, the sharp report it gave out, upon being discharged, aroused the occupants of the dwelling very quickly. 
               The English ensign was waving from the peak, a neat streamer flaunted out from her truck, and the yacht never looked prettier than she did at the moment when she hove-to under the high rock that jutted out into the sea, below old Noell's dwelling. 
               A light dory, occupied by two persons from the shore, quickly put out from the beach to receive the company, or to answer any questions that might be put, when-as the boat came within hailing distance-Harry Noell and Nelly were discovered, and three hearty ringing cheers went up from the lungs of the yacht company, for the light-keeper and his handsome daughter. 
               The greeting was cordial, on both sides. Noell was very agreeable-Nelly looked beautiful as ever-Wilford was full of gratitude and compliments-and Manfred was happy as a lord, because he saw everybody else so contented and joyful. The late owner of the "Waif" delivered her over to Noell, formally, and horses were directly ordered, by means of a neighbor who came down in the morning, and was now returning across the beach, to convey the little company homeward. A bottle of Hockheimer was circulated, health and long life to Noell and his daughter was drank, in brimming bumpers, and the parties separated, to meet no more for many years, if ever! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               PARIS. 
               SOME enthusiastic visitor to the most brilliant capitol in Europe, upon the first impressions he conceived after his arrival there, wrote home, in one line, "See Paris, and die!" 
               How far such performance and such a consequence might be agreeable to other people who go there, is an "open question," decidedly. We rather incline to the opinion, however, that the majority of travellers upon the Continent now-a-days, will rather exclaim-"See Paris, and live!" 
               At any rate, such was Alfred Wilford's idea when he found himself at the gay city alluded to, a few weeks after the events set down in our last chapter. He had relinquished all hope of acquiring a fortune, at home, and through the aid of Manfred and a few of his friends, he was able to travel, and to begin to try the world upon his own account. 
               But he had other cogent reasons for leaving England. His pride of heart had been hurt. He knew he had been reckless in approaching Charlotte Simplon, for he now saw how hollow were her pretensions to admiration-not to speak of the love of a high-minded man. But, if he lived, he was determined to be avenged for the contumely she had thrown upon him, when he was utterly defenceless. He flattered himself that Miss Simplon would live long enough, too, to see the difference, perhaps, between simple glitter and solid gold. 
               The season was unusually gay and spirited, and Paris was never seen to better advantage than at the time of Wilford's arrival. An enthusiast in his profession, the young man had come to a field where his pencil could find ample occupation-whether he chose to sketch from the hurried world around him, or to pass his hours in quiet at the Louvre or the Acadamie des Arts. And he sat down with the determination of availing himself of the advantages that surrounded him. 
               
                  Paris! Paris-the cradle of fashion and folly, the resort of polished gamblers, roues, and spendthrift ladies, the home, at once, of gorgeous wealth and wretched poverty. Paris, swarming with adventurers, beggars, princes, potentates, and travellers from every nation under the sun. Paris, with its revolutions, its barricades, its compromises, and its canaille. Paris, with its Eden of beautiful women and ugly men, its magnificent theatres, its palaces, its hovels, its virtue and its crimes-a garden of art and beauty and refinement, and a den of intrigue, corruption and woe-the Paris of the world, where literature, science and statesmanship abound, the gayest or the most sombre city of the universe. Paris, the beau ideal of Wilford's imagination, was now his abiding-place. His journey was at an end-so he then thought, and he went to work with a hearty good will in the prosecution of his good intentions. 
               All day he studied at his easel, and he realized the benefit of thorough systematic application. When evening came, it was his custom to stroll along the Boulevards, or wander through the crowded thoroughfares and gardens, where he met with much to entertain or instruct him. He had been in Paris a fortnight, when as he was returning one evening to his lodgings, over the Pont des Fleurs, at a somewhat later hour than usual, he suddenly heard footsteps directly behind him, on the bridge. He was just turning about, when a hand touched him and a gentle female voice said: 
               "A few sous, for bread!" 
               This kind of beggary was so common in the public highways that Wilford turned away, and would have passed on, but the hand detained him, gently, and repeated: 
               "Monsieur! For God's sake, give me money to save my starving mother." 
               Wilford halted, hesitated; for the appeal seemed to his ear all too genuine to be disregarded. 
               "Where do you live?" he inquired, as he placed his hand upon his but lightly filled purse. 
               "In the fauborg St. Germain, Rue Catalan." 
               "I will go with you, and see your sick mother." 
               "No, no! It is too far away. I will run to her alone, but pray vouchsafe me a few sous." 
               "And do you thus obtain your subsistence?" 
               "Partly thus and partly by weary labor with my needle." 
               "Do you come hither often, my girl?" 
               "Never but once before to-night, monsieur." 
               "Here are five francs. Meet me again, at evening, on the day after to-morrow, and tell me if I can serve you further." 
               The girl hurried quickly away, and Wilford returned to his lodgings in deep thought. The tone of voice, the delicacy of the girl's manner, the novelty of the trifling adventure, served to interest him. He might have been deceived, but he felt that he had done a good action, and he slept more quietly, he believed, than if he had passed the beggar by without notice. 
               On the following morning, the young artist had occasion to open a small port-folio that he had not previously needed for some time, and which contained some sketches which he had taken while at home. As he turned down one of the pockets of this book, an envelope fell upon the floor. Upon taking it up, he found it addressed to himself, in a delicate hand that he had never seen before, and he quickly opened it to read the following lines: 
               "Upon the poorest soil, may occasionally be found, in a state of nature, the most delicate and rarest of plants. In the quiet valley, unseen and uncared-for by the passer-by, the modest lily rears her head, and blooms and dies unnoticed. Among the humblest denizens of society, there be those who could rival the beauty and stateliness of the queens of the earth, were the opportunity afforded them in comparison. Virtue and innocence are Heaven's gifts, and should outshine the glitter and tinsel of artificial worth. 
               "You will read these lines, Wilford, sooner or later, but will you confide in their truth? At least, you will not deem them obtrusive. They are penned at the moment of parting by one who is not ashamed to acknowledge that she-" and this was all! 
               "Upon my word," said Wilford, reading the curious document over again, "this is really very Frenchy." 
               How it came in the port-folio, who wrote it, how long it had been there, he was entirely at a loss to determine. But what its termination should have been, or rather what was intended to be conveyed by the last unfinished sentence, was the most inexplicable of all; "not ashamed to acknowledge that she-" what!
                
               "Who was 'she'? What 'parting' did it refer to? How could any one have found access to his private sketch-book?" 
               Wilford asked these questions, over and over again, but he could not find replies for them. Was it Miss Simplon? No. Could it have been Nelly? No. Who then? and to whom would the sentiments apply? The youth was completely in the dark. 
               Prompt to his appointment, Wilford was present under the arches of the Pont des Fleurs, on the evening agreed upon. He had been tarrying full an hour without meeting the object of his solicitude, and was about to return to his hotel when he suddenly encountered the figure, as he judged by the dress, of the looked-for beggar. 
               "You have come, then; I had given you up." 
               "Yes, I am here at the earliest moment possible." 
               "And your mother?" 
               "Ah, sir! your kindness has removed a load of trouble from my heart; I shall now be able to get on very well; for since I saw you last, I have found employment that will serve to supply our wants. I come to thank you, with all my heart, and to say, adieu!" 
               "But you will tell me your name, and allow me to-" 
               "Marie. Take this, pardon me, to-night. Read it, and you will be enlightened. Farewell!" 
               The beggar was gone; and Wilford stood alone upon the bridge, holding in his hand a small packet, with which he hurried to his lodgings, as soon as he recovered from his astonishment. Upon opening the letter, he was instantly struck with the similarity of hand-writing to that of the mysterious communication he had found in his port-folio, and which ran as follows: 
               "Wilford, you may have met with a hand-writing resembling this, before. At any rate, believe that a friend who watches you most earnestly, and who would give her life to aid you, is the author of this note. You must not know her at present. You have a duty to perform for yourself that she cannot interrupt or interfere with. Bear in mind, only, that she is near you, and will care for you when others slight, annoy or deceive you. You cannot guess her whereabouts, you cannot learn whence she comes, or why she thus regards you, at present. Time alone will develope to you, satisfactorily, whether she is worthy of your remembrance and regard. Pursue the objects which induced you to visit this land, which is not your home. Deserve the fame you seek, and fortune awaits you in the future. You will hear from her, again-and when you least expect it. Go forward! And bear in constant remembrance the beggar-Marie." 
               "Who wouldn't dwell in Paris!" exclaimed the artist, as he carefully refolded this delicately traced note, and placed it in his sketch-book. "Here is a plot, to be sure!" 
               Then comparing the two letters together, he felt sure that the same hand had traced them both, though he could not, for the life of him, decide upon who the author could possibly be. 
               "N'importe!" he cried, at last; "she will undoubtedly prove my 'good angel,' for I think such beings may dwell even in wicked, turbulent, curious Paris. We may meet, perhaps, milady, hereafter." 
               And like a true philosopher, content with what he knows, when he can learn no more, our hero extinguished his light, and retired to dream of Marie, the beggar girl of the Pont des Fleurs! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               A MYSTERIOUS VISIT. 
               HARRY NOELL was the richest man in his vicinity-where there were no others, for miles!-and, with his beautiful yacht, so admirably appointed, he wouldn't have been wealthier, so he thought, if he could have been just as well as not. He was fully contented prior to his coming into possession of this appropriate and pretty piece of property, but now he felt as rich as a lord. He had placed the light-house in charge of a friend, and embarking with his daughter, he crossed the Straits to Calais, and was absent from home three weeks, an unusual adventure in his experience, and affording Nelly a peep at the world away from Beachy Head for the first time in her life. On the day they returned to the light-house, after this excursion, there came to their dwelling two strangers, of respectable appearance, with a view, so they said, to examine the buildings and the coast in the immediate vicinity, on behalf of the government. Indeed they exhibited letters signed by British officials which satisfied Noell that all was right. 
               "We shall be engaged here a month, probably," they said, "and we shall want a little more roomy accommodations than your house affords, Mr. Noell." 
               The premises were thoroughly examined, and it was at length agreed that an addition should be made, in the rear of the light, to the shed attached to the house. A supply of stone was readily found upon the beach and among the crags, and workmen were at once set about putting up the enlargement required-while the two strangers went, or pretended to go, up and down the long beach, for the purpose of making such philosophical observations as their instructions from the government required. In a few days, the place was finished to their satisfaction, being made wind and water proof, the laborers were paid off in good bright English gold, and the new-comers, Captain Stark and Lieutenant Brace, R. N., took possession, and housed their implements and the instruments used in their calling. 
               It turned out that a secret commission had been ordered in this case; and a letter came down in the mail, which was sent over to the light, subsequently, addressed to Noell, informing him of the fact, and signed by the naval secretary, at London. Acting under this order, every facility within the light-keeper's knowledge or reach was freely tendered to the two strangers, in order that they might be aided in carrying out the designs of the government, to the fullest extent. 
               Matters proceeded quietly along, and no unnecessary questions were asked by either party. The two men ate at the light-keeper's table, paid him roundly in bright gold for all his attentions, and were continually busy. Whenever they left their lodging-place, however, they were exceedingly cautious about securing the door, lest intruders, or perhaps the light-keeper or his daughter, should stroll into the premises. There was only one small window, high up in the end of this newly constructed apartment, which afforded but a meagre light; but this appeared sufficient for their purpose. 
               After a few days, their rambles on the seashore and up the beach were pretty much discontinued, and at the expiration of a fortnight they had ascertained all they wished for outside of the building. During the next four days, maps and charts and drawings were exhibited and consulted by the two men, in presence of the family, and the captain found it necessary to go up to the nearest port village for materials that he needed, and then for letters; and then the lieutenant was called away to town, and he took his large trunk with him and brought it back again. And thus they managed for ten days longer, one or the other of the twain visiting the village, daily, and constantly carrying away luggage and returning with instruments, rolls of parchment, and other matters that they seemed to use in the prosecution of their instructions from the government. 
               Harry Noell was not a man to indulge idle curiosity. But the whole deportment of the strangers, their determined secrecy and the length of time they occupied in consultation, or whatever it was, within doors, under lock, in that barren and uninhabited place, the extraordinary caution that marked all their movements, when it appeared to him there could be no possible need of it, in that place; all these things served to arouse his suspicions, finally, that there was something wrong in the whole affair. He had no time to write to London to ascertain anything in that quarter, and so he determined to satisfy himself, as best he could, at the very first convenient opportunity. 
               Within four-and-twenty hours after Noell had thus resolved, both the captain and the lieutenant started for the post-village. They had about completed their business, so they informed the light-keeper, and would return with horses, as quickly as possible, for the final removal of their luggage, trunks, boxes and tools. As soon as they were out of sight by his telescope, he prepared a skeleton key, with which, after a deal of trouble and delay, he effected an entrance into the hitherto secret apartments of the strangers. Within the door, there was placed a high, rough screen, to prevent all observation from without while the door was open. When Noell got fairly inside, he was astounded! 
               A huge pile of earth had been thrown up from the centre of the spot that had recently been covered by the additional building, and a deep cavity appeared below, like a well, which had been dug out since the addition had been erected. Across the side of the ground floor, towards the wall, another opening had been made, and then still another at right angles from this, as if a search had been made within the new enclosure, below the surface of the ground. 
               Noell continued to look around the trenches, and soon encountered a large and antiquated solid oaken chest, and then another, and then two or three iron-bound smaller ones. Evidently all these had been dug out of the earth, there! The strangers brought no such luggage with them to the light-house, and he would have known it had such cumbrous articles arrived there since. The character of the mystery became more and more complicated, at every turn and during every moment that he tarried to examine into it. 
               A portion of the trenches had been filled up, plainly. That is to say, it was clear that other places had been dug out, and filled in again, from disappointment, or other cause. The chests having been evidently found on his premises, he at once made up his mind that the right belonged to him to know what they contained-a very natural conclusion, by the way. 
               Upon looking a little farther, however, he discried seven large jars, or vases, of antique models, that were carefully sealed up and were partially covered by freshly dug earth and gravel. These were very heavy, and Noell began to believe that an immense treasure had been found here, through some outside agency directing the two men to this particular spot. At first, from his natural good common sense, he was disinclined to entertain any such idea as that he-Harry Noell-the poor light-house-keeper, who had known nought but toil and hardship from his infancy, could fall upon any such seeming god-send as this appeared to indicate. But he gave himself little time to reflect, for the hour when his two strange guests would return was rapidly approaching. In his excitement he knocked off the top of one of the vases, and there rolled out upon the ground a mass of large-sized coins! 
                
               They were tarnished and uneven in color. Were they copper? He grasped a handful of them, nervously, examined them hastily-they were clearly gold! Harry Noell was not usually an excitable man. But he was thunderstruck at this development. 
               Without stopping a moment to reflect upon consequences, Noell seized an axe, and knocked the lid from one of the chests. He found it filled to the top with irregular heavy bars, that he took for lead, or composition metal. They were solid silver! He tried another, and the result was the same. What should he do? It was getting late, the "captain" and his "lieutenant" would soon return. They had gone in search of horses to remove what they called their "luggage," and before morning the treasure would vanish. What he did must be done quickly. 
               And now he began to see light. These men were no government employees. They were adventurers, robbers or pirates, perhaps-who had learned of the existence of this property, or, peradventure had been privy to its secretion at some time previously. To whomsoever it might of right belong, they had no claim to it, in his estimation. What could he do, under the circumstances, to protect it? 
               Nelly was ignorant of the discovery, of course; he was otherwise alone, in a lonely place, and there were two to one, in the event of any controversy or conflict in regard to its detention. The men who could so coolly plan a scheme to obtain the possession of this property, and who had gone so far towards securing it, would not stop at any means to consummate intentions and wishes. Besides this, it was something to contend for, to be sure! 
               All these thoughts, and more, rushed through the mind of the light-keeper while he gazed upon the harvest before him, and in a much less space of time than it has required to record the facts. Suddenly his eye rested upon one or two pieces of stained and ancient-looking parchment. He took them up, and found a sort of plan or drawing of a promontory and a beach-with markings for two or three ledges, outside. Then there were figures and characters of which he knew nothing, that indicated certain spots upon the bluff mentioned. In short, the map, or whatever it was, proved to be a very accurate representation of the location of the light-house and its neighborhood, at Beachy Head. The other paper was a sort of communication, or direction, explanatory of the first one, and contained the following curious advice, written in irregular German text. 
               "In ye side drawback ov ye escritoire, over ye backe, wille be found a paquet ov browne pappers. In ye firste ov theese, are written ye pointes ov ye cumpas wich wille gide you to ye beech. On ye high rock wich pointes tu see, tu ye easte, marke weste thirteene fadoms, and thenn southe elevenn fadoms. Digg deepe and meete ye wide flat stons. Thenn finde ye arche and passe beneethe. Ye golde wille come belowe. T. * O O." 
               This was all Greek to Harry Noell, but it was evident that from this and the charts mentioned, the men had found the precise spot where the treasure lay concealed. Lost in his thoughts for a moment, and unable to decide what course he should take next, he lingered, gazing on the precious display, when the sound of voices startled him-but riveted him to the spot where he stood. He was caught! There was no escape, it was too late to retreat! 
               "What's this!" yelled the captain, coming quickly to the door, as he saw it half-open. "By Jove, we're discovered!" 
               Backed by the lieutenant, the gallant captain in his majesty's navy dashed into the apartment, and stood astounded, speechless, upon confronting the light-keeper, alone in the middle of the floor! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               A SCENE AND ITS RESULTS. 
               THE chagrin of the strangers was paralleled only by the firmness and gallant bearing of the hardy light-keeper. He was used to peril, and he knew nothing about flinching in an emergency. 
               "Stand!" cried the captain, in a voice of thunder, and at the same moment presenting a pistol close to Noell's head. "If you move one inch from your tracks, you are a dead man!" 
               This was a very emphatic but not a very interesting piece of information to Harry, just at that moment, for he really believed that the alarmed villain meant exactly what he said. 
               "Stand! echoed the lieutenant, fiercely, "for if his pistol misses you, I'll find your brain with this!" and another muzzle was levelled directly in his eye. 
               Noell was unarmed and helpless. So he did not move from "his tracks," but, in a quiet tone, replied 
               "Gentlemen, don't be in haste to destroy a friend. Curiosity has tempted me to go too far; but, living, I can be worth a score of murdered light-keepers to you, in this enterprise. Come, put aside those ugly-looking weapons, there, and let us talk and act like men." 
               "Fine words, these," retorted the captain, "but what assurance will you give that you wont betray us?" 
               "You are two-and both are 
                     thorougly
                     thoroughly
                   armed. I am not a fool, captain. Dictate your terms. I am alone, and defenceless, as you see." 
               The manner and speech of the light-keeper surprised them, and they lowered their pistols. 
               "That is better," continued Noell. "Now, gentlemen, I have discovered your secret. I appeal to you in all fairness, then, whether or not I am entitled to share with you in this matter? This treasure was never earned by you, it never came here by any honest means, it was not placed here by honest men. You, by some strange fortune, have been put upon the scent of it, you have found it almost beneath my household roof, and it is ample in amount to make us all princes in point of worldly wealth. I will advise with you, plan with you, labor with you to complete your enterprise, and I claim a share of this plunder. What say you?" 
               "That's not so bad as I expected," said the lieutenant, addressing the captain. 
               "Gentlemen," continued Noell, "I mean you fairly. Try me! I am now poorer than you are, and my will is to serve you. You can make me rich without stinting yourselves. Shall we divide?" 
                
               "No!" exclaimed the captain. "The treasure is ours-it is mine. I will consent to nothing but your silence-alive or dead!" 
               "Be it so, gentlemen," added Noell, calmly. "You can act your pleasure-for you have the power in your own hands. Allow me to retire. Your plans, of course, are all completed to remove this gold, to-night. You see I cannot prevent it?" 
               "Leave us then, to our work," replied the captain. "I have no wish to dabble in human blood, but the possession of this treasure is life or death to us. If you do not molest us, we shall pay you roundly for our entertainment here. If you offer the slightest impediment to our proceedings, I will send a bullet into your heart on the first intimation of your treachery. Go!" 
               Glad to escape the peril he found himself in, on any terms, Noell did not loiter for a second hint on the subject, but instantly left the scoundrels to themselves; feeling in no wise certain that one or both of them might not conclude to send a pistol-ball after him as he passed through the door! 
               When he entered his own room, supper was already upon the table. A thought seemed suddenly to flash upon him, and he said to Nelly: 
               "Bring me the octagon flask from the medicine chest. Here is the key-quick!" 
               The flask was instantly brought. A bottle of wine stood upon the table, the custom of the strangers being to finish their meal with a glass or two of Rhenish or Hock. As if nothing had occurred to mar the customary family routine, Nelly called to the visitors that supper awaited them. Desirous to aid in disguising the threatening scene that had so recently occurred, the two men responded directly to the call of the daughter, and securing the door of their apartment, as usual, went in to the tea-table as though nothing at all had happened to disturb them. 
               They ate sparingly, and sipped a goblet of wine. The meal had been discussed rather silently, however; and Nelly was just upon the point of rallying her visitors on their unwonted reserve, when the captain's eyes suddenly became fixed in their sockets, and he sat stark and stiff in his chair, as if struck with asphyxia, or paralysis! The lieutenant emptied his glass, gazed on his companion an instant, made a spasmodic effort to speak or rise, but immediately his face paled, his muscles became rigid, and he, too, was as helpless as a statue! 
               "Quick, Nell," said her now excited father, "bring a rope! Lose no time in asking questions. Do as I bid you-don't get alarmed-I will explain all to you at the proper time." 
               So accustomed was Nelly to obey implicitly her parent's directions, relying on his judgment, as authority, that he had but to give his order to have it executed, if within her power. In a moment Nelly returned with a coil of rope-yarn. 
               "More, more, Nelly; to secure these rascals firmly," said Noell. 
               "Are they dead, father?" exclaimed Nelly, a good deal concerned-though still relying on her parent's discretion. 
               "Have no fears on that score, Nelly," he said. "Here, bind his arms, while I secure the other. They are robbers and scoundrels; they would rob me under my very roof, Nelly, as I will show you, and I choose to have them at arm's length, since there are two of them." 
               "How did this happen?" asked Nelly, in a whisper. "What caused this sudden stupefaction? Is it serious-are they poisoned, father?" 
               "No, my girl, no." 
               "What then? They are immovable and stiff! Will they recover, father?" continued the girl, anxiously. 
               "Presently, Nell, presently. I repeat it, be firm. I shall need your aid, now. No permanent harm will come to the villains, I promise you. The contents of that flask has done the work. The liquid is an inodorous and powerful narcotic, and it was effectually applied. They must be removed from this room, at once," continued Noell, uneasily. And opening the side door that communicated with the inner apartment, he raised first one and then the other of the still helpless forms of the strangers, and placed them out of sight within his sleeping-room. Then cautiously examining the cords that bound them, hands and feet, and securing the chairs to the wainscoting, he drew down the curtains, opened the windows for ventilation, and left the two rascals to temporary repose. 
               Having now accomplished just what he could most have desired, though his means of crippling the two strangers had been entirely a chance operation, he set himself down to consider what his next course should be, under these circumstances. 
               To say that like the most of the human race, Noell was not proof against the temptations connected with a mine of gold, would be only stating ting truth. He had never seen much money, in his day and calling, but had had ample opportunity in a life of five-and-forty years to ascertain the value of ready means. He now saw, within his grasp, an enormous fortune. What should he do?" 
               Twenty-four hours later, and it would have vanished-but for his accidental discovery of it. What ought he to do? Did the treasure so found, beneath his hearthstone, under his roof, rightfully belong to these two men, who had come upon him thus stealthily and disembowelled it beneath his very dwelling? He answered no! without a scruple of conscience. Did the money belong to him? or had he the right to dispose of it, as matters then stood, at least without legal authority? Had he any right whatever to seize upon this property, notwithstanding it was found on his grounds, and was still secreted within his threshold? These questions presented themselves to Noell in all their different forms of suggestion, as he resolved the matter over in his mind, and he would have "slept on it" but there was no time, now, for sleep! 
               Fortune-competency for the future-princely means for life-a splendid dowry for his darling Nelly, all were now within his grasp, if he but decided to seize on this strangely discovered treasure. Wiser and stronger-minded men than poor Harry Noell have fallen before temptations not half so strong as that which now presented itself to the light-keeper. 
               An hour had passed away since the two men finished their drugged wine, and their chances for a one third part, each, of the future they had so stealthily turned up from the bowels of the earth, had been lessening every moment since they concluded their very unlucky meal. 
               Noell turned the whole affair carefully over in his mind, and with a not unnatural leaning to self-interest in his agreements, at length resolved upon his future course. 
               "If," he continued, mentally, "if I were to lodge information against these thieves, or villains, or whatever they are, if I were to state to the government that this hoard of gold had been found by these men, who are here plainly with forged letters and documents to deceive me, what should I gain? The British government, the already battened officials who have grown obese upon the toil and hardships and sweat of the poor, would answer 'it is too much for so humble a citizen to look after, we will take care of it; it shall go to the crown.' If I suffer these men now to be liberated, they will surely murder me and my child, and none will ever be the wiser in regard to our fate, or their whereabouts, when they shall have escaped with this mine of wealth. It shall be mine, it is mine!" 
               Harry Noell had resolved all doubts, and settled all compunctions to his own present satisfaction; and he felt that he was now answerable only to himself for the future consequences of the bold and determined step he had concluded upon. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               A NIGHT OF EXCITEMENT. 
               NOELL had not the remotest idea what means had really been settled upon by his visitors to remove the treasure, though he suspected, from their absence during the previous afternoon, that arrangements had been made at the village for a team or teams to come over to the light during that night, for the purpose of clearing the shed of its rich burthen, at once, before morning. In this supposition, based upon the appearance of things in the building where the gold still lay, he was partly right and partly wrong. Midnight had been fixed upon for the removal of the wealth thus gathered, but arrangements had been effected with two fishermen to receive the "luggage and effects" of the two self-styled government officials, who fixed upon this rather suspicious hour because, as they said, the tide then served them most conveniently. 
               Long before the hour agreed on, however, Noell had got out all the jars and the small chests, the contents of which he had quickly conveyed on board and stowed away in the ballast room of his own yacht, which rode at her anchor near the inner cliff. The contents of the heavy and larger chests were such that the clearing of them was a work of time, in comparison. By dint of sharp labor and application, however, cheered by the reflection that, if fortunate in his designs, this was the last work he should have to perform at present, the light-keeper removed every coin of gold and every bar of silver that was in sight, in the shed; the hatches were secured, and Noell returned to look after the condition of his prisoners. 
               Nelly had retired early, to catch a few hours' rest, by advice of her father, who informed her that he should need her attendance during the night. She slept very little, however, for the recollections of the scene at the supper-table haunted her, and she felt anxious about the result. 
               As the light-keeper hurried ashore in his dory, from his last trip to the yacht, he thought he heard the sound of oars, near the shore. He halted upon the beach, and instantly discovered three men who had just arrived in a large boat, from the nearest town as it proved. They inquired for Captain Stark, and informed Noell that they came down by order of that worthy and his lieutenant, to remove their luggage and traps to the village; where horses were in waiting to take them to London. 
               As this plan was entirely unexpected by Noell, he was for a moment at a loss what to do, or what reply to make. But he soon recovered himself, and said in an easy tone: 
               "The luggage is here, and I will help you to get it down. The captain will be up to-morrow morning, with his friend." 
               "He thought he would come with us to-night, but I told him it would be a long pull, and he would get tired." 
               "Yes. He will not go, now. You may look for him in the course of to-morrow. The chests, etc., you will keep in your charge until he arrives." 
               "O, yes, we understand that. He said there were some large chests, and a variety of things, some trunks of heavy books and implements, and the like. We'll see to them all, carefully," continued the skipper of the boat. In a short time a portion of the heavy (but empty) chests were aboard, with sundry articles, nearest at hand, which Noel selected with a view to appear to carry out the captain's intentions with the boatmen. 
               Noell followed the men down to the beach for the last time, at length; and handing the skipper a large roll, he said: 
               "This is all. How long will it take to row up?" 
               "Till near daylight." 
               "Well, a good-voyage to you." 
               The boatman said "good morning," and the sound of the dipping oars was soon lost in the distance, as the watermen disappeared with their precious freight. 
               The light-keeper cautiously opened the door of the room where his prisoners were confined, but both were breathing heavily-not having wakened from the moment they so suddenly fell asleep. 
               "Capital!" exclaimed Noell. "Where ignorance is bliss, good gentlemen, 'twere folly to be wise. You seem to be enjoying yourselves vastly, though upon my word you sleep heavily. However, you will wake up by-and-by, and I am sure you will feel greatly relieved, after this sound rest, for which you ought to feel very grateful to me, though I have no doubt, you will abuse me, hereafter for it! Sleep on. Your luggage has gone forward, agreeably to your directions; you will have no further trouble on that score." 
               Then placing a pitcher of water before each of them, and a dish of bread and meat upon a little table between them, he carefully released the hands of the lieutenant, in order that he might escape starvation, when he should recover, and also be able to assist the captain, and fastening the door strongly upon the outside, he bade them "good-night," and left them firmly locked in the arms of Somnus. 
               Not a moment was now lost. Hastily making up his wardrobe, and bidding Nelly do the same, they seized such trifles as they most valued, got quickly on board the yacht, and left the scene of their perils, their labors, and their troubles, forever! 
               It was far into the middle of the following day, when a prickling sensation, first, and then a nervous shock or start was felt by the captain, who lazily opened his eyes, but seemed either too tired or too weak to determine where he was. After a few minutes, however, he rallied and attempted to get up; but found that his arms and hands and legs were tied fast together, while his whole body was secured firmly to the chair in which he was bound, immovably. 
               He cried out faintly at first, and then more audibly to the lieutenant, who took not the slightest notice of his appeals, however. 
               "Dead?" muttered the captain. 
               "Say, leftenant! Are you dead?" but the echo of his own voice was all the response he obtained. 
               Various were the captain's devices to get near enough to his companion to touch him in some way, but all was useless-he was bound hand and foot, and the thing was impossible. Desperate, at last, he yelled for assistance. 
               "Help! Help, here! Hillo-hillo! Murder-help, help!" 
               But no one came. The sun shone on, noon passed, and a raging thirst attacked the captain. The water stood before him, but he could not reach it. "Lef'tenant!" he screamed, in his agony-and his companion suddenly started and said, "down with him! down-" and then, putting his released hands to his forehead, he cried "Gad! What is all this!" 
               Very soon he recovered himself, woke up, and looked to behold the captain tied to a huge old chair, and to find himself in a similar dilemma. As quickly as he could he got a knife from his pocket and commenced to sever the cords that confined him. Then gulping down a draught of water, he staggered towards the captain and cut away the ropes that detained him in bondage. As soon as their thirst had been quenched, a storm of anathemas was poured upon the head of the light-keeper, who they swore was the cause of all this. 
               They dashed to the door, wild with excitement and madness, only to find themselves fast locked ed in! Their pistols had been taken from them, and there was no implement in the room with which they could force an opening. At length, the captain seized a chair. After a long trial the fastenings gave way, and the prisoners emerged once more into the main room, and from thence into the open air and liberty. 
               They found the light-house deserted. On descending to the scene of their late toil, they discovered that most of the chests were gone, and those that remained behind were broken and empty. The yacht was nowhere to be seen, and the lamps in the cone of the light-house were still burning. It was evident that Mr. Noell and his daughter had taken summary leave! The whole of the treasure had disappeared, the two men were exceedingly weak and ill from the effects of the drugging and their confinement, and their feelings may well be fancied as they turned mournfully towards the dwelling, at least, filled with mortification and disappointment! 
               "This is a precious termination to our job," said the captain, moodily. 
               "What do you now propose to do?" asked the other. 
               "What can we do, to be sure?" replied the captain, half in reply and half in query to himself. "What can be done? But for the two-jars of doubloons which we carried away with us, we should now be penniless. And the infernal rascal has had it all in his own way! Why should we not have been more cautious about that single goblet of wine?" 
               "I never knew a case of drugging-" 
               "Poisoning, man!" 
               "Well, I never knew a similar case," said the lieutenant, "where the effect was so instantaneous, except where death was produced." 
               "Ay! But we might both have been killed, you see, as it was, for aught he cared." 
               "No, I don't think he meant death," said the lieutenant. 
               "Well, lef'- I tell you what I mean," continued the captain, as he set his teeth firmly, and backed it by an oath, "I mean death to Harrison Noell, if ever I meet him again in this world!" 
               "And well he deserves it," replied his friend. "But come, we must leave this place. We have been here now, full long. Let us secure what we have saved, and leave the wreck to its fate." 
               "We will depart at once," continued the captain; "but not until we have destroyed this infernal trap, that has been at once our fortune and our ruin. What's this?" he added, picking up a letter, addressed to a man at the village, and which upon opening he found contained a request from Noell that the person would come down, and take charge of the light-house, lest accidents should occur from the absence of the lights. 
               "And who did he suppose would be his letter-bearer?" said the captain, savagely. "Not a vestige, not a shilling's worth of this pile shall be left standing, that fire will destroy." And true to his word he tore the letter to pieces, and without further delay commenced to carry his threat into execution. 
               The two adventurers heaped up the old furniture and combustibles into the centre of the rooms, after ransacking the premises to ascertain if anything of value could be taken away, and gathering together all the ropes and dry sails that could be found, they added these to the pile, and prepared to depart. It was near nightfall when they took to their small boat and put away from the beach, after effectually firing the premises in all directions. 
               A little after dark, the inhabitants of the village were alarmed by the cry of "fire!" A dense smoke at first and then a spire of living flame shot high up from the lower extremity of the beach, which told the residents too plainly that the light-house was in flames. Aid was immediately despatched, but full two hours elapsed before the neighbors could reach the scene. When they did arrive, all was as still as death itself! The light-house was a smouldering mass of ruins, but no voices broke the silence save those of the newly arrived friends. Noell and his daughter could not be found, his well known dory floated at the end of the reef, and it was clear to the minds of all present that they had been smothered and buried in the ruins! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               SPECULATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS. 
               As soon as the requisite inquiries could be made, on the day or two succeeding the destruction of the light-house, it was discovered that the yacht lately presented to Noell was missing, and it further came out that the two co called government officers were also gone-no one knew whither. They were known to have been in the village the day but one before the burning, and it was also shown that Noell had aided in getting away some of their luggage, which they were to follow to the village the next day. Upon opening the trunks, nothing was found in them! And upon communicating with the proper department, it turned out that no such commission had ever been authorized, and that they were arrant impostors. 
               Nothing further had since been seen or heard of these two men. It was therefore concluded, that, for purposes of their own, they had probably murdered Noell and his daughter, pillaged the premises, set fire to the light-house to cover up their tracks, and then seizing upon the yacht, which was known as a fast sailer and a valuable vessel, had escaped to parts unknown. This very plausible theory, under all the circumstances, was generally adopted, and steps were taken by the public authorities to search for the fugitives-but neither the men nor the Waif could anywhere be found. 
               One morning, a week after the catastrophe, young Manfred was startled, at "Burton House," upon meeting with the following in one of the journals of the day. 
               "A frightful piece of intelligence reached town, last evening, by the southern mails, giving the details of a most unfortunate scene at the light-house, Beachy Head. The buildings have been destroyed completely by fire, and the well-known keeper of the light-Harry Noell, and his daring and beautiful daughter, perished! 
               "It farther appears that two scoundrels, whose real names have not yet transpired, but who palmed themselves off by means of forged credentials, upon the good graces and hospitalities of Noell, as 'officers in his majesty's naval service,' have latterly been quartered at the light, for ostensible purposes, but really for objects of plunder, probably. These men were known to have been with Noell up to the day before the fire, and since then have not been seen. 
               "A fine yacht, the property of Noell, is also gone, and it is very apparent that these knaves have escaped in her. It is believed that they quarrelled with the light-keeper, probably murdered him and his child, set fire to the dwelling and buildings, for the purpose of hiding their atrocious guilt-and fled, carrying off in the yacht the plunder they may have obtained. 
                
               "We trust that the guilty wretches may quickly be found, and delivered over to the king's ministers of justice. A temporary floating light has been stationed off Beachy Head, until another building can be erected, and meantime as will be seen, the authorities have properly offered a reward of five hundred pounds sterling for the arrest and delivery of the authors of this diabolical crime." 
               This fearful piece of news shocked young Manfred greatly, and he addressed a letter to Wilford in Paris immediately, enclosing him all the details he could obtain. The young 
                     millioniare
                     millionaire
                   was really deeply moved for the untimely fate of the light-keeper, and especially of his interesting child, whom he had chanced to become acquainted with under such favorable circumstances, to them. 
               When Wilford received the letters and journals containing the particulars of the outrage, he was completely unnerved. He had never ceased to remember Noell and his daughter with the liveliest gratitude and the highest considerations of friendship, for he had had ample proof that they possessed more than the ordinary allowance of the "milk of human kindness" in their compositions. He had already planned a surprise for them, having but recently laid in a beautiful picture of Nelly, from recollection, which he was about to complete and forward to Beachy Head, without notice, in order that they might see how well he had borne in mind the features of her who had been so kind and so useful to him at a time when he needed succor and friendly attention. The likeness in this picture was very truthful, and a sweeter contour was never put on canvass. Even Wilford himself was astonished and delighted with his success; and until he examined carefully the admirable "counterfeit presentment" he had produced, he had never fully realized how beautiful a face Nelly Noell had possessed! 
               And now that she had been so ruthlessly destroyed, he turned his whole attention, for the time being, to the immediate completion of the picture, so exquisitely and fortunately commenced. Her lineaments were indelibly fixed in his memory, and he rendered the portrait a perfect representation of her features, while as a work of art it was the chef-d'uvre of his life. So earnestly did he apply himself to this work that at the expiration of a month he had perfected a picture that rivalled the productions of the foremost artists in Paris. The beautiful ideal he had thus finished, was lauded by his compeers and admired by connoisseurs, and his fame quickly spread through novelty-loving Paris. 
               The rooms of Wilford were soon thronged with amateurs and patrons whose orders crowded upon him so rapidly as to occupy his time incessantly, and at splendidly remunerating prices. Before he had passed a year in Paris, he had become the leading artist, and his name had been more than once favorable mentioned at the Tuileries. 
               Wilford had never yet fathomed the intent of the curious communication he had found in his portfolio, and he had never yet ascertained who was the author of it. True, he knew that it was "Marie," because the second note that found its way into his hands, in the same hand-writing, was duly signed by the beggar-girl of the Pont des Fleurs. How it should chance that a note should have been enclosed in his sketch-book before he left England, and how another, similar in character and referring to the first, should reach him in France subsequently, and come from the same source, was not a little perplexing. 
               But who was Marie? In vain had he endeavored, for eight long months, to unravel this mystery. Thrice within a few weeks he had now been favored with fresh evidences, in the shape of these agreeable missives, that this same "Marie" was not far distant from him; and the last note, which he had just clandestinely received, breathed a spirit of romance and beauty that more than ever impelled the young artist to seek out the retreat of its accomplished and singular author. 
               "You were born, Wilford," ran this letter, "under the bright star of good fortune. Have you experienced the trials, the mishaps, the disappointments that lurk about the path of the indigent artist? Have you seen peril, and felt the oppression that attends the side of poverty? I know you have. But these trials and jeopardies and crossings have proved the spurs that have urged you forward to competency, to fame and to an honorable station in your profession. Maintain the pinnacle you have reached! Stand firmly upon the topmost round of the ladder which you have ascended so rapidly. There are eyes bent on you lovingly and anxiously; there are hearts that beat quicker at the proud mention of your name, as it is heard in marble halls, on the lips of jewelled crowds of admirers; there is one who prays for you, secretly, and whose life will be devoted to your weal, though you may never know how ardently she regards you! 
               "The lowly-born and humble may not aspire to sit at the side of affluence and noble blood. This is unnatural. But talent, Wilford-the light of brain and soul which the good God dispenses among all grades of his subjects, the wealth of intellect, all priceless in its value, comes to the poor or the lordly, alike, without the asking. This precious gift affiliates with its kind, and mind will act upon mind, soul sympathize with soul, heart beat for heart, in curious unison, though a wide gulf of forbidding space may exist between its possessors-in point of station or pecuniary fortune. 
               "Let me watch over you then, Wilford! Suffer me to be distant but still near to you, whenever you may need the soothing influences of friendship and affection. I have seen the sweat-drop of pain and anguish settle on your fair forehead. I have heard your deep moan of distress when you did not dream that the hand which traces these lines was busy in cooling your throbbing and fevered temples. We have met, Wilford-no matter where-and I have dared to hope that we shall meet again, under more genial and favorable auspices-when you will have had time to know me better, and to believe that I am your faithful friend, though now only the poor and humble MARIE." 
               "I would give a hundred crowns," said Wilford, excitedly, "if I could meet the author of this pretty epistle, face to face." 
               A gentle rapping at the door of his studio, at this moment, started him to his feet. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               A COMMISSION. 
               THE figure of a female gracefully entered the apartment a moment afterwards, followed by a servant in costly and aristocratic livery. The lady was richly but simply attired, and she addressed the artist in provincial French. 
               Wilford spoke the language but indifferently, yet he had been long enough in Paris to have acquired a respectable smattering of the tongue. She said: 
               "Monsieur, have I the pleasure of speaking with Wilford, the artist?" 
               The painter bowed, and pointed his visitor to a lounge. 
               The lady was well formed, but she was so deeply veiled, that Wilford could not determine her age. Her voice was pleasant, but full-toned and authoritative, and the artist politely inquired if he could be of service to her. 
               "I have called, monsieur," she replied, "to look at your pictures. My friend, the Countess de Charmand has spoken enthusiastically of your genius, and I have seen a single effort of yours in her possession, which pleases me." 
               You allude to the Magdalen, madame?" 
               "You are correct." 
               "The countess does me great honor. It was one of my early efforts, on arriving in Paris, madame, since when I have aimed to improve myself, somewhat." 
               He then invited the lady into his exhibition room, where a dozen elaborately finished pictures-copies or originals, were suspended upon the walls. After examining these, the eye of the visitor rested upon one design that was partially concealed by a curtain suspended over it, and which seemed especially to interest her. 
               "What is this, monsieur?" she asked. 
               "You may have heard of it, madame," he answered. "It is an original-the 'Light-Keeper's Daughter,'" and he raised the screen which covered it, exposing his master-piece to the eager inspection of the stranger. 
               "It is beautiful, indeed," she exclaimed. "Was she so very fair?" continued the lady, examining the picture, closely. 
               "It is no uncommon fault of artists, madame," said Wilford, "to flatter beauty. But in this instance, I assure you, I have scarcely done the original full justice." 
               "Then she must have been very comely." 
               "You are right, madame-but still the canvass wrongs her. There was a soul that looked out from her sweet blue eyes, an expression of guileless innocence and purity, that no artist-touch could imitate. I deem the likeness good-I may say accurate; but I feel how poor are all my efforts to give to the face the true sentiment of the original." 
               "Then this is not a fancy sketch?" 
               "No, madame. The original lives only in my memory, however." 
               "And you painted it from recollection, only?" 
               "That is all, madame. You may have heard of a terrible occurrence that took place some months since at one of the light-houses on the English coast, below Dover. The premises were fired-by accident or intent-and the keeper, with his child, perished in the ruins!" 
                
               "I think I heard of it, or read of it, at the time," replied the lady. 
               "This was his daughter, madame-Nelly! A softer heart than hers, a purer mind, a kinder disposition never was vouchsafed to mortal, I believe. Her fate was, indeed, a cruel one. I had painted this likeness, which I proposed to have sent out to them as a token of my remembrance of their kindness to me, when I was once thrown upon their hospitality, in distress, but before it was completed, Nelly, with her noble father, had gone to rest with the angels!" 
               There was a moment of sympathetic silence, that was broken by the lady, who said: 
               "Monsieur, what is the value of this picture?" 
               "Priceless, madame," answered Wilford, earnestly. 
               "You will sell it, I presume?" 
               "Never, madame!" 
               "I am pecuniarily able to reward you amply, monsieur, and I wish to possess your best picture. A hundred crowns-" 
               "The crown of France itself, madame, would not tempt me to part with that picture." 
               "Are you serious, monsieur?" 
               "Upon my honor, madame, I am. If a copy of it would please you, I might be induced-" 
               "No, monsieur. I have only originals in my galleries, and a copy of that effort would be valueless to me." 
               "I could improve on this, perhaps." 
               "Still, I should not possess the original." 
               "Your pardon, madame. I appreciate your ideas-and will with great pleasure, furnish you an original upon any other subject within the range of my role, but I cannot part with this." 
               "Five hundred crowns, monsieur, for this picture." 
               "Your pardon again, madame-but I assure you I must decline your generous offer." 
               "You are a man of the world, and you pursue your profession for gain. I will give you a thousand crows for your 'Light-Keeper's Daughter,'" said the lady, magnanimously. 
               "A thousand crowns is a munificent sum, lady, and it would far outstrip the intrinsic value of such a work. But pardonnez moi, madame, I cannot sell it." 
               "If you thus value your own ideal creation, pray what value did you put upon the fair being whom you have so delicately portrayed? Surely, she must have been very dear to you." 
               "I never realized her worth; but it is too late, now, alas, to recover-" and then as if to change the subject, he added, "will it not please madame to order something of a different character?" 
               "Monsieur, since you are so determined, I will confess to you that I have your sentiments of devotion, and I will no longer attempt to effect a change in your mind. I desire to place one of your efforts in my collection, however, and I give you carte blanche in the premises. I will only stipulate that it be a female figure, and original in itself. When shall I have the pleasure of examining it?" 
               "My engagements at present are such, that I can promise nothing sooner than three months hence." 
               "You will complete it by that time?" 
               "I think there is no doubt about it, madame." 
               "Adieu! then, monsieur, I will call upon you three months from to-day, and shall rely upon your best efforts." 
               The servant opened the door, madame passed gracefully out, and Wilford bethought him, a moment afterwards, that he had omitted to inquire the lady's address. It was too late. He drew aside his window-curtain, and a magnificent carriage was just rolling away from his door. 
               "Fortune favors me," said Wilford, slowly, "I was in fault not to have asked my lady's address. But she will come again," and he turned once more to his easel. 
               When he passed into his exhibition room, a few minutes after the lady left, he found an envelope upon the floor near the window, which upon examining, he found addressed to himself, in a familiar hand. 
               "This is from Marie," he said, "how came it here?" 
               There was no one present to answer his question, and no one had been in that apartment save himself and his recent visitor, for eight-and-forty hours. Here was a fresh mystery. But he opened the note, and devoured its contents without further delay. 
               "Wilford, you will be called upon soon by a lady of great wealth and a sincere lover of art, who desires to obtain one of your pictures. She is particular in her ideas, and fancies only the choicest of works for her already well-furnished galleries. Humor any whim that she may exhibit, permit her to choose, without limit, from your collection, and you may be sure to profit, largely, from her favor and patronage. Her means are ample and her liberality a proverb. May you ever prosper and be happy! MARIE." 
               "I will give a hundred louis d'ors," said Wilford, "to kiss the hand of my guardian Marie!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE MARQUIS DE BRANDT. 
               UPON the northerly bank of the river Gironde, in France, near the easterly portion of the Departments of Lot and Garonne, is situated the beautiful town of la Realle. There came to this place to reside, some months prior to the period we were discussing in the last chapter, a French nobleman, the Marquis of Brandt, and his family. They were reputed to be immensely rich, and the lavish expenditure they indulged in gave evidence that their wealth must be princely. 
               The family of de Brandt consisted of his wife and three children (a son and two daughters), and his household-servants, grooms, pages and attaches-numbering some three scores of persons. His stud of horses embraced several of the finest in Europe, his domain was one of the most extensive in the whole south of France, and he lived as if for the purpose of enjoying life in its best attire and to its fullest extent. His income was enormous, and he dealt it out with a liberal hand, in all the ramifications of his intercourse with those who surrounded or dealt with him or his. 
               The marquis was a hale and powerful built man of fifty, with a somewhat rugged and harsh exterior, but possessing rare good qualities of mind and heart. His general appearance was the more rough from his habit of permitting his heavy dark beard to grow unshorn, and his continual exposure of himself to out-of-door exercise in the field or upon the water. He was a perfect Nimrod in the hunt, and a Neptune on the waves. No weather was too boisterous for him, no season too inclement; his constitution seemed of iron, his will was impetuous, and his enjoyment consisted almost entirely in being abroad in the open air, from January to December. 
               His wife, somewhat his junior in years, was the personification of dignity, grace and good-breeding. Benevolent to a fault, she lived apparently to do good to her neighbors; and a long list of pensioners upon her generous bounty had cause to bless her charity and kindness. The son was a sickly youth, now eight or nine years old, whose chance for a prolonged existence was very dubious, and who was almost constantly housed-in the care of a nurse-lest any adverse wind should unfortunately blow upon him and hasten his long anticipated death. The daughters-Helen and Hortense-were blooming beauties, just budding into womanhood, the former about eighteen and the other sixteen years of age. A happy and lovely family was that of the Marquis de Brandt, surrounded by all the profusion of comforts which the parent's wealth commanded, and scattering the income come of their almost royal fortune everywhere around them, with an unsparing and commendable discretion. 
               At the opening of the fashionable season in Paris, the marquis proposed to visit the capital, with his lady and two daughters. A large detachment of servants were selected from the household, and a suitable establishment was left behind in charge of their country estate, in the meantime. Superb carriages, elegant horses and caparisons, liveried lacqueys, grooms, pages, secretaries and footmen made up the retinue of the marquis, whose entree into the great city was the occasion of a marked sensation among the world of fashion and quality assembled there for enjoyment and mutual display. 
               The style of living set up at Paris by de Brandt rivalled that of royalty. There seemed to be no lack of l'argent a l'or in his outlays. His society and that of his agreeable family was courted by the wealthy and honorable from all nations sojourning there, and a continual round of gaiety, balls, fetes, and routs, kept them continually on the qui vive, from week's end to week's end. 
               In the midst of the season, as Wilford was busily engaged one day in his studio upon the now half-completed "Madonna," which he had designed anew for the strange lady who had left it to his own taste to select his subject, his door opened without warning and an old familiar voice accosted him with: 
               "Wil.' miboy! How are you this morning?" 
               "Manfred!" exclaimed the artist, springing up and warmly grasping the extended palm of his early friend, "Manfred, I am delighted to see you." 
               "I am rejoiced to find you, Wilford. And the more so, that I hear the most glowing accounts of your success. How are you getting on?" 
               "Never so well, my good friend, thanks to your favor and the encouragement you have extended to my poor efforts." 
               "And what is this?" asked Manfred, examining the exquisite design upon which the painter was engaged. 
               "One of my own, Manfred, intended for an unknown patron, who has flattered me by ordering whatever I chose to execute for her, without limit as to price. I intend to give her a 'Madonna' after my own conception of the virgin. How do you like the design?" 
               "Admirable, miboy! Superbe, as we Frenchmen should say," replied Manfred, enthusiastically. "I had no idea you had so wonderfully improved, though I have seen and heard of your remarkable progress of late." 
               "Thank you, thank you," responded the artist. "But, do you know, when one gets fairly upon the high road to success, how easy it becomes the province of flatterers to urge one forward? In your case, Manfred, I do not mean this to apply, because I know your goodness and your frankness of heart. But the world-Manfred-the great small world of admirers of our art are impulsive, and they move on thoughtlessly, as their associates or their superiors may chance to dictate. I am doing well, professionally, and I find no fault with my good fortune." 
               "I am glad to know it," continued Manfred, still gazing at the "Madonna" upon the easel. "But, Wilford-the likeness, here-who sat for it?" 
               Wilford smiled, and said "do you really think so?" 
               "Surely, miboy, neither you nor I can mistake that face." 
               "Then I must alter the features, somewhat." 
               "Never a jot, man! for your reputation!" warmly exclaimed his friend. "A purer, softer gentler countenance-and one more appropriate, you could never elect. It is past improvement, it is all that you could wish. Complete it as it is, by all means. The very soul of Nelly Noell looks upward from the canvass here-subdued, confiding, purified, resigned-incomparable!" 
               "My thoughts were turned to Nelly," said Wilford, quietly, "when I designed this picture; but I did not think the likeness so remarkable. Here, Manfred," added the painter, pointing to his inner room, and raising the curtain that covered his favorite work. "Tell me what you think of this?" Manfred started back with surprise and ejaculated: 
               "Perfection, Wilford! It is Nelly's second self! I see it, now-the difference is sufficiently marked. But this is Nelly, surely. Ah, miboy, she was a sweet girl, to be sure. Did you ever think so, particularly, when she was alive?" asked Manfred. 
               "Did I not have cause to know this, Manfred?" 
               "True, you had indeed. But you never spoke of it, especially." 
               "Was I not thoroughly grateful to the Noells?" 
               "Yes, yes. But then-you didn't, perhaps, fully appreciate the-that is, I mean to say, I never knew that you-a-" 
               "You mean that you did not see me fall in love with Nelly, propose to her, marry or elope with her, and wake up from so foolish a dream of boys' play to a realization of the simple fact that I was but a poor penniless artist, waiting on my good friends for bread, and that I had seized upon a poorer but confiding girl, hitherto contented and happy, whose ruin must follow upon my recklessness and poverty. Is not that what you mean to convey?" 
               "Well, miboy, I now give you credit for more good sense than I thought you really possessed!" said Manfred, pleasantly. "You are correct. I did think you would carry your gratitude farther than you did. Her fate was a worse one, at last, though! But you have most truthfully preserved poor Nelly's features. You have not sold this picture?" 
               "No, no." 
               "Then it is mine-'sh! miboy, it is mine. Mine, at any figure you may choose to put upon it-but remember, mine." 
               "I have already refused a thousand crowns for that picture, Manfred. The very lady for whom I am executing the 'Madonna,' yonder, insisted on my parting with it. I offered her a copy, but she would have only originals, she said, and I declined her generous proposal." 
               "A thousand crowns! Upon my word, you are getting famous." 
               "I will not sell it, Manfred; but, when I part with it, at all, I will send it to you, at Burton House." 
               "Enough, it is really beautiful." 
               "And how long have you been in town?" 
               "I came in the last diligence from Rouen, an hour ago." 
               "Are you alone? Come to my hotel." 
               "No, we make a party of seven, from London and Dover, brought to Paris by cards from the Marquise de Brandt, who gives her grande fete to-morrow and next day. Have you heard of it?" 
               "O, yes; I received a cover, I presume through the attention of my noble patron, the Countess de Charmand, who has given herself much trouble to introduce me. This entertainment, in prospective, has been town talk for a month." 
               "And you will go, then?" 
               "I did not intend to, but since you will be there, I shall certainly avail myself of the politeness of the marchioness. Who are your party?" 
               "Two couples from London, Miss Simplon, my father and myself." 
               "Miss Simplon!" 
               "Yes; you have seen her, at Burton House, I think?" 
               "I remember," said Wilford, carelessly. "She is very pretty." 
               "Yes, a rollicking madcap, though." 
               "A fortune-hunter," said Wilford, sarcastically. 
               "A clever girl, in her way, nevertheless," insisted Manfred. 
               "But not successful," added Wilford, again. 
               "Not yet," concluded Manfred. "You are sharp, to-day!" 
               The subject was dropped, and the friends shortly after left the studio, in company for a stroll. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE FETE OF THE MARCHIONESS DE BRANDT. 
               ALL Paris was alive with enthusiasm as the splendid fete approached, and the magnificence of the preparations caused the names of the illustrious marquis and marchioness of Brandt to be on everybody's lips. 
               At midnight, a long line of brilliant equipages had set down at the Hotel Moncrieffe their lordly burthens, and the spacious salons of that spacious mansion were crowded with the city's elite. The honors of the occasion were managed with exquisite good taste by the accomplished marquise, and her daughters were pronounced inapproachable in beauty and deportment. The family were comparative strangers in Paris, but their uncounted wealth had placed them at once at the head of fashionable society there. 
               The extensive gardens of the hotel were brilliantly illuminated, soft music floated from the terraces and the balconies, the sparkling waters from a hundred fountains glittered in the colored lights, the air was cool and inviting, and scores of little groups were scattered along the paths and beneath the shadows of permanent or artificial bowers of roses and evergreens-all filled with delight at the charming enjoyments prepared for them. 
               In the vast halls of the mansion, hundreds of both sexes were sauntering down the polished floors, examining the pictures and statuary, or moving in the mazy waltz or gallop to soul-enchanting melodies. The eye rested on a blaze of beauty, adorned with costly attire and glistening jewels. The ear drank in sweet sounds of bewitching music. The hearts of the multitude beat high with intoxicating pleasure, and the gratified throng were enthusiastic in the expression of their appreciation of the entertainment they were enjoying so deliciously. 
               Almost alone, and for a time quite unnoticed, could be seen the figure of a youth some three and-twenty years old, perhaps, as he sauntered about the saloons, now nodding respectfully to a lady of rank, and now taken momentarily by the hand by some sprig of nobility. It was young Wilford, the artist. He felt out of his sphere, here, and he sought the friends he had expected to meet, from England. He shortly encountered Manfred, who approached him cordially, with Miss Charlotte Simplon resting languidly upon his arm. 
               "Well, Wilford, I have been looking for you. Miss Simplon," he continued, pointing to his charge, and presenting the lady, formally. "You remember her, I think?" 
               Wilford bowed, and said he thought he had seen her at Burton House, some months previously-but he met with so many faces and his position called him so much into society that, really, he should scarcely have recognized her! This reply and the manner of Wilford in delivering it, though perfectly courteous to the ear of Manfred (who knew nothing of his friend's rejection by the beautiful coquette), was not lost upon Miss Simplon. She felt the reproof keenly, but she could not resent it. 
               "Have you been presented to our charming host, Wilford?" 
                
               "Not yet. I have been unable to meet with my friend the duchess, thus far," he said, disposed to allow Miss Simplon to understand who were just now among his friends! 
               "Join us, then," added Manfred, "and allow me to introduce you. As to her daughters, I have seen but one of them yet, but she is a magnificent creature, I assure you." 
               "I am greatly obliged to you, Manfred; but here comes my friend the Count Delmatier. Do you know him? He will officiate." 
               The count came up, Wilford presented him to Miss Simplon and her English companion, and bowed himself away, civilly. 
               "Who did you call the lady, Wilford?" asked the count. 
               "Miss Simplon, or Simpleton-or some such name. An acquaintance of the Manfreds, of Dover," said Wilford, indifferently. 
               Their conversation was interrupted by the approach of the host and hostess, near whom the count halted a moment, and then introduced his young friend Wilford, the English artist. 
               The marquis was a rather military looking man, than otherwise-tall, robust in form and stiff in his movements. Sporting an immense shock of long black hair and heavy untrimmed beard, he stalked about amid the crowd, a conspicuous object of notice, especially as his estimable and lady-like consort, who hung upon his arm, was of a delicate figure, comparatively, and most unlike her liege lord in any particular whatever, save his politeness and urbanity of address. 
               "Wilford," said the marquis, whose voice was harsh and peculiar in sound, "my daughter;" and a splendid woman curtesied to the artist. 
               "I have heard of you, monsieur, and am highly gratified to meet you here. The Countess de Charmand and my noble friend the Duke of Heidelberg speak in glowing terms of you." 
               "I remember them gratefully," said Wilford. 
               "I have promised myself and lady the pleasure of calling at your studio at an early opportunity," continued the marquis. "Make yourself happy with us, here, and become acquainted with my daughter." He passed the young lady over to his charge, and taking the arm of Wilford, they moved down the saloon. 
               The artist was fashionably dressed in a simple suit of black, and as he moved about among the jewelled and giddy throng, with one of France's fairest daughters, he was the object of envy to more than one "titled insignificance" who followed in his wake. Wilford was happy, and never in better good nature with himself and all the world about him, than he now was. 
               "And you tell me," said the gay Miss Simplon, as she loitered along upon Manfred's arm, "you say that Mr. Wilford is acquiring a fortune, rapidly?" 
               "Yes," said his friend, "and he is deserving it, too." 
               "He was but so-so as an artist, at home, surely." 
               "He has improved astonishingly, I assure you. The latent talent he possessed has been marvellously developed, in the past year or two, and he has recently produced several pictures that rival the best efforts in the Louvre." 
               "Is it possible?" 
               "It is even so. He numbers among his present patrons, some of the choicest connoisseurs in the realm; and the nobility of France are showering fortune on him, literally." 
               "You surprise me," continued Miss Simplon, with considerable feeling. 
               "There he is, with the younger daughter of the marquis," said Manfred. "Upon my word, Wilford is looking in fine spirits, to-night." 
               The speaker little knew how this attention to the rejected suitor rankled in the coquette's heart 
               Wilford joined the lady's parents, a moment afterwards, and as he did so, a gentleman in glistening military uniform advanced, supporting the belle of the evening, by musical acclamation, the eldest daughter of the marquise-Helen de Brandt. 
               Wilford saw her, and a sudden paleness shot across his handsome face, as if he had been shocked with faintness. 
               "Are you ill, monsieur?" inquired the marchioness, observing the painter's confusion. 
               "Your pardon," said Wilford, "no-no. I saw a lady, yonder-a face that so strongly resembled another I once knew, and who is gone to a brighter world than this-that I was struck with the singular and astonishing counterpart. I pray you excuse me, madam-who is she in the pink tulle, yonder?" 
               "That is our eldest daughter, monsieur. I owe you an apology for omitting to present you. Allow me, monsieur." 
               A moment after, Wilford was enjoying the brilliant conversation of the most lovely being his eyes ever rested on! At least, such was his present conviction. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               HELEN DE BRANDT. 
               THE fair creature who had so singularly interested Wilford, was tall in form, but of splendid figure, and the dress she wore exhibited her stature to excellent advantage. Her hair was very dark, and her eyes were clearly blue, a curious combination, and not common. She conversed fluently and gaily, but only in French-a circumstance of some disadvantage to Wilford, who could as yet manage the language but indifferently. 
               The brilliant beauty was constantly surrounded by courtiers and flatterers, for each and all of whom she seemed to have a ready bon mot, preferring none, but rather dispensing her jests, her attentions, and her favors to all around her, alike. 
               Wilford was in raptures with her wit and her charms-and but for her height of figure, her freshened color, and his knowledge that Nelly had long sine departed, he would have sworn-at first sight-that Nelly Noell stood before him! 
               "Do you not observe the resemblance, Manfred?" he earnestly inquired of his friend, who came up soon after his introduction. "The mouth, the eyes, the chin-her tout ensemble-upon my oath, it is very like our lost Nelly." 
               Manfred smiled. 
               "Really, Wilford," he said, "your charming Nell is strongly impressed upon your imagination! You make Madonnas and chefs-d'ouvre of her at home, and you transform all the beautiful girls you chance to meet into fresh Nelly Noells. You have a happy fancy, to be sure!" 
               "But, surely, you can see the similitude, Manfred?" 
               "I am not a painter, and cannot create images like yourself, Wilford." 
               "True. But you will admit that-" 
               "Yes, I admit there is a likeness. But Nelly's hair was golden-madam's is chestnut. Nelly was not so tall, nor of this wax-work style of beauty. Nelly was rugged and ruddy, not so pale and artificial. At any rate, Nelly was not the daughter of the Marquis de Brandt, miboy, a personage very different, in my limited experience, to a light-keeper's daughter. Ha, ha! Wilford-this is curious in you, upon my life!" 
               Wilford was vanquished! He could not divest himself of the feeling that so remarkable a resemblance was scarcely possible, and yet the proof of the fact was before his eyes. He sought the hand of Helen for the waltz, and she graciously honored him. As he swept through the dreamy whirl, to dulcet tones of music, and clasped her delicate zone, how did the thrill of ecstacy rush to his heart, while he looked into those sweet blue eyes, so like the long-lost Nelly's! 
                
               Wilford was in love! Impetuous as he had been on another occasion, when he vowed himself the adorer of Charlotte Simplon, he would now be equally rash, and was ready, ay! anxious for the appropriate opportunity to throw himself at the beautiful Helen's feet, and own himself her slave. So fascinating was her manner, so free and unconcerned her demeanor, who, least of all, seemed by her conduct to be in the slightest degree conscious of her rare attractions, that Wilford would have sank before her, in presence of all the world, and acknowledged himself conquered by her charms. 
               Wilford was determined! He looked the ground over, hastily, but like an accomplished general. Helen was the proud daughter of a noble house, whose wealth was untold, whose position was among the aristocracy of France. In herself, she was worthy the hand of a prince, and could command a match among the first families of the kingdom. Wilford was poor in purse, but wealthy in talent. He was obscure in family lineage, but he had a self-made and enviable fame. He was without title, a plain citizen, who made no pretence to blood or fortune, yet he possessed a whole heart, a clear head, and a nobleness of purpose, such as was rarely found combined in ordinary mortals. He resolved to win the fair being who had thus suddenly entranced him, and he did not hesitate so to inform young Manfred, his confidante and friend. 
               The Marquise de Brandt was an observing man, notwithstanding his seeming rigidity of manner. And he was not alone in marking the palpable impression which his beautiful daughter had made on the young artist. If he had been displeased with Wilford's manifold attentions, he would not have hesitated an instant in giving the impetuous young man frank notice of it. As it was, he said to himself-"he is a bold fellow, that same Wilford, and may be trusted." The painter's battle was half won, already! 
               "Courage, miboy-courage, Wilford!" exclaimed-Manfred, as he met him an hour or two later, "you are favored far above your fellows. Onward! You have a fair field, a noble start, and you must win!" 
               "She's an angel, Manfred." 
               "Made up of blue eyes, a pearly skin, fair neck and rosy lips, miboy-an angel of good substantial flesh and blood! You are excusable in this affair. Really, I sympathize with you. She is a prize. Win her and wear her, if you can; she is worthy of your madness!" 
               The fete concluded with a superb and costly dinner. Young Wilford sat on the right of his accomplished inamorata, and Manfred found it convenient and agreeable to be seated beside the fair Hortense, her younger sister. The marquise was affable and pleasant, the marchioness was indefatigable in her efforts to please her guests, and when the party at last broke up, the fashionable world pronounced the entertainment, par excellence, the most perfectly recherche affair of the year in Paris. 
               The artist and his companion were among the very last at the leave-taking. If Wilford had not made an impression, he felt that it had been for no fault in his own efforts. He was aware of the ordinary difficulties attending his perilous enterprise, but he had fairly launched his boat, and he believed he could so navigate his bark as to reach the desired haven with a moral degree of certainty. 
               He had never stopped to inquire whether the charming Helen were under any other possible engagement, he did not think of asking himself, or any one else, whether she were already affianced. She was single, he loved her, wildly, and he flattered himself that he could secure her to himself, against any and all odds! 
               They parted. Wilford returned to his labors forthwith, for his "Madonna" must be completed in a few days, the three months since it was ordered having well nigh expired. 
               "Who do you think the likeness here most favors, Wilford?" asked Manfred, a few days after the fete, pointing to Nelly's portrait in his friend's room. 
               Wilford smiled, and did not reply. 
               "It really looks like de Brandt's daughter. A few touches here and there would make it perfect. Make an Helen of it, Wilford." 
               "Thank you, my friend-but I prefer the original," said the artist, "if I can get it." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE LIGHT-KEEPER'S TREASURE. 
               WE must go back, once more, to the night when Harry Noell embarked on board his yacht at Beachy Point, after placing in the hold of the Waif his newly acquired and enormous treasure. 
               It will be remembered that the light-keeper did not waste any time in gathering together much property that had previously belonged to him. He got the gold and silver aboard and snugly stowed, and then summoning his daughter, who took such clothing only as was necessary for change of dress, and they put to sea with a week's provisions, bidding a final and eternal adieu to the ragged shore where they had dwelt so long, and labored so hard. 
               The wind blew fresh from the northwest, and as soon as all sail was set that he could carry, Noell put away before it down the coast, uncertain where he should halt, or what he should do, after clearing the British jurisdiction. His first act was to remove the gilded scroll that bore the name of Waif under the stern of his vessel, and his next was to explain himself to his daughter. 
               "Nelly," he said, "we shall return to Beachy Head no more." 
               "What, father-never return?" 
               "Never, daughter; listen to me. You have been a witness to what has recently happened at the light-how the two men were drugged and pinioned, and how busy I have since been, up to the moment we were ready to leave the point." 
               "I knew that something strange had occurred, but I have no idea, even now, of the reasons which prompted you to use them as you did." 
               "I will tell you. For seven long weeks those two villains have deceived us. While they pretended to be government officers, they were only robbers, who, by some singular, and to me unknown means, obtained a knowledge of the burial of an immense treasure, beneath our very roof-have been employed in digging up the earth, in their secret apartment, where they at length discovered and secured the wished-for valuables, which they got in complete readiness, to-night, to bear away. This afternoon I sought to examine the premises, during their temporary absence at the village, and found it as I have thus hastily explained to you-a massive heap of gold and silver-of almost incredible value!" 
               "Is it possible?" 
               "You shall see, anon. Amidst my astonishment and terror-for so much wealth alarmed me, Nelly-and while I gazed on the jars, and chests and boxes of coin and precious stones before me, I suddenly heard approaching footsteps. I turned around, heard a loud oath muttered, and saw two pistols in the hands of those men, levelled at my breast! 'Stand!' they cried, 'or you die!' I owned that my curiosity had carried me too far, offered to keep their secret, and proposed to them to share their spoils, since it had been found under my roof, and had cost them only a few days' labor to secure it-but they rejected my offers, and allowed me, magnanimously, to depart with my life! I entered the house, thought of the narcotic, drugged their wine-and, you know the rest." 
               "But where are we bound?" 
               "Yes; I had forgot. During the evening, while you slept, I removed the ballast from the yacht, and placed every coin, every jewel, safely in the hold of the Waif. The men still slept-" 
               "Only slept, father?" 
               "Only slept, daughter-there is no fear on that score. It is a powerful opiate, and sudden in its effect; but they cannot be harmed by it, after a few hours. I say while they still slept, I called you, we embarked, and we shall never return again to Beachy Head. If the property be not mine, it is not theirs; and I will be avenged on them." 
               "How great is its value, father?" asked Nelly. 
               "I have not the remotest idea. I have secured it all, and I assume the responsibility of the act, alone, my daughter. Never allude to it, if possible, from this hour. Confide in my discretion, as you have ever done, and leave the event to me." 
               The wind favored them, and, after eight days' sail, they run into a small port on the southerly coast of France. Here a few rough casks and boxes were procured, and the treasure was landed in safety. The yacht was sold to a band of smugglers at a good round sum, and Noell disappeared with his daughter and his booty. Before quitting this place, he met with the account of the burning of the light, and had the opportunity of smiling at the suspicions that had been excited in regard to the fate of himself and Nelly! This was a fortunate turn to the affair, and he availed himself of the advantages it presented for his future safety. He proceeded to Lisbon, then to Madrid, at each place, through means of the wealthy Jews there, succeeded in reducing his bulk of gold and silver, and from time to time turning his jewels and effects into cash or bills of credit, until all was disposed of, and he found himself rich almost beyond calculation. He finally left Madrid, and nothing more was known of him for a long period of time. 
               The two pretended officials of the British government, who came so near to being "gentlemen of fortune," arrived at Dover and quickly made their way towards the north, with what little they had contrived to secure to themselves, lest they should be tracked by the authorities, and caged for forgery. The captain received an injury soon after, by falling from his horse, while on a marauding expedition, and died from the wound. The lieutenant abandoned his swindling life, and became a better member of society, ultimately-but he never saw or heard of the light-keeper from the hour he was drugged at Beachy Head. 
               The Marquis de Brandt had been a widower for some years. While sojourning, temporarily, at Marseilles, he met with a blooming widow, with two children and a splendid fortune, and he wooed and won her. He had but one child of his own-Helen, whom we have already described-and the union of the two families proved a happy and congenial one. The marquis was very rich, in his own right; the united fortunes of Madame Dessaret and his own placed them among the wealthiest families in all Europe, and we have seen how they lived, and how they dispensed the income of the splendid means they enjoyed. 
               It will be remembered by the reader that the letter which Noell had left in the light-house, and which he supposed would find its way to the person whom he desired to take temporary charge of the premises, in some manner, very soon after he left was destroyed by the malicious captain, who fired the buildings. As it never reached its intended destination, all knowledge of the fate of Noell from that night was thus obliterated, and the world supposing him dead soon forgot him and his child. The Waif was repainted and so changed as not to be recognized, subsequently, and all trace of the light-keeper, of Nelly, or of the yacht, was permanently and effectually cut off. 
               Wilford continued to apply himself vigorously to the work on which he had been engaged for the strange lady, and a few days before the time expired at which it was promised, the superb "Madonna" was completed and placed in readiness for inspection and delivery to its owner. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE ADIEU. 
               IMMEDIATELY after the splendid entertainment given by the Marquise de Brandt, a round 
                     o 
                     of
                   elegant parties were put on the tapis, by the aristocracy of Paris-but the establishment of the former was at once broken up, as they purposed to pass a few weeks in Italy, prior to their return home, and the season was advancing. Great was the regret of the numerous newly-made friends of the marquis and marchioness, when this determination on their part was made public, but none were more deeply affected by it than were young Wilford, and his friend Manfred. 
               "This is unlucky," said the latter. "I had hoped the marquis would have tarried a little time, here, with his beautiful family, and give us an opportunity to become better acquainted with them. Besides, my father had arranged for it, and really insists, that they shall visit Burton House this season. 
               "That would have been delightful," said Wilford, "and I think-though I haven't had the honor of an invitation yet, I should have gone over to England myself, for a few days, under those circumstances." 
               "You know you are always welcome to Burton House, miboy, and it doesn't need the formality of a card for my early friend to find ready admittance there, whenever he chooses. Of course, I intended you should join us-but they are positively off for Florence, I learn, at once." 
               "That is unfortunate, and I am disappointed. You need have no particular feeling about it, however, Manfred." 
               "Wilford, miboy, you are aware that I have had the opportunity of meeting with scores of beautiful women, in my short experience, and you know that I have never yet treated any one individual of the other sex with partiality. When I saw the daughters of the lovely Marchioness de Brandt-the delicate Hortense and the blooming Helen-I confess to you that I changed my mind. I do not now think that all women are alike; there is a choice among them." 
               Wilford started, perceptibly, at this altogether unexpected confession on the part of his friend, and a paleness quickly overspread his handsome features, as he rejoined: 
               "Is it possible, Manfred!" 
               "And why not, pray?" 
               "Yes-but, a-who, which one do you-I mean, do you really fancy either of the daughters of de Brandt?" 
               "I confess to you, I do." 
               "And she will encourage you, Manfred?" 
               "I have reason to think so. But what is all this tremor and sensation, Wilford?" 
               "Tell me, Manfred, which of the twain-" 
               "Ah, my dear fellow! The loveliest and sweetest, in my estimation, of course. But do not fear that I will attempt to gather the ripened fruit from your vineyard. No, no! You have made your own selection, and I wish you godspeed in your aim to win the hand of the sparkling and noble Helen." 
               "Thanks, thanks-my good friend. Upon my honor, I would not be so startled again, for half this province!" exclaimed Wilford, as he recovered from the suspicion that Manfred, too, had fallen in love with his choice! 
               "No. Hortense de Brandt is my bean ideal of a true-hearted and lovely woman, Wilford. I am not titled, but in England, you know, money will purchase anything, if it be necessary, and in all other respects, I am not unequal to her. My fortune is and will be ample, and I have resolved to ask her hand in marriage, at the appropriate opportunity." 
               "I give you joy, Manfred, in advance, then. I could wish that my fortune were what it is not! But, nil desperandum! I will earn my fortune. And I think, Manfred, that either Helen or Hortense de Brandt are too sound in good judgment, and too well bred, to lay deep stress upon this 'property qualification,' alone, eh?" 
               "Yes, yes. But money is a very convenient thing, to be sure!" 
               "You are right, miboy, when one can have a plenty of it. When do they break up?" 
               "Forthwith. I met the intendant of the marquis last evening, casually, and he informs me that they will remove within the present week." 
               "Is not this decision made in great haste?" 
               "So it would seem, though I know little of their intended arrangements, save what is publicly announced." 
               "They will certainly allow us to pay them a parting call?" 
               "That is what I would propose." 
               "And you will soon return to Dover, Manfred?" 
               "Yes, directly, for a few days. If you will join me, Wilford, I will proceed with you in the wake of the de Brandts, next month." 
               "To Florence?" 
               "To Venice, first, and then to Florence, Rome, and Naples." 
               "The very aim of my life!" exclaimed Wilford. "I have longed to visit the classic ground of Raphael and his compeers, for many years. I will go with great pleasure." 
               "There is no other reason, of course, that would tempt you to visit this 'classic ground,' just at this present time, I suppose, Wilford! O, no, of course not," said Manfred, playfully. "But come, miboy, brush up this evening, and we will call at the Hotel Moncrieffe, and make our adieux to the family." 
               Agreeably to appointment, the two friends were set down from a modest caleche, at the door of de Brandt's mansion, at a rather early evening hour. Notwithstanding the supposed unseasonableness of the time, they found the reception-rooms of the marquis thronged with company, who had come on an errand similar to their own. The fair hostess was all smiles and radiancy, and the marquis-though as formal and stiff as ever-was as gracious as possible. 
               The lovers had hoped for the opportunity, on this occasion, to be able to enjoy a quiet tete-a-tete with the two young ladies of whom they had become, at the same hour, enamored. But there was no such opportunity afforded. Carriage arrived after carriage, and scores of the nobility crowded upon each other, coming and going, until past midnight; but the lovers had only the privilege of doing and saying whatever the rest of the multitude were equally permitted to do and say, until their "call" had been protracted long beyond the period recognized by the rules of polite etiquette, and they were obliged reluctantly to take their leave, without making any demonstration whatever. 
               Wilford ventured to take the hand of Helen de Brandt in his own, at the moment of retiring, and was bold enough to say, in bad French: 
               "Adieu, ma'amoiselle. We have greatly enjoyed the society of yourself and your noble father's agreeable family, and have only to regret that your stay at Paris has been, unfortunately, so very brief. I trust that we shall soon have the happiness to meet you again." 
               "Adieu, monsieur!" said the beauty, winningly, still resting her beautiful hand in the grasp of the artist, "nous allons d'Italie. 
                        J'ia
                        J'ai
                      beaucoup de reconnaisance pour votre attention. Adieu! jusqu' au revoir." 
               Farewell, Manfred," added Hortense, good-naturedly, "if you visit Naples or Florence this season, pray find us. We shall be absent three months or more, and then you will surely come to our chateau, if we do not see you, meantime?" 
               Wilford kissed the hand of Helen de Brandt, and the two young gentlemen retired, in the happiest possible mood. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE BEGGAR GIRL OF THE PONT DES FLEURS. 
               THE family of de Brandt had been gone several days, and Manfred had returned to England. Wilford was alone in his studio, and as the time had come round when his Madonna was to have been ready, he looked for the return of the lady who had ordered it. Prompt in his own share of the contract, the picture was duly finished; and on the morning that the time expired, a carriage halted again before his door, from which emerged his strange patron, who immediately entered his apartment, accompanied as before by her liveried attendant. 
               "Bonjour, monsieur! I am happy to see you," she said. "I hope you have found leisure to complete the picture I ordered, three months ago to-day?" 
               "Madame, I did not forget my promise. The subject, you remember, you left to my own selection. I chose the 'Madonna,' after a conception of my own, and I am happy to say that it is completed. Will it please you to examine it?" 
               The artist felt not a little pride in pointing the lady to his recent admirable effort, which he considered the best composition he had ever executed. "Here it is, madame." 
               The lady did not raise her veil-a performance that Wilford most earnestly desired and watched for-but stood for a moment fixed, as a statue, before the beautiful design. 
               "Monsieur 1" she exclaimed, after a moment's pause, "you have outdone yourself. It is exquisite, everything that I could have wished. But, I observe, you have preserved the likeness I so much coveted." 
               "Because I fancied it would please you better, and I know of no features that would better carry out my design." 
               "You did well, monsieur; I am more than satisfied. Make your own price upon it. My steward will wait on you with a check for the amount, and remove the picture, directly," and the lady turned to go. 
               "Might I venture to ask madame's address?" said Wilford, politely. 
               "I am a stranger in Paris, monsieur, a friend of the Countess de Charmand, who will inform you further, if you apply to her. I am travelling, in cog.: and have no permanent address at present. My servant will call on you and take the Madonna, at evening. Good day, Monsieur Wilford." 
               The lady had gone! 
               Half an hour afterwards, a porteress knocked at his door, and inquired, "is this Monsieur Wilford, the artist?" 
               "Walk in," said the painter, "I am Wilford." 
               "Thank you, monsieur, I will not tarry. Here is a note which 'the lady in black' requested me to hand to you." 
                
               "What lady did you say?" 
               "I don't know who she is; all we know was that she lodged with us at our hotel, for a few days, and was known as the lady in black, from her uniformly sombre attire. She paid her bills in advance, and we never ask useless questions, you know, monsieur." 
               "C'est bien" replied Wilford, handing the woman a half crown piece. 
               "This is twice I have been paid for this service," said the porteress, chuckling to herself, quietly, and retiring. 
               Wilford saw that it was in Marie's hand-writing, but he had long since given up the idea of ferreting her out by asking questions of her instruments of communication. He could learn nothing from these people, who were either ignorant or were interdicted by their employer, and so he proceeded to read this last missive from his unknown but zealous friend. 
               "Wilford;-this is the last favor you will receive from the hands of that Marie who loves you. There is no longer room in your heart for remembrance of the poor beggar-girl whom you once befriended, and who had fondly hoped that you might not advance with such rapid strides in fortune's path as to be forgetful that she still existed, and in secret worshipped you! 
               "Your head is turned, Wilford! The pomp and glitter of fashion, the pamperings of nobility, the success which your genius and your talents have commanded, a pair of melting blue eyes and the dainty skin of the daughter of a marquis have vanquished you. You are no longer the struggling painter, depending upon his daily exertions for his bread, for fortune has smiled on you, and fame, station, riches are and will be your reward. 
               "Little thought had you for poor Marie, when the titled and the wealthy crowded around, and caressed you. Why should you have? It is not in nature to unite oil and water. Your tastes and inclinations and aims, were different, and your objects are well-nigh gained. N'importe, monsieur! You are right. Pursue the path you have chosen, follow up the prize held out to you, and in the person of Helen de Brandt, find one who is prouder and more worthy of your love than the humble Marie?
                
               "You would know who is 'Marie.' Once, forever, let me answer your often-asked question. You imagine that the person whom you twice met upon the Pont des Fleurs, the beggar-girl, was the same. This is an error. The first one was in the employ of the other, and she took this method of communicating with you, for reasons of her own. Since then, she has adopted her own way to confer with you. She sought to examine into your disposition, and satisfy herself whether or not you were what she believed and hoped you were. On this point she is now content. When you least expected it, 'poor Marie' has since and often been near you. She has dared to love you, not for your fame, your prospective future, or the honors that might accrue to you-but for yourself, alone! 
               "You have given your heart to Helen de Brandt-be it so! But, have a care, O, Alfred Wilford! Suffer not the dazzling fortunes, the admitted beauty of even Helen de Brandt to intoxicate you, unless you prove her truth. Is she worthy of your affections? Is she gentle, loving, truthful, and will she be devoted to your future happiness, when she shall have had time to realize that she has taken to her arms the 'poor artist,' only, though she might have been wedded to a prince? Think of all this, and step with caution. 
               "Marie will still love you, and will watch over you. You do not know her yet, but one day you shall see her, face to face. Hitherto you have deemed her poor and obscure, though you have treated her disguise with respect. Know, now, that the Marie who addresses you through this means, for the last time, Wilford, has been nearer to you than you have ever dreamed, and has listened to your plaudits of the Nelly Noell whom you should have learned to love in life! That Marie has heard you laud the charms of the poor light-keeper's child, whose image you so carefully preserve in your heart and in your studio. That Marie, believe me, Wilford, whom you have been so curious to meet, who loves you so devotedly, and who would gladly share with you her ample fortune-were it not too late! that 'Marie' is the recent purchaser of your 'Madonna,' the veiled stranger in black-who, though she will still continue to be your friend, and will hereafter make herself known to you-now bids you a regretful adieu! and with a prayer for your continued prosperity and happiness, subscribes herself once more, MARIE." 
               "Zounds and confusion!" exclaimed the painter, "I will give a thousand crowns to meet this 'Marie' once more!" 
               But the "lady in black" had disappeared, the "Madonna" had been paid for and instantly removed, the porteress had gone, and Wilford was more in the dark than ever as to this mysterious and now strangely liberal "beggar!" 
               He turned back the leaves of his memory, and saw how interwoven was the receipt of all the letters from "Marie," in connection with the lady in black or her servants, and he was satisfied that her story was genuine. But what could have been her object in thus mystifying the matter? Why a beggar-girl and then a lady of nobility? Still he studied, but he obtained no satisfactory reply. 
               "I shall know her hereafter," says Marie. "Well that is some comfort. I will wait, dear Marie, I will wait!" 
               In the hurry to get away from Paris, the marquis did not call at Wilford's studio as he proposed, and he sent the artist the following apology. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "The compliments of the Marquis de Brandt to Monsieur Wilford. The marquis regrets that his time is limited to so short a period before leaving Paris for Italy, with his family, that he will not have the pleasure of waiting upon him at his studio, as he intended to do. The marchioness joins the young ladies in presenting parting respects to Monsieur Wilford. 
                           
                              DE BRANDT. 
                              Hotel Montcrieffe, Evening."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE MEETING IN VENICE. 
               THE family of the Marquis de Brandt had been sojourning in Venice and Naples several weeks, and near three months had elapsed since they left Paris. Their style of living had been splendid, as was their custom, and during their visit in Italy they had passed the time gaily and sumptuously. One evening as the sun was setting amidst all the glory of a southern sky, there arrived at the Hotel Anglaiterre two gentlemen, with a single male servant. They were modest in their bearing and attire, and little notice was accorded to them by the strange crowd around them. 
               The burthen of the conversation appeared to be devoted to the magnificent liberality of the marquis and his family, and to the singular deportment and questionable objects of a single other person who had engrossed a considerable share of public notice. This latter was a female, who was attended by a secretary and four or five attaches, and she was only known by the title of the "Lady in sables." 
               She was tall and graceful in person, but was exceedingly reserved in her intercourse with any one beyond her own attendants. Occasionally she had been seen to speak, briefly, with the family of the marquis, but she was known to none others, and the mystery of her habits and hearing caused much remark, though none knew whence she came, or who she could be. 
               Immediately upon the arrival of the two young men above spoken of-who booked themselves as Manfred and Wilford-they booked about to learn if the De Brandts were in town, and were gratified to learn that they had been domiciled in Venice, some three weeks. The next day as they were on the point of passing out of the hotel, for the purpose of paying their respects to the marchioness, a lady in deep black entered a beautiful carriage near by, whose form was instantly recognized by Wilford as his late mysterious patron in Paris! 
               "By Jove, Manfred!" exclaimed the artist, springing forward to obtain a view of the carriage, or the lady, or both, "there goes the purchaser of my Madonna." 
               "And what of all that?" responded Manfred, who knew nothing of the particular circum stances of that ease, and who could therefore see no reason why his friend should quite 'jump out of his skin.' "What if it is, miboy! Don't make yourself an object of remark, in public, in this way. Suppose she did buy your Madonna?" 
               "Suppose she did? Ah! miboy, you don't know her story." 
               "Do you?" 
               "No. But I would give a round sum to find it out, to be sure." 
               "Well, she is gone for the present." 
                
               "So I observe. That is her carriage, too, the same I noticed before the door of my studio in Paris." 
               "Here's an adventure to begin with, then." 
               "You shall see, Manfred. Do you remember my mentioning the beggar girl of the Pont des Fleurs?" 
               "Yes." 
               "That is she!" 
               "Who?" 
               "The lady in black." 
               "Well, who is the lady in black?" 
               "Why, Marie, to be sure." 
               "Marie! This is another one, then." 
               "Well, understand me, now. You heard our neighbors here speak of the 'lady in sables,' have you not?" 
               "Yes, yes." 
               "Well, as we stepped from our hotel, I over-heard the remark from one of our countrymen, 'there she is again.' I looked, and beheld the purchaser of my Madonna, whose face I never saw, and whom I knew only as the 'lady in black,' until I received a note from the beggar girl-as I suppose-and signed Marie, informing me that she had doubly disguised her intercourse with me, and that herself and my patron were the same person. Do you think I am not anxious to know her?" 
               "Well, I am not surprised. But, will you succeed?" 
               "I shall try, assuredly." 
               "How will you commence?" 
               "I will call upon her." 
               "Where?" 
               "That remains to be ascertained," said Wilford; "but I shall contrive it. She has slipped me several times, and if she doesn't know that I am in Venice, I shall be certain to carry my point. I cannot conceive why she preserves this curious deportment towards me, inasmuch as her letters to me-if it be the same person-over the signature of 'Marie,' were burthened with good wishes and earnest sentiments of solicitude in my especial behalf." 
               "You have corresponded with her, then?" 
               Wilford explained the whole of his romantic secret, to his friend, who concluded that were he precisely in Wilford's situation, he should feel precisely as the artist did, without any doubt. 
               "And when you meet this strange woman, and learn all about her, if you effect it," asked Manfred, "what will you have gained?" 
               "That is in the future, too, my boy. But here we are." 
               The friends had reached the temporary residence of the Marquis de Brandt, where they intended to call. 
               They found only the marchioness and Hortense, at leisure-Helen having accompanied her father out to examine some of the picture galleries. The ladies were delighted to see messieurs in Venice, where they had enjoyed their sojourn very pleasantly, and the fair marquise and the fairer Hortense never looked more charmingly. Manfred was especially pleased, and accepted their invitation to be social during his stay in Venice, with marked satisfaction. 
               "Helen will be glad to meet you here, monsieur," said the marchioness, addressing Wilford, kindly, "and will be disappointed that you should not find her at home." 
               With promises to call again, early, the young gentlemen left. As they turned from the door, the carriage of the strange lady halted at the portal of the marquis. 
               "There she is, again!" said Wilford, to his friend. "This is unlucky, to be sure. Had we tarried a moment longer, we might have had an introduction, without further trouble." 
               "Hadn't you better return?" said Manfred, provokingly. 
               Wilford knew better than to permit his zeal to urge him to overstep the bounds of etiquette, so ridiculously, and he turned towards his lodgings, not a little annoyed with his morning's ill success. 
               "I am at a loss to conceive why this beggar, or princess, or whoever she may be," added Wilford, "should take this singular interest in my temporal affairs, and at the same time exhibit such wilful shyness about it all. If there were any reason why she should follow me, and advise me, and pay me extravagant sums for my pictures, and all that, I don't understand why she shouldn't permit me to know exactly who and what she is. Do you, Manfred?" 
               "I cannot answer for her facetiousness." 
               "Facetious! Do you call it thus?" 
               "Eccentricity then, miboy How do you like that?" 
               "Bah! Manfred, you are a queer fellow. But what strikes me as strangely as all the rest, is, that she happens to be in Venice, when I get here! Why shouldn't she have been in Paris, or anywhere else?" 
               "True-but I presume she will explain everything thing to your satisfaction, if you are ever so lucky as to catch her again," said Manfred. 
               "But we can learn of her, easily, at de Brandts," replied Wilford, suddenly, thinking of this plan of inquiry. 
               "Have a care there, miboy!" suggested Manfred. "Ask no foolish questions in that quarter, about this woman. You will have to explain, perhaps; and what will a certain 'demoiselle say, do you think, if you disclose your apparent intrigue, there?" 
               They reached their lodgings, and immediately Wilford learned that a curious card had been left for him during his absence. He looked at it, and a simple black mark, thus - appeared upon it, with the address, "HOTEL FRANCAIS, at 11 P. M." Here was more mystery! 
               "What do you make out of that?" asked Wilford. 
               "It is from your sable friend, the beggar," said Manfred, coolly. "You will obey the summons, of course. Perhaps she will turn out to be an officer of the Inquisition, in disguise. Call, miboy, by all means." 
               Wilford was confounded. 
               "Or, it may be," continued Manfred, "that she only wants her portrait painted, and desires to give you a fresh commission. You will thus be enabled to see her, 'face to face,' without being called upon to invest a 'thousand crowns' in the operation." 
               "You are perfectly heartless in this matter, Manfred. But, I will go. I am determined upon seeing her face, at any rate." 
               "Go on, miboy, I wish you all success. I have no doubt she will prove an angel, or a sprite, or something between the two. Go, by all means." 
               And Wilford did go, as the card indicated. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               "THE LADY IN SABLES." 
               AT the appointed hour, or rather at the time indicated upon the strange card Wilford had received, he was prompt in his 
                     at tendance
                     attendance
                   at the Hotel Francais, where he presented his singular-looking talisman, for admittance to the apartments occupied by the "Lady in Sables." He was shown at once to the door of a large room, outside of which there stood two servants, dressed in the identical livery he had twice seen in Paris, when his wealthy patron called upon him. To one of these, without a word, he handed a card with "Wilford" engraved upon it. 
               "Enter monsieur," said the attendant, instantly, and with an earnest politeness. The door opened, and closed quickly-and the artist found himself entirely alone, in a long drawing-room which was richly-furnished, and which opened into another apartment beyond it. This atter room seemed to be brilliantly lighted, and, as he left the first door he had entered, a servant girl came across the apartment, pointed him to the elegantly curtained archway that led into the inner room, or parlor-and said, as she passed out: 
               "Madame awaits you-walk in, monsieur." 
               The curtain was immediately drawn noiselessly aside, and a perfect gush of brilliant light burst upon the sight of the startled artist, as he entered this magnificently appointed apartment. The gorgeousness of the room, the superb furniture, its rich velvety carpet and massive curtains, its profusion of divans, lounges, and costly mirrors, struck the young artist with surprise and admiration, because he had made no calculations upon being so sumptuously received. But his attention was very quickly attracted from the furnishings to the only occupant of the room. 
               A woman of commanding and graceful figure approached him, as he advanced fairly into the room, and in exquisite French, said: 
               "Monsieur Wilford, you are very welcome. Pray be seated;" and she pointed him to an inviting lounge at the side of the spacious apartment. 
               She was attired in a magnificent black satin dress, cut low at the shoulders, her arms were bare, save where a rich diamond bracelet clasped the splendidly rounded wrist, and about her throat, and pendant upon her snow-white bosom, hung a string of heavy pearls. A rich girdle of pearls was also suspended around her zone, and a shawl of pure Mechlin hung loosely on her left arm. A complete domino concealed her entire features, however; and, except that he observed her flowing ringlets were deep brown- he could not discover a single lineament of the lady's face. 
               "I heard you had arrived in town," said the lady, pleasantly, "and I sent you my address. I thank you for your prompt attention." 
               "I am rather your debtor, madame, for this honor," said Wilford. 
               "I sent for you, monsieur, to explain a trifling riddle to you, at least, an enigma as it has seemed to you; and to order another picture, perhaps." 
               "You are very kind, madame. May I not, without giving you offence, at the outset ask whom I now have the honor of speaking with?" 
               "No offence, Wilford-but, pardonnez moi! I cannot answer that at present. I have a desire to be convinced by you in reference to one or two matters which deeply concern both you and me, whether I am rightly informed or not; and I wish to explain to your own satisfaction another matter in which I am implicated. When this is done, you shall know my name and station, without scruple or delay." 
               "But you are 'Marie,' are you not?" 
               "Marie, if you will, then-yes, for the time being. That was my nom de guerre, for the occasion." 
               "And the beggar-girl of the Pont des Fleurs?" said Wilford. 
               "Yes, and no. Once I was there, in person, attended by a friend close at hand. At the other meeting, an employee of mine assumed the garb, to arrest your particular notice, and to try your charity. Thus begun, I assumed the name of Marie, and from that time I continued to carry out my design." 
               "And what was your final object?" 
               "You shall see, monsieur. Men are treacherous creatures! I do not mean making this a sweeping charge against all men, for there is no rule without its exception. Still, I repeat, men are inconstant and unstable." 
               "And women?" queried Wilford, mischievously. 
               "Yes, and women, too," acknowledged the fair speaker. "But, in your case, I learned, no matter how, that you had become attached to the image or the reality of a poor penniless girl who adored you, and whom you would have wedded, probably, but for her indigence and your own." 
               "Was not madame misinformed?" asked Wilford, at this announcement. 
               "Perhaps I was; your heart will tell you, Wilford." 
               "But, I assure you-" 
               "You need not assure me, monsieur. Listen, and I will tell you the history of the affair. You loved one Nelly Noell, but neither you nor she knew it, seasonably. You met her in poverty, when you also was as poor as she. Am I right?" 
               "Proceed, madame." 
               "She loved you-how devotedly and warmly, you never knew. You met her, I say, under adverse circumstances, you left her to mourn your departure and your subsequent absence. You did not forget her, but she could not speak her love, and when you came to think and feel how dear she might have been to you, it was too late, for Nelly was lost to you!" 
               A sigh escaped young Wilford's lips, in spite of himself. 
               "You came to Paris, and placed her sweet image upon canvass, as you remembered her, and O, how faithfully! I saw your gem of art, and would have purchased it; but then, from your own lips, I learned how deeply you prized the counterpart, when the original had passed beyond your reach!" 
               "I own it, madame." 
               "'Tis well. Scarce half a year had passed, when you suddenly met with a lady high in station, whom you swore resembled Nelly, and so strongly that you must fall in love with her at sight!" 
               "The Lady Helen was fortunate in possessing such a face, madame, else I might have passed her as I had a thousand other brilliant women, and even have been content with my poor Marie," said Wilford, romantically. 
               "Fie, monsieur! Had the lady no charms save of face and form? Was she not the proud daughter of a marquis? Were you her peer? Where was your discrimination and your love of such beauty only, when you saw and fled from the light-keeper's daughter?" 
               "The charm of station, nobility, wealth, madame-may be surroundings of advantage to a lovely woman, in the eyes of some connoisseurs, but a beautiful and costly framing around an indifferent or unworthy picture, would not please my taste, or satisfy my desires!" 
               "Well, let that pass. You see a resemblance in her face to that of Nelly, and you love her. Would you wed her, Wilford?" 
                
               This query, so directly given, took the young man by surprise. 
               "Madame!" he said. 
               "Monsieur," she replied; "I asked you fairly, would you wed this lady?" 
               "And I answer, madame-that I-I am-" 
               "Surprised at my impertinence," continued the lady, finishing the sentence for him. "Well then, you need not answer this-but let me now add what I most desire to confess to you." 
               "I am all attention, lady." 
               "Wilford," she continued, "the circumstances of the case will plead excuse for my forgetfulness of self and sex, in this admission. We are alone, here, and no ear but yours can hear what I have to say. I have watched your course for a long period, and I have loved you, as you have already been made aware, as woman rarely loves a man! You cannot see my face, but it is not perhaps displeasing. I am wealthy, youthful, guiltless of thought or deed in life that ill becomes a woman, beloved by none and loving none but you; and I would fill that place within your heart which Nelly would have occupied, had you but owned her while you might." 
               "Madame-I-" 
               "My fortune is ample, I am mistress of a million in my own right. I lay my heart and means at your disposal, before you have proposed to Helen; and have been, perhaps, rejected!" 
               "Madame! Marie, whoever you may be, I can only say that I owe you much, and would requite the love you so generously have confessed, but-" 
               "You love the brilliant Helen better, monsieur?" continued the strange lady, wildly. 
               "My heart is gone, Marie, gone, out of my own keeping." 
               "And Helen de Brandt possesses it?" 
               "Do not press me farther, but pardon my preference." 
               "Go then, monsieur, I have done! I had forgotten myself, I have shamed my sex. I flattered my poor heart that yours was not a flint! In my plenitude of confidence and affection, I lost sight of my womanhood, and you discard me. Be it so. We shall meet no more. Respect the secresy that should attach to an interview like this, remember me only as 'poor Marie,' and be assured that she will still pray for your happiness even in the arms of Helen de Brandt!" 
               The lady placed her 'kerchief convulsively to her lips, and with a sigh, rushed from the apartment. 
               A moment afterward, a servant entered and said: 
               "Monsieur's carriage waits." 
               Wilford started up, and quickly departed, overwhelmed with astonishment, confusion and painful regrets at this unsought-for and remarkable interview. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE PROPOSAL. 
               THE curious meeting described in our last chapter proved a serious damper upon the ardor of young Wilford, in his amour. He now saw that his talents, which had raised him so suddenly into notice at Paris was the cause, probably, of this disagreeable episode in his life. It was a singular result, but what would not a loving woman perform for the object of her earnest affections? In this instance, a lady of rank and splendid fortune had assumed the meanest of disguises, had followed clandestinely upon his heels for months, had offered him her hand and means, without scruple and without encouragement, and all at a venture! It was a case of madness! 
               To Manfred's repeated and importunate inquiries, Wilford returned but the briefest answers, assuring him that all should be explained in due time-but that his pledge of honor prevented him from entering into details, at present, in reference to his interview, on the day succeeding which, it was observed that the "lady in sables" broke up her establishment, and peremptorily quitted Venice, without further ceremony. 
               The gloom temporarily caused by this incident was very quickly dissipated, however, in Wilford's case, by his meeting with the de Brandts on the following evening. The ever charming Helen and Hortense were more beautiful and more interesting than usual, even. Time and distance from home improved both the fair daughters, and the young companion-lovers made excellent progress in their suits. A fortnight passed away, and the interviews between them had been happy and frequent. 
               Though no hint of suspicion as to the objects of Manfred and Wilford was given on the part of the parents, yet the marquis and the marchioness were by no means inattentive observers of what was evidently going on among the young people. 
               "Do you observe the familiarity of Hortense and Manfred?" asked the marchioness of her husband, one day when they were alone together. 
               "Do you note the intimacy that is growing between Helen and young Wilford?" responded her husband, quaintly, in reply. 
               "Surely I cannot avoid it," said the lady. "Do you object to it, in any way?" she added. 
               "Not a whit-not a whit, by Jove! They are brave fellows, to be sure; and the girls will wed somebody, sooner or later. Let them enjoy themselves, I will manage it all to suit my wishes, and yours. 
               "Manfred's family and fortune are not unequal to the position and means of our Hortense," continued the marchioness. "But this Wilford ford, what of him? Helen evidently favors him above the scores of flatterers that continually surround her." 
               "I see it all, and secretly rejoice at it, my dear. But we must not let her, or him, know this at present. Time will prove the boy. I know his history. He is the intimate friend of young Manfred, a talented but poor artist. He has been well educated and possesses a good head and an honest heart, I think. I shall continue to watch them, as you will, also; time, I say, will prove how worthy he may be." 
               A month elapsed, and the gay circle of friends and acquaintances who were permitted to enjoy the society of the de Brandt family in Venice, had long since decided in their own minds how matters were progressing. The beaux and courtiers and fortune-hunters who flit about this match-making locale, had given up the chase, in favor of the two clearly favorite winners; and the lovers seemed to be having the field entirely to themselves. Manfred had already secretly declared himself to Hortense, who had blushingly accepted his offer, subject to her parents' approval-and Wilford had gone so far as to hint to his lovely Helen, that his future hopes centred in her smiling approval of his confession and his attachment. 
               At a convenient opportunity, the eldest daughter approached her fond but eccentric parent with the design of explaining to him her position and desire, though she had no clear idea how her propositions might be received by him. 
               "Father," she said, modestly, "I know you love your daughter, for you have never, once in life, crossed her wishes." 
               "You are right, dear Helen. My fortune is your fortune, you know, my aim your constant happiness. What will you ask?" 
               "A boon, father, of joy or woe to me, as you may elect." 
               "So serious, daughter! Then you have well considered your request, I am sure. Is it so important as this?" continued the marquis, feelingly. "What has happened?" 
               "You shall know all the secret, anon, dear father." 
               "Have you thought of marriage, daughter?" 
               "Not at present, no;-but-" 
               "I had hoped that you would favor the man I have already chosen for you, Helen, among our friends, when you should think of this." 
               "I have already made my own election, father, if you approve it." 
               "What! My daughter Helen has not committed herself in this important step, without consulting her parents in regard to it? Surely you have informed the marchioness of this?" 
               "I come to you first, my father, to you who have never yet denied me a favor or a desire when expressed to you." 
               "And you have accepted an-an offer, Helen?" 
               "Only provisionally." 
               "Is he a prince, my daughter?" 
               "A what! No, father, no!" 
               "A duke, or count?" 
               "Neither." 
               "The son of a noble, at least-" 
               "He has no drop of gentle blood in his veins, father, but-" 
               "Then he has fortune, surely. My daughter's dowry is a mine of wealth; and he must tell down ready gold who wins her hand and purse." 
               "He has no fortune, father, save what God has sent him in the shape of goodness, worth and genius." 
               "Poor, penniless! No name, no fame? Daughter, you wrong my confidence; and I protest against your choice. Where does he dwell?" 
               "In Venice, father." 
               "So near us? Have I seen him? Is he one of the fawning well-dressed fools, that force themselves, in hordes, about us here? We will return to France, forthwith, my daughter." 
               "Father!" 
               "Nay, Helen do not urge this suit. Do not offend me with such a whim, when I would make you noble, respected, noted, as you deserve to be, in the future." 
               "One more word, dear father, and I have done. The time has been when even you, I think, would not have spoken thus. The time has been when you did not thus value title, or the world's opinion. I did not think you had thus sadly changed. Your daughter is the same being now, as when the days were darker on your path and on hers! Our Father in heaven has been gracious, and with the same generous hand that has placed us in almost royal affluence, he has dispensed to another, in profusive bulk, the choicest riches of the heart and mind, which he will turn to laudable account. That man your Helen loves, with all her soul! Must she reject him, father?" 
               "The days of which you speak, happily, are long since past, my daughter. I would have you wed the man that shall be worthy of yourself and of the brilliant fortune that your father gives the bride. I love you, now, dear Helen," he continued, kindly, "as fondly as when those same dark days came over us, and I will think of this. Retire. I will confer with the marchioness, and you shall know our pleasure on the morrow." 
               Helen de Brandt was totally unprepared for any such demonstration of aristocratic ideas, on the part of her father, as this interview had so suddenly indicated. She had always been taught a different theory! Until the moment he had thus confessed it-though he had not adhered to his present position very tenaciously-she had always been led to believe that, of all things in earth, mere title was the most inconsiderable of matters, in her father's esteem of men or women. 
               The suspense that followed upon this meeting with her loved parent-whose slightest wish it had ever been her highest joy to gratify-was almost intolerable. How would he decide? What influence might not the marchioness bring to bear in favor of her husband's views and purposes? What would poor Wilford do? And what must be the consequence to her own heart, in the event of her father's adherence to his stated opinion? 
               A night of anguish passed, and morning only brought a continuation of distress to Helen's mind. Was there no hope that the marquis would recant, or recede, from his views? 
               Wilford knew nothing of what was transpiring, and was on the point of calling at the mansion of the marquis, when he unexpectedly received, through that gentleman's steward, a summons to his residence. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               HOPES AND FEARS. 
               WILFORD responded immediately to this invitation of the marquis, and upon reaching the mansion, the artist was shown at once into the private room of de Brandt, where he found him alone, and awaiting him, as it appeared. 
               "Monsieur," said the marquis, "you are prompt in your coming. Promptness in business affairs is a virtue, monsieur. Take a chair; I have business with you." 
               "What can I do to oblige you?" said Wilford, respectfully. 
               "I am but a plain man, in matters like that which causes this interview, monsieur. You can deeply oblige me, if you will." 
               "I am most ready, I assure you," said Wilford, anxiously, "to do anything in my humble way-anything in my power, to oblige the father of the beautiful Helen de Brandt." 
               "It is in your power, monsieur, to grant what I now demand." 
               "Believe me, then, it shall be done. What will the marquis ask?" 
               "That you formally and instantly renounce all claim upon my daughter's hand." 
               "Monsieur!" exclaimed Wilford, excitedly and surprised. 
               "Here is pen, ink and paper. Write, monsieur!" 
               "But, really-I am unprepared to-" 
               "It matters nothing-I will dictate." 
               "But, how have you-why have you-" 
               "I insist, monsieur, upon this point. You have proposed to her, already." 
               "You know this?" 
               "I know all, monsieur! I know that you are penniless. I know that you have insinuated yourself into her good graces, and you have drawn from her confessions that do not comport with the dignity and position of the eldest daughter of the Marquis de Brandt! From whom do you descend, monsieur? Have you a name? A fortune? Fame? Anything to warrant you in making proposals of marriage to my daughter? Speak, monsieur! Are you dumb, too?" 
               Wilford was confounded with the vehement manner of the marquis, and he did not venture a syllable in his defence, at present. 
               "What have I done, monsieur?" continued the marquis, with apparent deep feeling, "what have I done, that you should thus steal into the bosom of my family, to tear from the embrace and care of affection and affluence, our fairest, best-loved and tenderest child, to reduce to a questionable support, at best, to say nothing of the chances of an adverse maintenance? You want money, monsieur! You need l'argent! Be it so-you shall have gold-since you have had encouragement. I will pay for your disappointment pointment, but I demand again that you forthwith renounce all claim to my daughter's hand! Yield, then-and write!" 
               "Not for my life, monsieur le marquis!" 
               "What! See, Wilford-I am rich, powerful, I can make you what you dare not think of becoming, if I withhold my favor. What is your price? I will pay it down, in gold-but you must forget and renounce your plan." 
               "Monsieur-" 
               "Wilford! I will give you ten thousand crowns-" 
               "Not a sous, monsieur le marquis." 
               "Twenty thousand crowns!" Wilford was silent. 
               "Fifty thousand, then-here! see my bills of credit, and name your price to retire." 
               "Monsieur, you rave," responded Wilford, as calmly as possible. "Pray listen to me one moment, since I have heard you speak so long and so patiently." 
               "Will you renounce my daughter's hand?" 
               "No, monsieur le marquis! If all the crowns of all this world were yours to give, if each of these would count within itself ten times the sum of all your splendid fortune, I would not-on my soul! I would not accept it in exchange for one sweet smile from your fair daughter!" 
               "What, boy!" 
               "I am penniless, monsieur le marquis. Fortune does not dispense its favors equally, though I do not complain. I am the poor son of a poor but honest father, who taught me to love virtue and to honor talent, while I spurned the aristocracy which l'argent alone created. I have health, ambition, a share of genius in my way, a reputation free from stain of guilt, the will to be a man, and fortune will not desert me, monsieur, though you may flout at the poor painter." 
               "And do you speak thus proudly here, to me, monsieur?" 
               "I am beneath your roof, monsieur le marquis, and for the moment, am your guest. I came at your bidding. I love your daughter with all the fervor of youth and with an unconquerable, unchangeable passion. I cannot, will not formally renounce her; I cannot be a villain, monsieur! Yet I will wait, wait your pleasure, or a change in your disposition. She will appreciate this sacrifice on my part, and I shall be certain of her approval of my course. Ask no more, monsieur." 
               "And you will press your suit no farther?" 
               "Not without your free consent." 
               "Enough, Wilford, you disarm me. I will see-I will meet you again. You may retire, now, and see, young man! To-morrow-tomorrow, at ten o'clock, come hither again." 
               "I will not fail, monsieur," said Wilford, retiring. 
               Immediately after he had withdrawn, the marquis summoned his daughter to his room. Helen came, pale and wearied with excitement, but calm and pleasant as usual. 
               "My daughter," said de Brandt, affectionately, "I have conferred with the marchioness in reference to the matter I spoke to you of, yesterday. She will approve the course I have resolved to take. Tell me, is young Wilford the man you would render happy?" 
               "I should have told you of this before, father, but for your severity, on yesterday. I had no wish to bring down trouble on his head, and since you were so ambitious for my weal, I did not name the man I had presumed, perhaps, to love." 
               "Is it not young Wilford, daughter?" 
               "You have named him rightly, father." 
               "Wilford," continued the marquis, slowly; "Wilford is an honorable young man. I do not find the name in our calendar, but this person is a gentleman of merit. You have seen Wilford before this, have you not?" 
               "Yes, long since." 
               "You are content with him?" 
               "Yes, father; with all my heart." 
               "And you are satisfied with his fortune?" 
               "He is rich in all that goes to make the man and gentleman, dear father; and you should know him, surely." 
               "I do know Wilford; but you did not mention him." 
               "You did not afford me the opportunity to speak his name." 
               "And this is he of whom we have so long had hints?" 
               "The same, father." 
               "'Tis well, then, Helen. We accept your choice, but, mark me, for the present do not speak of us, in the matter; I have a plan of my own to carry out, as you may now suspect, and I desire that it may not be frustrated. Preserve your deportment towards him as if nothing had occurred out of the ordinary course of events. I wished to try how strongly you were attached to him, and I have also measured him, since I spoke with you." 
               "Who, Wilford?" 
               "Yes, my child. Think you, I would risk my Helen's happiness, without some farther test, in hands unused to guide and cherish innocence and virtue such as she possesses? Think you, after having held the helm so long. I would venture placing it in hands unskilled or reckless, when the rocks and shoals might be in sight?" 
               "Father! You have been all in all to me! Do as you will, I will still love you more than ever!" 
               On the following day, at the appointed hour, Wilford made his appearance again at the residence of the marquis. The entire manner of de Brandt was changed towards his guest. He was cheerful and polite, and the artist at once augured a good result to his hopes. 
               "Wilford," said the marquis, pleasantly, "I have heard a good account of you, since last we met. Did you ever hear of one Noell, in England, a mariner, I think he was, in the employ of the British government?" 
               "I knew one Harry Noell, whom I met at Beachy Head, the keeper of the light-house, there." 
               "He had a daughter, did he not?" 
               "You are right, monsieur. A sweeter girl than Nelly Noell never breathed the ocean air. And brave she was, as well. They saved my life, monsieur, and I should know them, surely!" said Wilford, gratefully. 
               "You have a portrait of the daughter, in your possession!" 
               "Yes, monsieur; and it is so like your own Helen, that I have more than once been tempted to present it to the marchioness, had I supposed she would have accepted it." 
               "I have heard your history of the picture, from the lips of a visitor to your studio, some months since; what became of this Noell and his child?" 
               "They perished in the ruins of their humble dwelling, at Beachy Point, which was fired by the hand of malice." 
               "Ah, yes. I recollect. Wilford, do you still adhere to the position you assumed when I saw you, yesterday?" 
               "Monsieur le marquis, I can only throw myself upon your lenity. I know, full well, that the charms and the prospective fortune of your daughter are sufficient to command the love and aspirations of many who are high in station, and heavy in purse. Against these, I can only present a whole heart, a clear head, and an honesty of purpose." 
               "Which we accept, monsieur!" said the marquis, without further detention. 
               The heart of Wilford was too full for reply, and de Brandt cut short the interview with a request that he would forget his harshness, and call at his residence often. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               FAMILIAR FACES. 
               WE must now turn and fellow the fortunes of the light-keeper and his daughter, from the time we left them, soon after their arrival in Europe. As we have already seen, Noell had removed the name of the yacht from the stern, and he had subsequently taken all the necessary precautions to destroy any other evidence of the place whence she hailed, or who she might belong to. As soon as he made the port where he designed to take her, he found a ready purchaser for her among some smugglers, there, who paid him the full value for the Waif. He then went down to Lisbon, thence to Madrid, and there we left him, with his gold and silver turned into cash and bills of credit to a much larger amount than had ever before been seen. Assuming disguises for himself and child, for the time being, he travelled incognita for a long period, without determining what he should eventually do, or where he should settle. 
               From time to time, as he watched the journals of the day, he noticed the various accounts given of his supposed death, at the time of the burning of the light-house, and he found this forced hypothesis in regard to the fate of himself and his daughter a very convenient circumstance to favor his future intentions. So he said nothing except to enjoin positive and unconditional secrecy upon his daughter, who had never known any other authority, and who did precisely as she was bidden by her father, without regard to reasons or consequences. 
               "The captain and his friend must have escaped, and they must have been the parties who applied the torch to the light-house," said Noell, reading the account of the fire to his daughter. "When we left the premises there was no fire in the building, except in the lamps at the cone, and as that portion of the light was wholly composed of glass and iron, it is not probable that it proceeded from that cause in any way. They probably committed this outrage from malice, since they had lost their booty, and we may meet the rascals, again, one day or another." 
               "I hope we may never see them, again, father," said Nelly. 
               "Well, it may be so. Now, Nelly, I have told you what I have done, and how we are circumstanced. We will make the best of it, and I desire to impress on your mind the importance, for the present, of our maintaining a strict disguise, and until the whole affair shall have been forgotten, lest unpleasant queries arise that might greatly jeopardise or embarrass me. I assume the responsibility of this act, alone, and you will continue to be guided and protected by me. Ask no unnecessary questions, be prudent constantly, and all will come out right, at last." 
                
               With this reasoning and this sort of parental appeal, Noell effectually quieted all apprehensions and doubts in Nelly's mind, and they proceeded to enjoy the means they had so suddenly become possessed of, in a rational but liberal manner. 
               Fixing upon a permanent incognito, at last, Noell retired to the south of France and established himself, with his daughter, in retired but handsome quarters, where they began life, once more, upon a scale of ease and splendor that was nowhere rivalled in the vicinity. 
               There dwelt in the immediate neighborhood, a lady of some substantial pretensions to beauty, who was well-known as a most estimable person, in all her relations, who was reported to be very wealthy, and whose style of living evinced that she had a goodly share of the world's goods in her own right. This proved to be correct. She was the widow of a millionaire, who had been dead some three or four years. Noell met her, and was struck with her ladylike bearing and her apparent good qualities, and he suddenly conceived the idea, as he had been a widower many years, and as he was now in a pecuniary condition to set up such a domestic establishment as he might fancy, that he would take to himself a new wife-provided the lady mentioned should be agreeable to such an arrangement. 
               Madame did not object to Noell, but, like a business-woman as she was, she made such inquiries into his character as she could, without offence, and became satisfied that he did not seek her fortune, alone. His means were found to be ample, and she at length consented to change her name and condition. She married Noell, and the match proved a fortunate and happy union, in all respects. Their dispositions were not unlike each other's, they were both largely independent in fortune, and the united wealth of the two was an enormous sum, the whole income of which it was impossible for them, reasonably, to expend. 
               A magnificent chateau was purchased in the interior, and to this place the family retired to enjoy their splendid income. As Nelly became better acquainted with the usages of society, in the acquirement of the details of which she proved an apt scholar, she was permitted by her father to enjoy herself in her own way, and as best suited her own tastes. Such means were placed at her disposal as she required for a fashionable "privy purse," and she dealt out her means with a liberal hand. 
               She was especially fond of pictures; and at her father's house she maintained a beautiful gallery of the works of the best ancient and modern artists, which she collected together, from time to time, as the opportunity presented. She often left home, attended by two or three servants, and visited Marseilles, Lyons, or even Paris, when in the mood, in search of gems of art in painting or sculpture. 
               While at the latter city, on one occasion, she heard the name of Wilford mentioned as an artist from. England, and one of great merit. Notwithstanding her father's positive and repeated caution and injunctions as to her conduct when away from his supervision, and although, at that time, it was all-important to Noell to preserve yet, for a while, his incognita, the impetuous daughter resolved upon visiting the studio of Wilford, and to ascertain for herself whether his fame outran his abilities. 
               Completely and thoroughly disguised, she called there and examined his efforts. Immediately after this, Wilford became acquainted with Marie-whose tender epistles and whose generous sentiments had so deeply interested him, it will be remembered. Then, as the "lady in black" she appeared to him again, at his rooms, and with her own ears listened to his praises of, and his regrets for, the deceased and lovely Nelly Noell! She saw her own portrait there, like a mirror before her, and which she would have purchased, at any price, but the artist would not part with it. Ah, how this flattered the veiled but lovely daughter of his benefactor. And time passed on. 
               While Wilford sincerely thought that the ashes of the departed Nelly reposed beneath the scarred and fallen ruins of the light-house, this same Nell was flitting to and fro between her home and his studio-watching over him, directly and indirectly, in acquiring fame and fortune. To her slight of hand was he indebted for the mysterious note found in his sketch-book; the first he received from the subsequently known Marie. He never suspected her, however. To her influence he owed much of the success which attended his labors, too-for she lost no opportunity of sending friends to him, when he most needed their patronage. Nevertheless, her plans were so adroitly managed that he was entirely ignorant of her existence, or her agency in the matter, and he lived on, ah, how unconscious of her secret devotion to him! 
                
               But, while he was in the midst of his labors in Paris, there arrived in the metropolis a meteor of rare brilliancy in the world of fashion. The praises of the new-comers were loud upon every lip, the fame of their extraordinary wealth and sumptuous mode of living spread in all directions, and Wilford found himself among the guests invited to partake of their splendid hospitality. 
               The still humble but aspiring artist had little taste for this sort of entertainment, for it was not only by far too expensive a medium of enjoyment for his purse, but he felt that the sphere for the present, was above him; and he would have avoided mixing in such company, but for the unexpected and timely arrival of his friend Manfred from England. 
               He responded to the invitation he had received, however, when he learned that his companion was to be present, and here he met with the only woman whom he had ever seriously thought of loving. In Helen de Brandt-the daughter of the now famous marquis, he saw a being such as he had pictured that Nelly who was lost to him; and he was vanquished, at sight of her singular resemblance to his ideal darling. 
               We have already learned how he followed up this attraction, and how he was received by the daughter of the illustrious marquis; and this brings us again to the continuation of our story, and the development of our plot. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               APPROPRIATE DISCLOSURES. 
               THE de Brandts had returned to their estate on the Gironde. During their residence here, for a twelvemonth or more, they had been known by the title they had chosen when they came from the south-but, as the reader has already seen, this name was of course fictitious. It will have also been discovered that the widowed "marquis," who had been so fortunate as to fall into a gold mine so suddenly, and who subsequently became united in marriage to the charming and wealthy Widow Dessaret, was only a marquis for the time being, for his own purposes; and that he was in fact none other than our long-missing and worthy acquaintance, Harry Noell, the whilom light-keeper. 
               Hortense was the daughter of Madame Dessaret, and Helen was our identical "Nelly," a pest cognomen corrupted by family usage for her real name. All this, as yet, was entirely unknown, however, except to the parties directly spoken of; neither Manfred nor Wilford entertained the slightest suspicion of the fact, and such had been the management of the so-called de Brandts (which was the family name of Madame Dessaret, prior to her fires marriage), that the deception had proved entirely successful, from the beginning through every circumstance connected with them. 
               From the very outset of her new career, indeed, from the hour when Wilford finally parted with Noell and his daughter, at the light, the father of Nelly had resolved-if they lived long enough-to bring about a union between the artist and his child. He learned the disposition of Nelly towards Wilford, and he felt, as soon as he became possessed of sufficient means to carry out his intentions at his leisure, that there would be no difficulty in consummating the happiness of two hearts that he was certain would affiliate, if the proper direction were given to his design. 
               All the circumstances that subsequently occurred, favored his plan. He knew that the public believed him dead. He took care to ascertain that the artist had adopted this belief, and his management aided to confirm this supposition, in his mind. He saw that it was then only necessary to adopt a plausible incognita, and to preserve it, a while, to enable him to carry his scheme to a successful termination. 
               He suffered his naturally heavy beard and profuse hair to go unshorn. He adopted an entirely tirely different style of dress, and habit of speech. His manner became thoroughly changed, from the affable and easy ways of a seemingly careless and inferior being, to the austere and stiff address of a harsh and authoritative military man, apparently. In his newly-adopted costume, he appeared much taller in stature, than usual; and his generous style of living had the effect of rendering him corpulent, and much stouter in person than before. His whole mien was changed, and the fact that Noell had been dead several months (in Wilford's opinion and belief), had the effect of warding off all suspicion as to his identity with any one he had ever known before. 
               In addition to all this, it will be recollected that during the time that Wilford was domiciled at the light-keeper's dwelling, he had been, up to the last very few days, entirely unconscious of anything in life. When he came to consciousness, finally, he found himself in a small, darkened room, attended by a gentle girl, and subsequently saw the form of a man about his bedside. 
               Wilford had never had the opportunity to examine Noell's lineaments, particularly, and really never knew his face and features very accurately, for, as soon as he was able to look at the daylight, Manfred took him away to better quarters. Thus it was not strange he should have been completely deceived as to the identity of the wealthy and stately Marquis de Brandt, surrounded by his new wife and family and retinue, with the person of the poor widowed light-keeper of Beachy Head, whom, above all, he supposed in his heart had gone to his long and final home. 
               So with Helen. The moment Wilford fixed his eyes upon the eldest daughter of the nominal "marquis," at his levee in Paris, it will be remembered that her resemblance to Nelly struck him so remarkably as to draw from him the exclamation "it is her very self!" Yet, when he saw her more fully developed form, her difference of manner, her dark brown ringlets, and observed her polished manners, in addition to the fact that she spoke to him in a foreign tongue, with an apparent natural accent, the first impressions vanished, and he never in reality dreamed that she and Nelly Noell could be the same individual. Besides this, the circumstances that surrounded her, would alone have destroyed or annulled this belief. She was but one of two or three of the children of the marquis, who was a married man of immense wealth. Noell was a poor lone widower, with but a single child-as Wilford knew him-and all these things served much to aid in completing the deceit. 
               As we have said, the family of de Brandt had returned to their princely residence at la Realle, where, very soon after their arrival from Italy, they commenced making arrangements for quitting that portion of the world, having decided, thenceforward, to re-assume their proper name, and to pass the remainder of their life in England. The family mansion and its appointments were readily disposed of. The tenantry was continued, and as Noell's funds were largely invested in stocks and government securities, there was little delay in his breaking up, and in his final removal from the chateau where he had so pleasantly resided. 
               Among other preparations, the former light-keeper, now no longer the "marquis," had previously ordered the building of a beautiful yacht, which was furnished after the exact model of the Waif, and which was in readiness for launching when he quit la Realle. He had preserved drawings and the dimensions of his first vessel from keel to truck, and the model was the same; indeed, when he called to examine her, at last, before taking possession of her, he could not point out a single particle of change that he would have made, either in her hull, her rig, her color, or her finishings, so perfectly had his memory and his drawings served him, and so faithfully had her builder finished and equipped her. She was christened the Waif, without hesitation, and Nelly, when she came to see her, declared that she could not find a fault with the imitation, in any particular. 
               Wilford had reached Paris again, after his brief absence at Venice and the south, where orders were awaiting him, in abundance. Manfred had gone to England, once more, and it was clear, from his deportment, that he was perfectly well satisfied with the result of his trip on the Continent. He had been formally accepted by Hortense, and he would be united to her in marriage as soon as the requisite preliminaries could be arranged, at home. His father interposed no objection to the union of his son with the daughter of a live marquis, and preparations were forthwith put in train to consummate this event. 
               In the meantime, neither Manfred nor Wilford knew anything about the real name and character of the "de Brandts," except what they had seen, and what they had been permitted to learn in regard to them, abroad. The fruit was not yet ripe enough to pluck, in the opinion of Noell, and he was not quite ready for the denouement of his long-planned and thus far shrewdly-wrought scheme. 
               But the hour was approaching when the curtain must be withdrawn, and when the parties must see and know each other, precisely as they were in reality. Wilford kept himself busily employed at his easel, however; for his patrons had increased, and he now had several pictures under way, that had been bespoken for many months. 
               He had not heard a word from "Marie" since his interview with her at the hotel in Venice, when she so frankly avowed herself to him, and offered him her hand and fortune. He did not much expect to hear anything further from that source, under the circumstances, and he set the affair down as a Parisian adventure that he should not forget, but to which he attached no particular importance. But Marie had not yet done with Alfred Wilford! She was a fearless intrepid woman, who, once resolved upon any measure, heeded no impediments, suffered no adverse circumstance to deter her from carrying her final purpose to issue. So had she planned in this affaire de cur, and she followed up her enterprise with a determination and spirit worthy of all praise. 
               Wilford was engaged as usual in his studio, and had almost forgotten how beautifully the "beggar" had appeared to him, when he was suddenly aroused from his labors by the sound of a voice he could not mistake. 
               "Bon jour, monsieur!" said the "lady in black," entering his room quietly, and approaching the easel where he was engaged. 
               Wilford turned quickly about, and beheld the veiled figure of his generous patron, the purchaser of his Madonna. He did not feel at ease, and was sorry she had called. But he was compelled to be civil to his strange and eccentric customer, who had taken so deep an interest in his welfare. 
               "Madame," he said, "I feared, after our last interview, that you would scarcely honor me with another call." 
               "Am I not welcome, Wilford?" 
               "Madame! How can you be otherwise? You who have done me such solid service, and who have evinced so lively an interest in my affairs?" 
               "Then you do not say you did not desire to meet me, again?" 
               "I did not say so, madame, surely. But, to what-what particular circumstance am I now indebted for your present visit, if I may venture to ask?" 
               "My business will be briefly told. I have learned that you have been successful in your suit, Wilford. I hear that you have been accepted-your proposal to Helen de Brandt has been approved, I mean. Is the report correct?" 
               "In all candor, lady, I really think you should hardly press me for an answer to so delicate a question," said Wilford, cautiously. 
               "Still, if I urge it, will you not answer yes or no?" 
               "Will you give me your reasons for this query?" 
               "Curiosity, if you please-or any other cause." 
               "That would be insufficient. Yet I will not deny your appeal. I have reason to hope and believe that my suit is, happily, progressing favorably." 
               "So I feared. Wilford, it is not too late. I have already so far forgotten the dignity and character of my sex as to open my heart to you, and propose a hand untainted, with a splendid fortune, for your acceptance. In your own country this would have seemed monstrous-but in France, it is not so peculiar or unnatural. You have declined the proposal, made in all confidence and honor, and you have shown me that you do not appreciate the offer." 
               "Madame, I am a thousand times grateful to you, for substantial evidence of your disposition towards me; but I have no heart to give you in exchange, and you surely could not seek a hand without a heart?" continued Wilford, seriously. 
               "No, Wilford, no! You are right, and I have erred. Could it have been possible for me to have served you farther than it has already been my pleasure to do, I would gladly have done so. If I can now aid you, in any way, command me without hesitation." 
               "Madame, the kindness of yourself and other friends has placed me entirely above and beyond any necessity for further pecuniary aid. My pictures have commanded such prices that I have been able to live agreeably with my wishes, and I have already realized a sum that will place me beyond the reach of want, under any ordinary circumstances. I thank you for your kindness, and trust that you will continue to be my friend." 
               "Be happy, then. You do not know me, you have not seen my face, when I have communicated with you, and you lose nothing in fancy by your determination to reject me. Adieu I monsieur. May you be happier with your chosen Helen, than you could have been with Marie." 
               The speaker left, without another word; and Wilford felt greatly relieved as he heard the door close behind her! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               THE DUPLICATE YACHT. 
               WHEN the Waif was finally ready for sea, she was sent up the coast, in charge of a skilful skipper employed by Noell, and arrived in safety off the mouth of the Seine. A more beautiful little craft had never been seen in French waters. She was jauntily dressed and her furniture and fittings were very elegant and substantial. Upon her stern in a gilded scroll appeared her name, like the original, and she was in all respects similar in size, tonnage, color and appearance. 
               Manfred had been over to England some weeks, but only temporarily; and was now returning to Paris, where he had engaged to meet the "marquis" and his family, who had recently arrived there. The friends were in high glee, at the prospect before them, for they felt satisfied that everything was now pretty well settled as regarded their future hopes with the de Brandts. As yet, they were entirely ignorant of what was in store for them, however! 
               "I am glad to see you, Manfred," said his friend, as soon as the latter called upon him. "How have you been, and how does your father's family?" 
               "Well, all well, Wilford. Do you know, miboy, that I made a discovery, half an hour since?" 
               "No. What now?" 
               "You remember the pretty little yacht I presented to your friend Noell, at Beachy Head?" 
               "Yes, to be sure, and a beauty she was, too." 
               "What became of her?" 
               "I don't know, except that report gave out, at the time the premises of Noell were burned that she had been spirited away by some one and it was supposed that the two swindlers who did the mischief there, were the purloiners, after they had applied the match. That is all I ever heard about her. Why?" 
               "She lies in the stream, off the river's mouth." 
               "What!" 
               "It is true. I have seen her, to-day." 
               "You mean that you have seen something that resembles her, I presume," said Wilford. 
               "I mean just what I say, miboy!" insisted Manfred. "I saw the Waif, my yacht that was, which I fitted up and sent down to Noell at the beach, two years ago, and more." 
               "Well, what did you do?" 
               "Do? About what?" 
               "Why, what course did you take, when you discovered her?" 
               "Due east, miboy, as near as I can calculate the run from the quay to your studio! At any rate, I came straight here, and I think the Waif now lies off here, a mile or so to the westward." 
               "A truce to your nautical stuff, Manfred, and tell me if you did not institute proceedings, in some way, to seize her?" 
               "To seize her! What kind of a piratical disposition position do you imagine I possess? What should I seize her for?" 
               "For, man! Why-if the two men ran away with her, that is, I mean, if they carried her off, or sailed her off, or whatever you term it, wouldn't it be easy to catch the scoundrels, and bring them to punishment for their misdeeds?" 
               "Why, miboy, do you suppose for one moment that if those men took possession of her and put away from the beach in her, with the design of profiting by the movement, they would have kept her long? Do you imagine they would dare to make their appearance here, in such close contiguity to the scene of their robbery, in the vessel they had stolen? Of course not. They probably sold the Waif at the first opportunity; and the present owner thus comes honestly enough possessed of her. At any rate I do not feel disposed to question his right to her." 
               "Yes. But who is the owner? There could be no harm in asking the question." 
               "That is quite another thing, miboy. I did ask who owned her, and received for answer that it was not known who he was, only that he was a gentleman of fashion and fortune who had lately arrived at Paris, with his family." 
               "And you are certain it is the Waif?" 
               "As sure as I am that you are Wilford, or that you ever saw the 'lady in sables,' miboy," said Manfred, jocosely. 
               "That reminds me, Manfred, of another meeting I have lately had with this incomprehensible being." 
               "Where?" 
               "Here, in Paris." 
               "Possible! She follows you, then, like a brother!" 
               "I had tried to forget her, and hoped she would not annoy me. And yet," he continued, "she is exceedingly kind in speech, and appears to be very submissive and resigned to her disappointment." 
               "Is she pretty?" 
               "There you are ahead of me, again. I have never seen her face." 
               "Never-and have had half a dozen interviews with her?" 
               "No. She has always been deeply veiled, except at Venice, and then she had an entire domino, covering her face, completely." 
               "This is romance, to be sure. What did she want, this time? I thought she would not see you again?" 
               "She sought nothing new, I think. She was pleasant and talkative, as usual, and retired. But she is a singular being." 
               "Yes; and you will do well to be ridded of her. Had I been in your situation, I would have seen her face, at any rate." 
               "How would you have done this?" 
               "Insisted upon her gratifying me, after so long a questionable acquaintance." 
               "And if she still refused?" 
               "I would have removed her domino, by force, if necessary." 
               "That would have been rude, Manfred." 
               "I would have seen her face, I tell you, miboy." 
               "And so will I," said Wilford, valiantly, "if ever I meet with her, alone, again!" 
               And he kept his word, too! 
               "But, Manfred," he continued, "I want to have a look at the yacht. Come, let us take a cab and go down." And the friends were soon at the Quai d'Orleans, below which lay the Waif in the stream. 
               "How does she look, miboy?" 
               "As natural as life, Manfred, upon my word," exclaimed Wilford. "Ah, my little lady," he continued, addressing himself to the boat, "you and I ought to be acquainted, to be sure. We've been fast friends, together, if I remember right!" 
               "So closely related on one occasion, at least," said Manfred, good-humoredly, "that you couldn't throw her off quite so readily as you manage to get rid of your other friend, the 'lady in black,' eh?" 
               "Manfred," said Wilford, resolutely, "I am determined to know who owns this yacht, now." 
               "Proceed, miboy-proceed. And if you ascertain, just make a note on't, for my benefit." 
               "Who's that?" said Wilford, pointing to a coarsely-dressed man, who was just leaving the quay in a small boat. 
               "Gad, Wilford, I can't say, never having seen the gentleman before, to my knowledge." 
               "Well. Do you perceive anything the matter with my eyes?" 
               "Nothing, except that from your expression, I should say you had discovered a very large-sized mare's-nest, on a sudden." 
               "Well, if that isn't Harry Noell yonder, I never saw him!" 
               "Who?" 
               "Noell, the light-keeper." 
               "Ha, ha! Come, miboy, we had better return. You are getting excited. Every pretty woman you meet is a Nelly, and every man you see in a blouse is Harry Noell! Look sharp, that you don't play at this sort of hide-and-seek in Helen's presence. Come!" 
               "No. I will satisfy myself who that man is at all events." 
               The man in the gray blouse was taken straight to the yacht. The foresail was immediately flung out, and the Waif proceeded away down the river. 
               Wilford was ready to swear, almost, that he had seen Harry Noell, that day. But his friend laughed the idea out of him, and they returned from the quay as wise as they came. 
               Notwithstanding the jests of Manfred, it was Harry Noell they had thus met with. He saw the young men examining the yacht, and calling to a waterman jumped into his boat and was put aboard the Waif. He immediately ordered the skipper to fall down the river a mile or two, for the purpose of getting away from further present observation. He returned to his lodgings at evening, enjoying the sensation he thought he had caused, in the highest degree. This, too, was a part of his as yet unfinished scheme, to be completed, anon. 
               On the succeeding evening, just as Wilford had prepared to visit the "marquis" and his family, his servant brought him the following note, which he said had been left at the door a moment previously. 
               "A friend of Mr. Wilford's, who has just arrived in town, would be glad to have him call immediately at his hotel, the Leon de'Or, on especial business. His friend will leave Paris shortly, and will detain him but a few minutes. 
               "Nine, P. M. Room 56." 
               As it was still quite early-for Paris hours-Wilford pocketed the note, and ordered his carriage at once to the Hotel du Leon d'Or. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               THE TRIPLE APPARITION. 
               IN a retired but beautifully furnished apartment of the hotel mentioned, there sat a lady whose age was uncertain because her face could not be seen. She had recently arrived in Paris, and was but little acquainted there, it was thought. 
               The room she now occupied was contiguous to a similar apartment that opened into this, and both were similarly appointed. The connecting door stood open, and the light could be seen from either. She half reclined upon a small sofa or divan which stood aside near this door, and her form indicated her to be a lady not over five-and-twenty-perhaps younger. She wore a masque that completely hid her features from view, and she seemed to be anxiously awaiting some one' arrival-when the outer door opened and the attendant announced: 
               "Monsieur Wilford." 
               "Show him in, Louis," said the lady, at once. 
               And our young artist stepped into the room. 
               He had rather suspected this-at the last moment before he reached the hotel, but it was too late for him to recede with decency. As he anticipated, he discovered in the person who now had "special business" with him, the masked figure of the "lady in sables." 
               "You came reluctantly, Wilford," she said, in a sort of melancholy tone, "I see you are not pleased. I regret this, for the present meeting will be our last one, I presume." 
               "That will be entirely as you elect, madame," replied Wilford. "I did not think it was your summons that called me here, to-night, when I received your note; but I am here, and will take your commands with pleasure, since we are now mutually aware of the relations we bear to each other. 
               "You have resolved, Alfred Wilford, to wed the daughter of a man whom you suppose to be noble," continued the lady, with emphasis. 
               "I am affianced to the Lady Helen de Brandt, madam," responded Wilford, proudly. 
               "I know it, monsieur. She is the daughter of the Marquis de Brandt." 
               "You are right." 
               "You are sure she is the daughter of a marquis, Wilford?" 
               "Yes-yes, madame." 
               "Then you are very easily cajoled, my young friend." 
               "Cajoled!" 
               "Yes, that is the word I used." 
               "And how, pray?" 
               "The father of Helen is no marquis at all, Wilford. His name is an assumed one-that is all," continued the masque, coolly. 
                
               "This is monstrous, madame! What can be your object, in thus attempting to tantalize me, I cannot tell. But-" 
               "-'sh-Alfred Wilford! Listen to what I have to say, for your own good," added the "lady in sables." 
               "Not a marquis!" muttered the painter. 
               "You are noble, Wilford. Noble in heart, noble in person, noble in purpose, noble in genius and talent and worth-a natural nobleman, fashioned by his hand who alone can create nobility. I am no prophetess, no seer, Wilford! I repeat it, the father of Helen is not a marquis, or the descendant of a marquis." 
               "Do you know this,-or do you only sus-" 
               "I suspect nothing, monsieur. On my honor, as a lady and a Christian, as your friend and well-wisher, I assure you I know of what I speak" 
               "He is wealthy-honorable-is he not?" 
               "He is. But you have been deceived, I say. Will you tamely submit to this?" 
               "I really, really am greatly obliged." 
               "Pshaw! It is too late for compliments, Wilford. Let us talk like reasonable beings, who appreciate each other. Tell me, Wilford," she continued, "had the poor beggar-girl of the Pont des Fleurs possessed all the-charms of this beauteous Helen (as you deem her), could you have stooped to her condition, and taken her to your arms, though she loved you as few women ever learn to love? If Marie, whose face you could not see, were even quite as pleasant to look upon; if Marie had devoted her life to you, and would have died to serve you, could you have smiled upon her graciously in return? If the poor light-keeper's child, who watched at your fevered bedside, and wiped away the sweat drops as they oozed from your aching brow; if poor Noell's darling daughter still existed, and should own her love for you; still would you turn to the child of this false marquis, and claim his Helen as your bride?" 
               "You speak at random, lady. Noell has gone to his last home-" 
               "And if he lived?" 
               "Ah! If he lived, and if his Nelly lived, I should not now be here, perhaps." 
               "But if she lived, if Nelly still were living, you would not discard the daughter of the marquis, surely, Wilford?" said the lady, bitterly. 
               "O, this is useless rant, madame. I cannot say what I might do if miracles can be performed in Paris." 
               "Ah, Wilford, there are stranger things in heaven and earth than may be dreamed in your philosophy! Noell still lives, monsieur!" 
               At the utterance of these last words, which the lady delivered in a measured and prophetic tone, young Wilford sprang to his feet, and nearly fainted from the shock they occasioned him. 
               "Not dead! You are certain of this, too?" 
               "As sure as I am that I now speak to the living Wilford." 
               "And-Nel-Nelly!" almost screamed the youth, in his terrible excitement, "Nelly isn't dead, either?" 
               "Noell's daughter lives, monsieur!" said the woman, promptly. 
               Alfred Wilford gasped, and fell heavily to the floor. 
               "Quick!" cried the affrighted masque, to her attendant at the door; "some water, wine-quick, Louis!" 
               The servant instantly brought restoratives, raised the artist up, and saw the indications of returning consciousness as his mistress re-entered the apartment, and waived him to retire. When Wilford came to himself again, the lady in sables was gone; and in her place at his side, with soothing and gentle words, there stood the poor beggar-girl of the Pont des Fleurs. 
               "I hope that monsieur is better," she said, in a sweet and gentle accent. "Marie is always near you, Wilford, when you are in trouble." 
               The painter looked up, passed his hand over his eyes, and saw before him the figure of the poor girl whom he had befriended on the bridge, at midnight. Then recovering his speech, he cried out: 
               "Whence do you come?" 
               "Marie is near you," she said. "Do not be alarmed." 
               He gazed at her a moment, as if recovering from some dreadful dream; there was the same dress, the miserable cloak and hood, the form, the voice, the accent, the plaintive sound he had once heard before, and never had forgotten; and he was wild in his excitement. 
               "Who are you, woman?" he muttered. 
               "Marie-your friend." 
               "Where is she? What has become of her?" 
               "Your patron? She has gone. Be calm-you will see her no more. She did wrong to tease you thus. She will not return." 
               "Let me see her. I will see her!" he continued, starting up fiercely. "Bring her back! What means this cursed jugglery and imposition? Where am I? Are you not Marie?" 
               "Yes, monsieur-your constant friend." 
               "Are you not she? The beggar, Marie, and she are one. You are Maria-you are my tormentor! Take off the mask; remove this ghostly cloak!" continued Wilford, furiously, as he seized the beggar's arm, and wrested the hood from her face. "I will see your face, at cost of life!" 
               The cloak and bonnet fell upon the carpet, and there, before his astounded gaze, with all her gentle innocence and beauty, in her simple home attire, stood Nelly-Noell's child! 
               This was too much for the nerves of Alfred Wilford; he looked but once, reeled forward, and fell headlong into the arms of the lady's attendant, who at that moment sprang to his mistress's side. 
               "Raise him upon the sofa, Louis; it is only temporary faintness; he will quickly recover, Here, place this to his nostrils; there-sh!-that will do. Be prudent, Louis; silent! Comprennez vous?" 
               The servant nodded, and Nelly disappeared. A moment afterwards, Wilford was taken quietly to his carriage, which was in waiting at the door, and, attended by Louis, he was at once conveyed to his lodgings, and safely bestowed for the night. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               THE FRIENDS IN COUNCIL. 
               WILFORD passed such a night as he had never experienced before in his short life. A thousand conflicting thoughts and fears and suppositions crowded on his brain, and he narrowly escaped a serious fever from the effect produced by his excitement and consternation. 
               Nelly was alive He had seen her, talked with her, held her hand in his, and for months, ay, for two long years, he now saw how she had watched over him, guarded him from temptation, and served him with unexampled generosity. And she-his guardian, Nelly-was the disguised beggar-girl, who had communicated with him in so gentle and tender a manner. She was his Marie! She was his noble, generous patron, too! 
               And she was rich. That could hardly be, however, he thought, for they were very poor when Wilford knew them. How was this! She had paid him a thousand golden louis d'ors for his "Madonna." And then she had offered him her hand and "fortune," which she averred was ample-for she was the "lady in sables," also. Strange being-strange-liberal-affectionate-beautiful-loving-devoted Nelly Noell! 
               Ah, how the grateful heart of the boy-artist turned back to the time when he lay a helpless wounded stranger, beneath the hospitable roof of the poor light-keeper. How his pulse quickened at the recollection of the thousand kindnesses which Noell and his daughter had showered on him amid his jeopardy, his illness, and his poverty! And then came up the lovely form of her to whom he was now affianced. Helen looked on him, with her deep, "lustrous, heavenly eyes of blue," and he saw her as she moved in the brilliant circle she adorned-the matchless queen of beauty, grace and gentleness. Whither could he now turn, and what must be the result of this carious, wonderful, happy-yet fearful discovery? 
               De Brandt was not a marquis. At least so Marie-Nelly had declared; and Helen was not the daughter of nobility. Then was Wilford more her equal, and he could marry her without that feeling of dependence which her higher station might suggest. But what had he to do with Helen, or her station, now! Nelly still lived. But, what was he to her?
                
               "Wed!" he suddenly exclaimed, "wed-whom?" Would he, could he lead to the altar the daughter of the so-called marquis, and Nelly yet alive? That Nelly of his dreams, whom he had pictured, praised, and loved? How then could he escape from his contract of honor with the charming beauty who had entranced him, and whom he was so wholly devoted to, up to this almost fatal hour? Would Helen release him? She couldn't, should not do it. His peace was too deeply perilled by this thought; yet Nelly lived, and she had offered to become his wife. What could he say to de Brandt and his daughter, in explanation? A prior attachment-boyish love, gratitude to Noell, romance, faugh! Wilford was sick at heart. 
               Then came the sober second thought. De Brandt was not a marquis. They had deceived him, cajoled him, as Nelly had declared. What right had they thus to make him their victim? He would resent this monstrous imposition, on the instant, and call the "marquis" to account for his deceit and treachery! He would quarrel with de Brandt, fight him, slay him, for the egregious wrong he had thus committed. He had good right, he believed, to demand satisfaction, imperiously, at the hands of this deceiver, or his extraordinary conduct, and unprincipled chicanery. 
               "Quarrel with de Brandt! For what?" he continued, as fresh thoughts of the past thronged upon his half bewildered brain; "fight him? How, and why? Because the marquis, or whoever he was, had strained every nerve, apparently, to drive the artist from his daughter's favor? Quarrel with him, when he remembered that de Brandt had offered him ten, twenty, fifty thousand crowns to renounce her? Demand reparation of the father of the woman whom he had sought out and followed up, for months, against that parent's wishes, and his clearly expressed commands to the contrary? This was folly, stupidity, rank injustice! 
               But de Brandt was not a marquis. What of that? The father of Alfred Wilford was a poor game-keeper. Perhaps de Brandt had been once a fish-monger. And if he were, what was all that to him? He had urged his own suit with Helen, he had accomplished, by dint of all his own art and talent and ingenuity, the highest of his earthly hopes, almost-and he had been the sole carver of his own fortune, thus far, be it good or ill. There were none to blame, no one to chide, nor quarrel with, but himself. De Brandt had the undoubted right to call himself by such name or title as best suited his convenience or tastes-and Wilford finally saw himself as he was, but a poor, simple, humble painter, whom the fates had evidently singled out for persecution! 
               But, would he submit to all this? Could be tamely consent thus to be the football of fickle fortune, without some chance of hope for extrication from this terrible dilemma? 
               Morning dawned, at last. He arose from his sleepless pillow, and in the midst of his misgivings and uncertainty, Manfred found him, at his hotel. 
               "Come, my dear fellow," said his friend, gaily, "where were you truanting again last night? Didn't you promise to meet me at the hotel of the marquis? I waited there for you till midnight, and the ladies were especially anxious about you." 
               "Manfred," said Wilford, seriously, "how do I look, to-day?" 
               "Well, upon my word, I did not notice it, before; but what the deuce has come over you?" 
               "I was called away last evening, Manfred, just as I had ordered my carriage to wait upon the marquis." 
               "Business, do you mean?" 
               "Yes. That is-it has proved a pretty serious business for me, and you are likewise implicated." 
               "What has happened, pray?" 
               "Your fine 'marquis' de Brandt is no marquis at all, miboy." 
               "No marquis!" 
               "Nothing of the kind, I can assure you, Manfred." 
               "Well, this is delightful. I beg you explain yourself." 
               "The summons I received was the favor of a lady whom I had met before. I responded to it, and found my friend, the 'lady in sables,' whom you remember at Venice, in waiting for me, at her lodgings." 
               "Bah!" exclaimed Manfred, with a sneer, "is this your authority?" 
               "Bear with me one moment, my good friend," continued Wilford, solemnly; "you shall soon see what my story and my authority are worth." 
               "It is the old story, Wilford, of course. Do you suppose that I haven't been round the world long enough to know how these things are managed?" 
               "But hear me, Manfred." 
               "I tell you, miboy, this 'lady in black' is a vastly clever woman." 
               "You are right there," said the artist. 
               "She has conceived a passion for you," continued tinued Manfred, rapidly, "such as a thousand women in Europe before her have conceived for sentimental young gentlemen like yourself, and she is resolved that you shall marry her, I suppose?" 
               "Manfred!" 
               "I told you long ago, to avoid her. It would have been well for you had you taken my advice." 
               "You are wrong, Manfred, all wrong, as you shall see." 
               "Well, I don't want to hear any such authority as this quoted to vilify my noble friend, the marquis. Why, man! Where are your interests, in this matter? Are you not quite as deeply involved as I, to be sure? What of the Lady Helen?" 
               "I know it, I know it all, Manfred. Still I repeat it, the marquis is no marquis; he is an impostor, and the ladies are not scions of nobility." 
               "I don't believe it, I tell you!" 
               "I will convince you that we have been deceived." 
               "Well then, go on." 
               "I attended the summons I received, last evening, and found the lady I have mentioned. She was attired as usual, masked and unknown to me." 
               "I would have torn the domino from her face, if it had cost me half my fortune," said Manfred, resolutely. 
               "And so would I, my friend. Be quiet. She repeated to me as she has done before, how dearly she loved me-" 
               "Of course." 
               "How well she knew me, and what she would do for me." 
               "Yes, exactly." 
               "Recapitulated all the plans and events of my life, and again urged me to accept her hand and splendid fortune." 
               "Just as I supposed," said Manfred, exultantly. 
               "She declared to me that de Brandt was no marquis at all, and suddenly assured me, when I spoke of Noell, that his daughter Nelly was still living!" 
               "And you believed all she said, of course?" 
               "I believed what I saw with my own eyes, Manfred. Startled at this singular account, I turned away, and a moment afterwards, I looked for my strange informant, and she was gone." 
               "And that was all, oh!" 
               "No, Manfred! That was not all. The lady had departed, and to my astonishment, in her place, stood the beggar-girl of the Pont dec Fleurs, of whom you have heard me speak." 
               "Your Marie?" 
               "Yes, 'Marie,' as she called herself." 
               "Another imposture, of course." 
               "Not exactly. She was cloaked and hooded, but only gave me fair words. I seized her arm, and demanded that she should show me her face. She resisted, we struggled, the cloak and bonnet fell from her head and shoulders, and Nell Noell stood before me!" 
               "Who!" 
               "The light-keeper's daughter." 
               "Herself!" 
               "Her very self, Manfred." 
               "You've been dreaming, miboy;" said his friend; "there is no doubt of this. What charms or jugglery may have been practised upon you by this artful woman I cannot say; but a singular result has been brought about. Keep yourself quiet or you will be ill; your brain is over-tasked from some cause evidently, and you must now take care of yourself." 
               Manfred seriously thought that Wilford was out of the possession of his wits. He took his hand and felt his pulse. Wilford forced a smile and said: 
               "Ah, my friend! I am all right here," placing his hand to his head; "and this is too serious a matter to jest about." 
               "I am disposed to be as serious as yourself, if there is any reality in all this. But really, miboy, I cannot think but that you have been deceived," said Manfred. 
               "Harry Noell is now in Paris, my friend," said Wilford. 
               "Are you certain?" 
               "Did we not see him only yesterday?" 
               "You thought you did, I know." 
               "He lives, I assure you: and is now in town." 
               "Did she say so?" 
               "Yes, yes." 
               "And you feel sure, too, that it was his daughter whom you saw, and who is the Marie and the 'lady in sables' you have so long been in concert with?" 
               "It were useless to waste words in such questions, Manfred. I saw her, spoke to her, grasped her hand, and I confess the weakness-fainted at her feet!" 
               "What succeeded this?" 
               "I have not the slightest idea. When I awoke, I was in my own room at home. It was near morning, since when I have tossed upon an uneasy pillow, as you may well conceive; and here we are to devise the means if possible, to manage this strange condition of affairs, judiciously." 
               "It is a curious state of affairs, truly," replied Manfred, thoughtfully. 
               "The result of it all is plain enough," concluded Wilford. "The 
                     marquis marquis
                     marquis
                   is no you may be sure. We have been tricked. My prospective marriage with Helen de Brandt, or whoever she is, must be annulled. You will lose Hortense, of course, and I am ruined." 
               "Not quite so bad as all that, miboy." 
               "But what can we do?" 
               "Act like men, my dear fellow! I don't know what will come out of all this, but we will see, we will see." 
               "I am ready to join you in any plan you will suggest, that may savor of a feasible show for escape from dishonor and disgrace, Manfred. But it appears to me almost a hopeless chance." 
               "Can you not see Nelly once more, immediately, and learn such particulars as may throw farther light upon the character and intentions of the marquis, which may aid us in this unexpected emergency?" 
               "Yes, yes. I will send a message to her, directly. Tarry here, then, till the servant returns." 
               A note was forth with despatched by a messenger, who was directed to find the lady addressed, and await a reply. The letter asked for an interview with Nelly at the earliest convenient moment. 
               The lovers waited anxiously for half an hour, when the attendant returned with Wilford's note, and brought the information that the lady left the hotel at sunrise, and no one knew who she was, or where she had gone. 
               Thus they were foiled! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               WILFORD AND HELEN DE BRANDT. 
               WHEN evening came, the young gentlemen were quite as far from learning anything satisfactory to their wishes apparently, as they were in the morning of the busy day now just closed. In vain had they rode the streets, or visited the quays, in search of the missing Nelly, the yacht or Noell. No clue could be obtained to the whereabouts of either one or the other. At last they determined to call at the residence of the self-styled marquis, where possibly some information could be had that might satisfy them. 
               The beautiful Helen and Hortense never appeared in finer spirits, or to better advantage than on this occasion. The former was peculiarly happy, and Wilford's deportment was strangely in contrast with that of the young ladies. He was depressed, moody and reserved. Helen rallied him. 
               "I have news for you, monsieur," she said, pleasantly; "and I think it will help to raise your seemingly drooping spirits. I hear that 'Nelly,' your charming light-keeper's daughter, has just arrived in Paris, mysteriously." 
               Hortense had withdrawn from the room, in company with Manfred, and the other lovers sat alone, together. 
               "I had heard of this, Helen," said Wilford, mournfully, "and I cannot understand why you should suppose that this extraordinary circumstance could be so intensely interesting to me?" 
               "Why, is not this Nelly your beau ideal of a lovely woman? I am sure I have heard you say so, scores of times." 
               "Yes, yes. I have said so." 
               "And you have added too, Wilford, artist-flatterer that you are, you have even added that, your Helen resembled her, strongly." 
               "That is also true. The first time I saw you, Manfred will recollect that I spoke of the strikingly remarkable similitude that existed between your face and that of Nelly." 
               "Have you met her, yet?" 
               "Yes, for a few minutes." 
               "When? 
               "Last evening, at her hotel." 
               "Indeed!" exclaimed the beauty, affecting surprise, "then it was in the charming Nelly's society you were engaged, while we were waiting for and expecting you, momentarily, all the evening?" 
               "I confess that I was thus engaged," said Wilford, humbly. 
               "And is she looking as engaging and beautiful as ever, mon amie?" 
               "No, Helen. That is, I thought her paler and more anxious in her looks, than was her former wont. But really, she favors you, astonishingly. Not so tall, I think, as yourself, and somewhat less rotundity of form, but very like you, else." 
               "Well, I am rejoiced that they came just as they did. Father has seen Noell, Nelly's parent, who accompanies her, too, and fancies him. You should see our new yacht, Wilford, a very gem of a boat, that father ordered before we left the south, and which now lies in the stream." 
               "I have seen her;" said Wilford, moodily. 
               "Isn't she a love of a thing?" 
               "She is very pretty." 
               "The Waif he calls her a delightful name, 
               "Yes. I have seen a 'Waif,' before," said Wilford. 
               "So Noell said. I think he had a similar boat, once." 
               "He did, yes." 
               "Father has engaged this Noell to take charge of the Waif, so he says, as pilot-when we go to England, shortly. He is au fait at this business, I think, is he not, Wilford?" 
               "Yes, yes," he replied-or "no," as it happened! His thoughts were far from the subjects upon which Helen was speaking. 
               "Are you ill, to-night, monsieur?" asked Helen at length, finding that she could not arouse her lover. "Are you sick?" 
               "Sick at heart, sweet Helen." 
               "Of what, pray?" 
               "Ah, Helen de Brandt! If you could read the emotions that throng upon me, at this news, if you could appreciate the misery that surrounds me, the strange, conflicting, unutterable throbbings that this intelligence has caused me, you would deem my case a hard and unhappy one, at this moment." 
               "But what has happened, Wilford?" 
               "Helen! Do you believe I love you?" asked Wilford, suddenly appealing directly to the heart of his betrothed, so earnest was his tone and manner. "Do you think I love you?" 
               "Can I doubt you, Wilford? Have we not plighted our troth? Why such a question?" 
               "When I look into your eyes, dear Helen, I see the soul of Nelly Noell, peering from them, in spite of all my convictions and efforts to the contrary. If I tell you I love another-Helen-at this late hour; if I point you to that love, and show you how meek and gentle she was, how untiringly devoted to my weal; if I show you how worthy she is, and how her poor heart will bleed, to see me taken from her forever; if I satisfy you that she is still loving, gentle, resigned, submissive even to the fate that she fears awaits her-you will forgive me for the truancy, you will lend me, and her your sympathy, will you not?" 
               "Wilford, I am all amazement! What means this speech to me?" 
               "Do not chide me, Helen." 
               "Did you not offer me your heart and hand, together?" 
               "I did-I did!" 
               "And I accepted the proffer, O, how gratefully. You cannot give me half a heart, Wilford! You cannot divide the gift, though it be priceless in value. It is mine. Mine by possession, mine of right, mine, because it was your free, unasked-for gift, mine by all the ties that earth can make binding, save the marriage form-mine wholly, undivided, indisputably, irrevocably mine!" 
               "Still, Helen, if I had no heart to give-" 
               "Do not speak to me thus, Wilford. I did not fear this confession, though I knew how gratefully you remembered the humble Noell's daughter. You cannot recede, your solemn asseverations are registered in heaven; there is no relenting, no appeal!" 
               "Then must she perish!" exclaimed Wilford, fearfully. "She could not live, and feel that another possessed the heart she knows beats so fondly for her." 
               "You speak of Nelly, Wilford?" 
               "Yes, Helen. She is a tender flower, as gentle as a dove; and she will pine and die, when she learns her fate." 
               "No, Wilford, we will cherish her. You shall be her friend, her adviser, her brother. I will love her as you love her. She shall be with us, and she will continue to be near to you, to watch over and counsel you, as you say she has done for years." 
               "And you can permit this, Helen?" 
               "I can do much for your sake, Wilford, that I could not for another's. I honor your truth and devotion, and I will aid you to-render Nelly happy." 
               "And you would not be jealous of her?" 
               "That would be to demean myself in your esteem, surely." 
               "And Nelly shall be near to you, you say?" 
               "Dear as a sister." 
               "And you will love her always?" 
               "Next to you, dear Wilford, I will honor and respect her." 
               "Then am I happy, indeed! You must see her, Helen, you will prize her, I am sure." 
               "I have seen her, Wilford." 
               "When and where?" 
               "To-day, she has been here with her father." 
                
               The servant entered at this moment, and announced "Mr. Noell." 
               "He's welcome," said Helen; "show him up." 
               Wilford sprang forward as the light-keeper entered, and seized his extended hand with a hearty good will. Noell was very glad to meet him, and an exceedingly pleasant interview finished up the evening. He came to see de Brandt, he said, in regard to sailing orders for the yacht. Everything was in readiness, on board, and he only waited his pleasure to put to sea." 
               Noell had grown old since Wilford last saw him, as nearly as the artist could remember his looks; and when he retired, Helen spoke familiarly with him, and left the room a moment. Wilford did not exactly understand this, but the light-keeper and his daughter did! 
               "It is full time," she said, in a whisper. 
               "Yes, yes," said Noell. "All is ready now; he has been tried sufficiently. Proceed, I will be within hearing of you." 
               While all this was going on, Hortense and Manfred were loitering in the garden, where everything had been fully explained by the former to her lover's entire satisfaction; and they now only waited for the signal agreed on, to join in the denouement which was rapidly approaching. 
               Helen and Wilford were once more alone. 
               "Do you observe no change in my appearance, to-night, Wilford?" she said. The room was but dimly lighted, and his thoughts had been too intensely occupied with matters of greater importance, to suggest to him any particular examination of her dress or person. 
               "Nothing, till now," he replied. "Your hair is auburn, and your face has lost its ruddy glow. Come to the light, dear Helen, I did not believe you could be improved in your features; but why have you thus transformed yourself?" 
               They moved to the other end of the apartment, together, Helen leaning affectionately upon his arm. 
               "Did you ever see this before, Wilford?" she asked, raising her beautifully modelled hand, and pointing to a small diamond ring upon her slender finger. 
               "That ring, Helen! It was my mother's." 
               "Are you sure of that?" 
               "Positive. I gave it to Nelly Noell, when we parted at Beachy Point." 
               "There is no mistake, eh, Wilford?" continued Helen. 
               The artist looked up-passed his hand to his forehead-gazed for an instant into eyes that told the story he had been so dull in learning before, and shrieked; 
               "My Nelly! Nel-" and swooning, was caught in the 
                     stalwort
                     stalwart
                   arms of her father, Harry Noell!
                
               The plot of the "marquis" was nearly completed. 
               "Wilford!" shouted the light-keeper. 
               "Joy, miboy," chimed in his friend Manfred; "I give you joy!" 
               "Wilford! monsieur!" cried the pretty Hortense, advancing at the same instant. But the happiness of that moment was too great for him. 
               It would scarcely be generous for us to interfere, just now, with the scene that followed this sudden breaking in of the light upon Wilford's senses. Suffice it, there was joy at the quarters of Noell, that night! Such a shaking of hands, and such exclamations of delight were exchanged, in a few moments after the discovery-for Wilford's faintness lasted but a brief moment-such rejoicings and congratulations as passed for the next hour there, were by no means common, even in joyous, noisy Paris-and we will leave our friends, temporarily, in the midst of their ecstacy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               RETROSPECTIONS. 
               HARRY NOELL took an early opportunity to meet his two young friends after the discovery that was exhibited to them, for the purpose of explaining himself. 
               "I do not deem it necessary," he said to Wilford and Manfred, "to enter into any minuti of detail in reference to myself, or the course I have thought it proper to take, but I will give you, voluntarily, a brief expose of my intentions and my course since I saw you last. 
               "I saw, even while Wilford was under my roof, that an attachment was growing up in the heart of my daughter for him, and very soon after he left the light, I knew that she had conceived a passion for him. I knew her disposition, and her mother's before her-and I knew she would go to the world's end to carry her point. She loved the artist, and she resolved to follow his fortunes. 
               "I immediately determined to second her wishes, because I had no ties to bind me to earth save the affections and the protection of my only child. After due reflection and calculation for the future, I gathered together what little fortune I was possessed of at the light, and with my yacht, which I proposed to sell, at once, and my daughter, I left old Beachy Head, forever. I did not deem it necessary to give any information as to what my future destination would be, indeed, at that time, I was ignorant of this myself, and at midnight, I set sail from the Point, without notice or warning to any one, lest my future plans might by this means be impeded or perhaps frustrated altogether. 
               "The two scoundrels who had deceived me for weeks previously to my leaving home, under pretence of being government officials, undoubtedly set fire to the light-house, soon after we left; be that as it may, I know nothing of it save what I met with in the journals of that day. This seemed a fortunate circumstance for me, however, since it was believed that both myself and my child had been then destroyed amidst the ruins of the razed light. I did not omit to turn this fact to immediate advantage, as you will see. 
               "We arrived, after a prosperous and brief voyage, at a port on the extreme southerly coast of France, which I knew to be the locale of a horde of the smuggling fraternity; I found no difficulty within a few hours after my yacht was seen, in disposing of her. Her name and all traces of her origin and ownership I had carefully removed, and when I placed her in possession of her new owners, they counted me down two thousand golden louis for her, quite her full value. 
               "I then proceeded to turn what other little property I had into cash and letters of credit, until at last I found myself quite in funds, for me, and I proceeded to travel, with my daughter, in search of Wilford, whom I afterwards heard of in Paris. I chanced to fall in with Madame Dessaret, in the meantime, at Marseilles. Her fortune was very large, and I proposed to unite my own with hers," continued Noell. "But you smile, Manfred," he said, observing that his last sentence caused a sensation. 
               "'Your fortune with hers, you said.'" 
               "Yes. O, my means, of course, were not so great as some people would crave; but then I assure you I was not so poor as a good many others in the world, by any means. However, madame has enough! We united our fortunes, I married her, and we were both happier and richer for the change we made. Madame had two children-Hortense and an invalid boy, lately deceased, and with our son and daughters we retired to la Realle, and lived in handsome style there, under an assumed name and title. 
               "De Brandt was madame's maiden name. For my own reasons, we took this cognomen. I affixed the title of 'marquis' to it, in order the more completely to ward off suspicion, and to farther the plan I had for the future; and, when time had ruffled my face a little, and certain changes had come about that sufficiently disguised my person-I took my family, and we sat down in Paris, where we could better watch our bird and finish up our scheme, now so fairly in progress. 
               Nelly had had the use of such pecuniary means in the meanwhile, as she desired. She went and came, attended by devoted and faithful servants, who had been learned not to talk; and from time to time she kept her father advised of all her little plans and disguises with the artist, and which I approved. It was thus she kept his mind occupied, and the romance and excitement of his apparent perplexing intrigues with Marie, and the beggar-girl, and the lady in sables, and, finally with Helen, served to keep his spirits up, and push him forward in his art and his little fortune. 
               "You met us, gentlemen, at our hotel in Paris. You remember the impressions of that night, when you first saw the family of the 'Marquis de Brandt.' You made your game on that occasion, you have played briskly and artistically, since, and you have well-nigh won! You will not have forgotten the agreeable days and scenes we enjoyed together at Venice; you saw us as we were, you now know us as we are. I propose to proceed to London soon, and to settle finally in England, once more, for we must not, amid our success and our joy, my boys, forget our native land, you know!" 
               "That is good news, too," said Manfred, eagerly. 
               "Are you satisfied with my explanation, young gentlemen?" 
               "Perfectly, entirely. It was admirably managed," said both the young friends, in one voice. 
               "'Tis well, then. I am not desirous to meet any of my Paris acquaintances here, at present, or at least until the explanation of my course shall have become public. So, we shall depart at an early day, and in the meantime, I am known as Noell, only, remember. My daughter's name is Helen, Wilford-after her mother, whom we lost in her early years. We have called her 'Nell' however, for brevity, and from habit from her infancy. You were not very grossly deceived in this, at any rate." 
               "Nelly, or Nell-or Helen, she is the same to me," responded Wilford, joyfully. "I am content. Are we to join you, on your return to England, Noell?" 
               "Most certainly; that is all we wait for." 
               "I am ready," said Manfred. 
               "And I will be ready, in a day or two," added Wilford, who had some matters of business that he was obliged to close up before leaving town. "How shall we go?" 
               "You forget the Waif, my son?" asked Noell. 
               "O, yes, we have seen her." 
               "The yacht is hard by; a 'copy of the original,' Wilford, as you artists would say." 
               "And not the original?" queried the painter. 
               "Didn't I inform you that I had sold her? My present boat I had built as you sometimes paint good pictures, you know; from impressions and recollection." 
               "Well, you have succeeded quite as well with the yacht as Wilford did with the portrait of his 'Nelly,'" said Manfred. "The Waif of to-day is a perfect likeness of the other, and we both supposed her to be the same." 
               "Well, we shall return in her to England," continued Noell. "Be in readiness, if possible, then, the day after to-morrow, Wilford. In the meantime, you know, the young ladies and the 'marchioness' that was, will be happy to see you both, often. And so, au revoir!
                
               Before her mother was taken away by death, Nelly had had the advantage of her attentive instruction struction and undivided care. The first wife of Noell was a French lady, by birth, and she had taken great pains to give her only child a knowledge of her native language. Thus, with what she had learned at home, and the subsequent attention she gave to the subject on her arrival in France, she very soon became au fait in the Provincial French tongue; and afterwards acquired a ready pronunciation of the language of Paris, between which, two there is as great a difference of dialect as exists between that of an "honest Yorkshireman," and a London cockney. 
               It will have been observed that Noell had been extremely modest and cautious, in speaking about his own individual fortune. It was supposed that his marriage with his second wife had made him rich, and he always humored and encouraged this belief, never alluding to his own means, or how he had acquired it. The supposition that his lady's fortune was the bulk of their property, and the knowledge that, at any rate, their income was enormously large, was sufficient to deter the asking of questions. As no one inquired about the point, so Noell never had occasion to allude to it. 
               The studio of the artist was closed at last. His few unsold pictures were added to the splendid gallery that Helen had gathered together, from time to time, and when finally arranged, though modest in numbers, formed one of the choicest private collections to be found-foremost among which, were seen Wilford's elaborate "Madonna" and his famous "light-keeper's daughter." 
               The yacht was in readiness for the reception of its company. The morning on which they designed to sail for England was a delightful one, and the party were all in excellent spirits. Noell was really engaged as "pilot," as Nelly had informed her lover; and the skipper now only awaited the arrival of his master to put to sea. The wind blew fresh from the coast, and the prospect of a speedy and pleasant homeward trip was very promising. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               BURTON HOUSE. ENGLAND. HOME. 
               UPON the day succeeding this explanation of Noell, the remainder of his reserved household, carriages, horses, grooms and servants reached Paris, en route to England, in charge of his chief intendante, or steward. Everything was immediately put in train for departure. The establishment was at once sent forward by land as far as Calais, whence everything was embarked in good order and safety, for Dover. The yacht was in readiness to receive the family, and all was now completed for sailing. 
               "Come, boys, lively, now!" said Noell, as the two young gentlemen reached the quai, with their luggage. "Lively, and let's get on board, as briskly as possible. The wind favors us this fine morning, and we shall have a capital run across the Straits. Bear-a-hand with this luggage, Louis. Come, gentlemen. The ladies are on board, and all is ready for us." 
               In a few minutes they had embarked, the jib was run up, the mainsail filled away with the freshening breeze, and the Waif, with its precious burthen, put gallantly down the river. 
               "Where will you land, Noell?" asked Manfred. 
               "I propose to run up the Thames, and stop in London a few days," said Noell, "where I shall find business, for a time." 
               "London! What the deuce have you to do with the metropolis? I supposed, of course, you would proceed at once to Dover, and thence to Burton House. I shall hear to nothing else, at present, certainly." 
               "My dear boy! What will you do with us all at Burton House? They will think we come to take them by storm, if we tumble in there, sans ceremonie, as you suggest." 
               "Not at all, my friend. I have already prepared for this; and my father is now looking, hourly for our arrival. We must proceed to Dover, direct. And if you are 'pilot' of this craft, as I learned from the young ladies you were engaged for this post, I insist that you make for that port, with all despatch. We are not going to London, at any rate," continued Manfred, turning to Wilford for aid. 
               "No, no. I have no call there," said the artist-"except," he added, "it be to pay my respects to the incomparable Miss Simplon, miboy-eh?" 
               "And see here, Noell," continued Manfred, drawing a letter from his pocket, that he received from home just before leaving Paris, "see this. It isn't private, you can read it. It is from my father-five days ago." 
               "I shall anticipate your coming," ran the letter, "with sincere pleasure, I assure you, under the circumstances, my dear son. On no account whatever, permit Noell and his family, with our friend Wilford, to halt any where else in England, until we have enjoyed a long visit from them, at Burton House. Make this a point not to be declined or evaded. I have arranged at Dover to be informed of the fact the moment the Waif is signalized, when our carriages will be sent to the dock to bear you all to the homestead. Let me repeat it, then, I cannot be disappointed. We have prepared for a grand time when you arrive, and I trust that your voyage may be a brief and happy one. You will not omit, of course, to be the bearer of my regards to Noell and his estimable wife; and remember your father affectionately to the young ladies and your friend Wilford, all of whom we are anxious to take by the hand." 
               "Now, what do you say, Noell?" 
               "Say?" replied Noell, quickly, turning to his helmsman, "put her away a point or two, Norton, to the southward and westward." 
               "She is headed duly for Sheppey Island Light, monsieur," said the man at the helm, respectfully. 
               "Put her away. We land at Dover, Norton." 
               After a beautiful trip up the channel, the Waif rounded Sheppey Island, and a telegraphic signal from Dover heights informed the residents at Burton House that she had arrived. Carriages were instantly sent off to receive them, and in a little time they reached the magnificent estate of the Manfreds, where they were most cordially and hospitably bestowed, for the present. 
               While the young ladies and gentlemen enjoyed themselves at Burton House, Noell went up to London for a day or two. He felt it due to his government to enter into some explanation of his conduct, now that he had returned permanently to his native land, and for this reason he embraced an early opportunity to wait upon the Secretary of the Department to whom he owed his original appointment to the post of light-keeper at Beachy Head. 
               He reached the city seasonably, and repaired at once to the proper quarter to report himself. His card was sent to the head of the department, who looked at it a moment, and said, after a little reflection: 
               "Noell-Noell?" Then turning to the chief clerk of one of the bureaux, he said, "Noell, is not that the name of the former keeper of the light at Beachy Head?" 
               The books were turned to, and the clerk said, "yes; it was Harrison Noell." 
               "H. Noell," continued the secretary. "It is the same, I think. Show him in." 
               Our friend made himself known, at once. He explained his absence in his own way, without any apparent wish to deceive, and the department accepted it. He said he had got wearied with the duties at Beachy Head, and a good opportunity suddenly turned up, which he was compelled to avail himself of at a moment's warning, or lose it. He was the owner of a handsome yacht, which he took to France and sold, and began the world over again," to use his own words, in the hope of there acquiring a fortune. He left letters behind him when he sailed, requesting a neighbor to come down and see to the lights, until a new appointment could arrive to take his vacated place, and believing that all would go on right, without trouble to the department. 
               Soon after his arrival in France, he learned of the destruction of the premises, by fire. The two men who came there with forged credentials, and who contrived, also, to have sent down to him, a letter by mail, purporting to come from the secretary-endorsing them and their objects-were impostors; and undoubtedly fired the building, after robbing it. He was supposed to have been burned in the ruins, and he did not contradict the story for private reasons of his own, which would not interest the government. He had absented himself, voluntarily, and now he returned voluntarily to England. His aim had been accomplished-he had been eminently successful-and he was ready to answer to his government in any manner they might think proper to institute, etc., etc. 
               Now Harry Noell was quite as zealous as a great many other petty office-holders under government have been, before and after him-who imagine themselves of such immense importance in their places, that they seem to believe the wheels of the national car (almost) must stop, if they withdraw suddenly from the service! A very common opinion, this, but a very fallacious one. 
               The fact was, Noell was never personally known at the department, at all. As soon as his absence was known, a poor relative of the secretary applied for the place; and that functionary made up his mind that Noell was burned up, or had run away, either of which possible occurrences was equally fortunate for him, as it made an opening for his wife's sister's husband's cousin, and that was all he cared about the matter-forgetting ting, in another week, that any such man as Harry Noell had ever existed. 
               Now the light keeper had returned again, and it might be that he would want his old place, again-for himself or another-for the secretary knew nothing about Noell's present pecuniary condition, and so he got rid of him as quickly as possible, lest he might become importunate, and informed him that the department had not been put to inconvenience, in any way, by his sudden disappearance, since the accident had occurred, a new building had been erected, and a new light-keeper had been permanently appointed at Beachy Head. And furthermore, the secretary gave him to understand that his explanation was perfectly satisfactory, and if the department at any time, should have any further occasion to confer with him, he would be communicated with by mail. The honorable secretary then bowed Noell politely out, without even asking his future address! 
               "That difficulty is well got rid of, at any rate,' said Noell to himself, exultantly. "The honorable secretary is a great man, I have no doubt-in his own esteem! I wonder what is the length of his purse?" Then hailing a "fly," he jumped into it, and ordered the driver to the Royal George Hotel. 
               Preparations were now put afoot with becoming alacrity, and upon a scale of magnificence commensurate with the positions and fortunes of Manfred and of Helen's father, for the approaching marriages of the two young couples, whose career we have traced to the present time. 
               Burton House was the scene of unparalleled gaiety. Noell had returned from London, bringing with him a liberal supply of jewels, dresses, and adornments for the person of his beautiful daughter, and the hour was at last close at hand when the lovers were finally to be joined in the holy bonds of matrimony. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               COUNT ARANTPUPPI. 
               WITHIN the few months previously, there had come from abroad-it was said direct from Italy, one Alphonse, the Count Arantpuppi; an artist of great distinction, and a scion of one of the ancient families of nobility in Venice, as it was understood. 
               So far as looks went, the count was an exceedingly showy man, but illiterate, and vain of his title and his personal appearance, to the very last degree. He soon became involved in "fashionable" debts, at London, where he took up his residence; and his tailor, his hatter, his hotel-keeper, and others whom he contrived from month to month to impose upon, had got to be generous in number, and importunate in their demands on him for unliquidated bills. 
               Count Alphonse had a pretty name, and a glorious pair of whiskers and mustachios. He managed to appear in fresh white kids and inimitable cravat nightly at the theatre or the opera, and before he had been in the metropolis three months, half a score of anxious mothers, who had "marriageable" but not very desirable daughters, had made the acquaintance of his countship, with a view to calling him son-in-law. 
               It was his fortune to be petted even by the Lady Hallodale, whose wide circle of acquaintances was, for the most part, composed of calculating maidens and nobility-loving aunts. But the count was wary and business-like in his devoirs, and it was a difficult matter to entrap him. He was determined upon "making a good thing" of his elegant contour and his rapidly-spreading reputation, and he laid himself out for securing a fortune at any rate, with the person of the prettiest woman he could inveigle into marriage with him. 
               In vain did the parvenues of London and vicinity, who visited his saloon, and made party after party to catch him, in vain did they throw out their questionable and tainted baits! Count Alphonse had been too long an observer of men and women, so he imagined, to be deluded or cajoled. He kept aloof, painted an indifferent picture, occasionally, attended zealously to his mustache and silky locks, and squandered every shilling he could raise, as fast as it came into his possession-continuing, at the same time, to get deeper and deeper into debt, from week to week, as he went on in admirable fashionable dissipation. 
               "O, Charlotte!" shouted Laura, to her friend Miss Simplon, one day, as she returned from a morning's ride; "Charlotte, have you seen the charming Count Arantpuppi, who has recently dropped down among us, in town, here?" 
               "I have heard of him, and have promised the Littles that I would call at his studio with them, to-morrow. They tell me he is a splendid looking man, and a magnificent artist." 
               "So I hear, Charlotte. The praises of the Count Alphonse-isn't it a sweet name?-are upon everybody's lips; and he is sought after by all our acquaintances, as a trump card." 
               "I have so understood it Laura. I shall have the pleasure of meeting him, to-morrow-casually, you know, Laura-only casually; and I shall then be able to decide whether report speaks correctly." 
               "Exactly, Charlotte. You are a judge." 
               "I rather flatter myself, Laura, that few women have had a better opportunity, at my age, to know and judge of mankind, than I have." 
               "That is very true, Charlotte; and you have evinced your good judgment, thus far, by avoiding being deceived or caught by any of them." 
               "Yes. There was Henry Payton, the merchant's son, of Picadilly. You remember him, Laura, with his shining face and well brushed coat, how he pursued me, until I forbade him, peremptorily, ever again to enter my presence?" 
               "Yes, I remember Payton. His father died, lately, and left him a hundred thousand pounds, in the funds." 
               "You don't say it, Laura!" exclaimed Charlotte, astounded. "Why, every one declared that he was a poor fellow, dependent upon his daily business, for bread!" 
               "He was associated in trade, I believe-a silent partner, with his father, who died richer than any one suspected him to be, while he lived." 
               "What has become of Payton, Laura? He was a very clever young man, as we say in English. I think he would be very glad to renew our acquaintance here, eh?" 
               "I think it quite probable, Charlotte. Mr. Payton is announced to be married, I notice, to the youngest daughter of Viscount Pallimerton, shortly." 
               "Possible!" 
               "So says the Court Journal, of last week. When he is married, I have no doubt we can readily include the Paytons in our list of acquaintances." 
               "Yes," responded Charlotte, thoughtfully, and at the same time questioning the reasonableness of this idea! 
               "Then there was the artist, Wilford, you know," continued Laura, reminding the now fading beauty of another of her discarded suitors. 
               "O, yes-yes. He was the most determined and passionate of them all!" said Charlotte. "How the Manfreds could tolerate that man, was more than I could ever conceive of." 
               "He was a genius, Charlotte!" 
               "A-fiddlestick! Genius? I saw a picture of Count Arantpuppi's, a day or two since, that Lady Flemin purchased, which is a picture, to be sure." 
               "What was it?" 
               "A female head." 
               "Painted by the count?" 
               "Yes. Lady Flemin procured it of him, personally. He brought it with him from Venice, I think-or Paris. This picture shows that genius of which you speak. I really doubt if young Wilford ever could paint, at all, for my part. The Manfreds spoiled him, and really made him think he had talent. I assure you, he was not up to mediocrity." 
               "Then he was fortunate to have so many true friends, who kept him so busy at work." 
               "Probably this was a charity, on their part. He was fit for nothing else, and the occupation they afforded him kept him out of other mischief, probably. But, Laura, that poor little fellow had the audacity to propose himself as a suitor to me, you recollect! It was too ridiculous a thing for me to get angry at, but I never could reconcile such presumption on the part of such humble persons." 
               "What has become of young Wilford, Charlotte?" 
               "Run away, I think, quietly. I haven't heard of him, for a long time." 
               "There is an artist by the name of Wilford who is largely spoken of in the French journals, of late. Can this be he?" 
               "O, no. He went to America, if I remember rightly. He might shine among the Yankees, but he has no mission in this country, at all events. He couldn't live a week in Paris, surely." 
               "You are sure that the picture you speak of, is one of the count's efforts?" 
               "Yes, of course. An original, which he finished some months ago, and brought to England with him." 
               "You have been luckily ridded of all these adventurers and poverty stricken fellows, that thus crossed your path, Charlotte, and you should make a fortunate match, at last, for the lessons you have had the opportunity to teach these presumptuous luck-hunters, in your experience." 
                
               "Have you chanced to meet this Count Alphonse, yet, Laura?" 
               "Not to be presented. I was in at Cardori's, the hair-dresser's, on Tuesday, and he chanced to stop a moment, as we passed out." 
               "Is he really so handsome as they say he is?" 
               "Yes; and more so. I assure you he is an elegant representative of the fashionable gentleman, if I can judge-to outward appearances, you know." 
               "I see, I see. He is a nobleman, too, of course?" 
               "O, yes. The Count Arantpuppi. A delightful name, too." 
               "Very, Clara, very pretty. I shall have the pleasure of meeting him, to-morrow. It is all planned, by aunty-but, of course, it is to be, as I said before, only a casual call; a mere accidental arrangement. If he can paint, I will sit to him for my picture." 
               "Capital!" said Laura. 
               "I shall thus be able to make his acquaintance, you know." 
               "Romantic-very," continued Laura. 
               "Not a word of this, out of this room, Laura." 
               "Of course not, Charlotte." 
               The pretty Miss Simplon retired to her boudoir, to think over this matter, and to arrange for making "a hit," on the following day, when she should have the honor of a presentation to the honorable Count Alphonse, de Arantpuppi. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               A MUTUAL MISTAKE! 
               COUNT ALPHONSE was sitting in his flashy dressing gown that was yet unpaid for, the next day, enjoying the comforts of his meerchaum at his studio. A carriage halted at his door and a trio of ladies emerged from it and passed up into his rooms. He received them in his customary magnificent style, and was very happy to make the acquaintance of Miss Charlotte Simplon, to whom he was now introduced by the Misses Little, that accompanied her. 
               They were riding by, and merely called, en passant, they said. Miss Simplon was a connoisseur in art-they told the truth there, too!-and she desired to look at some of the count's latest works. They passed an hour in his saloon, examining several pictures, half done, and possessing but little merit, and finally were bowed out with a grace on the part of his countship that would have caused a French dancing-master to blush, could he have been a witness to his suavite and complaisance. 
               The count was greatly pleased with Miss Simplon, and at once made the most particular inquiries about herself, her family, and her prospects, pecuniarily, of course. The party to whom he at first applied, was only partially informed in regard to the lady's means and family history. He had heard from several sources that Miss Simplon was a very desirable person-of good descent, wealthy connexions, handsome fortune, in her own right, and with high expectations from two sources, on her father's side. This friend referred him to another party who did know her, and this story was confirmed and improved. 
               "She comes of a good family," said this informant. "Her present income is generous, and her prospective property is very large. She would make a desirable companion for anybody, and everybody was desirous to make favor with her." 
               Count Alphonse resolved to marry Miss Charlotte Simplon, if the thing were possible. He never met with the woman that so exactly answered his beau ideal of a dashing, splendid girl. And as she was rich in the present and in the prospective, he thought he could afford to permit her to exchange her name from Simplon to Arantpuppi if she would. And so he went about the consummation of the business without unnecessary delay. 
               Neither of the persons with whom the Count communicated, knew anything about the temporal affairs of Miss Simplon, except what common rumor substantiated and aided to keep in circulation. Arantpuppi believed her to be rich, he knew she was a pretty woman, and he soon found his way into the circle she visited, principally pally through the lady's own personal subsequent connivance. 
               "And how were you pleased with the count?" inquired Laura, when she next met with Charlotte. 
               "O Laura, he's a love of a man, truly. I am not surprised that all the ladies should be running after him. So polished, so graceful, so handsome-and then his manner of speech, his pretty broken English, is so insinuating and so entirely take-a-ble, that I was vastly pleased with him, to be sure." 
               "And you have met him since?" 
               "O yes, at the Littles'. And Laura, what did I tell you? He has proposed to me-" 
               "Proposed!" 
               "To sit for my portrait, Laura; that is all, thus far. I shall attend him at his studio, tomorrow." 
               Miss Simplon was vanquished at last! There was no resisting that mustache and that flowing beard, that nicely knotted cravat, and that pretty white hand. 
               "And such an artist, too! Laura, when you get to be as good a judge of pictures as I ought to be, you will say that the count, at any rate, is a most excellent and accomplished painter, as well as a gentleman." 
               "I understand that the picture he furnished your friend, and which has been so greatly admired, is a very choice production," said Laura. 
               "Beautiful! One of the prettiest faces imaginable, Laura; and the coloring is most artistically executed." 
               "But it is not his work, Charlotte, at all." 
               "How do you know that? He brought it here-" 
               "Yes, he got it in Paris. It was painted by Mr. Wilford!" 
               "Pshaw, Laura, what does this signify? It is the result of rivalry, only." 
               "But I assure you that the painting has been recognized by Wilford himself, who chanced to see it at your friend's house, recently, and who declared that it was a low priced and early effort of his, executed by him soon after his arrival on the continent, months ago." 
               Such was the fact! But Miss Simplon was entirely incredulous, and charged this pretty piece of scandal, as she termed it, to envy. 
               Miss Simplon sat for her portrait, and it was finished at last. It was the likeness of a flashy woman, but poorly executed, and looked very little like the gay and spirited coquette. But it had been painted by the Count Arantpuppi; and though her friends could not admit it a picture of herself, yet she tried to believe that it did her justice. Perhaps it did! 
               As time passed by, the count became more and more intimate with Miss Simplon, and he finally proposed to marry her. His offer was duly accepted, and the news was duly spread among her coterie of acquaintances. 
               "Charlotte Simplon is at length provided for," said Miss Little to her sister, one morning. "She is announced as affianced." 
               "To whom, pray?" 
               "To the handsome Count Alphonse." 
               "Alphonse?" 
               "The painter-Arantpuppi," added the informant. 
               "O yes. And is he wealthy, as they say?" 
               "I never heard he was, at all. Did you?" 
               "I certainly have so heard him spoken of. When is the marriage to take place?" 
               "Very soon. Charlotte is now busy with the preliminaries." 
               The count was present at the residence of Charlotte's guardian one evening, after the arrangements had been made, in general terms, for their union. 
               "Where are you to reside?" asked the lady's protector, of the flashy count, after talking the matter over otherwise. 
               "Wherever my lady may elect," said the count. 
               "You have no choice?" 
               "No, madame-except what Ma'am'selle Charlotte shuses. I'ave no preferaince." 
               "In town, then?" 
               "Oui, yais, madame." 
               "What settlement do you propose, count?" 
               "Settel!" exclaimed the count, wildly, "that is bad word in Anglaise." (He had heard this term used so often, of late, among those that had waited upon him for his numerous unsettled accounts, that it amazed him!) "I shall 'ave no settlement, a present madame." 
               "Some arrangement must be entered into, before she weds," said her guardian. "She has no property of her own, of consequence, and it would be-" 
               "No property, madame-wot zis mean?" 
               "Charlotte has no property, yet-but, in the future, perhaps, when her relatives decease-" 
               "Deceas? I'ave been und'stood she is very rich; and I have love Ma'am'selle Charlotte vis all my 'eart, madame. But I vill make no settlement, and I vill consider more, before we sall go no farther, madame." 
               There was a mistake here, evidently! The count retired, went to his hotel, and found a bailiff there awaiting his arrival! He was arrested for several debts, and finding no friends that were desirous of making any "permanent investments" in his complicated affairs, he was very unceremoniously taken off to Fleet Street Prison, where he found leisure for reflection! 
               There was a double mistake, as it turned out, eventually. Charlotte thought the count a genuine nobleman. He was forced to throw off his assumed title and disguise, and it was ascertained, subsequently, that he was a graceless and dissolute Frenchman, who possessed some little talent as a copyist-who was bankrupt in principle and purse, and who had fled from Boulogne and Paris to avoid the debts he had contracted in France while pursuing a similar fortune-phantom, there. 
               Miss Simplon believed his story to the effect that he was wealthy, as well as noble, and that he chose the profession of an artist only as a pastime. As soon as his impudent plot was exploded, she was exceedingly mortified, and for a time was sincerely distressed to know that she had been so easily deceived. But she found a consolation in the reflection that she had very fortunately escaped marrying him; and as there were more men left in the world, she very soon rallied, and forgot this adventure. 
               The portrait of Charlotte was never taken from the count's rooms. His meagre effects were seized for the rent due, and his "splendid establishment" was broken up. At a public vendue of his pictures, afterwards, the highest price that his chef-d'ouvres commanded, was seventeen shillings sterling! 
               No event of this character could be long remembered by such a person as Miss Simplon. She quickly forgot the count and, his blandishments, his genius and his deceit. Her friends were too considerate and too generously inclined towards her, in spite of her coquettish and silly faults, to remind her of him, or the attendant circumstances of this queer affair; and she lost no caste in society by the result of her intimacy with the "artist." 
               The Count Arantpuppi was kept in durance for his unpaid debts several months; when he was finally released, and permitted to return once more to the continent, or elsewhere. He made the most of his opportunity and his liberty; and was never afterwards seen in England. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               THE FINAL UNION. 
               DURING the absence of Noell at the metropolis, both young Manfred and Wilford had taken the opportunity to explain to Mr. Manfred, senior, the marquis affair. 
               "Of course I see that he is not a marquis," said the old gentleman, good-naturedly, "but how was it, my son, that in your letters, you spoke of 'De Brandt' and the 'marquis,' if no such persons existed?" 
               "Such was the title that Noell assumed, father, while he was on the continent, for his own peculiar reasons. He travelled in cog., and was known as De Brandt, from adopting the original family name of his second wife. As to title of nobility, he doesn't need it, particularly; he is noble enough in all the qualities that go to make up an honorable and good man." 
               "But why did he deceive you?" 
               "That was a part of his plan as I have explained to you. He would trust nobody but himself and the immediate members of his family with his secret. He desired to prove Wilford, and perhaps he entertained a similar feeling towards me. I never asked the question." 
               "I am not sorry that it has turned out precisely as it has," continued the old Manfred. "You are now more nearly the equal-at least in station-of Hortense, to whom you are about to be wedded. In point of fortune, you will have a generous settlement, of course, though I understand that Noell's daughter will be very wealthy from her mother's side. This is all convenient and fortunate, and I am glad you do not have to contend with 'title' in your future." 
               "As to this matter of the marquis, no one here knows anything of it at all," added young Manfred. "It is common in Europe for people of all grades to adopt such name or title as may suit their pleasure from time to time; especially when flitting about from place to place on the continent. I never attached any importance to it myself, and I am perfectly satisfied to take my Hortense without any reference to her stepfather's acts, which I never doubted he had good cause for." 
               "You are content, so am I. You know my opinion of mere nominal 'nobility,' Roswell. Let it pass." 
               This subject was never again called up, and the family were known thenceforward only as the Noell's. 
               Among the guests who arrived about this time at Burton House, was a party from London, in which the adorable Miss Simplon was included. Her late extravagant partiality for rouge and enamel had rendered her really passe in personal appearance, though she was still handsome and more languishly silly than ever. She was always welcome at Burton House, because old Manfred fancied all sorts of people, and he declared that Charlotte helped to make up the variety. The rich relative from whose death she entertained her pecuniary expectations, was still hale and hearty-though she looked for the good old lady's demise, at some time or other, provided she didn't die before her! 
               Noell and his daughters made an exceedingly good impression both upon Manfred's family, and in the society they encountered. All the high contracting parties to the approaching nuptials were now domiciled at the residence of Manfred, and it was finally arranged that the two weddings-young Manfred with Hortense, and Helen with Wilford, should take place at Burton House. 
               A fine old estate in the neighborhood was quietly purchased by Noell as a marriage present to his daughter. It was forthwith renovated and refurnished in appropriate style, and was christened De Brandt Hall, in honor of his wife's family name. 
               "And this is the painter that was here some months ago? Is it not, Manfred?" asked Miss Simplon, soon after reaching Burton House, and unexpectedly seeing Wilford in the drawing-room. 
               "Yes, it is Wilford, the artist." 
               "Yes, I see," she continued. "I don't think he has improved much in his looks since I saw him last. I hope he improves in his art." 
               "He has done so, greatly, I assure you." 
               "Well, there was need of it, verily." 
               "I think he always possessed a goodly share of talent, for his age." 
               "That is a matter of opinion, then." 
               "Don't you think so, Charlotte?" 
               "O he was so-so-ish, only. He wanted to paint my portrait, that is, he asked me to sit for him two years ago-but I didn't think it worth my while, and I declined. He remembers it, I think, for he hasn't spoken to me yet, since my arrival." 
               "O you misappreciate him, I assure you. Come, do you know he is about to wed the charming Nell Noell?" 
               "I have not seen the lady yet. She has a queer taste. Is this Miss Noell as wealthy as she is reputed, too?" 
               "Yes, her expectations are large. Come, let me present you." 
               The showy Miss Simplon was escorted across the drawing-room, and Manfred said: 
               "Wilford, Miss Simplon. You remember her?" 
               "Simplon-Simplon," said the artist. "Yes-yes. I recollect having seen the lady before." He bowed, and turning to Hortense and her mother, he continued: 
               "Now ladies, allow me." 
               They each took an arm of his, and the trio immediately sauntered out upon the terrace. Miss Simplon never took the slightest notice, apparently, of this cold shoulder proceeding, but Wilford was avenged. 
               A week afterwards, agreeably to arrangement, a splendid soiree was given at Burton House, at the close of which the chaplain of the town appeared, and the lovers were united in marriage. Agreeably with his promise, as the parties were about entering the grand saloon where the ceremony was to be performed, young Manfred 
                     aded
                     
                   towards Nelly, and said: 
               "You remember, Nell, when we left Beachy Head, after Wilford's recovery, that I promised at your marriage to add a trifle to the gift I made your father at that time?" 
               Nelly had not forgotten this. 
               "When I made that offer, I did not think you would be wedded at Burton House, and that Wilford would be the bridegroom, surely. But here is the token; accept it-we shall soon be related as brother and sister-in-law." 
               A beautiful diamond necklace followed this remark, which Manfred had purchased for the occasion, and which he now fastened about her well turned throat. It needed no ornament, however. Nature had formed sweet Nelly in a mould of perfection! 
               The newly wedded couples removed at once to De Brandt Hall, accompanied by Noell, his retinue and his family. For several days after the region round about rang with the music, the hilarity, and the joy attendant upon the event. And notwithstanding the fact that the Manfreds did not find themselves eventually connected in marriage with nobility, yet they were content with Hortense, who proved a model of a wife and a charmingly companionable lady. 
               The 
                     diamong
                     diamond
                   ring which now graced the wedding finger of the fair Helen, and which it will not be forgotten was Wilford's gift to her, at the moment of their first parting, was originally the property of Wilford's mother; and the initials which were engraved upon it, were those of his mother's maiden name. He had treasured it, sacredly, up to the moment when he was about to leave the light-house, and parted with it then, only because he had no other means save words, at that time, of exhibiting to Nelly his appreciation of her kindness to him. 
               A superb levee soon followed the two weddings. Noell was "happy enough for a commoner," while Wilford was quite as "happy as a lord." The circle of society into which the new comers found themselves introduced, was a brilliant coterie of wealth, and beauty and fashion. And, long after these fortunate nuptials, when the sparkling wine was brimming in the goblets at "De Brandt Hall," the standing toast was, "Health and Happiness to Nell Noell, the LIGHT-KEEPER'S TREASURE!" 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
