
    ----CITATION----
        Arnold, Alexander Streeter, (b. 1829). The Benson Family .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5597 wright2-0077
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               The Benson Family.
            
         
         
         
            
               THE BENSON FAMILY.
               A STORY FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
            
             BY THE AUTHOR OF "UNCLE TIMOTHY TABER," AND "HENRY LOVELL." 
            
               
                  
                      "A GOOD NAME IS RATHER TO BE CHOSEN THAN GREAT RICHES, AND LOVING FAVOR
                        RATHER THAN SILVER AND GOLD." 
                  
                  -Prov. xxi: 1.
               
            
            
               E. L. FREEMAN, PUBLISHER:
               UNION BLOCK, CENTRAL FALLS, R. I.
            
            1869.
         
         
         
            
                Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by ALEX. S. ARNOLD,
                  In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of Rhode Island.
               
            
         
         
            TO WILLIAM P. CHERRINGTON, THROUGH WHOSE INFLUENCE IT WAS UNDERTAKEN, THIS LITTLE
               VOLUME IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED BY
            
               THE AUTHOR.
            
         
         
            
            Uncle Timothy Taber Series.
            
               1. Uncle Timothy Taber,. . . . . Price $1 00
               2. The Benson Family, . . . . . " 1 00
               3. Henry Lovell—Soon to be issued in book form, 1 00
               4. Fortunes and Misfortunes—A Sequel to The Benson Family—to be published in a
                  few months, Price $1 00
            
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. IN WHICH SOME OF THE CHARACTERS ARE INTRODUCED. 13
               
               CHAPTER II. ARDEN BECOMES ENTHUSIASTIC. 22
               
               CHAPTER III. ARDEN'S GREAT PARTY. 27
               
               CHAPTER IV. THE RIDE AND ADVENTURES IN "GREAT FOREST." 42
               
               CHAPTER V. REV. GEORGE WOODBURY. 53
               
               CHAPTER VI. ARDEN, MISS VINCENT AND JULIA, AGAIN. 59
               
               CHAPTER VII. A WEDDING. 68
               
               CHAPTER VIII. ANOTHER GREAT WEDDING. 75
               
               
               CHAPTER IX. EMMA'S WORLDLY INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUNG BENSON, AND SPIRITUAL
                  INSTRUCTIONS TO MR. GRAFTON. 84
               
               CHAPTER X. A SHADOW IN 'SQUIRE BENSON'S HOUSEHOLD. 92
               
               CHAPTER XI. YOUNG BENSON AND EMMA JACOBS. 95
               
               CHAPTER XII. THE BLASPHEMY AGAINST THE HOLY GHOST. 101
               
               CHAPTER XIII. BENSON CONCLUDES THAT EMMA HAS A FATHER. 105
               
               CHAPTER XIV. MRS. GRAFTON, ELLA BRIGHT'S FAITH. 108
               
               CHAPTER XV. THE SEWING CIRCLE. 115
               
               CHAPTER XVI. MRS GRAFTON'S FAITH. 119
               
               CHAPTER XVII. MRS. GRAFTON BECOMES RECONCILED. 123
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. MR. WOODBURY AND MAUD ARDEN. JACK GREEN. 127
               
               CHAPTER XIX. THE GREAT SLEIGH RIDE. 131
               
               CHAPTER XX. REV. JOHN ERNEST. A HINT TO PASTOR AND PEOPLE. 136
               
               CHAPTER XXI. IN WHICH MR. ERNEST DESTROYS HIS ENEMIES. 143
               
               CHAPTER XXII. JACK GREEN'S ADVENTURE. 148
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. IN WHICH MR. JACOBS BECOMES EXCITED. 153
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. 'SQUIRE BENSON ARRESTED FOR BURGLARY. 162
               
               CHAPTER XXV. THE EXAMINATION. 167
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. THE TRIAL. 173
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. MR. LAZELLE SOLVES THE MYSTERY. 178
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 'SQUIRE BENSON DESTROYS HIS ENEMY. 184
               
               CHAPTER XXIX. CONCLUSION. 190
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The Benson family
            
            THE BENSON FAMILY.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               IN WHICH SOME OF THE CHARACTERS ARE INTRODUCED.
               BY many people, 'Squire Benson, as he was always called, has ever been considered
                  one of the oddest of odd men. He came into the village of Ardenville, apparently a
                  very quiet sort of a person, and rented a very cheap tenement in a neat though
                  unfashionable locality, and put up a very unfashionable sign, reading thus:— 
                     "BENJ. BENSON, HATTER."
                  
               
               The next Sunday morning, almost a half hour before time, 'Squire Benson and wife
                  came to the Sabbath School, accompanied by their son and daughter. Mr. Lazelle,
                  one of the wealthiest members of the church, happened to be present that morning,
                  and thought he would accost him; for although the new comer could add nothing to
                  the respectability of the society, he would increase the numbers without intruding
                  himself where he was not wanted.
               "Arrived rather early!" said Mr. Lazelle. "I mistook the time myself, and came
                  almost an hour sooner than I intended."
               
               "Not much too early!" replied Mr. Benson. "I always like to be at
                  school at least a quarter of an hour before the commencement, and a half hour is
                  not greatly ahead of time."
               "Odd!" thought Mr. Lazelle, as he turned away.
               When Mr. Arden, the Superintendent, arrived about ten minutes behind time, 'Squire
                  Benson looked at the clock as though he thought he must be mistaken, and Mr.
                  Lazelle could not help thinking that so odd a man would eventually breed trouble
                  in the school.
               Having a little business with the Superintendent, Mr. Lazelle, of course,
                  transacted it at once, only delaying the opening of the school a trifle over ten
                  minutes more; yet 'Squire Benson actually looked at the clock, and then at the
                  Superintendent, with an expression of countenance that seemed to say as plainly as
                  though he had spoken aloud, "the exercises of the school ought not to be
                  interfered with in this manner, and would not, were people as much interested in
                  the welfare of the school as in their own private affairs."
               To be sure, the business between Mr. Lazelle and the Superintendent was not of
                  much consequence, and could have been transacted at another time; but then it only
                  occupied the time of the school some ten or twelve minutes; and of what great
                  account, I should like to know, is a few minutes to the school, when it is a well
                  established fact that every year contains at least fifty-two Sabbaths?
               After the opening of the school, a few remarks were made by the Superintendent, on
                  the pleasant weather, &c.—a very pretty speech, indeed;—but when a general and
                  pressing invitation for remarks was given out, and no one arising to respond,
                  after waiting a few moments, 'Squire Benson spoiled the whole thing; for coming
                  forward, he spoke in his unfashionable way for some ten minutes. True, the
                  scholars were very quiet, and seemed much interested; but then he had such odd
                  notions. He actually thought that punctuality—true punctuality—was requisite for
                  complete success, and that it was better to have a session of three-fourths of an
                  hour, with punctual attendance, than an attempted hour and a half, with a
                  continual dropping in of members after commencement, and a postponed commencement
                  at that. Then he spoke of the sin of swearing, adding that the object of Sabbath
                  Schools was to make people good. Of course this is all very true; but then the
                  vulgar man went on to particularize, that, as he remarked, they might know just
                  what he meant. He spoke of our tavern-keepers, who deal out strong drink, as
                  drunkard manufacturers, and even went so far as to tell the scholars that a little
                  innocent lager beer should be shunned by all who would grow up good members of
                  society. All this kind of instruction was so interspersed with short illustrative
                  stories, that every word seemed to tell upon the whole school, and, when he had
                  finished, Mr. Lazelle could not help remarking to Mr. Arden, that the new comer
                  must be got rid of. The Superintendent replied that the old codger so interested
                  the children, it would not do to aim an open battery at him, but some masked ones
                  must be put in requisition, and 'Squire Benson be quietly put aside, without
                  producing any disturbance among the scholars.
               The new comer hired a pew, and, with his family, filled it nearly every Sabbath,
                  rain or shine. 'Squire Benson's wife was full as unfashionable as himself; yet she
                  made many acquaintances and friends among the rich as well as poor; and it was
                  soon patent to the whole community, that both husband and wife were becoming
                  uncommonly well liked.
               
               Some three months after the arrival of 'Squire Benson, at the annual meeting of
                  the Ladies' Sewing Circle, Mrs. Lazelle and Maud Arden, representing the two first
                  families, concluded, after a brief consultation, to elect the old officers another
                  year. But while they were conferring together, another conversation, of quite a
                  different stamp, was taking place in the next room.
               "Mrs. Jones, don't you think we had better have a new set of officers?"
               "Well," replied Mrs. Jones, "that is easier said than done. Who would vote for any
                  new candidates?"
               "Why, everybody!" answered Mrs. Bright. "Everybody, I tell you. Come, let us elect
                  'Squire Benson's wife, and see if we can't accomplish something this year."
               "Agreed!" exclaimed a couple of ladies, coming in at that moment. "Let us have
                  'Squire Benson's wife, and then we shall accomplish something."
               "'Squire Benson's wife it is, then," added Mrs. Jones.
               "What in the world are you talking about?" exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle, overhearing the
                  last remark.
               "Why," replied Mrs. Bright, with perfect self-possession, "we were speaking of
                  Mrs. Benson for President, and a general change of officers."
               "Change of fiddlesticks!" broke in the polished Mrs. Lazelle. "Why, our President
                  occupies the highest position in society, and pray——"
               "Yes, pray!" interrupted Mrs. Bright. "That is just what we want. We
                  want more praying; but when did our present officers ever pray?"
               "Come, come, Mrs. Bright," exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle, impatiently, "that will do very
                  well for a conference meeting; but we came here to-night to elect officers."
               "And we are going to," said Mrs. Bright. "But we will not quarrel about this
                  little matter. I hear the Secretary already calling the meeting to order."
               "Because," added Mrs. Jones, "our President occupies the highest position in
                  society, and therefore, as a natural consequence, cannot attend to any part of her
                  duty."
               "Will some one please nominate for President?" asked the Secretary.
               "I could nominate a lady," said Mrs. Bright, " who, I think, would make an
                  excellent presiding and executive officer; but I hope we shall proceed, at once,
                  to ballot without nominations."
               "I nominate our present incumbent," exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle.
               "I second the nomination," said Maud Arden.
               "I am sorry," remarked Mrs. Bright, "that you persist in nominating; not that I
                  have anything against the lady; but, as she is seldom here, and, when present,
                  never presides, it seems to me that we have no 'present incumbent;' and besides,
                  it is only an injury to such a person to receive a nomination under present
                  circumstances."
               "I am not the one who injures her," exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle, with a
                  toss of the head; "but those who oppose her."
               "Why," added Maud Arden, excitedly, "no one will dare oppose her."
               "Dare is a pretty strong word," said Mrs. Bright, calmly.
               After considerable more talk, the ballot was taken, resulting in the election of
                  'Squire Benson's wife.
               "If you will please get my things," said Mrs. Lazelle to the hostess, "I think I
                  will return home before dark."
               "I cannot accept the office of President," kindly, but firmly remarked Mrs.
                  Benson. "I am sorry that I was unaware of
                  my name being used in connection with the office; otherwise I should have
                  forbidden it. To be plain with you, I cannot accept any office without first
                  consulting my husband, and I know he would not approve of my
                  accepting the position."
               "But," replied Mrs. Bright, "for the good of the circle——"
               "That is one of my chief reasons, though not stated," broke in Mrs. Benson.
               "Now, Mrs. Bright," exclaimed Maud Arden, "I hope you are satisfied, and will
                  allow the Circle to proceed to elect the officers."
               "I move," said Mrs. Jones, with cutting sarcasm, "that whereas Maud Arden wishes
                  it, we proceed at once, to elect."
               "I nominate the present incumbent," exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle, throwing off her
                  shawl, as if no longer in haste to go, and resuming a seat beside Maud Arden, who
                  at once seconded the nomination.
               Mrs. Bright, and her friend Mrs. Jones, at once commenced circulating ballots, and
                  when the vote was announced, Miss Comstock, the next door neighbor of Mrs. Bright,
                  was found to be elected by a large majority, and while Mrs. Lazelle was resuming
                  her shawl, the remaining officers were chosen same as the preceding year.
               Mrs. Benson here commenced speaking, and a moment after, the whole company became
                  attentive listeners. She spoke of the objects of the Circle, of the good it might
                  accomplish, of the needed elements of concord and harmony in all its acts and
                  deliberations. "We cannot help disagreeing upon many points," she continued, "and,
                  therefore, let us agree to disagree in love and good will." She then spoke of the
                  duties of the officers, and of each individual member of the Circle, ending with a
                  religious appeal that drew tears from many eyes, while Mrs. Lazelle threw aside
                  her shawl again, and resumed a seat between Maud Arden and the speaker.
               "That is a beautiful pattern you are working," said Mrs. Benson to Mrs. Lazelle, a
                  little while after the above occurrence. "Talk about beauty being simply 'skin
                  deep;' why, it reaches to my very heart."
               "Are you really so great an admirer of beauty?" asked Mrs. Lazelle.
               "I am," replied Mrs. Benson, feelingly; "for God is a lover of the beautiful."
               "Do you really mean so?" asked Mrs. Jones.
               "Certainly! God loves the flowers he has created, and I cannot help loving not
                  only the flowers, but the beautiful world He has placed us in. Who can help
                  admiring the many lovely things created by our heavenly Father, and especially a
                  beautiful soul? God loves a beautiful soul, Mrs. Lazelle."
               "But, mother," asked Mrs. Benson's daughter, Julia, "does not God love us
                     all?"
               "Yes, Julia, God loves the poorest of sinners; but still he does not love our
                  sinful acts."
               "He hates the sin, but loves the sinner," said Julia in a low voice.
               "Yes," added the mother, "let us not forget that 'God maketh his sun to rise on
                  the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.'"*
                  
               
               "But," said Mrs. Lazelle, "God cannot love the impenitent."
               "In the fifth chapter of Matthew," answered Mrs. Benson, "we are commanded to
                  imitate God by loving our enemies. And Paul says, 'God commendeth his love toward
                  us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.'"†
                  
               
               
                  *Matt. v.: 45.
               
               
                  †Rom. v.: 8.
               "But," exclaimed Mrs. Jones, "Christ died to turn away from the world the wrath of
                  God."
               "In the good book we all love," answered Mrs. Benson, "I have often read not that
                  God hated the world; but that God so loved the world, that he gave
                  his only begotten Son to die for us. I do not love God simply because he commands
                  me to love him."
               "Why do you love him, then?" asked Mrs. Bright.
               "I love him because he first loved us,"*
                   was the quiet reply.
               
               The next Sunday morning, being the time for the annual election of officers of the
                  Sabbath school, there was quite a busy scene at the vestry. While Mrs. Bright and
                  her friend Mrs. Jones were busily employed circulating ballots, bearing the name
                  of Benjamin Benson, Mrs. Benson whispered a few words in her husband's ear.
                  'Squire Benson looked surprised; but a moment after, he rose as calm as a May
                  morning, and spoke as follows:
               "My friends, 'uneasy is the head that wears a crown,' be it a king's or
                  Superintendent's. I understand that my name is being used in connection with the
                  latter position: but be it known to you all, that I never accept office, be it
                  high or low. There is probably no particular danger of my being elected; but
                  almost every individual has a few friends; and if I have any, I will try to retain
                  their good opinion, by remaining in my present humble position. Of course it would
                  not do for the whole school and society to arrive at such a conclusion, else how
                  could we find our officers? But, dear friends, I have a particular reason for not
                  accepting office, and I shall always claim the privilege of being my own judge as
                  to whether that reason is sufficient. Though I cannot consent to take the position
                  myself, I will endeavor to give such hearty support to all who are elected to any
                  office, as to make their labors lighter, and their duties more pleasant to
                  themselves and profitable to the school. My friends, we must give our officers
                  more cordial aid. I doubt not we have all endeavored to strengthen their hands,
                  and yet, perhaps, all have erred more or less. This year let us commence aright.
                  First of all, I counsel the school to elect the present officers
                     unanimously; then give them a hearty support, ever bearing in mind
                  that nothing shall be done unless dictated by love for the school and its
                  officers; and my word for it, we shall never regret this day's work."
               
                  *1 John, iv: 19.
               'Squire Benson then proceeded to speak, most feelingly and affectionately, of the
                  great responsibilities devolving upon the officers, and the importance of their
                  being faithful, closing with a most impressive moral and religious
                  exhortation.
               "Mrs. Jones," whispered Mrs. Bright, "you pass down the left aisle, and I will see
                  that the votes on the other side are all changed."
               A few minutes after, the Secretary announced the vote as follows: "There are
                  sixty-one votes cast for Superintendent, of which Mr. Charles Arden, the present
                  incumbent, has fifty-three, and is therefore elected."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               IN WHICH ARDEN BECOMES ENTHUSIASTIC.
               A FEW evenings after the election of officers, Arden called at 'Squire Benson's
                  residence, and found Mrs. Benson alone. She was dressed simply, but neatly, and
                  her countenance wore the cheerful aspect of a true Christian. After talking upon
                  common-place subjects for some time, Arden remarked that it was one of the hardest
                  things in the world, to learn who were really and truly one's friends.
               "Yes," added Mrs. Benson, "we must often winter and summer our friends before we
                  really know them."
               "I always supposed," said Arden, "that your husband was opposed to me, until last
                  Sabbath morning."
               "Not at all!" replied Mrs. Benson. "You will not find a truer friend in the whole
                  school."
               At this moment Julia, the daughter of Mrs. Benson, came in, and the conversation
                  became still more interesting to Arden. 'Squire Benson and his son soon after
                  entered, both of whom joined freely in the general talk.
               Arden became so absorbed in the conversation, which took a religious turn, that
                  the clock struck eleven before he was aware that it was growing late.
               "I beg your pardon for keeping you up so late," said Arden; "but I took no note of
                  the flight of time. I cannot recall the occasion when I have enjoyed a more
                  pleasant evening. I have been so much interested that I came near forgetting an
                  important part of my business. I am going to give an entertainment to some friends
                  Wednesday evening next, and am anxious for you all to be there. So do not
                  disappoint me."
               "I think you will have to excuse us," said Mrs. Benson.
               "I cannot excuse you," replied Arden. "If you cannot conveniently come on
                  Wednesday, I shall change the evening."
               After much persuasion, Arden exacted a promise that the family would attend.
               "Why, Charles Arden!" exclaimed Maud, as Arden entered the fashionable residence
                  owned by himself and sister. "Why, Charles Arden! have you been at 'Squire
                  Benson's all this time?"
               "All this time, if you will believe me," replied Arden with provoking
                  calmness.
               "What in the world do you mean?"
               "Never mind, Maud; I'll tell you all about it in the morning."
               "All about what?"
               "All about Julia Benson, of course."
               "An interesting subject indeed."
               "None can be more so."
               "Come, Charles, that's a good boy, tell me why you staid so late."
               "Well, Maud, I must say, the time passed so pleasantly, that I was totally
                  unconscious of the lateness of the hour. I was not even aware it was growing late.
                  I never met with a more finished gentleman than 'Squire Benson, or a lady more
                  fitted to grace any position, than his wife; and their son and daughter are their
                  perfect counterparts."
               "Why, Charles! what are you talking about?"
               
               "Talking about the dearest friends I possess on earth, present company excepted,
                  of course!"
               "The next that I shall know," exclaimed Maud, "you will be giving a great
                  entertainment on their account, and then shall we not feel proud to introduce that
                  old codger, as you used to call him, as a particular friend?"
               "I am surprised to hear my sister run on at such a rate; but, since you have
                  introduced the subject, I will say that I have invited the whole family to come
                  next Wednesday evening. A new life is opened before me. Could you but see the
                  family for yourself, you would not remain sceptical. Such a family! I had no idea
                  of happiness before. I tell you I am changed, and from this time henceforth, I
                  shall lead a new life."
               "Pshaw! What nonsense!"
               "Nonsense, if you please, but never were realities more charming! It does seem to
                  me I have not lived out half my days."
               "If you stay out at this rate, you will live out half your nights, at all
                  events."
               "Ha! ha! ha! Well said, Maud. And I will not only live out my days, but my nights
                  also; for even when asleep, I shall live in pleasant dreams."
               "Dreams of Julia, I suppose."
               "Should not wonder at all!"
               "Where will all this end?" with a toss of the head.
               "Can't say, Maud; but you should have been with me. In all our conversation this
                  evening, I heard not one foolish speech, though plenty of social chat was indulged
                  in; but I heard more real good sense than I have listened to in a year. 'Squire
                  Benson's slightest wish is obeyed; but then his wish is for Mrs. Benson to have
                  her own way. He is well aware of her talents and goodness, while she appreciates
                  his sterling worth. There is no subject too deep for either the father or mother
                  to discuss, while the son is the counterpart of his father, with the addition of
                  an immense love of fun; and the daughter—well, I feel my utter inability to
                  describe her."
               "Describe her calico dress, then."
               "Well, it was very pretty, set like a glove, and looked as neat as a pin. And then
                  the house! I had nearly forgotten that. I did not see the best room; but the
                  kitchen, where we were, was so neat and cosy! The furniture is old fashioned, but
                  shining, and the floor bare, with the exception of a few prettily braided mats;
                  but so clean and nice. Then the shop opened from beyond the kitchen, and all was
                  in keeping. No attempt was made to excuse anything; but all seemed perfectly
                  self-possessed and at home. 'Squire Benson spoke of his business with as much
                  freedom as though President of some banking institution. Not a slur was uttered
                  against rich or poor, and, above all, I was treated just as they treat the poorest
                  of the poor. We all stood upon an equal footing, and the spirit of
                  Christ pervaded the whole. Ah, me! how delightful!" he ended with a sigh.
               "Well," exclaimed Maud, "I must say that you are somewhat enthusiastic."
               "Not naturally so," replied Arden. "Were it something common, I should say very
                  little about it; but, with such a subject for my eloquence, how can I help getting
                  excited? But I tell you, Maud, I am going to turn over a new leaf. Nothing but
                  happiness is before me."
               "Well, Charles, I must say that something besides happiness is before
                     me. I am so sorry you invited them; for we shall both regret it
                  when you are over the first excitement of this affair. How shall we feel to
                  introduce these country greenies to our city friends?"
               
               "I know not how you will feel, Maud, but I shall feel
                  proud of them."
               To the surprise of everybody present, the next Sunday morning the Sabbath School
                  was opened punctually; the opening services were conducted with more order; every
                  word was spoken with impressiveness; after which a very feeling address was made
                  by the Superintendent. 'Squire Benson was then asked to offer remarks, but excused
                  himself, saying that he would not spoil, by too much speaking, the impressive and
                  excellent words of the Superintendent. Arden turned to invite the pastor, but he
                  was quite busy wiping his eyes, and winking very hard, to keep back any further
                  effusion of tears. Mrs. Benson was looking very happy, while Mrs. Bright and Mrs.
                  Jones cast peculiar glances at the other teachers, as much as to say, "all is
                  right! The spirit of the Master reigns here, and now we shall accomplish something
                  for these lambs, in his name."
               Arden was about to attend to other duties, when the pastor grasped his hand, and
                  pressed it warmly without uttering a word.
               "This is one of the happiest moments of my life," said Arden. The pastor was now
                  sure that he was not mistaken, and, giving another warm pressure, passed on.
               "At last we all understand each other," said Arden to himself; "and my next step
                  will be to become a member of Christ's visible Church."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE GREAT PARTY.
               THE next Wednesday evening, a large party assembled at the elegant residence of
                  Charles Arden, or rather at the mansion owned by Arden and his sister. When about
                  half the company had arrived, Mr. Benson and family were announced.
               "My brother is so odd," said Maud, "I thought he would invite everybody."
               "Did he really invite that old codger?" exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle, turning up her
                  nose as if she smelt something offensive. "I would not put up with it."
               "It is one of his queer notions," said Maud.
               "You must set your foot down," exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle. "Nip this flower in the
                  bud. Now is the time to show that you do not approve of such things."
               "I certainly will, if you say so; for I have been as mad as a hornet
                  about it."
               "If I say so! Well, I do say so, emphatically," responded the
                  fashionable lady.
               "Good evening, Mr. Benson," said Arden, cordially, extending his hand. "Good
                  evening, Mrs. Benson. Where are the rest of your family? Ah! here they are. Very
                  happy to see you, Julia—I mean Miss Benson. I really forgot your brother; very
                  glad to meet you. Please excuse me a moment."
               
               "Maud," said Arden, approaching his sister, "will you please give attention to
                  'Squire Benson's family for a few minutes? They are strangers to most of the
                  guests, and I would like to have them feel at home."
               "I shall do nothing of the kind," replied Maud.
               "Why, Maud! they are our particular guests for this evening."
               "Particular grannies!" exclaimed Maud, excitedly. "I'm afraid they are altogether
                  too particular for me."
               "Do I understand you to mean that you will not entertain them?"
               "If you haven't already, you may as well understand that I shall not, and will
                  not."
               Arden bit his lip; but turned away without replying, and passed to where 'Squire
                  Benson was seated, with the thought, how different would be the treatment of my
                  sister if these were in possession of wealth, and were clothed in purple,
                  decorated with diamonds, though they were steeped in infamy. But now, beautiful as
                  they are in spirit, they are of no account. But these things shall not move
                  me.
               After introducing 'Squire Benson and family to quite a number of persons,
                  including Mr. Jacobs, an excellent, wealthy man, and wholesale merchant of New
                  York city, Arden invited Julia to promenade. Julia glanced at her mother, and
                  taking Arden's arm, they strolled through the rooms. As Arden felt the touch of
                  his companion's hand upon his arm, he, from some unaccountable reason, lost all
                  his usual fluency of speech; but the easy self-possession of Julia soon restored
                  him to his wonted equanimity. In the midst of their walk, a hearty, joyous,
                  girlish laugh issued from an adjoining apartment.
               "Did you hear that laugh?" asked Arden.
               "I did not notice it particularly," replied Julia.
               "There it is again," exclaimed Arden. "What do you think of it?"
               "It seems to proceed from a light hearted lady."
               "True: but see if you can describe her character from her laugh."
               "I hardly dare try," said Julia. "You view the sound from a different stand point
                  from myself. Knowing all about the lady, you perhaps think it an easy task to read
                  her character from her laugh. It reminds me of some very fine people, who imagine
                  they are reading God's character from nature, when they have really learned the
                  whole from the Bible they discard."
               "Excellent! Now favor us with a description."
               "If you really wish it, I will," said Julia; "and the more readily since you have
                  already given a partial description."
               "In what manner?"
               "By the expression of your countenance while speaking of the lady, or more
                  especially when listening to her laugh."
               "Capital! capital!" exclaimed Arden. "Now for the description."
               "Well, then," said Julia, "she is a lady not yet twenty, frank, generous,
                  warm-hearted, of rich parentage, polished, with perhaps a too boisterous laugh;
                  and yet a laugh that her true friends could not afford to lose. Such a laugh once
                  belonged to my mother, and I love it more for that reason; yet I would not have it
                  return. That laugh cannot be taken from the girl, without spoiling the woman."
               "Excellent again!" exclaimed Arden; "and true to the letter. I must introduce you.
                  And mind that you love her at first sight."
               "Did you?"
               
               "Yes! and I believe in it. I do not refer to the love that abounds in shilling
                  novels, but that love among friends who discern and appreciate each other's
                  worth."
               "You mean," said Julia, "love coupled with respect."
               "Precisely!" replied Arden. "For example, I cannot remember the time when I did
                  not love Mrs. Bright and Mrs. Jones, and they have always commanded my respect. I
                  have loved many men at first sight. I have also in my mind a lady and her
                  counterpart some twenty years younger, whom I began to love almost before I saw
                  their faces."
               It was not the words, or even the manner of speaking, but the look of the speaker,
                  that caused his companion to change the subject by reminding him that he had not
                  yet introduced her to the lady, who, Arden informed her, was the only child of Mr.
                  Jacobs, the wholesale merchant already mentioned.
               Emma Jacobs was interrupted in the midst of a joyous laugh, and the introduction
                  took place. After a request from Arden, which was warmly seconded by Julia, Emma
                  seated herself at the piano, and sang a few lively airs.
               "Beautiful! beautiful!" exclaimed Arden.
               "I love such music, and all the better because it sounds natural," said Julia.
               "Come, Julia," exclaimed Emma, "it is your turn now; and let us have something
                  lively."
               To the surprise of Arden, Julia seated herself at the instrument, and after
                  striking the keys with an evidently practiced hand, she sang a lively air, which
                  was duly applauded.
               "Now," said Arden, "sing us one of your favorites."
               Julia again struck the keys, and in a sweet, clear voice, sang as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE GOLDEN SHORE.
                           
                              Could I but wear an angel's wings,
                              Could I but mount where angels soar,
                              I'd fly where heavenly seraph sings,
                              And light upon the golden shore.
                           
                           
                              Had I a barque to sail o'er life,
                              (Far o'er the billow's angry roar,)
                              I'd sail above all sinful strife,
                              And anchor on the golden shore.
                           
                           
                              But since I now must tread life's road,
                              Oh, let me share the heavenly store!
                              Though dark the way, I'll lean on God,
                              And see, through faith, the golden shore.
                           
                           
                              Could I but run the Christian race,
                              To follow Christ and sin no more,
                              I'd tread the way with joyful pace,
                              While gazing on the golden shore.
                           
                           
                              But though by sin I'm oft enslaved,
                              My heart shall ever God adore,
                              Until from sin I'm wholly saved,
                              And tread, with joy, the golden shore.
                           
                           
                              Though come temptation and distress,
                              Give me the Bible, (heavenly lore!)
                              This hope to kindle in my breast—
                              A mansion on the golden shore.
                           
                           
                              Come, ye that labor all for naught,
                              Behold the joy for you in store;
                              Come, freely share the bliss unbought,
                              And gaze upon the golden shore.
                           
                           
                              Whatever lot to me is given,
                              Though evils come within my door,
                              Oh, shut not out this bliss of heaven!
                              These glimpses of the golden shore.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               "I sometimes wish," said Emma, as Julia finished the hymn, "that I were a
                  Christian."
               "I would you were," replied Julia.
               "And I," added Arden, "wish we were altogether Christians."
               "But it seems so hard to be one," said Emma.
               "Hard to be a Christian!" exclaimed Julia. "Why, it is a pleasant
                  way, strewn with the sweetest and loveliest flowers."
               "And yet it is a way that looks very forbidding to me," replied Emma.
               "There is nothing so pleasant," said Julia, "if one but tries sincerely to be a
                  true follower of Christ."
               "If I am a Christian, I wish to be none but a true one. It looks to me, however,
                  very easy to be simply a pretender; but how very hard to be a genuine
                  Christian."
               "You must not discourage Mr. Arden," said Julia.
               "She will not," replied Arden. "Now that I have a faint glimmering of what
                  Christianity really is, I am trying to be one. I see mountains before me, but no
                  lions in the way; on the contrary, birds of paradise are in every tree, joy all
                  around, and glory when I reach their summits."
               "But what shall I do to be a Christian?" asked Emma.
               "Live with 'Squire Benson's family a week," exclaimed Arden.
               "Mr. Arden!" said Julia, reproachfully.
               "And what will they tell me to do?"
               "They will tell you," replied Arden, "a great many things, which, at first
                  thought, seem to have no particular reference to Christianity, yet they are the
                  real essence of religion; and then you will see in their family an example which
                  speaks louder than any words."
               "Must I spend my time in circulating tracts about the sin of dancing, wear a long
                  face, attend all the prayer meetings, and converse with my acquaintances on the
                  subject of religion?"
               "I perceive, by your questions, that you have imbibed a wrong idea of true piety;
                  and yet you may, at times, be obliged to perform most of these duties. But the
                  whole essence of religion is to love God supremely, and our neighbor as
                  ourself."
               "Yes," added Julia, "ever strive to love God and man, and you can never wander far
                  from the true path."
               "But how can I love God who seems so awful? My own dear papa is all in all to me.
                  I can't help loving him; but—"
               "But why do you love him?"
               "Because he loves me so tenderly and sincerely."
               "And does not God love you a thousand times more than your father?"
               "It may be so," replied Emma; "but I cannot realize it; for it is so dreadful to
                  think of his anger when I sin."
               "Yes," replied Julia, "angry with the sin, to be sure, but not with the
                  sinner."
               "How does your father feel when you do wrong?" asked Arden.
               "He never sees any fault in me."
               "But suppose he should discover you to be guilty of some grievous fault; how would
                  he feel?"
               "Very badly indeed."
               "Would he hate you for it?"
               "Oh no!" exclaimed Emma. "He would be greatly grieved, but he would never cease to
                  love me, I think."
               "Such is the love of your Heavenly Father," said Julia; "and I could not help
                  loving God were I to try."
               "If I could believe that He is as good and loving as you say, I should become a
                  Christian at once."
               
               "And I have come to think," added Arden, "that it is our great mission, as
                  Christians, to convince the world of this truth."
               "And oh what a delightful task!" said Julia.
               "But surely," exclaimed Emma, "the Bible does not read thus."
               "The Bible tells us that 'God is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.'"*
                  
               
               "But I have always heard that God was really full of anger."
               "And yet God says, 'Fury is not in me.'"†
                  
               
               "But the Bible speaks of the wrath of God."
               "And yet wrath in God would be entirely different. 'Anger resteth in
                  the bosom of fools,'‡
                   not in a being like God,
                  who is love."
               "But you forget that he sometimes casts us off."
               "The Lord will not cast us off forever; but though he cause grief,
                  yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. For he doth
                  not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men.'"§
                  
               
               "If some people should hear you talk," exclaimed Emma, "they would certainly
                  accuse you of being the friend of the wicked."
               "A friend of publicans and sinners," added Julia. "But the answer of
                  the great Physician, when accused of it, I think, should satisfy us all. 'They
                  that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. But go ye and learn
                  what that meaneth, I will have mercy and not sacrifice; for I am not come to call
                  the righteous, but ;sinners to repentance.'"|
                  
               
               "We must learn to love God, because he is lovable," said Arden, "and not simply
                  because he is our ruler. And even when we fear him, we must 'fear the Lord and his
                     goodness.'"*
                  
                     *Luke vi: 35.
                  
                     †Isa xxvii: 4.
                  
                  
                        §Lam iii: 31-33.
                     ‡Eccl. vii: 9.
                  
                     |Mat ix: 12-13
                  
               
               Mr. Arden was here called away to attend to the guests; but a short time
                  afterwards, he proceeded to the room where he had left 'Squire Benson.
               "I feel under great obligations to you, Mr. Arden," said Mr. Jacobs, "for the
                  introduction to Mr. and Mrs. Benson. I shall always remember this evening as one
                  of the most pleasant of my life; we have had a delightful conversation."
               "Come, Benjamin," exclaimed Arden, a few minutes after, "I want you for the rest
                  of the evening."
               "A case of life or death?" asked Benjamin, Jr., rising.
               "Exactly!" replied Arden.
               Arden conducted young Benson from room to room in search of Emma, whom he found
                  seated between Julia and Maud. As Julia glanced at her brother, she could not help
                  feeling a certain degree of pride. Even Maud could not but admire his easy
                  self-possession, while Emma, as she gazed at his frank, handsome, intelligent
                  face, did not even attempt to conceal her admiration. Dressed in the finest of
                  broadcloth, and with all the advantages of wealth, Emma felt that Arden was not
                  the superior of his friend.
               Maud felt very uncomfortable until Mrs. Lazelle entered the room, at which the
                  slave joined her ruler, and both left the apartment. Soon after the introduction
                  of young Benson to Miss Jacobs, Arden was again obliged to attend to some other
                  guests; but Benson and Emma gave themselves up to the pleasures of the evening,
                  and became the life of the younger portion of the company.
               Mr. Lazelle, being a candidate for the legislature, and thinking it a favorable
                  opportunity to advance his interests
                  
                     *Hosea iii: 5.
                  
                  ests, talked to all the men present, at least to all who would listen, about the
                  importance of having true men to represent the town in the next State
                  Assembly.
               "The fact is," he remarked, "these fanatics are ruining the country." [The reader
                  will understand the scenes of our story transpired before the Southern
                  Rebellion.]
               "What do you think of Massachusetts?" asked Mr. Bright.
               "Massachusetts is completely ruined," replied Mr. Lazelle.
               "Ruined!" exclaimed Mr. Bright; "why, we call it the most prosperous State in the
                  Union."
               "You do not understand politics," replied Mr. Lazelle, with a look of mild
                  reproof. "I mean ruined politically."
               "Perhaps I am ignorant of politics; but if all the States, by being ruined
                  politically, could be placed in the proud position of old Massachusetts, I say
                  political ruin would be one of the greatest of blessings,—a splendid success."
               Mr. Bright's speech was greeted with considerable laughter and applause; but Mr.
                  Lazelle, determining not to be vanquished, returned to the charge. "The fact is,"
                  said he, "these fanatics are all infidels. Religion and fanaticism cannot exist
                  long together, or, as the Bible says, 'How can two men sleep
                  together unless they are agreed?'"
               Now Mr. Lazelle, though wealthy, was ignorant, and puffed with vanity. He was a
                  church member of many years' standing, and, on almost all occasions, and
                  especially while talking politics, he thought himself called upon to strengthen
                  his views by what he called quotations from Scripture; and furthermore, it was a
                  hobby that no amount of ridicule could cause him to abandon. Therefore, when he
                  saw the gathering smiles that greeted his attempted quotation, he was not at all
                  abashed.
               "Where in the Bible do you find that language?" asked Mr. Bright.
               "You ought to read for yourself," replied Mr. Lazelle, "and especially Solomon's
                  declaration, 'Every tub must stand upon its own bottom.'"
               Another smile passed over the faces of the listeners; but Mr. Bright, without
                  referring to the misquotation, asked Mr. Lazelle what he thought of the practice
                  of buying and selling women and children.
               "I grant," replied Mr. Lazelle, "that the system of slavery is not yet perfect;
                  but then the Bible says that, if necessary, we must do evil that
                  good may come."
               "That is new Scripture to me," said young Benson.
               "You must read your Bible, then," replied Mr. Lazelle.
               "I have read it through many times; but I never happened to meet with that
                  particular passage."
               "You must read it more carefully then."
               "Well," said Mr. Jones, a small and usually very quiet man, "I can't stand slavery
                  any way, and furthermore, I would not if I could."
               "But, Mr. Jones, you must, for the good of the country."
               "I don't believe it does the country any good."
               "We must sink our narrow, selfish views," said Mr. Lazelle, "and consider the good
                  of the whole country; for, granting that slavery is wrong, we cannot rid ourselves
                  of it."
               "Cannot!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, waxing warm, "well then one thing we can do. We can
                  all bear our testimony against it; and, God helping, I shall cry aloud and spare
                  not."
               "If you could but realize the injury of agitation, you would never talk as you now
                  do," said Mr. Lazelle. "The Bible tells
                  us of two evils we should choose the least. We ought not to be wise
                  above what is written."
               "You seem to have a great deal of Scripture that is entirely new to me," said Mrs.
                  Bright.
               "The fact is," replied Mr. Lazelle, "I read to remember."
               "But is not slavery a curse to the white people of the South?" asked Mrs.
                  Bright.
               "A curse! not at all. The South is the garden of the world. There you find true
                  chivalry and honest men, and Paul says—An honest man is the noblest work of
                  God."
               "Indeed!" responded Mrs. Bright, "If the men, to whom you refer, are specimens of
                  honesty and true chivalry, the Lord deliver us. My husband could not speak his
                  sincere convictions among them without fear of a lynching, and as to their
                  honesty, they owe him debts which it has been impossible to collect. And now, Mr.
                  Lazelle, you have been quoting Scripture, and you will permit me to repeat a
                  couple of passages which you will find in the Bible. The first are
                  the words of our blessed Saviour. He said 'The spirit of the Lord is upon me,
                  because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to
                  heal the broken hearted, to preach deliverance to the captive, and recovering of
                  sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, and to preach the
                  acceptable year of the Lord.'*
                   You may uphold slavery as
                  much as you will, Mr. Lazelle, but I believe this language of Christ applies
                  emphatically to the 'poor,' the 'broken hearted' and 'bruised' of the South, and
                  that the year of deliverance for them will come sooner or later. The Psalmist says
                  of the Almighty, 'Verily he is a God who judgeth in the earth.'†
                   We are sometimes slow to
                  believe that God judgeth anywhere but in eternity. In all my reading, I cannot
                  find any particular judgment of God in the immortal world; but God does judge men
                  and nations in this world; and I feel sure he will not much longer
                  permit the abominable iniquities and wrongs of the South to continue."
               
                  *Luke iv: 18.
               
                  †Ps lviii: 11.
               "Why, you speak, as Solomon says, like one of the foolish women," responded Mr.
                  Lazelle. "I should like to know how anybody is going to overthrow the South! Their
                  institutions are as fixed as the everlasting mountains of Gibralter,
                  as saith the Psalmist."
               "God will find a way to do it," said Mrs. Bright.
               "I don't know," returned Mr, Lazelle. "The South is impregnable. In case of a war
                  with the North in defense of their institutions, they would be certain to conquer
                  us, and in that event the blessings of the South would spread over all our land,
                  extending from the mountains of the North to the sea shore of the South and West,
                  as the Prophet declares."
               "What Prophet?" asked young Benson.
               "Several of them, Job, in particular."
               "What chapter and verse?"
               "Come, Mr. Benson," said Emma, "you must not talk politics any longer." And
                  lowering her voice to a whisper, she added, "Were not some of Mr. Lazelle's
                  quotations from the Bible?"
               "Not a solitary one," replied Benson.
               "Are you quite sure?"
               "Yes, quite sure."
               "You said you had read the Bible through many times."
               "Yes, I have."
               "Does your father compel you to read it?"
               "Compel me? It is a joy to read it!"
               "But you are not a Christian?"
               
               "Yes he is," exclaimed Mrs. Bright, who was near enough to hear Emma's last
                  remark. "Yes he is," and one of the most really religious young men I ever
                  saw."
               "Not a church member!"
               "Yes," replied Mrs. Bright, "and an ornament to it."
               "Well," thought Emma, "religion is not so very gloomy after all. I think I like
                  Mr. Benson all the better for his Christian profession."
               A few minutes after, Benson and Emma were again surrounded by a large number of
                  young people, whom they soon transformed into merry makers.
               It was towards the small hours when the party broke up; but before retiring, Emma
                  had a long conversation with Arden about young Mr. Benson. She afterward conversed
                  with her father until he dropped asleep murmuring, "Yes, Emma, I'll attend to
                  it."
               The next morning, Mr. Jacobs called on 'Squire Benson, and engaged Ben, Jr. to
                  enter his wholesale warehouse as clerk, at a salary of one thousand dollars a
                  year; provided that, at the end of three months, both parties were satisfied.
                  Young Benson was also to visit home every Saturday, and return on Monday.
               'Squire Benson and his wife expressed great surprise at the liberal offer, while
                  the son turned crimson every time his sister looked at him. A deal of good advice
                  was given on the part of the parents, which the son promised to follow to the
                  letter, while Julia, who could hardly utter a word, arranged his things, and
                  packed his trunk in silence.
               About an hour before the train for New York was to leave, Emma called to bid Julia
                  good by.
               "I thought I must call and see for myself where you reside," said Emma.
               Julia expressed her gratification, and, arm in arm, they wandered round the little
                  yard, examining the flowers and shrubs. The hatter's shop adjoining, and Julia's
                  neat little room, were also duly inspected. Emma was delighted with all she saw,
                  and it was not until nearly time for the train to start, that she thought of
                  leaving.
               "And now," said Emma, "you must visit me soon, and stay as long as you can be
                  spared."
               "I shall certainly do so," replied Julia, "on condition that you repay the visit
                  with interest."
               "I shall come," said Emma; "but papa and I always go together. I am his
                  housekeeper, and have great responsibilities resting upon my little shoulders.
                  Should I leave papa alone, I know not whether the servants would turn him out of
                  doors, or allow him to remain."
               "He is very fortunate in having a daughter who understands so well the management
                  of the household."
               "Yes," replied Emma, smiling, "I sometimes think he is rather fortunate; but then
                  how much more ought I to be congratulated in the possession of such a father!"
               "But," said Julia, "I am almost afraid to have my brother reside in New York."
               "Don't distrust us. We shall not harm him."
               "Were I only sure," said Julia, "that he would always remain the same happy
                  brother of to-day, I should not mind it; but—"
               "But I'll make him remain so," broke in Emma. "Papa always does just as I tell
                  him; and I will see that he watches over your brother like a father; and, while he
                  is away from you, I will be his sister, and by and by I may persuade papa to give
                  up his business and come here to live; then you shall be my sister."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               RIDE, AND ADVENTURES IN "GREAT FOREST."
               AFTER young Benson's departure for New York, it was noticed that Arden acted in an
                  exceedingly neighborly manner towards Julia; for he doubtless felt it to be his
                  duty partially, at least, to make up for the great loss necessarily sustained by
                  the absence of her brother for nearly six days each week.
               It was certainly very kind in him to see that Julia did not suffer excessively on
                  account of the absence of a brother who had been almost her only playmate in
                  childhood and almost constant companion in later years; but in spite of this plain
                  duty devolving upon Arden, people began to whisper, and sometimes quite audibly,
                  that the matter was really growing not only serious, but that some of these
                  neighborly kindnesses were entirely superfluous. For example, it was not at all
                  necessary that any one beside the young lady's father and mother should accompany
                  her home from either sewing circles or conference meetings. And even when the
                  brother was at home on Sunday, Arden usually went home by the way of 'Squire
                  Benson's residence; but this, however, was probably owing to his desire to
                  converse with the returned brother.
               Be this as it may, Mrs. Lazelle and Maud Arden soon noticed the growing
                  intimacy.
               "Don't you think that upstart of a girl is getting too intimate with your
                  brother?" said Mrs. Lazelle.
               "Altogether!" replied Maud. "She is a sly thing, you may depend; but, if I can
                  prevent it, she shall be foiled in her plan this time."
               "Easy enough prevented," said Mrs. Lazelle.
               "Only tell me how."
               "And you will follow my advice?"
               "Most certainly, if it will thwart a match."
               "Then listen to me," said Mrs. Lazelle, "and we will form a plan that will prevent
                  them from even speaking with each other."
               A few days after the above conversation, as Julia was at work in her flower
                  garden, Mrs. Green, a well-known tattler, was passing by.
               "Good morning, Julia," said she; "I love to see any one fond of flowers; it shows
                  a taste for the beautiful which I admire, but have no time to indulge."
               "I will give you some rose bushes that will need but little attention," replied
                  Julia.
               "I am very much obliged to you, I am sure; but I will not rob you, and, besides,
                  Miss Arden offered me a world of flowers, yesterday. By the way, Maud and her
                  brother are very fond of flowers. You should have seen the flowers in their house
                  last winter, even. Let me see, that was when Mr. Arden's lady was there. She is a
                  very beautiful lady, and as fond of flowers as himself. I think I never saw a more
                  splendid woman. It really did one good to look at her; and yet, after all, beauty
                  is superficial—it reaches not the heart. However, I believe she is a very generous
                  woman. I was told that, while here, she gave forty or fifty dollars for religious
                  and charitable purposes. Mr. Arden and
                  his lady think the world of each other. You ought to have seen them together.
                  Beautiful couple! They seem to be made expressly for each other. Yesterday, when I
                  met Maud, 'Miss Arden,' said I, 'when is Miss Vincent coming again? I declare, I
                  long to see her sweet, pretty face.' 'Well, Mrs. Green,' said Maud, 'between you
                  and me, my brother Charles has given her a very pressing invitation to spend a
                  month with us, and she has consented to come.' Well, I must hurry home, or my
                  dinner will not be ready. But I can't help speaking of young lovers once in a
                  while, and especially where such an intimacy exists."
               "Julia," said her mother that evening, "you have seemed rather sober, to-day."
               "Have I!" asked Julia. "I was not aware of it; I was only thinking."
               The next Sabbath, at Church, Julia saw Arden pass up the broad aisle, accompanied
                  by his sister, and a very elegantly dressed lady.
               "So Miss Vincent has arrived," thought Julia; "and she is certainly what the world
                  calls a splendid woman."
               Day after day, accompanied by Maud and Miss Vincent, Arden could be seen driving a
                  span of beautiful horses through the village, and often into the country. For one
                  whole week all his neighborly duties to others were neglected.
               One morning, as Julia was busily at work, a carriage stopped in front of the
                  house, and the next moment Arden presented himself at the door.
               "Good morning, Miss Benson," said he, "I have come, earnestly hoping you would
                  grant my request to accompany Miss Vincent and myself into the country; and I
                  trust you will not disappoint us without very good reason. Maud had an engagement
                  with Mrs. Lazelle, this forenoon noon, and I congratulated myself upon having your
                  company to 'Great Forest;' besides, Miss Vincent is waiting for you, and will feel
                  disappointed if you do not come." 
               Julia finally accepted the invitation, adding, "and especially as Miss Vincent
                  expects me."
               "And so, Miss Benson, you don't go because I wish it."
               "Come! come! Mr. Arden, we are too good friends to dispute on such a subject."
               "It is impossible to quarrel with you; but will you not, to please me, just put on
                  that neat little straw hat I have seen you wear?"
               "Why, Mr. Arden, that is an old one I made last year."
               "Never mind; it is the prettiest one I ever saw," added Arden.
               Julia was soon in readiness, crowned with the pretty little hat, smiling and fresh
                  as a rose, and Arden conducted her to the carriage. Miss Vincent made her usual
                  stately bow, as Julia was handed into the vehicle, and a moment after, Arden
                  sprang upon the front seat, chirruped to his horses, who started off at a brisk
                  trot for the open country.
               After proceeding at a rapid rate for some half hour, during which little was said,
                  Arden opened the conversation in his usual free and easy manner.
               "I doubt not, Miss Benson, that you are a lover of the country."
               "Oh, yes, indeed! I am an admirer of nearly every thing God, our good Father, has
                  created."
               "Somebody has said that God made the country, and man the city," said Arden.
               "And yet I love many of the things fashioned by man."
               "Yes," replied Arden, "men are said to be made by the tailor."
               "If so, the tailors have made some of the noblest of works."
               
               "The poet tells us, that 'an honest man is the noblest work of God,'" said Arden.
                  "What is your opinion, Miss Vincent?"
               "Oh, very pretty! very prettily said, too."
               Arden looked somewhat blank at this reply; but recovering himself, he said, "I
                  have come to believe, within a few weeks, that men are better than most people
                  think."
               "I never met a man," added Julia, "in whom I could not discern some traces of
                  goodness."
               "You are probably a great admirer of the masculine gender," said Miss Vincent.
               "Yes, I admire their good qualities."
               "What do you think of their evil qualities?" asked Arden.
               "Oh, I try not to see or think of them."
               "I believe that is the reason why your father's family succeed so well as Sabbath
                  School teachers. Why, our school is a different institution, altogether, since the
                  members of your father's family began their labors among us."
               "You give us too much credit," replied Julia; "the change is really in the members
                  of the school."
               "And who changed the school?"
               "Our Heavenly Father."
               "But who were God's instruments?"
               "I see plainly that you are trying to shirk all responsibility for the improved
                  condition of the school, and therefore I would ask if there has been no change in
                  our Superintendent?"
               "Thank God, there has," replied Arden, warmly.
               "Then, do take a little credit to yourself."
               "I will," replied Arden, "if I am permitted to give due credit to God's
                  instruments in producing the change."
               "I think, Mr. Arden, we will drop this subject," said Julia, smiling, "and talk of
                  some other."
               "Well, then," said Arden, "we are just in the edge of a forest that, in
                  consequence of its extent, is called Great Forest, and in a little while we shall
                  be, at least, five miles from any house."
               "Why, dear me!" exclaimed Miss Vincent, "I am afraid that something dreadful will
                  happen to us."
               "And are you fearful also, Miss Benson?"
               "Not in the least; still you know we ought not to enjoy ourselves at the expense
                  of others; and if Miss Vincent desires, I think we had better return."
               "If you will promise not to remain long, I think we will proceed," said Miss
                  Vincent.
               A few minutes after, the horses were hitched in the centre of the great wood, and
                  the party started for a short ramble.
               "I always go prepared," said Arden, showing a large basket of refreshments, "and I
                  think we had better ascend that little hill about half a mile ahead, and partake
                  of these eatables. Then we will ride through the forest, and return home by
                  another route."
               "That will be an excellent plan," replied Julia. "The walk to the hill will give
                  us all an appetite, and a different road will add variety."
               "Are you quite sure there are no wild beasts in these woods?" asked Miss
                  Vincent.
               "Yes, quite sure," replied Arden, laughing.
               After gaining the hill, which proved to be nearly a mile distant from the road,
                  the party seated themselves upon a patch of clean grass, and Arden proceeded to
                  unload his basket.
               "Oh, dear me, I am almost tired to death," exclaimed Miss Vincent.
               "Never mind," said Julia; "rest yourself while I set the table. What have we here?
                  A bottle of milk, another of coffee, a
                  couple of pies, large loaf of cake, white bread, brown bread, cold tongue, some
                  tin plates, spoons, knives and forks, sugar, mugs, &c., &c. Well, Mr.
                  Arden, I think you must have intended to camp out."
               "Just as easy to bring enough, while one is about it!"
               "Why," exclaimed Miss Vincent, "I cannot see anything from this hill."
               "It is not quite as sightly as I could wish," replied Arden. "I wonder if we can
                  see the horses."
               "Yes," said Miss Vincent, "I can just discern their heads, and a few feet of the
                  road a little beyond them."
               "How would you like living in such a place as this?" asked Arden, as they
                  proceeded to eat their dinner.
               "I should die at once," replied Miss Vincent.
               "And I hardly think I should choose such a locality," added Julia, smiling.
               "But suppose you were obliged to live here?"
               "That is not a supposable case," answered Miss Vincent.
               "Suppose you were married, and your husband should move out West?"
               "Oh; I should make him remain here," replied the lady.
               "But were he too poor to stay, what would you do?"
               "Then I should employ my own money."
               "And if you should lose your property?"
               "Then I should die, certainly."
               "Oh, no you would not," exclaimed Arden. "You would fight it out like a true,
                  noble woman. You would become the helpmeet and comforter of your companion."
               "Well, Mr. Arden, your ideas were always tinctured with singularity, and we shall,
                  of course, put up with your peculiar notions."
               "And why, Miss Benson, do you prefer the village to the wilderness?" asked
                  Arden.
               "I love everybody so well, that I must have society. There is so much happiness in
                  benefiting others, that I could hardly bear the thought of being isolated."
               "I never knew that you were particularly fond of society," said Arden.
               "I am not so partial to what is generally termed society; but then I love to see
                  people. Our Church and Sabbath School would look lonely to me, were the audience
                  reduced to fifty."
               "But were you married, what would you do?"
               "Go to housekeeping," replied Julia, laughing.
               "Come, come, Miss Benson,, what should you do in those cases I mentioned to Miss
                  Vincent?"
               "I never thought, very seriously, of married life. I have always taken it for
                  granted, that I should always remain near my parents. But I could never marry a
                  man that I would not follow to the very ends of the earth."
               "Why, how dark it has grown all at once!" exclaimed Miss Vincent. "I'm fairly
                  frightened."
               "That is the way of the world," said Arden. "We are overcome with fear when a
                  cloud arises, whose kindness secures us from being fairly scorched with the
                  sun."
               "When I look at the heavens," added Julia, "I always think of God's love. However
                  dark above and around us, the clouds of sorrow, affliction or chastisement, I do
                  not forget that the sun of God's love shines just as brightly beyond those sombre
                  shades, and that when the clouds shall pass away, the sunshine will be all the
                  more delightful for the shade! I believe clouds are always sent for our good."
               "I know," said Arden, "that the shadow is an aid and the rain a blessing; but what
                  shall we say of the thunderbolt?"
               "It is a terror to some, and sometimes proves disastrous both to the evil and the good; but it is a
                  necessity and a blessing. How pure the atmosphere after the dark, threatening
                  thunder-storm!"
               "Very true!"
               "But, after all," said Julia, "the reality of punishment or affliction is always
                  forbidding, and as the clouds are growing very dark, I think we had better return
                  at once."
               "Do let us make haste," cried Miss Vincent.
               After replacing the remaining articles in the basket, the party proceeded to
                  retrace their steps to the road. As they advanced to the woods below, however, it
                  grew darker and darker at every step. Miss Vincent clung closer and closer to
                  Arden, as the darkness increased.
               After travelling for nearly a half hour, they suddenly came to a sheet of
                  water.
               "This is the same pond we saw before," said Arden.
               "Yes," replied Julia; "we are travelling in a circle."
               "I cannot go another step," exclaimed Miss Vincent, "and we are lost in the woods.
                  Oh, dear me! dear, dear me!"
               "Do not be alarmed," said Julia: "we will rest awhile before we proceed
                  further."
               "I am very sorry that I took you to such a place," added Arden, reproaching
                  himself.
               "Never mind, Mr. Arden," said Julia; "it was as much my fault as yours; for I must
                  say, that I rather liked the idea of coming. But we shall soon find our way out, I
                  have no doubt."
               At this moment, big drops of rain fell upon the leaves, and Arden led the way
                  beneath a large overhanging rock, that completely sheltered them from the storm,
                  which soon came pouring down in torrents.
               The rain was soon over; but, as the sun refused to shine, what direction to pursue
                  in order to reach the road, was a question that puzzled Arden, greatly.
               "All the brooks," remarked Julia, "must run across the road we are endeavoring to
                  find."
               "Ah, yes," added Arden, "I did not think of that; so all we have to do is to
                  follow a brook, and here is a pond to commence with."
               Even Miss Vincent became somewhat cheerful at the prospect. They had not proceeded
                  far, before the sound of a waterfall fell distinctly upon their ears.
               "I know where we are now," said Arden. "This is called Lovers' Fall, and is only a
                  quarter of a mile from the road."
               Julia lingered a moment to gaze on the beautiful little sheet of water, as it
                  leaped over a projecting rock, and dashed into a whirlpool some fifteen feet
                  below.
               Arden passed on a few steps with Miss Vincent, when hearing a shriek, he turned
                  and saw that Julia had disappeared over the bank of the river. Rushing back to the
                  fall, he called loudly; but no answer was heard.
               "Julia! Julia!" he cried frantically, "where are you?" But the only sound he heard
                  was the ceaseless roar of the water.
               "Oh dear," cried Miss Vincent; "is she drowned? What will become of
                     me?"
               "Julia! dear Julia!" repeated Arden, as he ran down the bank a few steps, to see
                  if any part of her dress could be seen floating upon the water; but not even her
                  hat was visible.
               While Arden was calling Julia's name coupled with the most endearing words, the
                  latter emerged from between two large rocks, and stood, pale as death, upon the
                  bank.
               Arden commenced addressing Julia in endearing terms; but there was something in
                  her manner that instantly checked him.
               
               The carriage was soon reached, and entering the vehicle, the whole party were soon
                  whirling along at a rapid speed. Although there was much to talk about, little was
                  said on the way home, if we except the exclamations from Miss Vincent.
               It was after sunset when the party arrived at Ardenville. After taking Miss
                  Vincent home, Arden called upon Julia, and requested a private interview.
               "There was something in your manner," said Arden, "after the accident, that I
                  could not explain, and, although I am fearful of your answer, I cannot longer
                  endure this suspense."
               "Mr. Arden," replied Julia, "when I slipped from the bank, and fell between the
                  rocks, my cries were unheard, because you were too near the noise of the fall, to
                  hear; but I could hear distinctly every word you uttered. And can you blame me if
                  I did feel differently towards you? I cannot forget the words you uttered; and
                  even were it possible for me, they cannot be forgotten by Miss Vincent, your own
                  guest."
               "Are the endearing words I uttered, so very distasteful?"
               "Mr. Arden, how can you?"
               "Must I, can I give you up?"
               "Spare me, Mr. Arden, and spare yourself. You ought not to talk so."
               "You are too good, I know," said Arden.
               "No, I am not too good," replied Julia. "When I look into my own heart, I
                  sometimes fear that I am all selfishness. I had thought, Mr. Arden, that we might
                  remain friends through life. I had begun to look upon you as a brother, and I
                  would, even now, be as a sister to you; but remember that no word of endearment
                  must ever be addressed to me, or we part forever."
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               REV. GEORGE WOODBURY.
               GEORGE WOODBURY, the minister, was a fine looking, talented preacher, of about
                  thirty years of age. He almost invariably preached a good, interesting, practical
                  sermon. His congregations were gradually increasing. Not, however, entirely owing
                  to his uncommonly fine intellect and pleasing address; but more especially to his
                  real love for the cause of our common Master, and the great interest he always
                  felt in what he had to say. Mr. Woodbury, however, was not only able to perform
                  the duties of the pulpit in an acceptable manner, but he also excelled in that
                  field where so many preachers fail. He knew how to conduct a conference meeting.
                  No previous pastor had ever succeeded in making these all-important gatherings
                  more interesting to all or more productive of good.
               It was some two weeks after the events recorded in the previous chapter, that
                  Arden, as usual, wended his way to the weekly conference meeting. "As I am to have
                  no wife," said he to himself, "I must wed more closely the Church and school."
               After the opening hymn, the pastor offered a short prayer. His remarks occupied
                  about ten minutes, the closing words of which were as follows:
               
               "Brethren, I have been importuned to lengthen my opening remarks at these
                  conferences. But by acceding to this request, I should almost feel like intruding
                  when offering a word of encouragement; and especially would this be detrimental to
                  these gatherings in lessening the number of speakers. If I occupy ten minutes, the
                  brethren feel satisfied with from three to five; and thus a brother, or more
                  especially a sister, who feels that she can only speak a single minute, does not
                  so much dread to rise, and give in a heartfelt testimony on the side of God. When
                  we are short of speakers, how much better to listen to two or three for the second
                  time! Should I occupy a half hour, each brother would think he must use up ten
                  minutes, and how many, yes how very many I have known, to spoil an excellent three
                  minutes exhortation, by five minutes of additional remarks. But we have no time
                  for further explanations. Brethren, we are met to pray, speak and sing of God's
                  great love, and the excellency of our faith. Brethren, what do you think of it?
                  What can you say of this great theme?"
               The first speaker was 'Squire Benson, who spoke in that loving way so
                  characteristic of the man. He was followed by Arden and others, after which a
                  young man rose and made a profession of faith in the Gospel, and asked the aid of
                  the Church to assist him in leading a truly Christian life.
               He had not quite seated himself before the pastor commenced:
               "Brethren, you know how very often I offer words of encouragement at the close of
                  your remarks, and as I noticed the great cross that has just been taken up by our
                  brother, as I perceived the dread he felt at the bare thought of rising in this
                  meeting, publicly to profess his wish to be known as a Christian, I partially
                  realize how greatly he needs the sympathy and aid of this Church. Brethren, let
                  that sympathy be manifested. Ever bear in mind that we are, in a measure at least,
                  the creatures of circumstances, and therefore in spite of the love for the Gospel
                  of the blessed Redeemer, felt by the many who have made public professions of
                  religion, not one in ten of them all, could have been induced to take such a step,
                  without the hope of almost constant manifestations of our interest in their
                  spiritual welfare. God grant that our conduct, in this respect, may not be the
                  means of retarding any in a Christian life. Shall we not hear from some other
                  brother or sister who has not before made a public profession of religion, and
                  thus afford us enlarged opportunities of manifesting our love for the
                  brethren?"
               The speaker had hardly ceased, when still another rose, and asked for the aid of
                  the Church in his endeavors to walk in the footsteps of the Saviour. And again the
                  pastor spoke words of encouragement, that banished the fears, and filled the heart
                  of the new convert with brighter hopes.
               Mr. Woodbury longed for the love of his flock. He felt that he needed all the
                  affection and esteem which the people of his parish were capable of extending to
                  him. "But," said he to himself, "I cannot expect such tokens of love on their
                  part, unless I first manifest my own heart-felt interest in their spiritual
                  prosperity."
               How many brothers and sisters, who would gladly speak of the love of God shed
                  abroad in their hearts, are chained to their seats through fear of a want of
                  sympathy in such an attempt to grow in grace as well as to build up the church!
                  Mr. Woodbury was fully aware of the existence of these chains; for he had felt
                  their power. He sought earnestly to break these galling fetters, and his success brought a degree of prosperity to the
                  Church, before unknown.
               After a few words from Mrs. Benson, Julia, and others, the meeting closed with a
                  hymn called "Rest."
               "Rest!" repeated Arden to himself, as he left the vestry; "that is precisely what
                  I need."
               "And have you not found it?" asked Julia.
               Arden looked up; "How can you address such an inquiry to me?" he replied, with a
                  bitterness of tone he did not attempt to conceal, "when you are fully aware that
                  you alone are able—"
               "How foolish!" said Julia, in a low, determined voice. "Mr. Arden, be a man!"
               "Is it possible," thought Arden, as he glanced at the young girl beside him, "that
                  I am six years older than this lady? Here is a girl, hardly eighteen years of age,
                  addressing me as though I were a school boy."
               At the next sewing circle, the subject of the Minister's single life came up for
                  consideration, and was commented upon very freely by nearly every member present.
                  The prominence of this subject was caused by the probable removal of the pastor
                  from his present boarding place.
               "He ought to get married," said one. "Yes," added a second; "it is a shame for a
                  preacher thirty years old to remain single."
               "Well, for my part," broke in Mrs. Bright, "I think it is just right as it is. The
                  truth is that he hasn't found his mate yet."
               "And never will," added one of the company, "unless he gets married."
               "There's no use talking in that manner," said Mrs. Bright, "I tell you there is a
                  certain woman made for him, and if people will let him alone, he will find her.
                  But the Bible tells us that 'every fool will be meddling;' and, of course, some
                  persons will; the result of which will be that he obtains the wrong woman. Life is
                  often worse than wasted by marrying the wrong person."
               "I suppose," remarked a maiden of forty, rather sarcastically, "that you have had
                  some experience."
               "I have," replied Mrs. Bright, promptly. "I had nobody to influence me, neither
                  did my husband, and the result was that I found the right man, and I think he
                  found the right woman. You can't tell me anything about these things; for I know
                  all about them. Why, if my husband had a wife that didn't let him alone, he
                  wouldn't take a moment's peace; and if I had any other man, I couldn't keep house.
                  Mr. Bright is as kind a husband as any one could ask for; but then he is a
                  positive man. You can't drive him one inch. Well, we are both set in our ways, and
                  are continually coming in collision with other people's ideas; but we never
                  dispute with each other."
               "We know who's dreadful good, don't we, mamma?" said little Ella Bright, looking
                  up into her mother's face.
               "Yes, darling, we know lots of good folks."
               "But papa's the goodest, 'aint he?"
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed 'Squire Benson. "And now, sis, when you grow up, don't
                  forget that he will be a good, old man, and he'll want you to love him more than
                  ever."
               "To return to the subject of our pastor," said Mrs. Bright, "although thoughtless
                  girls and boys need to be advised, Brother Woodbury is abundantly able to choose a
                  companion in his own way, and in his own time."
               "Bravo!" exclaimed Arden, entering the room at that moment.
               "If our pastor is to be interfered with in regard to his marrying or remaining
                  single," added Mrs. Bright, "he may board with us for the next ten years."
               
               "That's right," exclaimed Arden; "and now I think of it, I can just as well board
                  him as not. We have oceans of room, and he shall have everything to make him
                  comfortable. He is precisely the man I want to live with me," said he
                  enthusiastically. "Strange I never thought of it before!"
               "I am pleased," said 'Squire Benson, "to see you are so much interested in our
                  pastor. There is no class of men who need more sympathy than preachers of the
                  Gospel. They are found fault with continually; but seldom commended. We ought to
                  think of our pastor more, and I believe that a little more sympathy on our part
                  would double his usefulness."
               "Amen!" exclaimed Arden. "I shall commence at once, and board him for my share of
                  his salary."
               In the course of a week, the pastor was duly installed as a member of Arden's
                  household. Maud was much opposed to the arrangement, at first, but finally
                  consented to let her brother do as he wished, and a few days after declared the
                  minister was so little trouble, and so little in the way, that she hardly knew
                  they had a boarder.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               ARDEN, MISS VINCENT AND JULIA—AGAIN.
               THE next Sabbath after the conference meeting spoken of in the preceding chapter,
                  Arden proposed, at the Sabbath School, to furnish a new library of five hundred
                  volumes, and carpets for the aisles, &c., provided that at least one hundred
                  persons would contribute one-quarter of the required funds.
               "I wish to have the hundred contributors," said Arden, "to show that people are
                  interested; or rather to create an interest in the hearts of some who are not, and
                  deepen that of others who are."
               In a few days the books arrived, and a number of the members of the church and
                  school called at Arden's residence, to examine the volumes before they were put
                  into the hands of the scholars.
               "Father Brighthopes, Neighbor Jackwood, Old Battle Ground," said Julia, reading
                  the titles. "I hope to see them in the library."
               "What three volumes are these?" asked Mr. Lazelle, with his usual flourish.
               "Works of fiction," replied Arden.
               "Fiction!" exclaimed Mr. Lazelle. "Of course you will return them."
               
               "I think we had better retain them," replied Arden. Our people will read such
                  works, and we had thought to supply this demand with moral and instructive
                  stories. This will prevent many of our people from visiting our circulating
                  libraries in search of trash like Ned Buntline's novels."
               "You forget," said Mr. Lazelle, "that our churches and schools should educate the
                  people, aright. We must show the people that all important facts are interesting.
                  You know the Bible says, 'Truth is stranger than fiction.'"
               "But," replied Arden, "these works are written to convey to us great truths. A
                  little that is merely pleasing is thrown in to attract the many, otherwise a few
                  only would reap the benefit."
               "These works are all immoral," replied Mr. Lazelle; "for the Bible tells us that
                     whosoever writeth, or loveth to read a lie, shall have his
                  portion with the unbelievers."
               Arden turned away to hide the smile caused by Mr. Lazelle's attempted quotation,
                  while Julia presented a copy of the Pilgrim's Progress for inspection.
               "When I gaze upon such treasures," exclaimed Mr. Lazelle, "I always think of the
                  beautiful passage of Scripture, 'Truth is mighty and must
                  prevail.'"
               "I think we had better retain these books," said Mr. Woodbury, pointing to a
                  collection of Harriet Beecher Stowe's and Walter Aimwell's stories; "but that
                  volume of Moore's Lalla Rookh, I would throw out at once."
               "And yet there are great moral truths brought out in the work," replied Arden.
               "True," said Mr. Woodbury; "yet each one is like a beautiful, wild flower, so
                  surrounded with briars and thorns, that in plucking it, most children would
                  receive a wound, while you or I might obtain it without a scratch."
               "Or, in the language of Scripture," added Mr. Lazelle, "There is no
                  rose without its thorn."
               "But, Br. Benson," asked Mr. Woodbury, "are you really throwing out Milton's
                  Paradise Lost?"
               "I am," replied 'Squire Benson; "I had rather retain Lallah Rookh."
               "You surprise me," exclaimed the pastor. "What can be your objection?"
               "In Paradise Lost," replied 'Squire Benson, "there seems to be a want of respect
                  for heavenly things. Even the Almighty himself is treated with as much freedom as
                  a novel writer speaks of our churches. Perhaps even this freedom would be
                  unobjectionable, if treated by one holding different views; but be that as it may,
                  I cannot bear to think of the heaven towards which I am journeying, as ever being
                  desecrated with sin, misery and war."
               "But," said Mr. Woodbury, "the Bible speaks of war in heaven."
               "I grant you," replied 'Squire Benson, "that such events might have taken place in
                  one of the three Jewish heavens, but not in that third heaven spoken of by Paul in
                  Second Corinthians, xii: 2."
               "I remember," said the pastor, "that Paul speaks of being caught up to the third
                  heaven."
               "And," continued 'Squire Benson, "he heard words not lawful for man to utter."
               "But what difference does it make to any of us, as to whether war has existed in
                  heaven or not?"
               "If such an awful event has occurred once, what reason have we to believe that it
                  will not take place again?"
               "Enough!" replied Mr. Woodbury, "Milton must be thrown out."
               At this moment the sound of music issued from the adjoining apartment, and Arden
                  and Julia entered the room where Mrs.
                  Lazelle, Maud and others were seated, listening to Miss Vincent, who was executing
                  some of the most difficult portions of the last opera with an ease and ability
                  that called forth words of the highest admiration from all. Piece after piece was
                  played, when catching sight of Julia, Miss Vincent beckoned her to the piano.
               "I must hear you play and sing before I leave for home," exclaimed Miss Vincent,
                  with a warmth quite unusual to her. "I can easily distinguish your voice from all
                  the rest of the church choir; and as often as I hear you, I think how dearly I
                  should love to hear it alone."
               After a little more urging from Arden and others, Julia seated herself at the
                  instrument, and sang a few verses.
               "Sweet! beautiful!" said Miss Vincent. "And now, to please me, will you not sing
                  some especially favorite piece?"
               "Her favorites are all hymns," said Arden.
               "Then favor us with a hymn," added Miss Vincent.
               Julia hesitated a moment, and then, in the following hymn, poured forth a strain
                  of melody that but few of the company thought her capable of.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE CHRISTIAN'S PRAYER.
                           
                              O Thou, who art the maker of us all
                              That dwell within these coasts or other lands,
                              Engrave thy laws and precepts in my heart,
                              To bow a willing slave at thy commands.
                           
                           
                              Though, at thy mandate, worlds on worlds were formed,
                              That in their orbits circle year by year,
                              Thy kind, paternal care is over all,
                              And those who trust in Thee, have nought to fear.
                           
                           
                              To shun the loathsome, dreaded paths of sin,
                              Ah, whither shall I wander? whither stray?
                              How shall I gain that blessed life within?
                              Where lies the true, the straight and narrow way?
                           
                           
                              I look around on life's uncertain road,
                              By sore temptation hemmed on every side,
                              And as I gaze, I see no light but God:—
                              Be Thou my keeper, Thou my guardian guide.
                           
                           
                              My dear Redeemer!—I have none beside,—
                              I'll lean on Thee until life's storms are o'er,
                              Till in the haven of heaven my barque shall ride
                              On blissful waves that lave the golden shore.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "How sweet! how beautiful!" exclaimed Miss Vincent, laying her hand softly upon
                  Julia's head as she stood by her side.
               "That was heavenly," said Arden, wiping his eyes, as he thought of the prize that
                  could never be his.
               "Sometimes one worships the singer more than the song," remarked Miss Vincent. "To
                  which do you refer as heavenly?"
               "Both," replied Arden. "Pray forgive me, Miss Benson; but I could hardly help it.
                  Miss Vincent, you are always getting me into trouble. You are certainly a
                  witch."
               "Am I so very ugly looking?"
               "We have bright, beautiful witches, in these days," replied Arden.
               "I am surprised," whispered Mrs. Lazelle to Maud; "I am really shocked to see a
                  lady, like Miss Vincent, take so much notice of that upstart from the Benson
                  family."
               Mrs. Lazelle and Miss Vincent were both fashionable women. Outwardly they appeared
                  very similar; but their hearts were very unlike.
               
               Mrs. Lazelle aspired to lead that part of the fashionable world located in and
                  around Ardenville, and her ambition in this respect was fully gratified. Miss
                  Vincent had been thoroughly educated in all those branches which the world calls
                  fashionable acquirements, and was, as far as regards such education, an
                  accomplished lady.
               Mrs. Lazelle was a church member, and wished to be considered truly religious and
                  charitable; but, as she possessed neither piety nor charity, she acted the
                  hypocrite; and thus living a constant lie, she did not scruple to utter the most
                  glaring falsehoods when in no fear of detection.
               Miss Vincent, however, was not a member of any church, neither did she pretend to
                  the least piety. She was aware of her own selfishness, but never denied her
                  faults. But with all her failings, she was the very embodiment of truth.
               Falsehood and hypocrisy had rendered Mrs. Lazelle worse even than she thought
                  herself to be. On the contrary, truth had made Miss Vincent better than she
                  herself imagined.
               What a mighty power for good is truth! How potent for evil is falsehood!
               Solicited by the company, Miss Vincent and Julia alternately sung and played,
                  concluding with a beautiful piece which they sang together, after which Arden and
                  Miss Vincent accompanied Julia home.
               "Oh that I were as good as Julia Benson!" exclaimed Miss Vincent, as she and Arden
                  were returning.
               "That would be an impossibility for almost any other lady beside yourself," said
                  Arden.
               "Pray don't flatter me to-night," replied Miss Vincent. "By to-morrow all my good
                  wishes will have vanished like some bright little meteor; but to-night your fine
                  compliments ments afford me no pleasure. Why is it that I am so selfish and
                  wicked?"
               "Stop! stop!" exclaimed Arden, putting his hand over his companion's mouth. "I
                  know you better than you know yourself. Now really and truly, Miss Vincent, I know
                  of very few possessed of so good a heart. But why not throw aside some of the
                  restraints and follies of fashionable etiquette, and act as your own good,
                  generous, true heart dictates?"
               "To-morrow I shall return to New York," replied Miss Vincent, "and ere I reach
                  home, all these childish thoughts will have flown. But I am almost afraid of
                  myself to-night. Why, had I acted, as you suggest, precisely as my heart dictated,
                  I might have thrown my arms around Julia's neck, in an exceedingly unfashionable
                  way, and told her that I loved her very dearly."
               "Let the fashionable world go to Guinea!" exclaimed Arden, as they entered the
                  house. "Act like yourself. Miss Benson is absent," continued he, laughing; "but I
                  am here at your service. Only think, what an excellent opportunity for
                  practice!"
               "Preachers ought always to set an example," replied Miss Vincent, smiling, as she
                  laid aside her shawl and bonnet.
               "Then I will," exclaimed Arden, advancing to her side.
               "I perceive that my company is entirely unnecessary," said Maud, who instantly
                  arose from the seat, where, wholly unnoticed, she had been awaiting their
                  return.
               As his sister vanished through the door, new thoughts and new ideas entered the
                  mind of Arden.
               "Julia is undoubtedly awaiting the return of some absent one," said Arden to
                  himself. "Most certainly she can never be mine, and setting her aside, I should
                     greatly prefer Miss Vincent to any
                  other. Why not tell her all at once? Miss Vincent," added he aloud, "it has not
                  been wholly in mockery that I have addressed you with words of affection. We have
                  been warm friends from our childhood. I have much to say to you, and a great favor
                  to ask."
               During this speech Arden had led his companion to a sofa, where, seated so
                  comfortably, we will leave them until midnight. As the clock struck twelve, Arden
                  parted from his companion, and sought his own room, where bowing himself at his
                  evening altar, he poured forth a prayer of thankfulness that could only come from
                  a heart overflowing with happiness.
               As Miss Vincent entered the apartment where Maud and herself were to sleep, she
                  found the former had not yet retired. Maud looked up inquiringly as her guest
                  entered the room. Miss Vincent seated herself in Maud's lap, put her arms around
                  her neck, and commenced: "Maud, do you not recollect how many happy days your
                  brother and ourselves spent in childhood together. We were innocent and happy
                  then. While I am talking with you to-night, imagine that we are all three,
                  children again. I realize, to-night, more than ever, how much happiness there is
                  in loving and being loved. I mourn the loss of childhood's artlessness. I do not
                  ask to become just as innocent as I once was. I do not now ask you to
                  be all goodness; but I ask you, dear Maud, to keep in your heart a very warm spot
                  where some of your true friends can be treasured and loved as we loved in
                  childhood. I will not ask that I be reckoned among that. number, though—"
               "You shall always be treasured there, without asking," broke in Maud
                  earnestly.
               "Thank you a thousand times," said Miss Vincent. "And will you not also treasure
                  that brother, who, whatever faults he may have, has always been so kind?"
               "I will, I will," replied Maud. "I have not of late; but I certainly will in
                  future."
               "I knew you would. And now, Maud, will you not resist the pernicious influence of
                  Mrs. Lazelle. You can love her if you choose; but do not allow that bad woman to
                  smother all the goodness of your heart."
               "I will not, I will not," replied Maud.
               "Thank you," said Miss Vincent. "That is just like yourself. And now I have much
                  to say concerning your brother and myself; and while you listen, still imagine we
                  were children again."
               A long, long while elapsed ere the two retired to bed, where we will leave them to
                  the enjoyment of peaceful slumbers and pleasant dreams.
               The next morning, while partaking of a very late breakfast, Mr. Woodbury noticed
                  an under-current of happiness that he could not account for. Little was said by
                  either Arden, Maud or Miss Vincent; but the pastor was strongly impressed with the
                  idea, that the world was improving.
               At noon, as Mrs. Lazelle was riding by the railroad depot, she saw Arden and Miss
                  Vincent enter the New York train, leaving Maud and Julia standing upon the
                  platform, waving their handkerchiefs as the cars moved off.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               A WEDDING.
               ARDEN returned Saturday evening, and on Sabbath morning, as he entered the Sunday
                  School, Julia noticed that he had regained all his wonted cheerfulness.
               "You have enjoyed a pleasant visit, I trust," said Julia, at the close of the
                  session.
               "An exceedingly pleasant one," replied Arden. "Miss Vincent sends you her best
                  love, and Miss Jacobs, also. Your brother, Miss Jacobs, Miss Vincent and myself,
                  attended the great concert on Thursday evening, and enjoyed it very much. But we
                  have all been together most of the time. Your brother is a great favorite wherever
                  he goes. Though without the advantages of wealth, the position he occupies in Mr.
                  Jacobs' warehouse and family, precludes anything like being slighted, and his own
                  qualities accomplish the rest. As you are good at keeping a secret, I might as
                  well tell you that Miss Jacobs is very proud of him. You ought to see her face
                  light up when she hears his step, or happens to see him coming up the street. They
                  were certainly made for each other. When they are in company, he is always
                  surrounded by a troop of young folks. Miss Jacobs never seems at all jealous, but
                  the more he talks with others, the better pleased she appears to be, while her
                  countenance, to me, seems to say, 'You are all welcome to derive as much pleasure
                  from his society as you possibly can; but he belongs to me.' Mr. Jacobs thinks
                  there never existed another like him; and it is quite a treat to see how much they
                  enjoy talking with each other. The first evening I spent at Mr. Jacobs', I thought
                  we should all kill ourselves laughing at your brother's descriptions and stories.
                  Mr. Jacobs is very fond of a good story. But I also have another secret to tell
                  you, that concerns Miss Vincent and myself. Of course you will keep it quiet a few
                  days."
               "Yes," said Julia, in a low voice; "I will say nothing to any one."
               "Well then, there is to be a wedding in a few days, in which I am deeply
                  interested. Of course you know who the lady is."
               "Yes," replied Julia, in a trembling voice; "I think I do."
               "Of course you do; and Miss Vincent has chosen my sister for first bridesmaid, and
                  your brother and Miss Jacobs for second groomsman and bridesmaid. This is just
                  what I should have done had she left it entirely with me. The wedding takes place
                  in about a fortnight, and Miss Vincent says that you must be there without
                  fail."
               
               At length the day for the wedding came, and Maud and Julia started for the great
                  metropolis. Maud had called upon Julia nearly every day during the week, and
                  evinced quite a liking for the whole family. What had wrought this change, was a
                  mystery to 'Squire Benson's household, and yet that the sudden friendship shown was genuine, they did not for a moment
                  doubt, It was noticed also that Mrs. Lazelle had lost all influence over Maud.
                  "She will make a noble woman after all," said Julia to herself. "She is naturally
                  like her brother; but has been spoiled by Mrs. Lazelle. I wonder if anything can
                  be done for Mrs. Lazelle herself. We ought not to labor for the good alone, but
                  for the stray sheep: for Jesus came not to call the righteous but sinners to
                  repentance."
               When they reached New York, Maud and Julia went directly to Mr. Jacobs', and from
                  thence to the place appointed for the approaching nuptials.
               As Julia was seated near the room where Miss Vincent was, the door was opened, and
                  she saw Arden standing near the bride, and talking quite earnestly, while Miss
                  Vincent, with a smile, seemed to assent to everything he said. Soon after, Arden
                  stepped to where Julia was seated, and offering his arm, told her that his sister
                  wished to see her very much. They passed up stairs to the room where Maud was, and
                  found her lying upon a lounge with a wet cloth upon her forehead.
               "It is doubly fortunate," said Maud, "that you are here, for you will have to
                  occupy my place as bridesmaid."
               A long talk here ensued, during which Emma came in and joined with the others in
                  urging Julia to put on the dress intended for Maud; and soon after, young Benson
                  came, and telling Julia that, as it was the wish of both bride and bridegroom, she
                  ought not to refuse, the whole matter was settled, and Julia was dressed for first
                  bridesmaid.
               "I declare," exclaimed Maud, from the lounge, "you look as though it was intended
                  for you."
               "How beautiful!" added Emma. "I thought your brother and I would receive all the
                  commendations, but, after all, we shall be thrown in the shade. You look a little
                  pale to-night, but all the better for it."
               Arden came up with Benson to escort the ladies to the room below.
               "Don't we look splendidly?" exclaimed Benson, with a comical
                  expression, as they passed down stairs.
               "Did you tell me that Mr. Grafton was to be first groomsman?" asked Julia.
               "He is a man whom I esteem very highly," replied Arden, "and I think you will make
                  a fine couple."
               Mr. Grafton was a man of about thirty-five years of age, neither handsome nor
                  ugly, but with a kindly look that made him appear quite attractive. He was
                  evidently a man thoroughly acquainted with the world.
               As the bridal party passed to the next room, where the minister was in waiting,
                  there was a mist before Julia's eyes, and more than once she was conscious of
                  being supported by Mr. Grafton. As the clergyman performed the marriage ceremony,
                  Julia saw very indistinctly; but, while prayer was being offered, she recovered
                  herself, and at its close, turned to look at the newly married couple, when, to
                  her surprise, she beheld Mr. Grafton beside the bride, while Arden occupied the
                  groomsman's place.
               "Don't faint," whispered Maud, who was standing near.
               After Mr. Grafton and his bride had received the congratulations of their friends,
                  Arden conducted Julia to the room where Benson, Emma and Maud were gathered.
               "This is the best joke of the season," whispered Benson, though his eyes were
                  rather moist.
               "What does it all mean?" asked Julia.
               "It means," replied Arden, "that Mr. Grafton has married Miss Vincent, and, as I
                  told you, I was deeply interested in the wedding."
               
               "And this misunderstanding is nearly cleared up," added Emma.
               "You must forgive me," said Maud; "for I am going to try and be very good in
                  future."
               "Yes;" added Emma, "you must forgive us all for the deception."
               "And was it intended that I should act as first bridesmaid?" asked Julia.
               "That was the intention, provided you would act," replied Maud.
               "Well, I don't understand it at all," exclaimed Julia.
               "Never mind, Miss Benson," said the bride, appearing at the door. "Favor me with
                  your company now, and Mr. Arden will explain the mystery in good time."
               "And so this is the lady whose praises have fallen from the lips of my bride ever
                  since I came from Europe to be married," remarked Mr. Grafton, as he saluted Julia
                  again.
               The danger of unduly increasing the magnitude of this story, compels the omission
                  of any further description of the pleasurable incidents of the evening. Suffice it
                  to say, that the occasion proved an exceedingly happy one to all, and especially
                  to our friends from Ardenville.
               It was, of course, quite late when Arden, Maud and Julia, accompanied Mr. Jacobs,
                  Emma and Benson, to the residence of the wholesale merchant, where they were to
                  pass the night.
               "Miss Benson," said Arden, as preparations were being made for retiring, "will you
                  allow me to explain more fully my connection with this mystery?"
               Julia hesitated, but finally suffered Maud and Emma to retire without her.
               "I will preface my remarks," said Arden, "by saying, that, although I was ignorant
                  of the fact, Miss Vincent was engaged to Mr. Grafton before his departure for
                  Europe two years ago."
               "And who conceived the idea of enveloping me in all this mystery?" asked
                  Julia.
               "Well," replied Arden, "we all admired the plan; but it was Miss Vincent's idea of
                  connecting a little romance with her own marriage."
               "I thought as much," said Julia. "And in spite of all the crust of fashionable
                  life, I am fully persuaded that she is one of the best of women."
               "She is," replied Arden; "but I never knew until the night before she left
                  Ardenville, how truly good she really is. That night, after returning home with
                  her, a sudden thought entered my mind, and almost before I was aware of what I was
                  doing, I commenced speaking in regard to the relations existing between you and
                  me. After describing your refusal of my hand, she smiled, saying, 'And so Miss
                  Benson really thought you were engaged to me!' And now, Julia, before I proceed
                  further, tell me that this is true."
               "It is," replied Julia.
               But, reader, as this is not intended for a love story, we omit a very interesting
                  love scene.
               The next day, as 'Squire Benson and his wife were seated, talking of Arden's
                  marriage, and the probable influence it would have upon the church and school, a
                  carriage stopped at the door, and the next moment Arden and Julia entered the
                  room.
               "Is your wife with you?" asked 'Squire Benson, after the first salutations were
                  over.
               "I have no wife," replied Arden; "but have come to ask one of you."
               'Squire Benson looked bewildered, rubbed his eyes to make sure that he was not dreaming; his wife gazed
                  in doubt as to her own senses, while Arden and Julia joined hands before them,
                  saying, "All we ask is your blessing."
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               ANOTHER GREAT WEDDING.
               THERE was to be a great wedding in Ardenville. Arden and Julia, accompanied most
                  of the time by Maud, were constantly preparing for the day that was to witness
                  their nuptials.
               The little grove in the rear of Arden's residence, was newly decorated; swings
                  were put up, croquet grounds prepared, long tables were erected, and other
                     et cetera too numerous too enumerate, while
                  the dwelling house and other buildings were put in complete order for the joyous
                  occasion.
               Julia had, at first, preferred a more quiet marriage; but finding that Arden was
                  anxious for a public ceremony, she entered into his plans with an ardor that
                  almost convinced him that he was the least interested in the display.
               "I hardly know how to arrange and execute this affair," remarked Arden at the
                  commencement of the preparations.
               "If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God," replied 'Squire Benson, with a
                  smile; "and perhaps it might be well for you to examine the Bible for
                  information."
               
               Arden went home, and laid awake half the night, revolving in his mind a plan to
                  carry out a resolution formed upon the strength of 'Squire Benson's reply.
               We will not weary the reader by any long description of the plan; but endeavor to
                  give, instead, an account of the events of the wedding day itself.
               On that day, the sun, as if smiling upon the efforts of those interested in the
                  occasion, rose bright and clear. The weather was perhaps too warm in the sunshine,
                  but very comfortable in the shade.
               Early in the forenoon, the members of the Sabbath School met at the vestry, and
                  marched in procession into the church above, and took seats in the front pews,
                  while the rest of the available room was being rapidly taken up. About half an
                  hour after, the bride and bridegroom appeared. As they passed up the aisle, Arden
                  was presented with a bouquet, while Julia was crowned with a wreath of pure white
                  roses, by her class. Immediately preceding the bridal couple, were six little
                  girls dressed in white, and beside each one, a boy about the same age, dressed in
                  black with the exception of white vests. A general murmur of applause greeted the
                  bridal cortege as it passed through the aisle, and formed in front of the
                  pulpit.
               The marriage rite was performed, and the pastor, speaking to the audience as well
                  as the couple before him; briefly narrated some of their labors in the cause of
                  Christ. "Let us not forget," he added, "that in becoming rich, the blessings of
                  the gospel are necessary to our happiness; in filling offices of great honor among
                  men, let us still remember the homage due our Master, and, in assuming the
                  marriage relation, we should bear in mind the relations that exist between
                  ourselves and Christianity. And my brother and sister, now that you are each
                  joined in marriage with one who can afford you aid and sympathy, let your labors
                  for the truth as it is in Jesus, be more abundant than ever before." An earnest
                  prayer was offered, and the congregation was dismissed.
               The school again formed, and marched to Arden's grove, where they soon began to
                  enjoy themselves in strolling through the grounds, swinging, playing and singing.
                  Soon after, the other guests began to arrive. All the poor, the lame, and even one
                  blind man came, and, with the rest, began to be merry. The rich were not
                  forgotten. "They are all included in the Bible account of the model feast," said
                  Arden; "for many of them, though rich in this world's goods, are poor in faith and
                  righteousness, and they all need a sermon like this to teach them the right
                  way."
               Being one of the richest men in Ardenville, Arden had resolved to spare no pains
                  or expense in making the day joyous to all, and a day to be remembered and
                  referred to for years to come.
               Mr. Jacobs and Emma came early to join in the general jubilee. Mr. Jacobs spoke in
                  warm terms of the arrangements; but when the people began to assemble, his
                  enthusiasm knew no bounds. He kissed all the little girls, played with the little
                  boys, and declared that he was growing so young, that he must get up a wedding
                  himself, just for the fun of the thing. "A regular Bible feast!" he added, with
                  rapture, as he saw the crowds of poor people arrive. "Well, well, there is such a
                  thing as a Christian, after all. Emma, when you are married, I'm going to give all
                  the poor people a good dinner."
               Young Benson was surrounded, half the time, by some of his own Sabbath School
                  class, who, being small boys, asked if he were going to marry the good lady by his
                  side—meaning Emma, who, with Benson, was constantly creating some pleasure for the young folks. Emma
                  turned very red, while Benson replied that he was too young to think of marrying
                  yet; but would invite them all when he did.
               This utterly failed to satisfy the boys, who asked if he were not as old as his
                  sister? to which Benson replied, that he was not as old as Mr. Arden, and that
                  little boys didn't understand such things. But this reply was as unsatisfactory as
                  the first, and the whole class soon after collected an immense bouquet, and
                  presented it to Emma, asking her if she would come and teach one of the classes.
                  Emma kissed all the class, telling them that she would try to persuade her papa to
                  come and live in Ardenville, when she would try to be good like all their
                  teachers.
               The boys said that they thought she was very good already; but Emma told them she
                  was not a Christian; to which one of the little boys replied that for his part he
                  liked good folks better than he did Christians.
               Benson laughed till the tears came, at this speech—a speech that he repeated for
                  years after, to convey a great moral lesson to the teachers of Sabbath
                  Schools.
               Julia tenderly kissed the members of her class, and all the other little girls and
                  boys as they came near her. A great many bouquets, &c., were presented, by the
                  teachers and scholars, to Julia and Arden, while the older people were profuse in
                  their praises. 'Squire Benson and his wife were quietly enjoying themselves, and
                  assisting about the arrangements, while different members of the school paid their
                  respects to the older couple whom they all loved.
               Mr. Grafton and lady were among the earliest arrivals. As Mrs. Bright and her
                  friend Mrs. Jones caught sight of the approaching figure of Mrs. Grafton,
                  (formerly Miss Vincent,) and beheld the costly jewels sparkling upon her person,
                  presents from her husband, they expected simply a cold, distant recognition; but
                  to their surprise, she introduced her husband, who, as soon as the usual
                  compliments were passed, caught up little Ella Bright, and insisted upon carrying
                  her on his shoulder, while his wife looked on, her countenance meantime beaming
                  with happiness.
               Mr. Lazelle came, prepared to enjoy the occasion; but as he found no listeners to
                  his political harangues, even when quoting what he intended for Scripture, he soon
                  voted the whole thing a silly affair, alike detrimental to Christianity and the
                  welfare of the country.
               Mrs. Lazelle was looking on with a somewhat doubtful expression of countenance,
                  hardly knowing whether to commend the display or condemn the promiscuous
                  assemblage.
               Miss Comstock, president of the sewing circle, was also commending all she
                  saw.
               But we will not attempt a further description of the guests in detail; for, as
                  Mrs. Bright observed, "everybody and all the rest of mankind were there."
               About noon the great tables in the grove were loaded with provision, of which,
                  after listening to a short prayer from the pastor, they all partook.
               After dinner, the pastor addressed the assembly, commending to the wealthy the
                  example set by the newly married couple, and exhorting the poor, who could not
                  afford the expense, to imitate the generosity by words and feelings of love.
                  "For," he added, "if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to
                  that a man hath, and not according to what he hath not."
               'Squire Benson was called upon, and spoke substantially as follows:—
               "Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh, and our pastor has spoken from a heart overflowing
                  with love. None of us wonder at his words to-day; but I have noticed on many
                  former occasions, when there seemed to be literally nothing to praise, he would
                  search out and speak of some virtue before undiscovered. I have often spoken of
                  the rule which I commend to all, 'love everybody, and everybody will
                  love you;' and our pastor seems to be a living example of this rule. We, ought
                  never to expect a harvest of love, unless we plant the seeds of love. God does not
                  claim our affection simply because he is our ruler, but he asks and expects us to
                  love him because of his goodness toward us; and any one, realizing how much God
                  loves him, can no more help loving God than water can help running down hill. Now
                  I want you all to realize how much our pastor loves us, and sympathizes with us
                  all, that we may all love him, and sympathize with him in his labors among us.
               Again, we are apt to judge others by ourselves, or in other words, we are
                  constantly discovering in others, things peculiar to ourselves. If we look through
                  green spectacles, all things are tinged with green. If our vision is aided by good
                  clear glasses, we behold brighter and more beautiful landscapes. Even gnarled and
                  decayed trees look anything but unlovely to the true lover of nature. To
                  illustrate, I will relate an incident which I would like to have all my little
                  friends remember.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           WHAT THE LITTLE BROTHERS SAW.
                           There were two little brothers whose father had gone on a journey, but
                              was expected home on a certain morning; and his wife called her two
                              sons to be ready to meet him. One little boy arose very ill-natured,
                              and in spite of all the mother's coaxing, he snarled and fretted and
                              refused to have his face washed or his hair combed; but his little
                              brother, all smiles and pleasantness, was washed and dressed, and was
                              full of cheerfulness and happiness.
                           The father came home as expected, and brought a number of trunks and
                              boxes which the children were very anxious to examine. Now in one of
                              these boxes was fixed a large looking-glass, put there to keep it from
                              breaking. 'Now,' said the father, opening the box containing the
                              mirror, 'you, my boys, may look in one at a time.' The good-natured
                              boy, with his loving face lit up with pleasure, looked in, and
                              exclaimed, 'Why! what a pretty little boy! He looks so good, I know I
                              shall like him first rate.' 'Get out, and let me look!'
                              cried the ill-natured boy, pushing his little brother aside; and with
                              his snarling face and frowzy hair, he glanced into the
                              box. One look was sufficient, and away he ran almost frightened out of
                              his wits, crying out, 'Oh! what a lie! 'Taint a boy, neither; it's a
                              great ugly bear. Shut up the box, father, or he will eat us all
                              up.'
                        
                     
                  
               
               My friends, whenever you imagine that you see bears around you in the form of men,
                  remember that, in nearly every instance, you are the real beast.
               Perhaps you expect me to speak of the newly married couple; but as no parent can
                  speak of his own children without prejudice, I will close by saying that to-day we
                  behold an example of the passage of Scripture, 'The rich and the poor meet
                  together; the Lord is the maker of them all.'"
               As 'Squire Benson sat down amid a general murmur of approbation, little Ella
                  Bright spoke the following piece, while standing upon a table.
               
                  
                     Little boys, be kind and good;
                     Little girls, be gooder:
                     All you children then will be
                     Sweet as lumps of soogar.
                  
                  
                  
                     Great, big boys, be good and true;
                     Great, big girls, be truer:
                     People then would all, in peace,
                     Dwell where rogues are fewer.
                  
                  
                     Aged men, love all the world;
                     Women all love more:
                     Then there'll be of Christian souls,
                     More'n there was before.
                  
                  
                     All young men, get married fast;
                     All young ladies, faster:
                     No young man shall have a wife,
                     If he does not ask her.
                  
               
               A perfect storm of applause greeted the little speaker as she finished.
               "Mamma!" exclaimed little Ella, "take me right down, quick in a minute; the
                  folkses bes all hollerin at me."
               Mrs. Bright took her little girl in her arms, telling her that the people were all
                  very glad to hear her, and were so glad they couldn't help shouting.
               "Then, mamma, I'll get right straight up there again."
               "I guess we won't now, my little darling," replied the mother; "but we'll go out
                  there and see what all those boys and girls are looking at."
               To illustrate 'Squire Benson's last story, the boys had procured a little box in
                  which they had placed a small mirror, and were carrying it around for everybody to
                  look at.
               This little incident furnished food for amusement for an hour or more; while on
                  subsequent occasions, a similar box and mirror were exhibited, to the great
                  delight of the young folks.
               Just before sunset, a bountiful supper was served up, and partaken of by all,
                  after which those who would ride, were carried home in carriages, and the
                  festivities of the day were ended.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               EMMA'S WORLDLY INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUNG BENSON, AND SPIRITUAL
                  INSTRUCTIONS TO MR GRAFTON.
               ALTHOUGH the summer was far advanced, Arden and his bride were to start next
                  morning for the White Mountains, while Maud was to go to New York in company with
                  Mr. Grafton and lady, who, with Mr. Jacobs and Emma, remained the night after the
                  marriage with Arden.
               Just before the morning train was to leave for New York, Young Benson appeared to
                  escort Mr. Jacobs and Emma to the depot; but the latter informed him that she
                  should remain until next morning, and return with Maud, Mr. Grafton and lady.
               "Now, Mr. Benson," said Emma, "you must listen to all I have to say, and mind that
                  you don't forget a word. When you arrive at home, you had better buy the morning
                  paper, as the servants have probably lost ours, now that I am not there to see to
                  it. Then, to-night, you must see that papa's dressing gown and slippers are ready
                  for him to put on, when he returns from the office. After that, yon will look at
                  his room, to see that everything is in order, and be sure that a clean, nicely
                  done up shirt is hung over a chair at the foot of the bed, ready for him to put on
                  in the morning. You will find plenty of collars in the little pasteboard box on
                  the bureau, and, if I should not return, you will, of course, help him put one on.
                  And, as you are a great favorite with the servants, as well as with the rest of
                  us, you had better coax them to see that all they do for papa is performed extra
                  nice; for you know that, at the very best, it will not seem to him like my way of
                  doing things. Now mind that you do not forget, nor let papa lose his cane or
                  spectacles on the way home."
               "If all daughters were as kind to their parents," exclaimed Benson, "what a world
                  full of good women we should have!"
               "Oh, I'm not good at all," replied Emma. "I attend to such matters simply because
                  it has become second nature for me to do so."
               "Precisely!" exclaimed Benson. "You have made a very clear statement. It has
                  become second nature for you to be good to your father. I wish all girls had that
                  second nature."
               It was, perhaps, five minutes later, that Julia entered the room; but owing to the
                  close proximity of Benson's head to that of Emma, she was about to leave, when
                  Emma, seeing a third person, ran out of the room.
               "And so you have come to bid me good-by," said Benson. "Well, good-by, Julia. I
                  hope you and Charles will enjoy a pleasant wedding tour."
               "Thank you, Benjamin," replied Julia, "and I hope you will yet enjoy one as
                  pleasant as I anticipate. But in bidding you good-by, allow me to remind you that
                  Emma has a father. Don't forget it."
               "Yes," murmured Benson, partly to himself, "she has a father;" and in that moment,
                  a thousand thoughts, never dreamed of before, entered his mind.
               
               "Whither so fast?" exclaimed Mr. Grafton, smiling, as he recovered an erect
                  position after being nearly overturned by Emma, as she ran out of the room where
                  Benson and Julia were.
               "Excuse my rudeness," said Emma. "I was not aware of any one being near."
               "I thought I heard the voice of 'Squire Benson's son. Surely you were not running
                  away from him."
               "Partly," replied Emma, changing color.
               "Ah! I see plainly how matters stand," said Mr. Grafton, laughing. "It gives me
                  great pleasure to congratulate you."
               "I cannot possibly imagine what you mean," replied Emma.
               "Don't mind what I say," said Mr. Grafton. "But sit down, and tell me all about
                  this wonderful Benson family. I have heard so much of them from my wife, that my
                  curiosity is greatly excited. But perhaps I had better, tell you why I take so
                  great an interest in them all. When Miss Vincent promised, two years ago, to
                  become my wife, I was rich; but I was always a poor financier, and when I returned
                  from Europe to claim my bride, I found my agent flown with all my available funds.
                  About all I had left was a house and lot in this village, bought as a summer
                  residence. I at once released Miss Vincent from her engagement, when she instantly
                  stopped my mouth with——well, the engagement was made more binding than ever. I
                  left Miss Vincent a good, kind-hearted, fashionable woman; I returned to find one
                  of the best and loveliest beings the world ever saw. And all on account of this
                  wonderful Benson family. Now, Miss Jacobs, do tell me all about them."
               "Well then," replied Emma, "'Squire Benson and his wife are real Christians, with
                  hearts overflowing with love for everybody,—kind of 'beloved disciples.' The
                  family motto seems to be, 'love everybody, and everybody will love you.' That rule
                  makes each member of the family a general favorite. Julia is an angel, and her
                  brother is—is—"
               "Don't hesitate. Out with the truth!"
               "The finest young man I ever saw," continued Emma.
               "Well, that is a description in a small compass; but what peculiar traits has
                  young Benson?"
               "Well," replied Emma, "he enjoys himself vastly. I do not mean boisterously; but
                  he seems to take what we term solid comfort. Still he is full of fun, but rather
                  queer regarding some things. When he came to New York, I, of course, thought he
                  would like to attend all the places of amusement; but he makes it a rule to attend
                  not oftener than once a week, with the exception of a lecture or some very
                  instructive performance. Papa likes all his queer notions, and is continually
                  advising him to adhere to them through life; and I think he is all the happier for
                  his odd ways. It makes no difference where he is; he is always at home, and always
                  wears that same contented, happy expression that chases away sadness from all his
                  associates. You ought to hear him talking with papa, and listen to the queer,
                  laughable speeches he makes. Then the stories he relates, at which you should see
                  papa lean back in his easy chair and laugh. He is always kind and respectful, yet
                  never flatters or fawns."
               "What! never flatters you!"
               "He never complimented me but once, and that was in saying that he wished all
                  daughters were kind to their parents, like me."
               "What! never praises your beauty!"
               "He never seems to think of any one's looks; but then he is always so kind and obliging, and seems so
                  intent upon saying or doing something to make people happy, that it tells better
                  than all the compliments I ever heard; and that is partly, though not the whole
                  cause of his being, in spite of his poverty, a great favorite wherever he
                  goes."
               "Why, Miss Jacobs, your face lights up with enthusiasm, and you grow eloquent in
                  speaking of him. But what peculiar traits has 'Squire Benson?"
               "Only one very peculiar," replied Emma, smiling, "and that is in
                  being a Christian."
               "Must be a very singular individual."
               "Very!" replied Emma, still smiling.
               "I should like to ask him a few questions," said Mr. Grafton, partly to
                  himself.
               "Concerning religion?"
               "Yes," replied Mr. Grafton. "I received some instructions from a Christian mother;
                  but she died when I was quite young. Since then I have been beaten about like a
                  ship without a rudder. I have listened to, and seen so many apparent Christian
                  absurdities, that my faith is less than a grain of mustard seed. How can the Bible
                  be true, filled, as it is, with contradictions?"
               "Why, Mr. Grafton!"
               "I did not mean to shake your faith, Miss Jacobs; for when I think of the future,
                  it is so uncertain,—so dark by the light of my unbelief, that I often feel that
                  life itself is a burden. Excuse me; but I read in the Bible that 'whatsoever thy
                  hand findeth to do, do it with thy might: for there is no work, nor device, nor
                  knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave whither thou goest.'*
                  "
               "And pray, Mr. Grafton, what of it?"
               "Why, if there is, no knowledge, &c., in the grave, there can be no future
               life."
               
                  *Eccl. ix: 10.
               "What, no existence in heaven, because there is no life in the grave?
                  Why, Mr. Grafton, we all know that the grave contains nothing but poor, clay huts
                  that are incapable of either work, device, knowledge or wisdom; but when our souls
                  are clothed upon with our house from above,—when we enter the celestial world, we
                  shall possess knowledge and wisdom, and there will be both work and device, that
                  shall employ our glorified spirit throughout a blessed eternity. If you have any
                  more infidel ideas to advance, do pray state one that contains some little
                  semblance of reason."
               "I must own that my idea was an exceedingly foolish one. So the passage simply
                  teaches that there is no repentance after death."
               "No repentance in the grave, of course, because no knowledge,
                  &c.; but there may be much repentance beyond the grave, in the
                  resurrection world. But you will please notice, this scripture says nothing about
                  'repentance;' and it simply shows that we should be diligent here; for when we
                  die, our earthly work is finished."
               "But, Miss Jacobs, Christians speak of their friends in heaven; and yet the Bible
                  tells us that 'the dead know :not anything.'*
                  "
               "True, Mr. Grafton, the dead know not anything; but those who have
                  been raised from the dead, I trust are possessed of knowledge far
                  superior to ours."
               "I see, I see," exclaimed Mr. Grafton; "but after all, you cannot show from the
                  Bible that a single soul has been raised from the dead, except Jesus."
               "Yes, I can," replied Emma, "for Mr. Benson explained the whole question to
                  me."
               "And what was young Benson's explanation?"
               
                  *Eccl. ix: 5.
               
               "It was this," replied Emma:—"Jesus furnishes two proofs that people have already
                  been raised from the dead, when he says, 'Now that the dead are
                  raised—(not will be, but are raised,) even Moses showed at the bush, when he
                  calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob;
                  for he is not the God of the dead, but of the living.'*
                   Jesus tells us plainly,
                  that the dead were raised. He also tells us that Abraham, Isaac and
                  Jacob had been raised; for if they were still dead in their graves,
                  the Lord told an untruth when he called himself the God of Abraham, Isaac and
                  Jacob; for he is not the God of the dead, but of the
                     living; for all live unto him. Therefore, they must have been
                  alive in the celestial world, and not dead in their graves."
               "Your explanation seems very plain," said Grafton. "But suppose our friends have
                  obtained that world and the resurrection from the dead, they may be worse off than
                  though they had remained in their graves."
               "You greatly err," replied Emma, smiling, "'not knowing the Scriptures nor the
                  power of God,'†
                   for Jesus tells us that
                  when they 'obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, they cannot die
                  any more; for they are equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being
                  the children of the resurrection.'‡
                   You see, plainly, that
                  after being raised from the dead, we cannot be annihilated; and you will also
                  clearly perceive that we are all blessed; for Jesus adds, 'and are the
                     children of God, BEING the children of the resurrection.'"
               "That seems very plain," said Mr. Grafton; "but then only those who are 'deemed
                  worthy' are raised."
               "Certainly."
               "But how are they made worthy?"
               
                  *Luke xx: 37,38.
               
                  †Mat. xxii: 29.
               
                  ‡Luke xx: 35.
               "Through Jesus," replied Emma; "'for there is none other name given among men
                  whereby we can be saved.'*
                  "
               "But we all die unworthy sinners."
               "Certainly; but he that is dead is freed from sin."
               "Of course," replied Mr. Grafton, "he that is dead is freed from sin; but how is
                  it with those who are raised from the dead?"
               "I have already told you that they are the children of God, being the children of
                  the resurrection. No one can be raised except through Christ; for he says, 'I am
                  the resurrection.'†
                   And when they are raised,
                  as Jesus says, 'they are equal unto the angels.'"
               "I see, clearly, that all who are raised, are made worthy; but you cannot bring,
                  even the vestige of proof, that the unjust will ever be accounted worthy to obtain
                  the resurrection world."
               "Paul says, 'There shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the
                  unjust.'"
               "Enough! enough!" exclaimed Mr. Grafton. "Beaten by a mere girl! I think I shall
                  be obliged to take my wares to another market."
               "Not to any other market," said Mrs. Grafton, entering the room in company with
                  Maud. "Let us cast aside the rubbish of unbelief, and obtain a foretaste of
                  angelic life."
               
                  *Acts iv: 12.
               
                  †John xi: 25.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               A SHADOW IN 'SQUIRE BENSON'S HOUSEHOLD.
               AT the close of young Benson's first year in New York, he had saved of his salary
                  enough to finish paying for the cottage in which his parents resided. Mr. Jacobs
                  had so overloaded his clerk with presents for what he termed extra services, that
                  little opportunity to expend money was afforded him. Mr. Jacobs had purchased a
                  gold watch, with an expensive gold chain, which he presented to Benson; but the
                  latter informed his employer that he could never wear it at home, while his father
                  only carried a silver one. Mr. Jacobs was delighted with the reply, and
                  immediately exchanged it for a silver one with a plain hair chain.
               Nearly two years after the commencement of our story, 'Squire Benson's wife was
                  taken sick. Her Sabbath School class, as well as many other members of the school,
                  were constantly calling to inquire as to the progress of the disease.
               'Squire Benson watched by the sick-bed, night and day. Often he despaired of her
                  life; and at such moments, strong as was his faith in God, he almost sunk under
                  the thought of being left by her who had made his pathway so bright and happy for
                  many years.
               A wild, passionate youth of scarcely twenty years, he married a mere girl to all
                  appearance, but a noble woman in judgment and goodness. So great was the wife's
                  influence over her husband, that, in a short time, he was moulded into a model
                  Christian. And as the husband watched beside the bed of her who had made and kept
                  him what he was, he could only exclaim in the bitterness of his spirit, "Father,
                  if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; yet not my will but thine be
                  done."
               Young Benson came on from New York, to receive his mother's blessing before she
                  passed away, or, if possible, win her back to life by his presence and exertions.
                  Julia glided noiselessly about the house, while her husband called many times each
                  day, to learn whether any assistance was needed. Mr. Woodbury was there daily, to
                  pray with the family or offer consolation. Maud was often there to assist, and
                  even Emma Jacobs, who was an excellent assistant in the sick room, also arrived
                  and proffered her aid.
               On Saturday night, the fever turned, and the sick mother gazed around, for the
                  first time in many days, with a look of returning consciousness.
               "My dear husband," said she, "have I been very sick?"
               "Yes," replied the husband, "you have been very, very—." He could say no more, but
                  kissed the upturned face before him, while great tears coursed down his
                  cheeks.
               In the morning, Mrs. Benson insisted that her husband should go and see his lambs
                  at the Sabbath School, and kissing her once more, 'Squire Benson started for the
                  vestry.
               It had been storming for several days in succession, and the rain still continued;
                  but the vestry was well filled. Knowing the whole school would be anxious to hear from his companion, 'Squire Benson
                  told them about her sickness, how she had insisted upon his visiting the Sabbath
                  School, how sorrowful they were when she lay so helpless, and how they rejoiced,
                  at the prospect of her recovery.
               "For a few days past," continued 'Squire Benson, "I have watched the appearance of
                  the weather with a deeper interest than ever before. Yesterday, as I looked up,
                  the flying clouds seemed to frown upon me, the houses dropped tears of sadness
                  from every eave, the earth looked cold and forbidding, the bushes hung their heads
                  in sorrow, while the trees were crying as though their hearts were breaking. But
                  to-day, as I came to school, the clouds were flying along as though anxious to
                  communicate joyful tidings, the little ponds of water in the road were covered
                  with smiling ripples, the houses were dropping little gladsome pearls of rain, the
                  bushes bowed their smiling heads to me as I passed, while the great trees fairly
                  wept for joy.
               Our Heavenly Father seems so good to me this morning, that I cannot feel thankful
                  enough. But he was just as good yesterday as he is to-day; for he is always the
                  same, and his unchangeable love will always surround us. Sickness, sorrow, trial
                  and affliction are all sent for our good. God never chastises one of his children,
                  but with a parent's love. As many as he loves, he rebukes and chastises; let all,
                  therefore, be zealous and repent.*
                  'Whom the Lord loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.'†
                   'I beseech you, therefore, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice,
                  holy and acceptable unto God.'‡"
                  
               
                  *Rev iii: 19
               
                  †Prov. iii: 12.
               
                  ‡Rom xii. 1.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               YOUNG BENSON AND EMMA JACOBS.
               THE recovery of the invalid was slow. Emma often watched 'Squire Benson as he sat
                  by her bedside, either talking, reading or watching, and nearly always holding the
                  emaciated hand of the sick wife. At one time, Emma had been for some minutes
                  watching the little acts and looks of tender regard of both husband and wife, when
                  seeing that young Benson noticed her deep interest, she passed into the parlor
                  where he soon after followed.
               "Sit down," said Emma, "I want to talk to you."
               "And I want to talk with you," added young Benson, laughing.
               "Before I left the other room," said Emma, "I was thinking how natural it was for
                  your father's family to enjoy yourselves and be beloved. I do not wonder either,
                  that, with such parents, you and your sister are always so happy and so good."
               "My sister is very amiable in my eyes," said Benson; "but as for me, I'm such a
                  wild fellow, that I shall never come to any sort of good."
               "Oh you are not wild by any means. Why, I never knew a young man less so; but you are merry, and
                  the Bible says that 'a merry heart doeth good like a medicine.'"
               "That passage describes a certain young lady with whom I claim acquaintance."
               "Well," exclaimed Emma, "I don't believe a sad countenance will ever reform the
                  world; and yet the Bible tells us that it is better to go to the house of mourning
                  than to the house of feasting."
               "True," replied Benson, "and it also informs us that the day of one's death is
                  better than the day of one's birth; but I would not on that account recommend
                  suicide; neither would I recommend people to mourn that their friends might be
                  benefitted by calling at their dwellings."
               "Now I see clearly what that passage means."
               "You thought it a recommendation for long faces, did you?"
               "Yes; however, I see my error now. But speaking of suicide, I once heard a man say
                  that, were he sure of going to heaven; he would kill himself at once."
               "Such men," said Benson, "do not love God; for if they did, suicide would look
                  horrible instead of pleasant to them. 'Fear God, and keep his commandments; for
                  this is the whole duty of man.'"
               "But you say that God is love, and if so, why should we fear
                  him?"
               "You say that your father is all love to you; but would you, therefore, prefer to
                  do evil to him or in his presence, rather than do evil in the presence of some
                  wicked man?"
               "I couldn't do evil to my father for the world; nothing would tempt me."
               "Neither would the true Christian willingly do evil in the sight of God; not
                  simply on account of punishment which is sure to follow, but because
                  of the love he bears to his Heavenly Father. I have often heard my father tell
                  about an oath he uttered in the presence of his mother. He knew his mother would
                  not harm him; but the torture he endured was dreadful; and yet, in the presence of
                  profane persons, he was in the habit of swearing frequently."
               "What! can it be possible that your father ever did wrong?"
               "Certainly!" replied Benson. "Father and mother were just like a great many other
                  children, I am told. When first married, my father tells me that he was possessed
                  of a violent and almost ungovernable temper, with no religious influences except
                  occasionally a visit to the Sabbath School to see mother, who was a teacher there.
                  Soon after they wedded, however, he became a regular attendant at both church and
                  school. My mother, though far from being perfect, saw the task before her, and
                  applied herself to it with an earnestness and perseverance that surprised even
                  herself. She never spoke unkindly; never mentioned my father's faults; but
                  presented goodness and religion in its most pleasant and captivating light. The
                  exertions of my mother not only improved her morally and spiritually, but raised
                  my father to the position of the most beloved member of the church and school. He
                  often tells us, in eloquent words, how happy his life has been, even in the midst
                  of great trials through which he has passed."
               "And did you always love your parents as you now do?" asked Emma, much
                  interested.
               "I always loved them; but there was a special time when I began to love them far
                  more dearly."
               "Tell me all about it."
               
               "Well then; when I was quite a small boy, my father, in addition to his sign over
                  the shop door, concluded to paint something to attract attention in another place;
                  and he made a very pretty picture of a hat on one of the window panes. Both father
                  and mother were much pleased with the new device, while I could hardly look at
                  anything else. That afternoon I went out and played ball in front of the house,
                  where I could see the gaily painted glass. I would throw my ball against the
                  house, and, as it rebounded, endeavor to catch it, all the while taking admiring
                  views of the pretty picture before me. But, as I was throwing in one direction and
                  looking in another, wholly unconscious of what I was doing, I threw the ball
                  directly through the sign itself. As I saw and heard the falling fragments, I
                  stood in speechless astonishment and grief. I had never seen my father angry, and
                  was going to tell him how very sorry I was, when, as I looked in at the door, I
                  saw him rise from the bench with a clouded face. I was frightened, and ran around
                  the corner of the house, and stood beneath an open window, not daring to move. I
                  had stood there but a minute or two, when my father reached out, took me up, and
                  kissed me a great many times. I put my arms around his neck, and began to cry with
                  all my might, all the while trying to tell him how very sorry I was. But he told
                  me not to cry; because he knew that his good little boy could never have done so
                  on purpose and was going to be more careful in future, and that he would paint
                  another sign a great deal prettier than the broken one. But the more he told me
                  not to cry, the more I felt like crying. Mother, who had been watching all the
                  time, came in, and putting her arms around us both, kissed us a number of times,
                  though I couldn't make out exactly what she was weeping about. That night I was
                  very much interested in my father's prayer, and when he kissed me good night, I
                  felt that I loved him as I had clever loved him before. Often, in speaking of that
                  little incident, I have seen the tears in my mother's eyes, and my father mentions
                  it as one of the greatest victories of his life."
               What was said by Emma and Benson during the next half hour, we have never been
                  able to learn; but, at the end of that time, Julia entered, and discovered their
                  faces in such close proximity, that she turned to leave the room. Her brother,
                  however, stopped her by saying that he had something to communicate.
               Young Benson, as well as Emma, looked very red in the face; but he finally managed
                  to tell Julia, that, as she had furnished their parents with a son, he thought it
                  no more than fair to make Emma their daughter, which had been agreed to on the
                  part of two individuals he could name.
               Emma and Julia laughed at young Benson's statement of the case, while the narrator
                  recovered his wonted composure. Julia kissed the couple before her, saying that
                  the first thing to be done now was to talk with father and mother.
               "I think you had better do that talking," said Benson to his sister;
                  "for I feel a leetle as though I had been stealing sheep."
               "It is very natural," replied Julia, laughing, "after capturing this poor lamb;
                  but, if you really wish it, I will speak with father and mother at once."
               "Well," thought Emma, "I know his father and mother will think I'm not good enough
                  for him, and they will consent very reluctantly; but, if they will try me, I will
                  show them how good I can be, and they will have to love me when they see it."
               
               In the midst of these thoughts, 'Squire Benson walked into the room and kissed
                  Emma, who promptly returned his salute, saying, "then you do not really object to
                  me?"
               "Object!" exclaimed 'Squire Benson, in astonishment; "object! why, were I to
                  search the world over for a daughter-in-law, I could not find one whom I could
                  prize so highly. Why, I wouldn't have any other, if I could help it."
               "Can it be possible?" thought Emma, as they passed into the sick room, "Perhaps
                  his mother will also think very favorably of me."
               The invalid gave a ready consent to the proposed union; "but," said she, "as Mr.
                  Jacobs has not yet been consulted, we had better say as little as possible
                  concerning marriage until he gives a willing approval."
               In spite of their warm friendship and esteem for Mr. Jacobs, the countenances of
                  both 'Squire Benson and his son fell as the name of Emma's father was mentioned,
                  and, looming up before them, there seemed to be a dark, threatening cloud in the
                  person of the wholesale merchant.
               Emma, however, merely smiled, saying that of course the formality of asking her
                  father's consent was proper.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               BLASPHEMY AGAINST THE HOLY GHOST.
               IN the evening, as young Benson and Emma entered the church vestry, they saw Mr.
                  and Mrs. Grafton also in attendance at the weekly conference. Soon after, Mr.
                  Woodbury entered the room, accompanied by Arden, Julia and Maud. The vestry was
                  well filled, the number of speakers quite large, and the meeting proved
                  interesting to all, especially to Mr. Grafton, who, as he listened, could not but
                  regret his scepticism. caused by neglecting his former gospel privileges; and now
                  that he so longed to enjoy the blessings of the Christian faith, he felt keenly
                  his inability to grasp the coveted boon, or realize the truth of what had so long
                  appeared a myth.
               At the close of the conference, as the friends were exchanging friendly greetings,
                  Emma remarked "I trust you will soon be led to rejoice in the truth."
               "Thank you," replied Mr. Grafton. "I find there is nothing like taking the first
                  lesson. The ease with which you defeated me in that little religious discussion,
                  has, I trust, led me into some truth; but last evening I lost ground while reading
                  Matthew xii: 31—'All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men.'"
               "That scripture is truth itself," said Emma.
               
               "Then you believe that all, yes, every single sin and blasphemy will
                  surely be forgiven to men?"
               "Most certainly; for the passage affirms it."
               "And yet," said Mr. Grafton, "in the very next verse we read, that whosoever
                  speaketh against the Holy Ghost,'it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this
                  world, neither in the world to come! I grant that only one sin is
                     excepted! but, by that single exception, the Bible contradicts
                  itself."
               Young Benson, who saw Emma hesitate, replied at once; "Mr. Grafton, do you condemn
                  the almanac when it tells you that the sun rises and sets?"
               "Certainly not!"
               "And yet you know perfectly well that it never rises and sets."
               "So I do," exclaimed Mr. Grafton. "However, that is simply an idiom or peculiar
                  form of speech which we all understand."
               "And if you will examine the Greek or Hebrew, you will find idioms in each of
                  those languages."
               "I acknowledge my error," said Mr. Grafton; "but the passage means something."
               "True," replied Benson; "and the Hebrew scholar knows perfectly well that the
                  phrase is simply a Hebraism or Hebraistic phrase, meaning simply that the
                  blasphemy against the Holy Ghost is greater than any other sin."
               "Then the Bible does not really contradict itself after all."
               "Not in the least," replied Benson. "If there is any error, it is the fault of the
                  language, and not of the Bible. However, the passages, as explained in Matthew, do
                  not contradict themselves even in words."
               "What, not even in words?" said Mr. Grafton.
               "Not as explained in Matthew," replied Benson: "for after saying that
                     all sins and blasphemies shall be forgiven, Jesus adds in regard
                  to sin against the Holy Ghost, that it shall not be forgiven in this world,
                  neither in the world to come. And I am of opinion that this greatest of all sins
                  was never yet wholly forgiven either in the Jewish world or the Christian
                     world.*
                   But in the immortal world there is, I trust, abundant forgiveness for even
                  this awful sin. If there was no forgiveness for it in the immortal world, I think
                  Jesus would have said so; but he uttered: nothing of the kind."
               "I cannot deny what you say," said Mr. Grafton; "but what is the blasphemy against
                  the Holy Ghost?"
               "Mark tells us precisely what it is," replied Benson. "'Because they said, he hath
                  an unclean spirit.'†
                   Christ performed all his
                  miracles and good works by the Spirit of God or the Holy Ghost, and the Jews said
                  this spirit was unclean, or in other words, hateful, malignant and cruel."
               "But," said Mr. Grafton, "among Christian ministers, many other explanations are
                  given."
               "And yet," replied Benson, "they are all false. The Bible explanation is the only
                  true one, and that is, 'Because they said He hath an unclean spirit.'"
               "Do you think it was confined to the age in which Jesus lived?"
               "I do not," replied Benson; "but whenever and wherever any one accuses the spirit
                  of God, (that is the Holy Ghost, which is in both God and the Saviour,) of being
                  unclean, or in other words, hateful and cruel, that person commits the blasphemy
                  against the Holy Ghost."
               
                  *Jesus spoke during the existence of the Jewish world, age, or dispensation,
                     and the world to come was the Christian world, age, or dispensation. The
                     word world is more properly translated age or dispensation.
               
               
                  †Mark iii: 30.
               
               "I trust that I have not committed that sin," said Mr. Grafton.
               "Unbelievers have no opinion as to whether that spirit is clean or unclean,"
                  replied Benson, "and therefore cannot commit that sin. I trust also that every
                  member of our church believes that God is love, and that there is neither
                  hatefulness, cruelty, or uncleanness in either God or the Saviour, and therefore
                  our skirts are clear from this awful sin. But when you hear persons affirm that
                  the pure, loving God or the blessed Redeemer possesses hate, malignity or cruelty,
                  be assured that they are not far from committing the blasphemy against the Holy
                  Ghost, 'because they say, He hath an unclean spirit.'"
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               BENSON CONCLUDES THAT EMMA HAS A FATHER.
               THE next morning, Benson and Emma, in company with Mr. Grafton, set out for the
                  city.
               After accompanying Emma home, Benson went to the warehouse. He was about entering
                  the office, when, hesitating a moment at the door, to screw up his courage a
                  trifle, he found that Mr. Grafton was there before him, and was holding quite a
                  warm discussion with Mr. Jacobs.
               "You must be aware," said Mr. Grafton, "that different individuals require
                  different things to make them happy, or even comfortable. I might be made
                  miserable by being placed in your position as a wholesale merchant, in a business
                  of which I am totally ignorant, and for which I have no partiality. I might,
                  however, in support of my theory, mention my family relations. Miss Vincent, I saw
                  clearly, was just the wife I wanted; but I am not foolish enough to believe she
                  would suit every husband. While I would not exchange her for a queen, other men
                  might live single rather than marry her."
               
               "You entirely mistake my meaning," broke in Mr. Jacobs. "All I meant to say was,
                  that the man, who marries my daughter, being fortunate, should possess a fortune
                  of some kind, and marry without any reference to her property."
               "That is what I understood you to say, and I think you may be wrong. Let me
                  illustrate. Had I a daughter, like you, and should Mr. Benson, for example, ask
                  her in marriage, if he suited her, I would make a great sacrifice myself, rather
                  than lose him for a son-in-law. Though an excellent clerk, Mr. Benson may never
                  make a great business man; but his good sense would prevent him from squandering
                  the property I should give him. Now, I ask, would not that be the best provision I
                  could make for my child?"
               "My better judgment tells me that you are correct; yet I firmly declare, that
                  without a princely fortune of some kind, no man can, with my consent, marry my
                  daughter."
               Young Benson could bear no more, and with a bewildered mind, he stepped from the
                  great warehouse, and rode to the residence of Mr. Jacobs, where he held a
                  consultation with Emma, which lasted until near dinner time.
               When Mr. Jacobs returned home at noon, he found the young folks looking rather
                  sober. When informed that Mrs. Benson was out of danger, he told them it was their
                  duty to rejoice instead of looking so gloomy; but in spite of all his attempts to
                  bring them out, Benson perpetrated not a single joke, while Emma utterly 
                     re-refused
                     refused
                   to smile.
               When Benson returned to the counting room, he penned the following letter:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "NEW YORK,——
                           
                           MY DEAR SISTER:—Since I returned to the city, I have been reminded of
                              your warning, to remember that Emma had a father. It had entirely
                              escaped my mind; but I shall never forget it again. I will give you
                              more particulars concerning my rejection, when I return home.
                           Emma sends her best love to you all.
                           Show this letter to father and mother, and they will, of course,
                              understand that this whole affair should remain secret.
                           
                              From your ever affectionate brother,
                              BEN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               MRS. GRAFTON.—ELLA BRIGHT'S FAITH.
               IN the Autumn, Mr. and Mrs. Grafton commenced housekeeping in Ardenville,
                  occupying what the husband had once intended simply for a summer residence. Mr.
                  Grafton passed his time in superintending a small tract of land connected with the
                  estate, hoping to realize quite an income from the sale of fruit and other
                  products of the farm; for although his wife was wealthy, his pride forbade him
                  living upon her bounty.
               There are some people who can hardly help being fashionable, and Mrs. Grafton was
                  of that number. As Miss Vincent, she had been one of the leaders of the
                  fashionable world for fashion's sake; but as Mrs. Grafton, she was an acknowledged
                  leader of fashion, because she could hardly prevent it.
               From a strong conviction of duty, as well as inclination, Mrs. Grafton connected
                  herself with the Ardenville church. Perceiving that, with the exception of the
                  Lazelle and Arden families, all the members of the church were in moderate
                  pecuniary circumstances, Mrs. Grafton, also from a sense of duty, appeared at
                  church dressed in far less costly materials.
               The first Sabbath her husband glanced at her apparel, but said nothing, while his
                  wife took his arm without a word of explanation, and they started for the house of
                  worship.
               Mr. Grafton was well aware of the fact, that his wife's apparel was undergoing the
                  very close scrutiny of quite a number of young ladies; but the wearer seemed
                  oblivious to their searching gaze. Mrs. Lazelle, enveloped in an over abundance of
                  costly fabrics, swept up the broad aisle, as usual, just as the services
                  commenced. She gave a glance at the pew occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Grafton, gave her
                  head a slight toss, and passed into her pew, followed by her husband.
               Mrs. Lazelle realized the fact, that since the appearance of the Benson family in
                  Ardenville, the influence of herself and husband in the church and society, had
                  grown smaller and beautifully less as each month passed away, and upon the advent
                  of Mrs. Grafton as a resident, she discovered, at once, that a formidable rival
                  had entered the fashionable world of Ardenville, and more costly dresses and rare
                  ornaments were put in requisition, to retain her supremacy. But in spite of all
                  the exertions of Mrs. Lazelle, half the ladies of the village were soon following
                  in the wake of her rival; but in an entirely different manner from what most
                  people would have imagined, and, furthermore, wholly unintentional on the part of
                  Mrs. Grafton.
               "Mary," said Mr. Grafton, as they entered their residence, "I was very proud of
                  you to-day."
               "I fear you are growing vain," replied Mrs. Grafton, smiling. "What could have
                  produced such a singular state of mind?"
               "Why, as we were passing from church, you remember, I paused to speak with Mr.
                  Benson. And I then heard a young lady
                  whisper to another, that she had just purchased a new dress, and was going to have
                  it made like yours, as she thought it the prettiest one she ever saw. But the
                  other young lady replied, that for her part, although she should have hers altered
                  to correspond, she would much rather imitate the goodness of the wearer. I've
                  heard much about jealousy; but the more people love you, the better pleased I
                  shall be."
               "Well, Henry," replied Mrs. Grafton, "I will try to become good; and
                  if I should chance to succeed, I doubt not I shall not only merit their good will,
                  but it will be most cordially extended."
               "I would like to know, Mary, how you are going to add to perfection. But how I do
                  commiserate those girls who were scrutinizing your apparel to-day! They vainly
                  imagine that their dress-makers can cause them to appear precisely as you do; but
                  how disappointed they will feel when they learn that you alone can show the
                  seamstress just how it should be made, and you alone can put on the last finishing
                  touches. I really pity the poor things."
               "How very tender-hearted!" exclaimed Mrs. Grafton.
               Mr. Grafton was correct. The young ladies found fault with their dress-makers; but
                  in spite of all their earnest expostulations, hot one of their dresses equalled
                  the original.
               Mrs. Grafton continued to wear dresses which were the envy of the whole village;
                  but it mattered little whether made of calico or silk. If of calico, everybody
                  pronounced it neat as a pin, and pretty as a picture, and each admirer resolved to
                  become the possessor of one like it. But, in spite of all their firm resolution,
                  notwithstanding their great exertions, failure crowned each and every such futile
                  attempt.
               One day, however, a little incident occurred that made the secret of Mrs.
                  Grafton's wearing apparel, public property.
               Mrs. Bright and Ella called at Mr. Grafton's residence; but Ella, soon after, went
                  to the barn in company with the host, or rather the little Miss was carried upon
                  Mr. Grafton's shoulders. Upon arriving at the out-building, Ella commenced to
                  enjoy herself, and was soon having what she termed, "a drefful nice time." But as
                  she was walking over some bundles of straw, she slipped, and the next instant
                  found herself in almost total darkness.
               Mr. Grafton heard an exclamation from Ella, and started in the direction of the
                  sound, to learn what had occurred.
               "Halloa! little birdie," exclaimed Mr. Grafton, "where are you?"
               "I guess I'm down here," replied a voice from beneath the straw.
               "And I guess you are a pretty good guesser," exclaimed Mr. Grafton. "How far down
                  are you?"
               "I guess it's a drefful good ways down here," replied Ella; "but it's so dark, I
                  can't see nobody."
               "I hardly think you can see any one down there," said Mr. Grafton, "for it isn't
                  very thickly settled."
               "Yes 'tis," exclaimed Ella; "the hay is drefful thick settled all round me."
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Mr. Grafton. "But now I'll have you out in a jiffy. Hold up
                  your hands as high as you can." And reaching down his own, he grasped both of
                  Ella's, and drew her out.
               "Was it very dark down, there?" asked Mr. Grafton.
               "Yes, drefful, drefful dark," replied Ella.
               "And wasn't you afraid?"
               
               "Oh, no," replied Ella, looking up in surprise at the strange question; "God was
                  down there."
               "What, in that dark hole?"
               "Yes."
               "How do you know he was?"
               "'Cause mamma says so, and the Bible says He's everywhere, and I knew he was down
                  there just as soon as I fell. And Jesus was looking at me. So, you see, I couldn't
                  be afraid."
               "Oh for a faith like that!" remarked Mr. Grafton. "But where did you think you
                  were?"
               "I thinked I was in hell," replied Ella.
               Mr. Grafton looked at the innocent little face before him. "But wasn't you
                  frightened when you thought you were in hell?"
               "Oh no! 'cause God could take care of me there just as well as here."
               "But it is pretty dark in hell, Ella."
               "Yes, 'tis I guess; but God can see me when it's ever and ever so dark, and Jesus
                  can bless little children in hell just as well."
               "But does Jesus love naughty children?"
               "Oh yes," replied Ella; "but it makes him feel bad when they's naughty; 'cause
                  they's so misable, and cross, and don't have no good nice times. But
                  Jesus loves 'em, and wants 'em to be good and 'joy therselves."
               Mr. Grafton looked at Ella for nearly a minute without replying, while the little
                  evangelist waited very patiently; wondering what he was thinking about.
               "My little birdie," said Mr. Grafton, "do you really and truly love God?"
               "Yes, I do for certain," replied Ella, surprised to think that any one should
                  doubt her love for a moment.
               "Why do you love him?"
               "'Cause he is so good; and he loves my papa and my mamma, and me, and you,
                  and—and—everybody."
               "Should you love him if he didn't love your papa and your mamma?"
               "No, I shouldn't," replied Ella, promptly.
               "But wouldn't you try to love him?"
               "No, I wouldn't, not one single bit," replied Ella.
               "Then you don't like bad children and bad folks if they hate your parents?"
               "Oh yes I do!" replied Ella, "'cause they don't know no better. So if
                  I didn't love 'em, I should try."
               "And so you don't think God could hate your parents?"
               "No, 'cause he knows better," replied Ella.
               "Where did you learn all that theology?"
               "I guess I don't know that big word."
               "I mean where did you learn all that?"
               "From mamma and Mrs. Benson, my Sabbath School teacher."
               Another half hour elapsed, when taking Ella upon his shoulder, Mr. Grafton
                  proceeded to the house.
               "Why, my little darling," exclaimed Mrs. Bright, "Your pretty little hat is
                  spoiled."
               Mr. Grafton explained the accident at the barn, then handed the little soiled,
                  jammed hat to his wife, saying, "I think, Mary, you had better fix it."
               "Fix it!" said Mrs. Bright, "I should think it was fixed already. Mrs. Grafton,
                  don't spend a moment of your time upon such a useless task."
               "No objections," broke in Mr. Grafton—"Mary will make it as good as new in ten
                  minutes."
               Mrs. Grafton took the apparently worthless article, and in a few minutes every
                  soiled spot of both ribbon and straw was covered, and as Mrs. Bright observed,
                  "such a pretty little thing Ella never
                  before had upon her head. "And now," continued she, "I have, at last, discovered
                  the secret of your calico dress being more admired than my best silk."
               "Mary always puts on the last few finishing touches," said Mr. Grafton, with a
                  pleased expression.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE SEWING CIRCLE.
               AT the next sewing circle, Mrs. Bright informed those present of the little
                  incident in regard to Ella's hat; upon which it was duly examined and admired, and
                  the skill displayed highly extolled.
               Mrs. Grafton protested against their flattery; but a few minutes after,
                  unintentionally, increased their admiration of her ability in the art of millinery
                  and dress-making.
               A few impromptu tableaux were exhibited, including Mrs. Partington's Ghost and
                  others easily prepared. The tableaux relieved the usual monotonous routine of the
                  circle, and were productive of considerable merriment.
               Mrs. Grafton, without saying a word to any one else, sent a boy to the store for a
                  few cents' worth of tissue paper, and by the time he returned, she had made a
                  small cup of paste. Taking Ella and a little boy into another room, she soon had
                  the former dressed in bridal array made wholly of tissue paper, while the latter
                  was arrayed in a neat white vest and other articles suitable for the occasion, and
                  "Tom Thumb's wedding" was exhibited to the great delight and admiration of
                  all.
               
               But, without resting upon her laurels, Mrs. Grafton, in a few moments, announced
                  the "Sailor's Adieu" by the same little couple.
               The secret of Mrs. Grafton's attractive, though not costly apparel was patent to
                  all, and she was often importuned for advice in the art of millinery and
                  dress-making. Advice is generally considered exceedingly cheap, and Mrs. Grafton
                  willingly gave her opinion as to the manner of making up dresses or trimming
                  bonnets.
               After the close of the tableaux, Arden said, loud enough for all to hear, "Many
                  often absent themselves from school and conference meeting, solely, as they say,
                  because of the unhealthiness, to say nothing of the unsightly appearance of our
                  vestry. I hold in my hand a subscription paper affording us all an opportunity of
                  manifesting a wish to remedy the evil so long complained of. The work will be
                  accomplished as soon as possible; for I will not much longer suffer myself and
                  friends, or compel any one, to worship in a room, where, should I stable a horse
                  or kennel a dog, I should feel guilty of no little cruelty."
               Arden, Squire Benson, Mrs. Bright, Mrs. Jones and others, subscribed various
                  sums.
               "Mrs. Lazelle," said Arden, "as your husband is absent, do you wish to act in his
                  stead?"
               "Our expenses have been unusually large for a short period," replied Mrs. Lazelle,
                  "and I hardly know what course to pursue."
               "Bear in mind," said Arden, "that we ask no one to contribute; we simply afford
                  those who are anxious to do so, an opportunity."
               Arden was turning away when Mrs. Lazelle told him to put down ten dollars.
               "You can put my husband's name down for one hundred," whispered Mrs. Grafton.
               "One hundred!" exclaimed Arden, loud enough for all to hear. "Do you suppose we
                  are to build a new vestry? Two hundred will defray the whole expense."
               "I was not aware that so small a sum was required," replied Mrs. Grafton. "Allow
                  me to glance at your paper. Why, there is ten dollars opposite 'Squire Benson's
                  name, poor as he is. Does he imagine we are to erect a new church?"
               "'Squire Benson is a privileged character," said Arden, smiling. "We always allow
                  him to subscribe from five to ten times as much as his share."
               "Well," said Mrs. Grafton, "call your subscription and my husband's the same
                  amount each, and should there be any lack of funds, we can supply the
                  deficiency."
               "Thank you," replied Arden. "That is just like your own generous self."
               "Many people love popularity," said Mrs. Lazelle, in a low voice to her next
                  neighbor; "but I had no idea that Mrs. Grafton was so vain."
               "Excellent kind of vanity, however," replied the lady. "I wish we were all
                  possessed of such vain hearts."
               "But she is all outside show," whispered Mrs. Lazelle.
               "I like that particular kind of outside show, dearly," remarked Mrs. Jones,
                  overhearing the last observation. "If all our hearts were laid bare, I have very
                  little faith that the other members of our circle would exhibit as much real
                  goodness, on an average."
               Mrs. Lazelle saw plainly that Mrs. Grafton was really beloved; but this only
                  increased her desire to crush this rival as well as the Benson family. "Of
                  course," said she, "we are all poor weak sinners; but it appears to me that much
                  less ostentation in the bestowment of gifts would be far more becoming a professor of religion.
                  Secret charity is most commended by the Saviour; but the world will never extol
                  private generosity of which it is entirely ignorant."
               Here Mrs. Lazelle became wholly absorbed in a little bit of edging she was
                  crocheting, probably to allay any suspicion that her own private charities were
                  more abundant than usual among religious professors.
               "I rather think," spoke up Mrs. Bright, with her usual positive tone, "that the
                  private charity exercised by almost any member of this church, need excite no
                  fears of materially lessening the wealth of that person, or even preventing any
                  larger sum than a ten cent piece from changing hands."
               An audible titter greeted the remark of Mrs. Bright, who, in spite of her great
                  plainness of speech, was in high esteem with the many.
               Mrs. Lazelle clearly perceived that the thrust was aimed particularly at herself;
                  but she wisely remained silent, none the less resolved, however, to allow no
                  opportunity to pass, of crushing out either Mrs. Grafton or any member of the
                  Benson family.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               MRS. GRAFTON'S FAITH.
               "WHAT can have happened to my husband?" exclaimed Mrs. Grafton. "He promised to be
                  at the circle between seven and eight o'clock; but it is nearly nine, and he not
                  here."
               Mrs. Grafton had hardly ceased speaking, when a young man, employed on the farm,
                  entered the door, and informed her that her husband had been taken suddenly
                  ill.
               Mrs. Grafton was thoroughly alarmed, and entreating Arden and Julia to accompany
                  her home, that she might profit by their assistance and advice, she returned to
                  her husband as soon as possible. They found Mr. Grafton very ill. He had been
                  seriously injured by a sudden strain. The physician said, that both husband and
                  wife had best fully understand that death might follow a day's or even an hour's
                  notice, unless great care was exercised until a change was indicated by a more
                  normal action of the heart.
               It was in vain Mr. Grafton declared that he should be exceedingly cautious in
                  future, and he was almost sure of a speedy recovery; his wife was nearly beside
                     herself. After a while, however, she
                  became calm, and endeavored to appear and converse more cheerfully.
               It was past ten o'clock when Arden and Julia rose to depart, and Mrs. Grafton
                  accompanied them to an outer room.
               "This is the most terrible blow of my life," exclaimed Mrs. Grafton. "Your faith
                  is sufficient for the severest trial; but mine fails me when I most need it. As
                  much as I love my husband, I could even see him die with comparative resignation,
                  were he prepared for that event."
               "I will not say," replied Julia, "how much I wish your husband was a true follower
                  of his Saviour who died for him because he loved him; but I must say that death
                  cannot separate him from that love."
               "I know," said Mrs. Grafton, "that God so loved the world that he gave his Son to
                  die for wicked men; but it may be that death will entirely destroy that love."
               "Do you imagine physical death to be our greatest enemy?"
               "I am fearful it is," replied Mrs. Grafton; "for all our unbelief and wickedness
                  will not prevent God from loving us up to the moment of death; but that event
                  seems to forbid God from loving the unbeliever. At least, so I have been taught
                  from my childhood."
               "And so," said Julia, in a positive tone of voice which the occasion seemed to
                  demand, "you have been taught that it was wrong for a true Christian to have faith
                  in God except when the sun of prosperity was shining."
               "I have hardly thought of it in that light before;" replied Mrs. Grafton; "but I
                  have had precisely that doctrine instilled into my mind."
               "And can you believe for an instant," asked Julia, "that it is sinful for you to
                  exercise faith in God even in the darkest hour of trouble or adversity?"
               "But," replied Mrs. Grafton, "do you not perceive that it is impossible for me to
                  have faith in God when I dare not trust my husband in his keeping?"
               "I see it plainly," said Julia; "and pardon my plainness of speech, when I say,
                  that, although I commend your candor and truth, I am actually ashamed to hear a
                  professor of the Christian religion own that, she cannot and dare not trust her
                  Heavenly Father or her loving Redeemer."
               "And I fear that my Saviour will be ashamed of my lack of faith," replied Mrs.
                  Grafton; "for I cannot fully trust him in the hour of trouble."
               "Do you imagine," said Julia, "that Jesus is simply a friend in fair weather, and
                  will desert us in the great emergencies of life?"
               "I am free to confess," replied Mrs. Grafton, "that while I can always trust the
                  Saviour in sunshine, my faith is all gone when I most need to trust in him."
               "And I," broke in Julia, "am free to confess that I am truly ashamed that it is
                  so. Would you trust your husband's endless destiny in my hands?"
               "Most certainly I would."
               "Then you would trust me; but not your Saviour. Could you commit your husband's
                  immortal welfare into the keeping of Mrs. Bright or some of the other members of
                  the church?"
               "I would, willingly."
               "Then you think Mrs. Bright and some other members of our church are better than
                  God; for you can repose confidence in them, but not in our Heavenly Father."
               "I would give all I possess for your faith," replied Mrs. Grafton; "but money
                  cannot purchase it. When I united with the church, I thought I was a Christian. A follower of Jesus, however, should
                  love God and the Saviour supremely; but how can I assert that I do, as long as I
                  cannot trust them. I might affirm that I possessed faith; but God forbid that I
                  should be guilty of so glaring a falsehood."*
                  
               
               Some fifteen or twenty minutes after, Arden and Julia bid Mrs. Grafton good night,
                  promising to call in the morning.
               "Julia," said Arden, "I have always taken it for granted that whatever you might
                  say or do was exactly right; but was not one of your expressions unnecessarily
                  harsh?"
               "It may appear so," replied Julia; "and yet it is perhaps the only course that can
                  rouse her sufficiently to view this matter in its true light. Suppose that Mr.
                  Grafton should die within a few days, (which is not at all improbable,) how long
                  would the wife bear up under the blow? Do you not recollect her frank reply to our
                  pastor, when he asked if she were willing to give up all for Christ? She replied,
                  'all but my husband.' And if she imagined that he was cut off from God's love, an
                  insane asylum might receive her. At best, however, months and perhaps years of
                  misery would be the inevitable result."
               
                  *How many professors of religion trust God only in the sunshine of
                     prosperity. In the hour of sorrow, when some sinful and unbelieving friend
                     is removed by death, their faith is worse than worthless. They would then
                     sooner trust their worst earthly enemy than their Heavenly Father.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               MRS. GRAFTON BECOMES RECONCILED.
               WHEN Julia called upon Mr. and Mrs. Grafton the next morning, she found the
                  invalid so far recovered as to be able to sit up, while the wife's face beamed
                  with happiness.
               As Julia was ushered into the room, Mrs. Grafton caught her visitor by both hands,
                  and giving her a kiss of welcome, exclaimed, "I'm so pleased to see you, and Henry
                  is improving rapidly, and I am feeling very thankful and happy. But I was very
                  wicked last night."
               "Were you, indeed," asked Julia, smiling.
               "Yes, I really was," replied Mrs. Grafton, in a rather serious tone.
               "Well," said Julia, laughing, as she laid a hand upon each of Mrs. Grafton's
                  cheeks, "I do so much wish that Ardenville contained a thousand persons just as
                  wicked as your own dear self."
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Mr. Grafton. "As little Ella Bright would say, 'She's
                  drefful wicked and good.'"
               "Why, Julia Arden," said Mrs. Grafton, pleased in spite of herself, "how can you
                  indulge in such flattery?"
               "I never flatter," replied Julia; "but I do so love good, wicked people like
                  you!"
               
               Mr. Grafton here indulged in a quiet but very satisfactory laugh, while his wife
                  wondered whether the world contained another Julia.
               What joy it would be to the true Christian to know that. Christ was pronouncing
                  upon his acts the plaudit, "Well done, good and faithful servant, * * * enter thou
                  into the joy of thy Lord!"*
                   How largely an approving
                  conscience invariably adds to the happiness of its possessor; and what a source of
                  enjoyment is deserved praise to every person commended! Deny, as much as we
                  choose, that we love commendation; affirm, ever so strongly, that we are unmindful
                  of the opinions of others, no person was ever yet sunk so low as to be insensible
                  to praise; no one, we trust, will, in the future, become so degraded, as not to
                  love the good opinion of a truly good neighbor.
               Mrs. Grafton saw more clearly than ever before, the estimation in which she was
                  held by her visitor, and she was well aware of being greatly pleased by the
                  thought that she was so much loved and esteemed by Julia herself; and yet she
                  exclaimed, "You can flatter as much as as you choose, still I was
                  wicked, and I know it; but thank God, I have, I trust, been led into the light,
                  and I can now really confide in God."
               "I was satisfied that such would be the result," said Julia. "But how were you led
                  into the truth?"
               "Your words of last night gave me new thoughts," replied Mrs. Grafton; "and
                  finding that Henry had fallen into a quiet slumber, I took down the Bible, and
                  read, 'Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.'†
                   But the precise reason why
                  I, as well as many others, was troubled, was because I did believe; and therefore
                  I knew it must really mean that we should trust and confide, which I could not do
                  as long as I dared not commit my husband into God's keeping."
               
                  *Matt. xxv: 23.
               
                  †John xiv: 1.
               "You were correct," said Julia, "And no person can fully trust God, who does not
                  believe that he will yet save every sinner from sin, and cause all to become good
                  and happy."
               "Since my husband's sickness," added Mrs. Grafton, "I have fully realized the
                  truth of what you say. I now know that although other creeds may possibly do to
                  live by, nothing short of the entire salvation of every one from sin, can wholly
                  satisfy us in the hour of death. In a few minutes after opening my Bible, I came
                  to the words of Paul, 'For we know, that if our earthly house of this tabernacle
                  were dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal
                  in the heavens.'*
                   Now Paul could not have
                  known this with certainty, unless all were to be saved from sin and unbelief."
               "Had Paul believed that those who happen to die wrong, would never be saved from
                  sin and unbelief," added Julia, "he would have said, 'We are entirely ignorant as
                  to whether we have a heavenly mansion or not: for it depends wholly as to whether
                  we chance to die right.'"
               "That is a new idea to me," spoke up Mr. Grafton. "If we live ever so wickedly,
                  and die right, we enjoy the blessings of heaven to all eternity. If, however, we
                  live ever so well and die wrong, we are punished endlessly."
               "Precisely so!" replied Julia. "Such a creed teaches that we are not to be
                  rewarded or punished according to our evil deeds, or rather evil intents and
                  purposes of the heart; but every man is rewarded endlessly, or punished throughout
                  eternity, simply for the act of dying right, or dying wrong."
               
                  *2 Cor. v: 1.
               
               "How infinitely just!" broke in Mr. Grafton; "what incomparable equity!"
               "I no longer wonder at Henry's want of faith," said Mrs. Grafton; "I am simply
                  amazed that unbelievers are not still more numerous. But I was going to inform you
                  how I was led into the light. I prayed, very earnestly, before retiring, to be
                  enlightened; but the passage, 'He that believeth not shall be damned'*
                   was in my mind all the while, and even after I went to sleep, 'he that believeth not, shall be damned,'
                  seemed ringing in my ears, and aimed directly at my husband. But this morning when
                  I stepped to Henry's bedside, he looked up with a smile, saying, 'Mary, I am very
                  much better, and shall soon be well; but I was very sick last night, and when I
                  sent for you, I thought to myself, if the Christian religion is true, I shall soon
                  become a firm believer; for when I rise in the resurrection, it will be no longer
                  possible to doubt.' I perceived, at once, that in that case, my husband, not being
                  of those who believe not, could not then be damned for not believing the truth,
                  and my heart was at rest."
               "And I trust you will always enjoy that rest," said Julia. "What you most feared,
                  was death; whereas death would have been the gateway through which your husband
                  must pass to become a firm believer."
               "But are we then, saved by death?"
               "By no means!" replied Julia. "Unbelievers cannot be made believers by
                     dying, but by being raised from the dead, in and through Christ, who
                  declares that he is the resurrection and the life."†
               
               
                  *Mark xvi: 16.
               
                  †John vi: 25.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               MR. WOODBURY AND MAUD.—JACK GREEN.
               WHILE Julia was still conversing with Mr. and Mrs. Grafton, Mr. Woodbury and Maud
                  Arden were ushered into the room. While the pastor was warmly greeted by Mr.
                  Grafton, his wife gave Maud one of her most cordial welcomes. As the reader
                  already knows, the two ladies had been intimate friends from their earliest
                  childhood, and since the events recorded in chapter sixth, they often confided in
                  each other much as they did when children.
               "Got a beau?" whispered Mrs. Grafton, smiling innocently, not suspecting anything
                  of the kind.
               Maud's face colored so visibly, and her manner was so confused, that Mrs. Grafton
                  begged her pardon, saying, "Excuse me; I was very rude."
               "No you are never rude," replied Maud, "and I will talk with you before long."
               Mrs. Grafton gazed at her old friend, half doubting her own senses; then, however,
                  quietly pinching Maud's cheek, she whispered her congratulations, and wished her
                  much joy.
               After some time spent in agreeable conversation etc., the hostess called Jack Green, the chore boy, and
                  requested him to bring in some nice apples. Jack returned, in a few minutes, with
                  a hat full, at the sight of which Mr. Grafton burst into a laugh, while his wife
                  and visitors, who had endeavored to keep sober faces, followed in the wake of the
                  invalid.
               "Why, Jack," exclaimed Mrs. Grafton, "What are you about?"
               "Obeying orders," replied Jack, innocently. "Where shall I put 'em?"
               The young fellow had hardly uttered the words, when his foot caught in the mat,
                  and the next moment the apples were rolling on the carpet. "Never mind now," he
                  added, addressing Mrs. Grafton: "you needn't fix any place to put 'em; cause
                  they're all put on the floor."
               "You should always bring fruit in a basket, or dish," said Mrs. Grafton.
               "Oh, I don't care," replied Jack; "it don't hurt my old hat any way."
               "What a rogue that fellow is!" said Mr. Grafton, as Jack disappeared.
               "But he has an excellent heart, nevertheless," replied the wife.
               "Good hearted enough," said Mr. Grafton; "but full of mischief. He knows the
                  proper way of doing things as well as any one; but he makes his blunders with such
                  a look of innocence and modest assurance, that neither my wife or I can bear to
                  scold him. I venture to say, that he is now almost splitting his sides at the
                  excuse he made, that it wouldn't harm his old hat to carry apples in it."
               "The other morning," added Mrs. Grafton, "as I was passing through the dark entry,
                  I ran directly against him. He must have purposely placed himself in my way; but
                  pretended to be searching for the door knob."
               "And a few days ago," said Mr. Grafton, "when the pig got loose, Jack and Pat
                  McCabe started in pursuit. Pat set off first; but Jack ran like a race horse and
                  soon passed him, when suddenly stopping, Pat ran against him, and both tumbled
                  down together. Pat rose in terrible anger; but Jack was the first to speak, and
                  commenced complaining of Pat for running against him, when he knew he was right
                  ahead of him. Pat asked him why he stopped so suddenly, and Jack replied that he
                  wasn't going to tire himself to death before they had agreed what to do after
                  overtaking the pig."
               "Who is he?" asked Mr. Woodbury.
               "The son of widow Green," replied Mrs. Grafton.
               "Our village tattler," added the husband.
               "I have often seen her," said Mr. Woodbury; "but do not seem to remember the
                  boy."
               "He has been to sea nearly two years," replied Mr. Grafton. "He arrived home but a
                  short time since, and commenced work for me. His mother, however, is such an
                  inveterate scold, that it is all I can do to prevent him from going to sea
                  again."
               As Mrs. Grafton opened the outside door, when her visitors were departing, she saw
                  a pair of boots directly before her face, and looking down, she discovered that
                  Jack was standing upon his head in front of the entrance.
               "Why, Jack Green," exclaimed Mrs. Grafton, "what are you doing?"
               "Spectators round?" cried Jack, regaining his feet in amazement. "I guess a feller
                  must be pretty hard of hearing when he stands on his head, or I should heard
                  ye?"
               "Learning?" asked the pastor.
               
               "No sir," replied Jack. "Learnt when I was at sea."
               "Why do you stand upon your head?"
               "Cause, if I don't, all the blood will run into my feet," replied Jack, with a
                  look of great innocence, while his audience indulged in a hearty laugh.
               "Why, how it snows!" exclaimed Julia, looking up.
               "We shall have quite a snow storm."
               "Snow storm!" cried Jack, cutting a couple of pigeon wings, and turning a
                  summersault. "Think there'll be sleighing?"
               "Plenty of it," replied Mr. Woodbury.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE GREAT SLEIGH RIDE.
               MR. Woodbury was correct. The next morning, the earth had assumed her mantle of
                  snow, and still the flakes fell thicker than ever; but about noon the storm
                  ceased, and Jack commenced shoveling paths.
               That afternoon he cleared all kinds of paths for Mr. Grafton. He then started for
                  Mr. Bright's residence. Mr. Bright being from home, Jack shoveled all the paths
                  needed. Mrs. Bright remarked, a number of times to Ella, that it was not
                  absolutely necessary for her to stand exactly in Jack's way while he was shoveling
                  snow; but Jack declared, very positively, that not only was Ella never in the way,
                  but, on the contrary, was quite a help to him.
               Now Jack had engaged Mr. Grafton's horse and sleigh, and made an arrangement with
                  Mrs. Bright and Ella, to treat the latter to a sleigh ride; but the depth of the
                  snow prevented anything like a ride for pleasure until the next day. That night
                  Jack dreamed of riding with Ella over snow banks half a mile high.
               Arden visited a number of the older members of the Sabbath School, to ascertain
                  their views in regard to a great sleigh ride; and before night it was decided that
                  an affair of that kind should take place in a few days.
               
               The next Friday afternoon, the scholars and teachers assembled at the church. In
                  front of the meeting-house, a large number of sleighs were assembled, conspicuous
                  among which was an immense one, gotten up for the occasion by orders from Arden.
                  This great sleigh was not a costly affair, but would carry from forty to fifty
                  passengers. Jack was seated on the front seat, holding the reins of four steeds,
                  while by his side sat Ella, who insisted that Jack wished her to occupy that
                  particular locality.
               It seemed, to the spectators, an impossibility for the sleighs to contain all the
                  persons congregated in the church; but in about ten minutes after the word "all
                  aboard" was given, every scholar and teacher was comfortably seated in the
                  different conveyances, and soon after, headed by Arden's mammoth vehicle, they
                  started on the grand sleigh ride.
               In spite of his feeble health, Mr. Grafton was bundled up and took his place among
                  the rest.
               As they rode through the village, the occupants of the great sleigh sung spirited
                  hymns and songs, while from the houses, along the route, handkerchiefs were waved
                  and other demonstrations of a like character made.
               The day was beautiful and the sleighing excellent, and, as the children sang,
                  laughed or indulged in other demonstrations of joy, 'Squire Benson declared that
                  it made him young again.
               "How strange it is," remarked Mr. Woodbury, "that people are found who imagine
                  that religion consists in a long face!"
               "Yes," exclaimed 'Squire Benson, "Many people judge of the depth of a man's piety
                  by the unhappiness of his mind. The gloomier we can make our religion, the higher
                  is their estimate of it. However, I hope the day will come, when neither length of
                  visage, nor sorrowful expression of countenance, will be looked upon as the true
                  criterion of pure and undefiled religion."
               "Amen!" said Mr. Woodbury. "I have seen persons whose faces looked as though the
                  prick of a pin would cause vinegar to flow; yet I have learned that such persons
                  are not the most religious. I am acquainted with others who always wear a smile,
                  for the very reason that their hearts are filled with love to God and man. The
                  former drive people from the church, while the latter are constantly winning souls
                  to Christ."
               At this moment, the children struck up a spirited hymn in which the pastor and
                  Squire Benson joined. But we cannot, of course, attempt any minute description of
                  the ride. We will, however, mention a piece the children sung while passing any
                  considerable number of dwellings, and repeated as they returned through Ardenville
                  to the church. The verses were composed for the occasion by 'Squire Benson. We
                  give the piece entire.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE SLEIGH RIDE.
                           
                              Merrily sound the tinkling bells,
                              Cheerily, cheerily;
                              Of happy hearts their music tells,
                              Merrily, merrily;
                              O'er the hills and through the vales,
                              Each prancing steed shall be our sail;
                              So speed we on with prosperous gales,
                              So merrily, so merrily.
                           
                           
                              Let every heart be filled with glee,
                              Cheerily, cheerily;
                              Our bosoms all from sadness free,
                              Merrily, merrily;
                              Awake to joy, be dry each tear,
                              Let tones of gladness fill the ear;
                              For nought but merry hearts are here,
                              So merrily, so merrily.
                           
                           
                           
                              So on we go, a joyous throng,
                              Cheerily, cheerily;
                              And sweetly sing our happy song,
                              Merrily, merrily.
                              And when we gain that blissful shore,
                              In sweeter strains each voice shall soar,
                              And praise our Father evermore,
                              So heavenly, so heavenly.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               As the members and friends of the Sabbath School, on their return, entered the
                  vestry, a welcome sight greeted them. A bountiful, though not very costly repast,
                  was provided. Arden extended a cordial invitation to all; after which Mr. Woodbury
                  asked a blessing, and a great onslaught was made upon the eatables. After the
                  bountiful supper, a hymn of praise was sung, when 'Squire Benson, being called
                  upon, addressed the school as follows:—
               "As I cast my eyes around the room, I am reminded of a story.
               "There were once two mothers who had two little daughters of about the same age.
                  Each of these girls learned to sing when very young, and, like some other parents
                  I have known, each mother imagined that nobody could sing quite so sweetly as her
                  little girl. Now these mothers held a great many arguments on this subject with
                  each other, and one day, when the disputants had waxed warmer than usual, they
                  agreed to refer the question to one of their neighbors—an old man who was very
                  fond of music. So the little girls were conducted to the old man, who agreed to
                  decide the case according to the best of his judgment; and so the little girls,
                  being called upon, began to sing, first one and then the other. After the first
                  trial, the old man, with a doubtful expression, asked each to sing again; and once
                  more the little girls carolled away like nightingales. But no decision was given;
                  and again and again the little girls sang, until the mothers became impatient, and
                  clamored for judgment. 'Well,' said the old gentleman, 'I have, at last, arrived
                  at a definite opinion: I am fully convinced that Mary's voice has the most melody
                  in it, while Ellen's is the most melodious.'
               "My friends, I am fully persuaded that our sleigh ride has the most melody in it,
                  while our Sabbath School sessions are the most melodious."
               After the laugh, which followed the story, had subsided, 'Squire Benson
                  continued,—"There is a class of persons who often tax my patience severely. I
                  refer to those who constantly affirm that we are too jolly, or in other words,
                  that our hearts are too full of happiness and joy. Why, when Philip preached in a
                  city of Samaria, there was great joy in that city.*
                   The kingdom of God does
                  not consist in gloomy feelings, but is righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy
                     Ghost†
                   My friends, let us also
                  'joy in the God of our salvation.' We went out to-day with joy, and were led forth
                  with peace; the mountains and the hills did break forth before us with singing,
                  and all the trees of the field did clap their hands."‡
                  
               
               After a duet by Mrs. Grafton and Julia Arden, the school sung a closing hymn, and
               the day's entertainment closed.
               
                  *Acts viii: 8.
               
                  †Rom. xiv: 17.
               
                  ‡Isaiah iv: 12.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               MR. JOHN ERNEST, THE NEW MINISTER. A HINT TO PASTOR AND PEOPLE.
               THE reader has doubtless correctly surmised that Mr. Woodbury and Maud Arden were
                  already engaged, and, as they wended their way homeward after the sleigh ride,
                  they could hardly help conversing upon the subject nearest their hearts. After
                  reaching home, the day for the wedding was decided upon, and various preparations
                  for the coming nuptials, discussed and planned.
               But how vain are merely human calculations! how unreliable are all things earthly!
                  Nothing is stable but Jehovah, nothing abiding but goodness and heaven.
               The vestry in which the people congregated after the great sleigh ride, was very
                  warm, and as the pastor returned home in company with his betrothed, he became
                  chilled by the frosty atmosphere without. After reaching the house, being
                  naturally absorbed in the topic under consideration, he failed to notice,
                  sufficiently, his physical requirements, and before morning, Arden went for the
                  village physician, who found the pastor in a raging fever; and when the day set
                  for the marriage arrived, the bridegroom was still prostrated by sickness, and
                  thus he continued for a long time.
               It was at length apparent that a new pastor must be called, and Sabbath after
                  Sabbath the pulpit was occupied by candidates. Divisions now began to appear in
                  the church and society.
               One was in favor of this preacher, and another of that. One candidate was too old,
                  while another was too young; one talked too fast, while another was altogether too
                  slow of speech. One preacher put them all to sleep; but the next candidate was
                  much too lively. One was too mournful, and another too jolly; and while one was a
                  complete dandy, still another was a perfect sloven. And thus the war went on until
                  a pastor was finally called, who began his ministerial labors among this Christian
                  people.
               Mr. Ernest, the new minister, commenced his labors under somewhat unfavorable
                  aspects. Following a pastor like Mr. Woodbury, whom all loved, it was not strange
                  that some were disappointed in the new preacher. 'Squire Benson endeavored to make
                  his labors pleasant and profitable; yet in spite of all his efforts, there seemed
                  to be a growing dislike to the new pastor. Arden attempted to stem the current,
                  but all in vain. No one complained of his lack of faith, piety or zeal, or that
                  his labors were not sufficiently arduous; yet unconsciously, both to himself and
                  friends, he was deficient in one of the most essential qualities of a minister of
                  the gospel. He lacked charity. The least difference of opinion, existing between
                  himself and any member of his congregation, he always called opposition to his
                  labors among them. It was in vain that 'Squire Benson hinted—and sometimes very
                  broadly, that a mere difference of sentiment was not, strictly speaking,
                  opposition to the man. It was in vain that people affirmed that those who labored
                  most for the spread of the gospel, were his real supporters; for Mr. Ernest firmly believed that any
                  one, who differed with him, was the firm enemy of the church.
               By referring to chapter fifth, the reader will perhaps obtain a clearer idea of
                  the difference between the new and the old pastor.
               The persistent manner in which the new pastor stood in his own light, was somewhat
                  of a mystery to most of the church and congregation; but to 'Squire Benson and his
                  wife, who noticed the great intimacy between Mr. Ernest and the Lazelle family,
                  the whole subject seemed plain.
               Mr. Ernest had unfortunately fallen, as it were, into the hands of Mr. and Mrs.
                  Lazelle, the latter of whom at once thoroughly poisoned his mind in regard to the
                  affairs of the parish, and by her numerous hints and insinuations, the pastor
                  became prejudiced against many worthy members of the church and congregation.
               Had all the things referred to by, Mrs. Lazelle, been true to the letter, the
                  course pursued by the new pastor, could have availed nothing in the way of
                  remedying the evil, but would simply have made a sad state of affairs still more
                  to be deplored.
               The author has penned many articles upon the duties of church members; but there
                  is also a great Christian duty incumbent upon every preacher of the gospel; and he
                  has long ago arrived at the conclusion, that instances of love and piety, produced
                  by a spirit of hatred and envy, are, and must always be exceedingly rare.
               How much we deplore the little bickerings and jealousies that spring up between
                  pastor and people; and yet half these hindrances to the success of the gospel,
                  might be removed by a loving, charitable spirit on the part of either the pastor
                  or the members of his flock. Distrust and dislike can almost invariably be
                  obliterated by a manifestation of real love and charity from either side. Charity
                  is the essential element needed to produce concord and harmony; without it,
                  discord and evil bear undisputed sway.
               When we hear any person, who habitually speaks ill of his pastor, affirm that the
                  minister is harsh and uncharitable, we at once conclude that the speaker has
                  pursued the very course he complains of, towards the pastor of his church; and
                  should we hear a minister affirm that his flock did not appreciate him, we could
                  not help thinking that he was also in fault, and set too high a value upon his
                  services. Any person, be he preacher or layman, whose heart is filled with love,
                  can hardly help being truly loved and respected, even though his talents fail to
                  fit him for the position he may occupy.
               As the sequel will show, Mr. Ernest had it in his power to bring order and harmony
                  out of chaos and variance; but, under the pernicious influence of Mr. and Mrs.
                  Lazelle, the pastor did not choose to lower his dignity by any weak and childish
                  manifestation of love, conciliation and forgiveness on his part.
               But as 'Squire Benson affirmed, the people were also in fault; for had they,
                  instead of using harsh epithets, given their attention to the spread of the gospel
                  of peace, a month could hardly have passed ere peace and harmony, like a river,
                  would have flowed into the Ardenville church; but in spite of all the exertions of
                  'Squire Benson and his friends, the great majority of the people were not to be
                  moved into any exhibition of charity, or induced to manifest any great religious
                  zeal. And therefore, as time flew, the clouds rolled on, the trouble grew, and the
                  breach widened.
               The society soon resolved itself into two classes; one in favor and the other
                  opposed to the longer continuance of
                  Mr. Ernest as pastor. Mr. and Mrs. Lazelle were, of course, firm and zealous
                  adherents of the new minister, or rather determined in their endeavors to retain
                  one whom they could control. The Benson and Arden families were well known to be
                  firm supporters of Mr Ernest; but in regard to the propriety of retaining him,
                  they expressed no opinion, preferring rather to wait for time to develop new
                  phases of the question.
               A meeting of the society was finally called to decide the matter; and the whole
                  village became interested in the result; but, upon inquiry, it was found, that,
                  for some unaccountable reason, the trustees, of whom 'Squire Benson was one, had
                  decided that the meeting was not to be held until nearly three weeks after being
                  called.
               It was plain to all that the vote would stand strongly against retaining Mr.
                  Ernest as pastor, and the new minister himself seemed well aware of the sandy
                  foundation upon which he stood.
               The next Friday evening, a delegation, including 'Squire Benson and Arden, called
                  upon the pastor. Glancing at his visitors' countenances, Mr. Ernest discovered, at
                  once, their mission, and assuming a very stern expression and dignified manner, he
                  prepared for a fearful onslaught, and a vigorous defense. But it was almost an
                  hour ere the subject uppermost in their minds was alluded to, and when the
                  Question was clearly introduced, the manner of Mr. Ernest had entirely changed.
                  Sundry tears forced themselves into his eyes, and his voice was not only not
                  stern, but very unsteady. At the close of another half hour, the conversation was
                  carried on without the least restraint, and at the termination of the interview,
                  the pastor offered a prayer that melted his little audience, and when he had
                  finished, 'Squire Benson prayed in a manner that seemed to carry the little
                  company pany back to the time when Mr. Woodbury was in the zenith of his
                  prosperity.
               "I was fearful," said Arden, as he and his father-in-law wended their way home, "I
                  was fearful that our mission would prove fruitless; but I find so little false or
                  worldly pride in our pastor, that I do hope we shall be enabled to retain
                  him."
               "You need indulge in no fears of our sustaining so great a loss," replied 'Squire
                  Benson. "There is no more danger of his leaving Ardenville, than there was of your
                  being turned out of the superintendency of the Sabbath School."
               "But, by the way," said Arden, "why did you wish to retain me as
                  Superintendent?"
               "Because," replied 'Squire Benson, "turning you out would damage the school in
                  many respects, and I was satisfied that the course I pursued was the only way to
                  make a devoted Christian of you. I felt fully convinced that your heart was very
                  susceptible to good influences; and I was not mistaken."
               "Thank God you were not!" exclaimed Arden. "And now how shall we be enabled to
                  retain Brother Ernest?"
               "He will do all the retaining requisite," replied 'Squire Benson, smiling. "Our
                  pastor has really been honest all the while; but to-night he has been converted to
                  Christianity; and if he does not backslide, (and it will be our fault if he
                  should,) he will become a second edition of Brother Woodbury. Next Sabbath he will
                  have a large audience, and they will all go away pleased with what they see and
                  hear, and they will continue being pleased until one and all conclude that he
                  cannot be spared. He will not intimate in his sermons that we are sinners above
                  all the Galileans; nevertheless, he will often say to many an individual in his
                  congregation, 'Thou art the man!'"
               
               "I see plainer than ever before," said Arden, "that it is a great thing to be a
                  Christian."
               "My son," added 'Squire Benson, earnestly, "keep on thinking so."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               IN WHICH MR. ERNEST DESTROYS HIS ENEMIES.
               ON the next Sabbath afternoon, a very large congregation assembled at the church
                  to hear the pastor's sermon.
               "We shall receive an awful lecture this afternoon," remarked Mr. Jones to his
                  wife, as they were on their way to the house of worship.
               "I dread to hear it," added his wife; "but I wouldn't remain at home, this
                  afternoon, for the world."
               "You want to hear it, and you don't," said Mr. Jones, smiling.
               "Yes, I dread to hear him on his own account; yet I wish to know precisely what he
                  has to say."
               "I wonder if he will come down hard upon me and others."
               "Never mind if he does."
               "Well, I'll endeavor not to; and yet I'm sure of feeling worse, as I leave, than
                  when I enter the church. His sermon will be perfectly awful. Figuratively
                  speaking, he will not leave a spot on the surface of my physical system that isn't
                  black and blue."
               "Don't let us go in, then."
               "But I will go in. I must receive the castigation, and the sooner I receive it the
                  better."
               
               As Mr. and Mrs. Jones took their seats, they instinctively gazed around to notice
                  the people present. Mr. Lazelle sat bolt upright in his pew, and, beside him, his
                  wife, arrayed in such an immense quantity of silk and velvet, that she must have
                  been very uncomfortable; but she endured the hardship for the sake of the fashion.
                  Arden and Julia sat in their pew, looking unusually happy, while 'Squire Benson
                  and his wife appeared as calm and serene as a morning in May. Mrs. Bright's face
                  wore a troubled expression, while little Ella, who had failed to get a reply to a
                  plain question repeated six times, was looking at a small red covered Sabbath
                  School book, though occasionally she raised her eyes to ascertain the cause of her
                  mother's deafness.
               "I must say," remarked Mr. Jones, in a whisper, "that 'Squire Benson is a singular
                  man. Nothing disturbs him. Why can't I be like him? How cool he looks!"
               "No, not cool! Why, his heart is all aglow with the fire of love to God and
                  man."
               At this moment the Rev. Mr. Ernest rose and read the hymn.
               "I don't understand that hymn," whispered Mr. Jones. "I wonder what text he will
                  choose."
               "I think," replied his wife, "it will probably read as follows: 'And a certain man
                  went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves.'"
               Mr. Jones compressed his lips as closely as possible, to prevent the escape of a
                  hearty laugh that was striving hard to find vent.
               After the singing of the hymn, Mr. Ernest named his text. It was the First Epistle
                  of John, iv: 7. "Beloved, let us love one another." And, in the opinion of the
                  audience, such a sermon as he preached, had never been excelled even by Mr.
                  Woodbury himself.
               There were no reproaches, no threats, no accusations. In fact, there was not the
                  slightest allusion to any difficulty; but he spoke as though every man was a
                  friend to him and he a friend to every man.
               Mr. Ernest followed his carefully written sermon for nearly a half hour, when,
                  closing his manuscript, he spoke for fifteen or twenty minutes without notes. The
                  sermon was unusually long; yet no one seemed impatient to hear the end, and when
                  the speaker closed, there were many moist eyes among the congregation.
               "I'll take back all I have said," whispered Mr. Jones to his wife; "and,
                  furthermore, we ought not to lose such a man."
               "Let us wait for him in the broad aisle," said Mrs. Jones.
               As the minister passed down the aisle, it seemed to him that shaking hands had of
                  late become uncommonly fashionable in Ardenville. Mrs. Lazelle was really
                  displeased with the state of affairs, but Mr. Lazelle seemed to be the only one
                  present actually dissatisfied. "Why did he not give his enemies just what they
                  deserve?" said he to his wife. "I'm not in favor of this milk and water stuff. On
                  an occasion like this, he should have risen with the great epoch presented to him.
                  He talked like a child instead of a man made in the image of Jehovah. But, as the
                  Bible says, 'We must winter and summer a man, before we learn all
                  his failings.'"
               "He that humbleth himself like this little child, the same is greatest in the
                  kingdom of heaven," remarked 'Squire Benson, unconsciously placing his hand upon
                  Ella's head. "In malice be ye children, but in understanding be men."
               "That is all very well in certain cases," replied Mr. Lazelle; "but on an occasion
                  like this, I can but exclaim claim in
                  the language of David; 'Lay on Macduff, and—and—'"
               Mr. Lazelle did not finish his sentence. The misquotation was rather too absurd,
                  even for himself.
               "Well, what do you think now?" said Arden, addressing 'Squire Benson. "Have we not
                  already a second edition of Brother Woodbury?"
               "He exceeds my highest expectations," replied 'Squire Benson. "But, Brother Jones,
                  what do you say to the sermon?"
               "Say!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, "Why, that's just the way true Christians always talk,
                  and I'm a John Ernest man from this time."
               "And I'm an Ernest woman," added Mrs. Bright.
               "Rather earnest, generally speaking," said Arden, laughing.
               "Yes," added Mrs. Grafton, smiling, "I think we are all growing earnest."
               "And let us continue to grow until we attain the full stature of men and women in
                  Christ Jesus," said 'Squire Benson. "We have all, I trust, learned a great lesson
                  to-day; and we shall be very unwise, if we do not profit by it in after years. Let
                  us also thank God, that our pastor has this day destroyed his enemies, utterly
                  destroyed them root and branch! What a glorious victory! But if we can rejoice so
                  greatly at such a triumph, what will be our feelings when all the wicked are
                  destroyed, root and branch; when the whole wicked way of the ungodly shall perish;
                  when God shall destroy all his enemies by making them his friends!"
               "And I have learned two lessons," exclaimed Mr. Grafton; "for I now see clearly
                  how the Saviour will destroy the enemies of God, and how, after he has put all
                  human enemies under his feet, GOD CAN BE ALL IN ALL. I now comprehend how every
                  true, loving soul, can pray that God may destroy, both root and branch, every
                  enemy by making them all his never ending friends. I have been puzzling my brains
                  over this for the past week; but now the whole matter seems plain."
               "In many instances, however," remarked 'Squire Benson, "reference is made simply
                  to physical death, in which case some of the wicked are destroyed from the face of
                  the earth, physically destroyed both root and branch; but
                  nevertheless they will rise in the resurrection: for as in Adam all die, even so
                     in Christ shall all be made alive."
               "I see clearly," said Mr. Grafton, "that every man will be made alive in
                     Christ, and not out of Christ; but will all be equal in eminence?"
               "All I can say," replied 'Squire Benson, "is, that, although Christ says all who
                  are raised will be equal unto the angels, Paul tells us that every man will be
                  raised in Christ in his own order. As to what the word order means,
                  I, of course, have an opinion; but it is perhaps sufficient for us all to rest in
                  the assurance that all will be raised in their own order, in
                  Christ."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               JACK GREEN'S ADVENTURE.
               AS Mr. and Mrs. Grafton, on their way home, passed the house occupied by Mrs.
                  Green, the woman already referred to as a village tattler, the sound of angry
                  words saluted their ears. They distinguished the voices of both the widow and Jack
                  Green in violent altercation, and, a moment after, Jack issued from the door,
                  rubbing his head, crying and sputtering very angrily.
               "Blasted old critter!" cried Jack. "Can't let a feller live in peace! Ketch me
                  staying round here! I'll go to sea just as quick as I can go."
               "Why, Jack," exclaimed Mrs. Grafton, "what is the matter?"
               "Matter!" cried Jack, furiously; "matter enough to inoculate a thousand with
                  something worse than small small pox. Talk 'bout the seven plagues of Egypt! I'd
                  rather have 'em all, blast her!"
               "But what has happened?"
               "She hit me right on the head with a broomstick," replied Jack. "But I don't care,
                  if she'd keep her clack still. Scolding from morning till night, like Jehu!"
               "Why, Jack," broke in Mrs. Grafton, "you ought not to talk so about your
                  mother."
               "My mother, not by a jugfull! She's my step-mother, and she worried my poor, old
                  father to death. Then I cleared out to sea. But I kinder wanted to see home; so I
                  come back, and I was real tickled to see her again. I forgot how mean she was. She
                  acted like folks a little While; but I tell you, she's full of scold and meanness,
                  and it's got to come out. I won't stand it any longer, and I'm off to sea
                  to-morrow. I'd go to-day if I had my things."
               Mr. and Mrs. Grafton tried in vain, to pacify him; but seeing that Jack could not
                  be induced to remain, Mr. Grafton paid him his wages and gave him five dollars as
                  a present, accompanying the money with a large amount of good advice, all of which
                  Jack promised to consider.
               It was now about dark, and Jack went to the barn, where, lying down upon the hay,
                  and covering himself with a buffalo robe, he soon fell asleep. Soon after
                  midnight, he awoke, and getting up, started for the house where his step-mother
                  resided. He effected an entrance by a window, and, soon after, had his things in a
                  small bundle. He was in the act of lifting the package from the floor to depart,
                  when he felt himself grasped from behind, while the harsh tones of his step-mother
                  grated upon his ears.
               "Running away, are you?" she exclaimed, angrily. "Stealing too. You've been to my
                  drawer, and taken all my money. Don't deny it. I know you have; so I must see what
                  you've got."
               Jack resisted; but grasping him by the hair, she soon emptied his pockets of every
                  valuable, including all the money received of Mr. Grafton, which she stoutly
                  declared to have been stolen from her; and as a punishment for theft, compelled
                  him to leave his best clothes and other valuables with her.
               
               The moment an opportunity presented itself, Jack made a bold push for the window,
                  and managed to tumble out unharmed, glad to escape without any bruises from his
                  pursuer. He now set off boldly towards New York city, without a cent in his
                  pocket; but, under the excitement of the previous night, he had neglected to eat a
                  mouthful of supper, and he soon grew faint and weary. Jack had thus far in his
                  checkered life, avoided begging; but as the present necessities of his situation
                  seemed to demand a departure from his former course of conduct, he solicited
                  something to eat at a grocery store. He had, however, hardly uttered his petition,
                  ere he was grasped by the collar, and pushed violently into the street.
               A moment before, there was no boy more honest than Jack Green; he would have
                  loathed the bare idea of theft; but as he stood in the street, after his rough,
                  treatment, he was fully conscious of the fact that a large portion of his
                  reverence for the eighth commandment had suddenly departed; and he was now fully
                  prepared, not only to steal each and every article belonging to the grocer, but to
                  lay unlawful hands upon anything in the shape of eatables wherever found.
               Reader, if you desire to multiply the number of thieves, do not fail to imitate
                  the example of the grocer, and you will have accomplished something towards
                  insuring such a result. If, however, you would encourage honesty, foster goodness,
                  and diminish vice, never suffer a hungry person to leave your premises without
                  sufficient to satisfy the craving for food. Be that person drunk or sober, good or
                  bad, bread will never make him worse. We have no right to lead our hungry neighbor
                  into temptation by a refusal of necessary food. True charity, like the love of
                  God, never fails.
               Now it so happened that 'Squire Benson was in the little village, supplying a
                  customer with a lot of hats. Hearing a commotion-in the street, he looked out, and
                  discovered Jack in charge of an officer. 'Squire Benson recognized the prisoner at
                  once, and stepping into the street, he accosted Jack, and inquired the cause of
                  his arrest, when he was informed by the policeman, that his prisoner had been
                  caught in the act of stealing a loaf of bread. 'Squire Benson expressed great
                  surprise at what he heard, adding that he hoped there had been some mistake in
                  regard to it; for he had known Jack as an honest boy.
               There are men whose presence, at once, commands respect; their very countenances
                  bear the unmistakable impress of unwavering fidelity and loving hearts, and people
                  instinctively do them reverence; and when 'Squire Benson, enveloped in a kind of
                  moral atmosphere, asked Jack the cause of the theft, the officer made no objection
                  to being detained long enough to hear the recital.
               Jack told his story; but when he had finished, instead of having him carried
                  before a magistrate, the complainant offered him food, the officer refused to
                  receive any remuneration for his services, while a man in the crowd passed round a
                  hat, and about five dollars was collected, and put into the hands of Jack, who, as
                  he realized the real interest taken in his welfare, instantly dropped the defiant
                  air he had assumed, and burst into a flood of tears, declaring that it was the
                  first, and should be the last theft he would commit.
               Had Jack been carried before a justice, and made to suffer for the crime of
                  stealing, the crime for which the grocer should really have been held accountable,
                  that course would probably have converted Jack into a small edition of Jack
                  Shepard; but through the influence of a
                  friend, he was now honest Jack Green, who could safely be trusted with untold
                  wealth.
               'Squire Benson took Jack by the hand, and mounting the steps leading to the store
                  where he had been trading, he thanked the people in the name of his young friend,
                  and then, in a few words, explained how easily an honest boy might be converted
                  into a thief by harsh treatment, closing his little speech by an exhortation to
                  exercise kindness and charity; "not, however," he added, "simply towards those who
                  stand in no particular need of such manifestations of good will, but exercise your
                  love and charity towards the erring and unfortunate who really need such
                  exhibitions of friendly interest."
               At the conclusion of 'Squire Benson's short speech, there was quite a clapping of
                  hands by way of approval. 'Squire Benson proposed to Jack that they repair to an
                  eating house; but the latter replied that his appetite had vanished; they
                  therefore started for the railroad depot, where they entered the cars, and bowing
                  an adieu to the crowd, they were soon on their way home.
               As Jack rode towards Ardenville, he could not help realizing the fact that 'Squire
                  Benson had saved him from a fate more to be dreaded than death itself, and he
                  resolved that, should opportunity ever present itself, he would show his
                  benefactor how truly grateful he really was.
               Jack was taken into 'Squire Benson's family, to remain until his step-mother
                  should be compelled to return his money and clothing, when he was to start upon
                  another sea voyage, provided a desirable situation could be obtained. While Jack
                  is lingering for a few days in Ardenville, we will pay a friendly visit to Mr.
                  Jacobs, Emma and Benson, in the city.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               IN WHICH MR. JACOBS BECOMES EXCITED.
               MR. JACOBS was greatly troubled concerning the sober faces about him, never once
                  suspecting the cause. It was in vain he inquired; for no answer, at all
                  satisfactory, was obtained.
               "I would do anything for you," he would say, "could I but see your old faces
                  again. I have lost both clerk and daughter; and only tell me what I shall do to
                  find them again, and it shall be done."
               In a short time, however, the young couple began to laugh and joke, though not
                  with the old heartiness of manner.
               "I'll find out what the matter is with my children, before I'm a week older," said
                  Mr. Jacobs, as he passed into the kitchen, where, after talking with one of the
                  servants, about some alterations he intended making in the cook room, he said,
               "By the way, Mary, can't you tell me what the trouble is with Mr. Benson and my
                  daughter Emma?"
               "I've seen 'em all the time looking drefful kinder down like," replied the
                  servant; "but how could the likes of me find out the matter?"
               
               "Well, can't you guess, then? or haven't you heard anything said that might
                  suggest an idea? Come now, here is a bright five dollar gold piece, if you'll find
                  out. I can't stand this thing a single day longer. There, take this piece, and
                  perhaps you'll find out something. However, were you to tell me what you have
                  heard and seen, I might add another gold piece to that one."
               "Well, you's so kind," replied the maid, "that I'll tell ye all about the honest
                  truth of it."
               "Yes, tell me all about it," said Mr. Jacobs, jingling a couple of gold pieces in
                  his hand, as she commenced her narration.
               "Ye see," began the maid, "I saw 'em both crying together the very same day they
                  came home. I happened to see 'em, you know. They was in one room and I was in
                  'tother, but they didn't see me or know I was there, and they kissed each other a
                  great many times, and he was telling her something he heard you say, as how that
                  Miss Emma's husband must have a great fortune, and then she promised him she would
                  never marry any one else. And yesterday I heard 'em say as how that, as they
                  couldn't marry without your consent, they would live together in the same house,
                  and be quite happy like, after all; and since then they've picked up
                  'mazingly."
               "Take these other two pieces, Mary, and see that you don't mention this to any one
                  on any account."
               "The young rascal heard our conversation, did he?" said Mr. Jacobs, as he rode to
                  his office. "But this rose must be nipped in the bud. Can't suffer it to go on any
                  way. Love sick! Well, I never! Always thought they were about alike; but didn't
                  think such harum scarums could keep still long enough to think of marriage.
                  To-morrow morning Mr. Benson will cease to be my clerk."
               A number of times, during the afternoon, Benson noticed ticed Mr. Jacobs looking
                  at him with a peculiar expression, and, thinking some new evil was about to befall
                  himself and Emma, he was obliged to suspend writing to quiet his agitation.
               "Mr. Benson," said Mr. Jacobs, "I see that you are not feeling very well, and, as
                  I have something of importance to say, perhaps it would be well for us to be
                  seated. You have now been in my employ for some time, and ought, by this time, to
                  be able to answer the questions I shall ask. And, in the first place, are you
                  satisfied with the pay you have received?"
               "More; yes, much more than satisfied."
               "Have I ever wronged you, or spoken an unkind word?"
               "Never! You have been almost too good."
               "Well, Mr. Benson, my daughter, I know, would make the same reply in regard to
                  herself; and, as you both acknowledge my constant kindness, could either of you
                  find it in your hearts to refuse one request I shall make?"
               "I think I understand what you refer to; but you will pardon me if I do not feel
                  able to reply. However, when that request is made, I shall try to follow the
                  golden rule that our Divine Master has enjoined upon us."
               "Would you like to leave my employ?"
               "Not unless you wish it. Yet, to be plain with you, I cannot but regret that I
                  ever saw this city."
               "Then I have actually wronged you after all."
               "If there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath,
                  and not according to that he hath not. So says the good book, and I therefore feel
                  truly grateful for your kindness. I have been killed with kindness."
               "Then you must not complain, if I am harsh, or seem unkind in the request I shall
                  make by and by. If you have been killed
                  with kindness, why not raise you to life by unkindness?"
               "I know," replied Benson, "that our Saviour was made perfect through
                     suffering.*
                   Why then, should I complain?"
               "That is the right way to endure trial, Mr. Benson; but before I proceed to make
                  my request, there is another little matter we will finish. Seeing that you
                  consider it a curse, I will say that to-night ends your labors with me as clerk.
                  But, to show you that I bear no ill-will, if you like the business, I will endorse
                  your notes to any reasonable amount to carry it on."
               "Believe me, Mr. Jacobs, that I feel grateful for your very kind offer; but when I
                  leave your warehouse, I shall go back to Ardenville to remain there for life. I
                  have been able, through your generosity, to provide for the future wants of my
                  parents. My own personal wants are few, and, with fair health, I have no financial
                  fears. Still, I feel that the business is beneficial to the world, and under other
                  circumstances, should be pleased to set up for myself, or better than that, to
                  enter the business with a trustworthy partner."
               "Things have come to my ears that forbid me to employ you longer as my clerk. Not
                  that I think you ever meant to wrong me or my daughter; but you cannot deny that
                  my daughter's happiness has been interfered with of late; and what lessens her
                  comfort, interferes with mine."
               "But, Mr. Jacobs, I will do anything for you or your daughter, that will increase
                  the happiness of both. I will never see her again if she wishes it."
               "Are you not unreasonable, Mr. Benson? Do you not know that she does not wish you
                  to leave? Have you not already stolen her affections? and would she not give you
                  her very eyes if asked to do so? Knowing this, do you presume to talk of leaving,
                     if she should wish it?"
               
                  *Heb. ii: 10.
               "I did not steal your daughter's affections, neither has she stolen mine; on the
                  contrary, we both gave them unasked the first time we met. But I did not dare to
                  think of your daughter otherwise than a sister, until I forgot myself while in her
                  company. I had never dreamed that she looked upon me other than as a kind of
                  foster brother."
               "A poor excuse, Mr. Benson, to say that a man of your good sense forgot himself;
                  you may forget yourself again; but, for your own good, it would be well to
                  remember that my daughter can never be the wife of my clerk. Not that I esteem you
                  the less; but my pride will never brook such a thing."
               "Mr. Jacobs, allow me this one remark; you can, if you will, allow yourself to
                  become or remain the very slave of pride or of any other evil; but as for me, I
                  stand here as one of God's freemen, and no man shall rob me of my liberty."
               "Nobly spoken, Mr. Benson; and believe me, that no man can be named whom I would
                  prefer to yourself; but my pride stands in the way. If your passion was hopeless,
                  why did you suffer yourself to become a member of my household? Why not have
                  shunned the danger?"
               "Because, Mr. Jacobs, I thought I might, and I did try to conquer my feelings. I
                  have been continually forgetting myself; for even when you offered to take me into
                  your warehouse, the thought of your daughter was the principal attraction to me.
                  Had I known her sentiments, I should never have dared to come; for on her feelings
                  alone did I look for safety."
               "But what do your father's family say?"
               
               "My sister has continually warned me of my danger, and my mother would not even
                  consent to talk of marriage till you were consulted."
               "I expected as much, and I honor them both for it. There is no family under the
                  sun I would sooner connect my daughter with by marriage than your father's, and I
                  love yourself and my daughter all the better for your choices of such sensible
                  persons; and, to show you my real feelings, I will give you a chance for my
                  daughter's hand, and that is to enter into co-partnership with me, under the firm
                  of JACOBS & BENSON. I will have the documents drawn up to-night, and give
                  orders for the sign to be ready by to-morrow, morning. What! can't say a word!
                  Well, never mind, I know how you feel. There, there, don't squeeze my hand off,
                  you young rascal; but run right up to the house, and ask Emma if she can board me
                  after you set up housekeeping. Hold on a minute. Don't you think you were wrong in
                  not consulting me as your mother advised? Of course you do. After the wedding, you
                  must not flare up, as you did just now, about being the slave of pride; for,
                  although I object to Emma's marrying my clerk, I don't object to her marrying my
                  partner. What in the world is your great hurry? I haven't stated my request yet,
                  and that is that you inform me, as soon as possible, when the wedding is to take
                  place. Stop a minute. You'll break your neck next. Mind that no more long faces
                  are allowed in my house. Tell Emma to hunt up that old laugh of hers, and see if
                  you can't collect a few more stories to tell me, and—and—botheration! Get out! Off
                  with you! What a young rascal that is! Emma loved him! of course she did. Shows
                  her good sense in picking out a husband. There isn't another such in the world.
                  'Squire Benson beats the world on sons, but he can't quite come up to me on a
                  son-in-law—not by a jug full. His mother wouldn't consent till I was consulted!
                  Shows a little want of sense there, any way. Just as though I would have any one
                  else for a son? Didn't think of marrying my daughter! Zounds! Who then would he
                  have?"
               
               "Ah, this seems like old times," exclaimed Mr. Jacobs, after a hearty laugh, as
                  the family were eating supper. "That was a capital story. I declare, Emma, you
                  beat me laughing. What did you observe in regard to fortune?"
               "I wish to know, papa, what you meant by telling Mr. Grafton that my husband must
                  be the possessor of a princely fortune."
               "I said a princely fortune of some kind," replied the father. "But
                  had Mr. Benson waited to hear the conclusion of the conversation between Mr.
                  Grafton and myself, he would have saved us all from much unhappiness. There are
                  many poor rich men, and a large number of rich poor men. Some men are rich in
                  money, others in business talent, while still other persons possess mines of
                  wealth in their well known moral integrity. Vast numbers of individuals have made
                  shipwreck of themselves and families through downright meanness. Such persons are
                  poor indeed. They are simply paupers, living upon the bounty of others; or in
                  other words entirely dependent upon their moral neighbors for the protection of
                  their property and privileges; for without such neighbors, the members of society
                  would become thieves and robbers, liars and cheats; and in such a community, a
                  man's property is often of no other use than to induce thieves to break through
                  and steal. It behooves the poor to
                  become so truly good, that they will exert an influence that shall make the rich
                  kind and charitable. And if the wealthy would be secure in their possessions, and
                  enhance the value of their property, how careful should they be to pursue that
                  truly Christian course which would influence their neighbors to become honest. By
                  laying up such heavenly treasures, thieves would not break through nor steal; but
                  become orderly citizens. But I have preached a longer sermon than I intended."
               "None too long," replied Benson. "We ought to have more just such sermons from the
                  pulpit."
               "There is, however, still another lesson to be drawn from our experience," said
                  Emma. "I have distrusted my best friend,—my own father, and I have been punished
                  for it; and in like manner each and every person who distrusts God, will surely
                  suffer for the sin."
               "Why Emma; you are quite a theologian," exclaimed her father, smiling. "Please go
                  on with your sermon."
               "Well then," continued Emma, "to illustrate, do you recollect how Mr. Jenks
                  suffered when his unbelieving son died? He could not trust God with the immortal
                  well being of his son."
               "I remember the circumstances," replied the father, "and I now see clearly that he
                  was justly punished for his want of faith."
               "Yes," said Emma, "and that justice will most assuredly be dealt out to those who
                  are fearful and unbelieving in the infinite goodness of God. Even be that person a
                  church member, who strives earnestly to perform all his religious duties, if he
                  cannot trust God with his unbelieving and unconverted friends, he is guilty of a
                  terrible sin, and must suffer for it; and from that continued punishment, he can
                  only escape when his faith is enlarged sufficiently to believe that God is better
                  instead of worse than men; and when his faith in God is so strong that he can
                  confidently trust him under all circumstances, when he believes that God is, and
                  will always remain infinitely good to all; then, and not till then, can he truly
                  enter into rest."
               "Why, Emma," again exclaimed her father, smiling, "were you not so engrossed in
                  the subject of matrimony, I should feel almost inclined to educate you for the
                  pulpit."
               We will conclude this chapter by copying a letter from Benson to Julia.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "New York,——
                           
                           MY DEAR SISTER:—I write to inform you that Emma has no father. There
                              is, however, a very excellent old gentleman, whom people call Mr.
                              Jacobs, now residing with Emma. This morning a new sign will appear on
                              Pearl Street, worded as follows:
                           'JACOBS & BENSON, WHOLESALE WAREHOUSE.'
                           
                              Your Affectionate Brother,
                              BEN.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           P. S.—Show this letter to father and mother, and inform them that we
                              have not yet fully decided in regard to the precise day for the
                              wedding.
                           P. S. 2d.—Emma is looking over my shoulder, and tells me to send her
                              dearest love as well as that of her father, and to add no more
                              postscripts."
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               SQUIRE BENSON ARRESTED FOR BURGLARY.
               AFTER recovering his money and clothes, Jack again started for New York, from
                  which city he was to sail in a coasting vessel.
               The next morning after Jack's departure, it was announced that the residence of
                  Mr. Lazelle had been entered the previous night, and many valuables, including
                  Mrs. Lazelle's jewelry and quite a sum of money, were carried away by the burglar.
                  A reward of five hundred dollars was offered for the detection of the thief and
                  the recovery of the stolen property.
               The excitement in regard to the theft was intense. Some seemed to imagine that a
                  gang of robbers were located in Ardenville, while others thought the village had
                  been visited by a band of desperadoes from New York city. But upon one question,
                  all were agreed, and that was, that every inhabitant of Ardenville was extremely
                  liable to be robbed of any article of value that was suffered to remain unwatched.
                  Women hid their silver spoons between the straw and feather beds; men saw no other
                  way of preserving their watches than by secreting them beneath their pillows at
                  night, while the president and cashier of the bank, after a long consultation,
                  despatched a messenger to New York, to see about having a new and improved lock
                  placed upon the safe door. Even boys hid their balls and marbles; girls made their
                  playthings as secure as possible; and after hearing her mother talk over the
                  affair with a neighbor, little Ella Bright, with a careworn expression of
                  countenance, suggested to her maternal parent, that it would be the most natural
                  occurrence imaginable for her to wake up some fine morning, and find, upon a
                  careful examination, that her doll, which had been snugly stowed away the evening
                  before, was nowhere to be found.
               As we have remarked, the excitement was intense, and rumors and sad histories of
                  the events of the preceding night, were circulated throughout the village, by
                  young and old. One man stoutly insisted that Mr. Lazelle had been severely wounded
                  while valiantly endeavoring to prevent the removal of the plunder, while another
                  individual affirmed, with great pertinacity, that Mrs. Lazelle was even then lying
                  at the point of death from the effects of a dagger-thrust from the cold blooded
                  burglar. Nothing else was thought of or talked about during the forenoon, and
                  business, even, was conducted in a loose manner by the shrewdest mercantile and
                  financial men. So entirely were the minds of the citizens engrossed by the
                  all-absorbing topic, that misers, in their anxiety, forgot to reckon their gains,
                  and even Mr. Graball, the grocer, at one time, became so completely absorbed in
                  his meditations upon the terrible news, that he actually neglected to give
                  sufficient change to one of his customers. Some malicious people, however, affirm,
                  to this day, that it was only one of the many proofs of his dishonest manner of
                  transacting business; but, for our own part, we have given little heed to such
                  idle slander, as we can truly affirm,
                  that we could always confidently trust Brother Graball, under all circumstances,
                  so long as we kept the right side of him, and allowed him no opportunity to obtain
                  any advantage over us.
               About noon, to the astonishment of all who saw it, an officer, duly armed with a
                  search warrant, and accompanied by a couple of assistants, entered the residence
                  of 'Squire Benson, and commenced a thorough search of the premises, from garret to
                  cellar, and in a corner of the last named locality, the whole of the missing
                  property was found, secreted beneath a pile of wood.
               "Well! well!" exclaimed the officer, as he gazed upon the stolen goods, "I never
                  will believe in preaching again. Can it be possible that the very last man we
                  should have suspected, is the real thief? The man whose praises are sounded by
                  every tongue? Let me tell you that this affair will prove the most terrible shock
                  that Christianity ever received in Ardenville. A thousand infidel warriors could
                  not have made such a breach in the walls of Zion. It is too bad—too bad! Ah! this
                  is truly an awful affair."
               "Awful affair!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, who could hardly contain himself at what he
                  heard and saw; "I guess it will be awful on the scoundrel who put those things in
                  'Squire Benson's cellar."
               "Where is 'Squire Benson?" asked the officer.
               "He went out just before you arrived," replied Mrs. Benson, "but will probably
                  return in a short time."
               "He is trying to escape," exclaimed the officer; and leaving one assistant in
                  charge of the stolen property, he started in pursuit, accompanied by the
                  other.
               It was not long before they espied the fugitive, a short distance ahead, in the
                  act of leaving the road, by climbing Mr. Grafton's fence near the barn, and a
                  moment after, the officer and assistant were by his side.
               "Where are you going?" asked the officer.
               "Taking a little trip on my own hook," replied 'Squire Benson.
               "On your own hook," repeated the officer, winking at the assistant.
                  "Well, we've an idea that it is on account of your own
                     hook; and I now arrest you on that very same hook of
                  yours that came off last night."
               "What do you mean?" asked 'Squire Benson, in astonishment.
               "What do I mean?" replied the officer. "Why, I begin to think
                     you are mean enough for anything. You are my
                  prisoner! So turn about, old boy, and just cause those lower limbs of yours to
                  move a trifle faster than they are ordinarily accustomed to."
               "For what am I arrested?"
               "Well, that's a pretty question, I must say. 'For what am I arrested?' You didn't
                  break into Mr. Lazelle's house nor nothing, I suppose. O no, not at all! Well, I
                  rather think you did'nt. Of course you didn't. I know you didn't. I'll take my
                  oath you didn't. Because if you had, the goods wouldn't have been found in your
                  cellar."
               "My friend," said 'Squire Benson, "will you please inform me as to the cause of my
                  arrest?"
               "Of course I will, old boy; because you know you are so entirely in the dark in
                  regard to the affair. Come, come, old fellow, don't look so innocent like. That
                  game is about played out with me. I'm used to it."
               'Squire Benson grew somewhat uneasy under the taunts of the would be wit, and
                  especially as the truth flashed upon his mind that he was charged with the late
                  robbery. He walked along in silence for some time; but the officer still continued
                  his low witticisms until forbearance became no longer a virtue.
               
               "Sir," said 'Squire Benson, "in all my life I never, willingly, added to the
                  misery of any human being. I am not perfect; on the contrary there are many of my
                  acts that I have cause to regret; but I have never yet been called to answer for
                  the sin of taunting the unfortunate. And, my friend, recollect that I am not
                  proved guilty; and when my innocence shall be established, as it certainly will
                  be; I say when the facts in the case are known, you may wish that you had acted
                  more in accordance with the golden rule, and in case you should show, what you
                  might consider, too great mercy towards your brother man, you can very easily
                  correct the supposed mistake; but remember that an uncharitable act is more
                  difficult to mend."
               'Squire Benson's manner, more than his words, produced a marked change in the
                  officer's conduct, and no further insults were offered to the prisoner.
               As they reached the building where the preliminary examination was to be held,
                  they found a large assemblage of people, who, by various demonstrations, testified
                  their respect for a truly good man.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               'SQUIRE BENSON'S EXAMINATION.
               IT was almost night before the examination commenced. 'Squire Benson was seated in
                  an easy chair, with his wife on one side and Mr. Jones on the other. Mr. Lazelle,
                  who had but just arrived, was put upon the witness stand, and being sworn,
                  testified as follows:
               "I know nothing in regard to the affair, except that I was informed, in the
                  morning, that my house had been entered during the preceding night, and, upon
                  examination, it was found that the goods secreted in 'Squire Benson's cellar, were
                  missing. Mrs. Green, who has been at work for my wife for the past week, informs
                  me, that she was awakened during the night by the noise of a falling window; but,
                  thinking it only one which had been accidentally left open, she paid no attention
                  to it until hearing footsteps outside, she arose, and, looking from the window,
                  beheld 'Squire Benson, or some one that resembled him. Thinking he wished to speak
                  with her, she raised the window, and spoke, when he turned around, and it being,
                  as you all know, a bright moonlight night, she obtained a good view of his
                  features, which so resembled 'Squire Benson's countenance that she called his name. At this, however, he drew his
                  hat over his face, and replied that he was a stranger and wished to be directed to
                  a public house. Although the individual seemed endeavoring to disguise himself,
                  Mrs. Green thought she recognized the tones of the prisoner, and exclaimed, 'come,
                  come! 'Squire Benson, tell me what you want,' at which he started off at a fast
                  walk which resembled, for all the world, the usual step of 'Squire Benson. The
                  event struck her as being so very singular, that she laid awake for some time, a
                  good deal frightened; and when she fell asleep, it was to dream of the occurrence
                  of the night. Upon rising, she found certain doors, that were always kept shut,
                  wide open, and going to close them, she discovered the furniture, etc., in great
                  disorder, and the idea occurred to her that the house had been robbed. She
                  awakened the cook and chambermaid, and after a hasty examination of the rooms,
                  they called Mrs. Lazelle, who instantly arose. In about five minutes, however, she
                  returned to inform me that the house had been robbed. I arose, and after a careful
                  inspection of the different apartments, I questioned the servants, when Mrs. Green
                  related the story which I have already repeated. I laughed at the idea of 'Squire
                  Benson being the person seen by Mrs. Green; but she and my wife insisted that an
                  officer, armed with a search warrant, should at once examine the prisoner's
                  dwelling; not that they believed him to be the burglar; but that we should all
                  feel easier after searching and finding nothing. I opposed the plan at first; but
                  finally consented, after which I proceeded to New York city, to put the police on
                  their guard, and I have, as you know, but just returned, and, to my great
                  surprise, find our friend a prisoner. In concluding my testimony, I can only say
                  in the language of Scripture, that truth is stranger than
                  fiction."
               A smile passed over the features of the crowd, as Mr. Lazelle concluded his
                  narrative with one of his many mis-quotations.
               Mrs. Lazelle, Mrs. Green, the cook and chambermaid, were severally examined and no
                  new facts were elicited, but the above testimony strengthened.
               At the conclusion of the examination, 'Squire Benson was put under three thousand
                  dollars bonds to appear at court for trial.
               "How far will my name go towards that sum?" asked Mr. Jones.
               "We will take your name for one-third of the sum," replied the justice.
               "And how far will my husband's name extend?" asked Mrs. Bright, who was seated
                  beside Mrs. Benson.
               "We should take it for the remainder," replied the justice; "but unfortunately he
                  is not here."
               "But I will answer for him," replied Mrs. Bright.
               "No doubt you would," replied the justice, "and I honor you for your interest in
                  the prisoner; but that will not meet the requirements of the law in this
                  case."
               "May it please the court," said Mr. Lazelle, "I perceive the dilemma in which our
                  friend is placed. His wealthy son-in-law is on a journey, his son and son's
                  father-in-law are in New York city, while Mr. Bright is, as usual, from home. Mr.
                  and Mrs. Grafton are also away, and I am pleased that it is so; for I am here, and
                  furthermore I insist upon letting the bonds stand just as they are, and I myself
                  will be the bondsman. Mr. Jones, you perceive the peculiar situation in which I am
                  placed. My position may be misconstrued, while, after what you have done, your
                  conduct will stand in its true light."
               A hum of applause passed through the room, while Mr. Jones leaped from his chair,
                  and grasped Mr. Lazelle zelle by the
                  hand as he exclaimed, "Mr. Lazelle, you are a man,—every inch a man!"
               "Mr. Jones," said Mr. Lazelle, "when I remember that I am only a man, I cannot
                  forget that I may be placed in the same position in which we find our friend; for
                  the Bible says, that the wheel of fortune never ceases to revolve, and therefore
                  we, who are up to-day, are down to-morrow."
               In spite of her bland countenance, Mrs. Lazelle looked as though she disagreed,
                  somewhat, with her husband; but she very prudently said nothing.
               'Squire Benson grasped the hand of Mr. Lazelle, and while the tears filled his
                  eyes, he thanked him for his kind words and acts.
               "In some respects," said Mr. Lazelle, "this is a very happy moment to me. I seem
                  carried back to the time when I first embraced the Christian religion. I think I
                  must turn over a new leaf, and try to follow more closely in the footsteps of our
                  Saviour. The Bible tells us that we cannot hinder the birds from flying over our
                  heads; but we can prevent them from building nests in our hair. But I fear that I
                  have allowed a large number of the feathered tribe, to approach near enough to
                  construct their dwellings upon my head. But what I am impatient to ask is, for
                  heaven's sake, what does all this mean, 'Squire?"
               "I am sorely puzzled," replied 'Squire Benson. "It is certainly a great mystery to
                  me; but I doubt not that a few days will solve the problem. If I am disappointed,
                  however, in this, I can still trust in God who has numbered the very hairs of our
                  head."
               "Yes," added Mr. Lazelle; "or, as Solomon says, 'Trust in God and
                  keep your powder dry.'"
               With a heart filled with happiness and good thoughts, Mr. Lazelle, accompanied by
                  his wife and Mrs. Green, wended his way home. The man of the world was laid aside,
                  and the principles of Christ, the dear Saviour, filled his bosom with love and
                  joy. Good resolutions were being formed, and plans by which they might be carried
                  into execution. He resolved first of all, to stop any farther proceedings in
                  regard to the trial, and was on the point of planning a way of doing it secretly,
                  in order to effect an agreeable surprise, when the voice of his amiable spouse
                  half awoke him as from a pleasant dream.
               "Mr. Lazelle," she exclaimed, "I want to know what has induced you to perform the
                  part of a fool in this afternoon's comedy, as you have?"
               "What! I acted the fool, to-day!" said Mr. Lazelle in surprise. "I don't
                  understand you."
               "Well then, if I must speak a trifle plainer, what do you mean by becoming the
                  bondsman of that thief?"
               "Why, Mrs. Lazelle!"
               "Don't why me. I mean just what I say. He's a hypocrite and a thief,
                  and before we get through with this case, you'll see it as plainly as noon-day. I
                  haven't felt so thoroughly ashamed of anything in years, as I was to hear my
                  husband offer to become the bondsman of the very man who had robbed his wife of
                  all her jewelry."
               "But, Mrs. Lazelle! I cannot think 'Squire Benson would be guilty of so base and
                  despicable an act."
               "Can't think so! Well I must say that you are a very singular man to disbelieve
                  both your eyes and ears. I tell you he's a thief, and will be branded as a
                  thief!"
               Here the fashionable lady, by way of emphasis, stamped her foot, in doing which
                  she so bruised it upon a sharp stone that she fairly groaned with anguish. "Any
                  fool," continued she, "ought to be able to tell that."
               
               "I hope we are mistaken," said Mr. Lazelle, thinking it full time to
                  effect an agreement with his better self in order to avoid an open collision;
                  "yes, I really trust that you and I are mistaken in our opinion; but if we are
                  right, I then say, let the law take its course. I am not the man to conceal a
                  fault in another, even though it be my bosom friend."
               "I must say," broke in Mrs. Green, "that you are right. Villany should be
                  unmasked, even though it break our very hearts."
               "Yes," added Mr. Lazelle, "in the language of Scripture, we will tear asunder the
                  veil of hypocrisy, and let the hideous monster stand naked in all its
                  deformity."
               "What a noble hearted, generous husband you have!" exclaimed Mrs. Green to Mrs.
                  Lazelle.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE TRIAL.
               THE day before the trial of 'Squire Benson was to be held, Mr. and Mrs. Grafton,
                  who chanced to be in New York, went to the wharf where the vessel still lay, to
                  bid Jack adieu ere they returned to Ardenville. The two visitors soon discovered
                  their former chore boy assisting in the lading of the craft. The usual greetings
                  were no sooner passed, than Jack inquired after 'Squire Benson, upon which the
                  visitors gave an account of the whole affair of the burglary, including 'Squire
                  Benson's arrest.
               "'Squire Benson arrested for that burglary!" exclaimed Jack. "Don't they know no
                  more than to think somebody else couldn't put them things there just as easy as
                  not?"
               "Still, things look pretty dark," replied Mr. Grafton.
               "Then I must light 'em up," exclaimed Jack, after thinking a moment. "I shan't
                  never forget his kindness to me, and I'll save him as sure as my name is Jack
                  Green."
               "Why, Jack," said Mrs. Grafton, "how can you save him?"
               "Oh never you mind," replied Jack; "I know a thing or two about this scrape
                  that'll make their eyes stick out so't you can hang your hat on 'em."
               
               Mr. and Mrs. Grafton, were soon obliged to leave for the cars; but as they were
                  carried towards Ardenville, the words of Jack were discussed until they arrived at
                  the conclusion that he knew no more concerning the robbery than they did, and
                  though he might mistrust something, in spite of his confident
                  assertions, they voted his declarations simply moonshine, and for the time being
                  dismissed him from their minds.
               Mr. Lazelle regretted, exceedingly, that his wife seemed so bent upon convicting
                  'Squire Benson of burglary; but feeling himself utterly powerless to resist, he
                  floated quietly along in her wake.
               'Squire Benson grew somewhat anxious as the day for trial came without the least
                  clue to the mystery.
               "I care not so much for myself," said he to his wife; "but to think that you must
                  suffer, and the fair name of my children be blackened, is very hard to bear."
               "I trust that all is for the best," replied Mrs. Benson. "Whether we are afflicted
                  or prospered, it is all for our profit. Let us not forget the exhortation, 'My
                  son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked
                  of him; for whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he
                     receiveth.'"*
                  
               
               "My dear wife, you have been my good angel for many years, and for your sake, I
                  will try to bear up under this great chastisement, for I am still in the loving
                  arms of the Almighty. He who suffers not a sparrow to fall without his notice,
                  will assuredly count me of more value than many sparrows."
               Before the day of trial, many letters and telegrams were sent to Arden; but no
                  answer was returned until the evening before, when a telegram was received from
                  him, stating that he had just received tidings of the arrest, and, if possible,
                  would be at home in time for the trial.
               
                  *Heb. xii: 5,6.
               Young Benson, and even Mr. Jacobs came, endeavoring to comfort 'Squire Benson and
                  his wife; but so far as the robbery was concerned, they could do nothing to clear
                  up the mystery.
               Matters stood in this condition when the hour for trial came, and the case was to
                  be decided by twelve unprejudiced men.
               Mr. Lazelle, his wife and Mrs. Green repeated their former testimony, and it
                  seemed to all that 'Squire Benson's prospects of acquittal were very small indeed.
                  Many witnesses were called on the side of the prisoner; but as no testimony was
                  elicited excepting as to his irreproachable character, it seemed almost
                  superfluous. Both the testimony and circumstances of the case appeared so strongly
                  prejudicial to the prisoner, that some of his acquaintances, even, began to waver
                  in their opinion as to his innocence. But we will not attempt a minute description
                  of the trial; suffice it to say, that after being closeted a full hour, the jury
                  returned, and the foreman announced eight for conviction and four opposed. As the
                  foreman took his seat, Mr. Lazelle was really shocked to overhear his wife whisper
                  to Mrs. Green, "I'm satisfied; for although he is not yet convicted, it will blast
                  his good name forever."
               At this period of the proceedings, the audience near the door became a good deal
                  agitated. The crowd swayed to and fro, and a moment after, Arden and Jack Green
                  appeared, and took their places in front of the jury.
               "May it please the court," said Arden, "I have but just arrived, and found our
                  young friend, near the door, conversing about this trial. He informed me that
                     he had reached here not ten minutes
                  before myself. The person with whom he was conversing, told me that he had been
                  giving Jack a brief statement of the case, after which Jack requested me to
                  introduce him to the jury, though for what purpose he would not state; but I am
                  convinced, however, that he can throw some light upon this great mystery."
               Mrs. Lazelle's countenance lit up with a smile as she whispered to Mrs. Green, "I
                  rather think it will take more than your son Jack to turn the tide."
               "I guess I can clear up this smoky affair," began Jack. Mrs. Green turned slightly
                  pale; but Jack continued; "'Squire Benson is just as innocent of robbing that
                  house as a nursing infant, and I can't see the innocent suffering for the guilty.
                  Fact is, [here Jack turned to the crowd with an air of triumph,] fact is, I might
                  as well own up, that I was the thief. What would you think if I should tell you
                  that I myself, broke into Mr. Lazelle's house, and stole the
                  goods?"
               "But," asked the foreman of the jury, "Why did you deposit them in 'Squire
                  Benson's cellar?"
               Jack's face colored considerably, and he did not reply until the interrogatory was
                  repeated.
               "To tell the truth," replied Jack, "I feel more ashamed of that than I do of
                  stealing. But I didn't think anybody would think of looking for them things, in
                  the house of the best man in town, who every body knows couldn't steal if he
                  should try; and that's why!"
               The speaker was interrupted by a tremendous applause; but a moment after he
                  continued, "I'm pretty guilty,—have done very wrong; but I want you to let let me
                  off as easy as you can, and I'll promise never to steal any more."
               "Be the powers!" exclaimed a son of Erin, as Jack ceased, "if ye carry such a
                  noble boy as that to jail, I'll never say there's a Christian among ye all."
               "He might have escaped detection," added Arden, "and yet, rather than another
                  should suffer, he convicts himself. I will go bail to any amount for this generous
                  hearted boy. Jack, you have acted nobly in this thing, whatever you may have been
                  guilty of before."
               We will not enumerate the many congratulations and expressions of praise, with
                  which Jack was greeted on all sides; but omitting many events, simply give those
                  most interesting to the reader.
               As soon as Arden had finished speaking, cheers were given for Jack and 'Squire
                  Benson; cheers for all his friends, and finally one boy cried out, "Three cheers
                  for everybody!" which were given with a will, mingled with laughter.
               Jack was not even examined in relation to the affair; but left the court room
                  unmolested, in company with Arden, Mr. Lazelle stating that, of course, no trial
                  would ever be had, as he could not, if it were in his power to prevent it, suffer
                  a young man, who, of his own accord, returned and confessed his fault to save
                  another from disgrace, to be brought to trial. The property was restored, and that
                  was all he asked.
               It is needless perhaps, to add that young Benson and Mr. Jacobs were overjoyed at
                  the unexpected termination of the affair, while Mr. Jones, not knowing precisely
                  what he was doing, shook and re-shook the hands of all with whom he came in
                  contact. Mrs. Benson, who hitherto seemed perfectly self-possessed, was obliged to
                  be supported home, while Mr. and Mrs. Grafton were radiant with smiles, and Mrs.
                  Bright and Mrs. Jones expressed themselves as being much more than pleased with
                  the result.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               MR. LAZELLE SOLVES THE MYSTERY.
               AFTER the crowd had left the court-room, Mr. Lazelle turned to address his wife,
                  when, to his surprise, he beheld her face as pale as death. "What is the matter?"
                  asked the husband. "Are you ill?"
               "I—I—think," replied Mrs. Lazelle, "the air is very close here."
               "The air seems pure now that the people have left. But let me take you home at
                  once. Mrs. Green, will you assist me? By the way, you ought to be proud of that
                  boy of yours. He has done wrong, I know; but only think of his nobleness in
                  returning and confessing. His heart is larger than that of an ox. Yes, he has a
                  few faults; but this shows him to be far better than most boys." Mrs. Green was
                  almost as pale as Mrs. Lazelle; but, rousing herself, she assisted in conducting
                  her employer home.
               When they reached the house, Mrs. Lazelle, who was anxious to be rid of the
                  presence of her husband, told him to go out and learn the news, as she should want
                  to hear all about what was taking place; and Mr. Lazelle went down street, where
                  he met Arden.
               "Mr. Lazelle," said Arden, "we have always been friends; and as a friend, I will
                  take the liberty of enquiring why you allowed that trial to take place?"
               "Why, my wife—my—my—well you see—that is to say, you see—"
               "Yes," replied Arden, "I see the whole thing clearly. It needs no telescope to
                  behold it; for I can discern its whole outlines with the naked eye. Mr. Lazelle,
                  you have betrayed a secret. I knew your noble heart too well, even to suspect you
                  of wishing to injure my father-in-law; but why suffer yourself to be coaxed, or
                  even driven into such a position? Prosecutor of an innocent man! accuser of one so
                  pre-eminently good as 'Squire Benson! I do not wish to be harsh and uncharitable.
                  No; I will try to imitate the man who has been so foully wronged. But, Mr.
                  Lazelle, do me the favor of stopping for a moment, and contemplating the
                  outrageous, disgraceful position in which you have placed yourself, or rather
                  suffered yourself to be placed."
               "Brother Arden, I have been guilty of a grievous sin, and I feel that I ought to
                  cry mightily unto God. For years I have been a weak man; but, with the help of
                  God, I will remain so no longer. You shall see that I will be strong!"
               "Give me your hand," exclaimed Arden; "and if you persevere, God will be your
                  strength and your Redeemer."
               A sudden thought struck Mr. Lazelle, and hurrying home, he entered his house by
                  the rear entrance.
               "Where is Mrs. Lazelle?" asked he of the cook.
               "Up stairs," replied the cook; "Shall I call her?"
               "No; I think I'll step up myself."
               Mr. Lazelle proceeded very cautiously up stairs, and passed from room to room as
                  quietly as possible, every now and then stopping to listen. He had reached the very last room, when he thought he
                  heard voices inside, and, soon after, distinguished the familiar tones of his wife
                  and Mrs. Green, in earnest conversation. Between the two apartments was a small
                  closet, in which Mr. Lazelle placed himself, and quietly closed the door, when, to
                  his surprise, he could easily distinguish nearly every word uttered by the inmates
                  of the next room. Mr. Lazelle listened to the conversation between his wife and
                  Mrs. Green, for nearly an hour, when the two females left the apartment and went
                  down stairs, while the listener came out of his hiding place, looking haggard and
                  pale. He sat down in a chair and groaned aloud in the agony of his soul. No tear
                  dimmed his eye; for his grief was too horrible for tears. He could stand the awful
                  tempest in his bosom no longer, and, with a heart-rending groan, he fell heavily
                  to the floor in a state of unconsciousness. When he came to, a short time after,
                  he found himself upon his bed. Mrs. Green was chafing his hands, while Mrs.
                  Lazelle stood by, pale as ashes.
               "What has happened?" asked the wife. "What is the cause of your illness?"
               Mr. Lazelle held up his hands as though he would shut out the very sight of his
                  wife; but, stooping down, she whispered, "What is the cause of your fainting?"
               "I have been listening in the closet for an hour."
               "Listening!" shrieked Mrs. Lazelle.
               She would have fallen had not Mrs. Green caught her and placed her upon the bed
                  beside her husband.
               "Then you know all?" asked Mrs. Green, of the miserable man.
               "Yes," replied Mr. Lazelle, "I know all. Oh! how could you?"
               "Remember," said Mrs. Green, a little reproachfully, "that your wife made the
                  proposal to me."
               Mr. Lazelle groaned again, but said nothing. In a few minutes, however, he arose
                  from the bed, and with compressed lips and a firm expression of countenance,
                  desired Mrs. Green to accompany him to the next room.
               "Mrs. Green," said the unhappy man, "I have but a few words to say. Instigated by
                  Mrs. Lazelle, you deposited those goods in 'Squire Benson's cellar, in order to
                  blast the character of the good man. Had you burned his house over his head, or
                  maimed him for life, I could have borne it with tolerable composure; but this
                  crime is too great, and I sink beneath its crushing weight. But it is not, I
                  trust, too late partially to repair the evil. The wicked dig pits, but they
                  generally fall into their own snares; and in this case you shall not escape."
               At this moment Mrs. Lazelle, who had noiselessly entered the room, exclaimed,
                  "What, will you expose this silly affair, and ruin yourself as well as your wife
                  and Mrs. Green?"
               "Mrs. Lazelle," replied the husband, with sternness, "for many years I have been a
                  weak man; but if you imagine that I am still the vacillating wretch of the past,
                  you have only to learn your mistake. And do you call this merely a silly affair?
                  Do you commit such horrible crimes—crimes that chill my very blood, and then tell
                  me you were but in sport? I tell you if you do not clear the skirts of Jack Green
                  of the crime of burglary, I will proclaim all I know upon the very
                  house-tops."
               "What madness!" exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle. "I tell you that you shall not do it."
               "That language might have answered your purpose this morning; but it fails to move
                  me now; for my heart will burst unless I find some relief. It is too awful, and my
                  soul sickens at the thought of so horrible a crime. I cannot imagine a heavier
                  blow than the one with which I am
                  stricken. It is useless for you to reason with a man made desperate by his misery;
                  and yet I am calm in my resolution. I am only anxious to repair the mischief done
                  and place ourselves in a position that will forbid our participation in new
                  crimes. Were all my wealth to be swept from me, I would rejoice, could the loss
                  bring back my former peace of mind. But thank God, it is not yet too late to undo
                  a portion of the evil."
               "Listen to me a moment," said Mrs. Lazelle, "and I promise you that I will repair
                  the whole damage."
               "Speak quickly, then."
               "I will. We have wealth. Give Mrs. Green a thousand dollars to compensate her for
                  taking upon herself the whole responsibility of the crime. With this money, she
                  can remove to the West, where, unknown, she can spend her days in quiet. You say
                  you are anxious to repair the mischief, and now we will see whether you mean what
                  you say."
               Mrs. Green, who was naturally avaricious, immediately offered to assume this
                  position for two thousand; "for," said she to herself, "with this sum I can live
                  where I am unknown, and be respected by my neighbors."
               Mr. Lazelle agreed to the proposition at once, and an hour afterwards the money
                  was placed in Mrs. Green's hands, and a messenger was sent for Arden, who soon
                  after arrived, accompanied by Jack.
               "For heaven's sake!" exclaimed Arden, as he gazed upon the stern, haggard features
                  of Mr. Lazelle, "for heaven's sake! what has happened?"
               "A judgment from Almighty God," replied the miserable man, with a countenance
                  immovable as stone.
               "Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth,"
                  repeated Arden. "But what is the cause of your trouble?"
               "Mrs. Green will inform you."
               Mrs. Green here proceeded to state that she had taken the missing articles from
                  Mr. Lazelle's house, and deposited them in 'Squire Benson's cellar.
               "I don't understand all this," said Arden. "Jack, I thought you alone were
                  concerned in this affair."
               Jack colored to the tips of his ears, but said nothing.
               "I see," exclaimed Arden, his face expressive of still greater astonishment. "And
                  so, Jack, you were generous enough to plead guilty, merely to save my
                  father-in-law. Mr. Lazelle, this young man is a true hero, and if God spares my
                  life, he shall never live to see the day that he will regret this unheard of
                  sacrifice. Such nobleness of soul shall not go unrewarded. I do not overlook the
                  fact that even in the act of generosity, an untruth was nearly stated; but, like
                  the oaths of General Putnam at Bunker Hill, I feel that the tears of the recording
                  angel will obliterate it."
               That evening, accompanied by Mr. Lazelle, Arden and Jack, widow Green went before
                  a justice of the peace, and acknowledged the crime. The next morning, with a
                  package containing two thousand dollars, Mrs. Green started for the West.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               'SQUIRE BENSON DESTROYS HIS ENEMY.
               AFTER an almost sleepless night, Mr. Lazelle arose on the morning subsequent to
                  the trial with compressed lips which seemed to say, "there is something rather
                  serious about to take place." Mrs. Lazelle was far from being blind to the fact
                  that her husband had assumed the responsible position of the lord of the
                  household, and, furthermore, she saw no likelihood of his ever again surrendering
                  the place, to be occupied by herself. That she was really sorry for what she had
                  done, was evident; but her sorrow partook merely of negative goodness, as she
                  seemed to possess no resolution to do good. In fact, she had simply ceased to do
                  evil without the determination of learning to do well. On the morning referred to,
                  she watched the expression of her husband's features with painful interest. For
                  years she had despised the man she so easily ruled; but for the first time, in
                  spite of herself, she began to feel symptoms of sincere respect.
               "Mrs. Lazelle," said the husband, after a silent breakfast, "please to accompany
                  me to the library. I wish to converse on a matter of vital importance to us
                  both."
               Without a word, the trembling woman followed her husband, and throwing herself
                  into a chair, she sat dreading the coming evil.
               "Mrs. Lazelle," began the husband, "I have no more reproaches to make, and so far
                  as I am concerned, I ask for nothing. For all the misery I have and must yet
                  endure, I alone am responsible. I feel that I am suffering, if not for the sin of
                  commission, at least for the sin of omission, of which I have been so deeply
                  guilty. It seems almost like a dream as I look back over the years of my married
                  life, and recall the weak, irresolute being I have been; and yet, all this while,
                  a professed follower of the meek and lowly Saviour. I am not, perhaps, afraid that
                  you will ever again fall into such grievous errors; but I feel that after we have
                  laid aside our faults, we have still a great duty to perform, and I trust that we
                  shall both show ourselves capable of the virtue. Our hearts cannot remain in a
                  merely negative state, and, if we would prevent the entrance of evil, we should so
                  fill our souls with goodness, that no room will be left for vice. We have
                  attempted to do 'Squire Benson a great injury. True, we failed, and yet we are
                  under no less obligation to humble ourselves sufficiently to ask his pardon. It
                  was wrong, yes, very wrong in me, to allow that trial to take place, when I felt
                  certain that he was innocent; but if wrong in me, what can be said to exculpate
                  yourself? I am going to ask pardon of 'Squire Benson for the wrong I have done
                  him, and you must do the same."
               "I cannot! I cannot!" exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle. "Oh, it is too dreadful to think of
                  even for a moment! I cannot go to the man I have so greatly wronged."
               "But you must go," said the husband, in a low but determined tone of voice.
               "Will nothing else suffice?"
               
               "I shall be satisfied with nothing else, and, furthermore, it is all I ask. Go
                  with me to 'Squire Benson, tell him how grievously you have wronged him, and he
                  will keep the secret locked within his own breast. If you refuse, I shall inform
                  him myself, and if you still refuse, and there is no other way, I shall publish
                  the affair to the world; for, come what will, I shall neither give sleep to my
                  eyelids, or rest to my body, until ample restitution is made. I have nothing more
                  to say. The course to be pursued lies wholly with yourself; but, as for me, the
                  next time I sleep, my slumber shall be sweetened by a consciousness of having done
                  my whole duty."
               "It is too dreadful," exclaimed the miserable woman. "I cannot go."
               "Enough, then," replied the husband. "As you have decided not to accompany me, I
                  will start alone."
               "Stay! stay but a moment," exclaimed the wife, endeavoring to impede his exit from
                  the room. But she might as well have attempted to stop the wind. Passing from the
                  library, he seized his hat, and prepared to leave the house. "I will go," said the
                  wife, with a face pale as death; "but it is terrible."
               As Mr. and Mrs. Lazelle arrived at the residence of 'Squire Benson, the door was
                  opened by Mrs. Benson, who kindly invited them to walk in.
               "Take a seat, Mrs. Lazelle," said Mrs. Benson, "you appear ill."
               "She is not feeling well this morning," replied Mr. Lazelle. "I would like to see
                  your husband alone. Shall I pass into the shop?"
               "Yes, yes, walk into the shop. But perhaps you both wish to speak with him in
                  private."
               "If you please."
               "Certainly. Step this way."
               'Squire Benson shook hands in the most cordial manner with both visitors.
               "When he hears what I have to say, he will feel like killing me," thought Mrs.
                  Lazelle. "But, as yet, he suspects nothing."
               After his wife had left the room, 'Squire Benson conversed very freely in regard
                  to the weather, affairs of the church, and general news, until Mr. Lazelle became
                  quite interested; but suddenly recollecting the object of his visit, he remarked
                  that he had come purposely to ask pardon for the wrong he had done him.
               "Don't mention it," exclaimed 'Squire Benson. "We have all learned a lesson, and
                  whenever I think of the trial, I feel all the better for its having taken place. I
                  trust it will yet prove a blessing to us all; at least it has to me and mine. It
                  has strengthened my confidence in the future an hundred fold."
               "And I trust also," replied Mr. Lazelle, "that it has already proved a true
                  blessing to me and mine so far as repentance .and good resolutions for the future
                  are concerned."
               "Then," said 'Squire Benson, "you both have great reasons for thanksgiving to our
                  Heavenly Father. Yes, I feel happier since the trial than ever before, and far be
                  it from me to cherish animosity towards any one for the part he has taken."
               "But," interrupted Mrs. Lazelle, "when you know all, you cannot help hating one
                  who has sinned against you so terribly."
               "I trust not; but who do you refer to as sinning against me so much?"
               "Myself!" exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle, covering her face with both hands.
               "Brother Benson," said Mr. Lazelle, "if you will listen awhile, my wife, who I doubt not is a true
                  penitent, will tell you the whole story."
               Mrs. Lazelle here related what the reader has already surmised, that in her great
                  wrath against 'Squire Benson for destroying her influence in the church and
                  society, she had, by a large bribe, obtained the services of Mrs. Green, who
                  secreted the goods in the cellar, and then hatched the story of having seen one
                  resembling 'Squire Benson, near Mr. Lazelle's residence. "I thought," continued
                  the speaker, "that when I came here, I would plead for mercy; but I ask nothing. I
                  am guilty, and I deserve nothing but punishment."
               "My dear friend," said 'Squire Benson, "do not distress yourself any further on
                  account of this affair. I knew your mission the moment I saw you here. I have no
                  punishment to mete out, no reproaches to make; on the contrary I pity you from the
                  bottom of my heart. When I think how much you must have already suffered, and how
                  much you will yet undergo, God forbid that I should add to your great burden. No,
                  no, my friends; when I think of what I might have been but for that angel, who,
                  through God, has made me what I am, I cannot condemn a single sinner like myself.
                  The Saviour, who now smiles upon us, loves each of you as he loves me, and whom
                  Jesus loves, I cannot hate. Let me extend to you that friendship and charity,
                  which, I trust, will, from this time, animate all our hearts."
               "Can it be," exclaimed Mrs. Lazelle, "that I have sunk so low as to wish to injure
                  a man like this? Can it be possible that you do not loathe a wretch like me?"
               "My friend," replied 'Squire Benson, "I cannot loathe any of God's children, much
                  less one who can confess a fault. No, I trust that the day will soon come when
                  your goodness and piety will dwell upon the tongues of all who know you. If both
                  you and your husband do not occupy such a position, I shall be truly
                  disappointed."
               "You shall not be disappointed," exclaimed Mr. Lazelle, grasping his hand.
               "With God's aid," said Mrs. Lazelle, "I will endeavor, partially, to fulfil your
                  expectations."
               "One remark more," added 'Squire Benson, taking a hand of each. "I trust that,
                  with the exception of Mrs. Green, we alone know the facts in relation to this
                  affair. Let this knowledge extend no further. I shall never betray your secret;
                  and therefore, as you pass through life, the finger of scorn will not be pointed
                  at you, neither will the act bring reproach upon the Christian church."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               CONCLUSION.
               A FEW weeks subsequent to the events recorded in the previous chapter, there was
                  to be a wedding in Ardenville. Rev. George Woodbury, who had now recovered from
                  his severe illness, was to be united in wedlock to Maud Arden.
               After the marriage ceremony at the church by Rev. John Ernest, the bride and
                  bridegroom proceeded to Arden's residence, where they were to receive their
                  friends. The grounds belonging to the Arden estate, were divided, and upon the
                  vacant portion, Maud was having erected a dwelling, to be occupied by herself and
                  husband.
               Mr. Ernest, who had become exceedingly popular with the mass of his parishioners,
                  had resigned his present pastorate, and was soon to remove to a neighboring
                  parish, where, profiting by his experience in Ardenville, his labors subsequently
                  proved both pleasant and profitable.
               Mr. Woodbury, now that his health was fully restored, was to occupy his old
                  pulpit, which he often declared to be the height of his earthly ambition.
               'Squire Benson and wife, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Lazelle, were among the first
                  to offer their congratulations to the bride and bridegroom.
               It was noticed that Mr. and Mrs. Lazelle evinced great partiality for the society
                  of the Benson family, and after saluting the newly married couple, Mr. Lazelle
                  engaged 'Squire Benson in conversation regarding the propriety of presenting the
                  church with a new organ to replace the present rickety affair that from week to
                  week gave forth such unmusical sounds.
               Arden was overjoyed at his sister's choice of a husband, and as he and Julia
                  offered their congratulations, he proposed that an excursion be made to "Lover's
                  Falls," to revive old associations, and refresh their memories by viewing the
                  scene of an interesting event connected with their early acquaintance, and
                  expressed his wish that Mr. and Mrs. Grafton should accompany them.
               Benjamin Benson, Jr., and Emma, now his wife, were enjoying themselves, and adding
                  to the enjoyment of others, while Mr. Jacobs, having found a good listener in the
                  person of Rev. John Ernest, was giving a detailed history of a small mission
                  school organized by Benson and Emma.
               Mr. and Mrs. Jones, and Mr. and Mrs. Bright, accompanied by little Ella, were
                  there to offer their congratulations.
               Ella asked if Maud would preach in the absence of her husband; a question that
                  caused quite a laugh. When Mr. Woodbury informed her that ministers' wives were
                  not expected to preach, but he simply required Maud to do as her mother did, Ella
                  looked at the bride, and laughed as she clapped her hands, saying, "That will be
                  ever so funny when you sit way up in the pulpit with Mr. Woodbury."
               
               "What put that into your head?" asked Maud, smiling.
               "'Cause," replied Ella, "Mr. Woodbury said you would do as mamma did, and mamma
                  sits right side of papa."
               On their way home, 'Squire Benson and wife called at the post office, where they
                  found two letters, one from Jack Green, and the other from Mr. Grafton. The
                  former, in his letter, stated that he had just reached Havana, and was in
                  excellent health and spirits. The letter from Mr. Grafton we give in full:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Cleveland, Ohio.
                              
                                 BENJAMIN BENSON, Esq.
                              
                           
                           
                              Dear Brother—I have much to write about; but will
                              endeavor to be as brief as circumstances seem to warrant.
                           This morning who should I meet but Mrs. Green, who has been residing
                              here since she left Ardenville. She has changed considerably since
                              that Lazelle affair. The moment she caught sight of me, she seemed to
                              imagine that some evil was about to befall her; for she appeared ready
                              to flee. It was, however, only an illustration of the Bible statement,
                              that "the wicked flee when no man pursueth." She looked troubled, and
                              in spite of a certain air of bravado, or rather assumed careless
                              manner, I could see, plainly enough, that she was far removed from
                              happiness. If she would but repent, and assume the easy yoke and light
                              burden of the gospel, what heavenly rest might soon fill her soul. But
                              unlike Mrs. Lazelle, she refuses to humble herself, and therefore her
                              exaltation to rest and assurance is still afar off.
                           She seems to be well supplied with money; but she is miserable, and to
                              herself, at least, she cannot disguise it. The prophet was right when
                              he declared that the wicked are like the troubled sea which cannot
                              rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. How glorious the thought,
                              however, that even this woman will yet be saved from all her sins! But
                              what must be the feelings of those who imagine that God will compel
                              all such vile characters to remain wicked throughout eternity?
                           And now in regard to myself, I have duly considered the question we
                              last discussed touching my future profession. My collegiate education
                              and travels in foreign lands, you considered very fortunate should I
                              choose to enter the ministry. I trust you are correct; and yet Brother
                              Woodbury, as well as many others of our most successful preachers,
                              never saw Europe or the inside of a college. There must be, as you
                              say, a thorough consecration of the individual, and a baptism of the
                              heart by the Holy Spirit; then we must have been endowed by our
                              Creator with the gift or ability to preach effectually; for not every
                              good Christian makes a good preacher. Whether I am qualified for the
                              work or not, time only will determine. I have seen and keenly felt the
                              evils of unbelief, and after much reflection, and proper consultation
                              with my wife, I have decided to commence my theological studies under
                              Brother Woodbury, immediately after my return from this visit. I hope
                              to become an instrument in the hands of our Heavenly Father, by which
                              some portion of the sin and unbelief of the world may be obliterated.
                              May God bless and prosper my efforts to further so desirable an
                              object.
                           But I am writing you a long letter, and I will close by relating a
                              little incident of our journey.
                           As we left New York, I fell in with a clergyman, who informed me that
                              he was going to Niagara. We soon formed a closer acquaintance, and by
                              and by, opened a religious conversation, during which I informed him
                                 that my conversion was
                              of very recent occurrence, and that I had only a few days before
                              united with the Christian Church. He then asked what church, and upon
                              my informing him, he said, with a half sneering, confident tone of
                              voice, "It will do you no good to join the Church if all are going to
                              heaven."
                           This remark brought on the following dialogue.
                           "Do you mean to say," I asked, "that if all are going to heaven, it
                              will do me no good to go?"
                           "Oh no," he replied; "but what possible good will it do you, if
                                 all are going to heaven any way?"
                           "Just as much good, my Calvinistic brother," I replied, "as it will
                              for you to join the Church, if one-quarter of the human race are
                                 going to heaven any way."
                           "I did not think of that," said the clergyman, "but after all one
                              quarter are not going to heaven any way; they must become
                              true Christians first."
                           To this I added, "All are not going to heaven any
                                 way: they must become true Christians first."
                           "I did not think of that," replied the clergyman. "Still it can do you
                              no good to become a Christian now, if you are sure to
                              become one in the future world."
                           "Or in other words," I added, "you think it does no good to be happy
                              here, or enjoy these blessings now, if we are sure of
                              enjoying these blessings hereafter."
                           "I did not think of that," he replied. "So you think if it is a
                              blessing in the future, it will be a blessing here?"
                           "Certainly," said I; "goodness is a blessing in and of itself, and not
                              simply the means by which we obtain a blessing."
                           "I did not think of that," said he. "But do you actually believe that
                              all men are to be saved?"
                           "Yes," I replied, "I believe that all men will be saved from sin."
                           "Well, said he, "I would like to know how all the wicked are to be
                              saved."
                           "All the wicked will be saved from their wickedness through Christ," I
                              replied.
                           "I did not think of that," said the clergyman. "So you believe that
                              all will be saved through Christ just as we believe that a part will
                              be saved, and the only difference between us is in the number of the
                              redeemed. However you believe in salvation in the next life, while we
                              do not."
                           "I beg your pardon," I replied; "but you do believe in salvation in
                              the next life. For example, you know that you are a sinner, and will
                              die a sinner; and you must be saved from all your sins in the next
                              life or not at all."
                           "I did not think of that," said the clergyman. "I own that there must
                              be salvation in the next life. Still I do not grasp your whole idea'
                              in regard to the utility of goodness here if we are sure of heaven at
                              last. Why trouble yourself concerning your journey through this
                                 life?"
                           To this I replied, "you are just as sure of reaching
                              Niagara in the second class car. Why don't you ride in that car?
                                 Why trouble yourself about the way you ride now?"
                           "The second class car is not so comfortable as these sleeping cars,"
                              said the clergyman. "We can really rest on these seats."
                           "And," I added, "the second class car of wickedness is also
                              uncomfortable; but in a first class Christian seat we find rest to our
                              souls."
                           "I did not think of that," replied the clergyman.
                           "Furthermore," said my wife, "if you will allow me one remark,—when we
                              enter heaven, although saved from all our sins through Christ, we
                              shall, if we have not grown in goodness here, be simply in a state of
                                 innocence at the very best,
                              and are deprived, for the time being, at least, of those greater
                              enjoyments which are the result of former goodness. In this manner, I
                              think, we shall suffer punishment by loss, and it therefore behooves
                              us to improve our opportunities of growing in goodness, even setting
                              aside the foretaste of heaven which we can now enjoy."
                           "And I did not think of that," said I, turning to the
                              clergyman, who laughed heartily.
                           Give our love to all,—pass this letter to Brother Woodbury, and expect
                              us home in a few days.
                           
                              Fraternally Yours,
                              HENRY GRAFTON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            And now, dear readers, at the close of our second story, we again bid
               you adieu. The present work has been attended with difficulties. The original MS. of
               the BENSON FAMILY was found to be far too voluminous for either an ordinary book, or
               the columns of the Gospel Banner, in which it was first published,
               and, after much alteration, there remains, yet unpublished, more than half the
               original work, which portion concerns, chiefly, the matrimonial relations of Mr.
               Woodbury and Maud, and the adventures of Jack Green and Ella Bright. This portion of
               the MS. will be published, as a sequel to the present story, under the title of
               "FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES," and will appear as the fourth volume of
               this series. The third story, called "HENRY LOVELL," will be published
               in a few months. Earnestly hoping that the present, as well as the writer's future
               works, may meet with the favor accorded to his first book, ("UNCLE TIMOTHY TABER,")
               and fervently praying that faith and happiness, goodness and truth may be increased
               by our labors, we once more write the word adieu.
            FINIS.
         
      
   
