
    ----CITATION----
        Bradshaw, Wesley (1837-1927). Carrie Clancy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5563 wright2-0045
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  THE WRECK OF THE ATLANTIC.
                  A wild cheer of hope burst from the wrecked people, as the Fisherman's Daughter, Carrie, pointed to the words she had just written on the tarpaulin.
               
            
         
         
         
            
               CARRIE CLANCY:
               THE HEROINE OF THE ATLANTIC
               A FULL ACCOUNT OF THE SERVICES WHICH THIS NOBLE YOUNG LADY, WHO IS A POOR FISHERMAN'S DAUGHTER, RENDERED ON THE OCCASION OF THE WRECK OF THE ATLANTIC ON THE NOVA SCOTIA COAST.
               ALSO THE ONLY COMPLETE HISTORY OF THAT TERRIBLE DISASTER, RELIABLE LIST OF THE LOST AND SAVED, AND WHAT WAS FOUND UPON THE DEAD BODIES, THRILLING SCENES AND INCIDENTS.
               ALSO WHO THE MYSTERIOUS FEMALE SAILOR WAS WHO, AFTER SAVING SEVERAL LIVES, WAS HERSELF LOST.
            
            
               OLD FRANKLIN PUBLISHING HOUSE, 
                     224 SOUTH THIRD STREET, 
                  
               
               PHILADELPHIA, PA.
            
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by G.W. ALEXANDER, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D.C.
         
         
            
            
               
                  The Morning after the Wreck. Bodies along the Beach.
                  
                     Der Morgan nach dem Stranden. Leichen an der Seeküste.
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Carrie Clancy
            CARRIE CLANCY: THE HEROINE OF THE ATLANTIC.
            
               TOWARD morning of the night of March 31st last, it was that the noble steamship Atlantic, while approaching Halifax, struck on Mar's Rock, and foundered.
               Among the cottages that stood here and there on the mainland was the humble home of the heroine of this terrible disaster; and within that fisherman's dwelling there chanced to be awake his daughter Carrie, a fine, handsome girl, the pride and delight of her father. As she lay in bed, she suddenly beheld a flash like that of lightning, though slower, and not so vivid. It seemed like the sudden striking of a match, followed by darkness. A second and third flash succeeded the first.
               "That's a distress signal!" she exclaimed to herself, as she sprang up, and went to the window to gaze out.
               She could not see anything there, and so she stepped to another window that commanded a full view of the ocean. From her new position she saw another signal of Bengal fire, red and lasting a full minute. By its light she beheld a terrible scene, the rushing about the deck of the passengers, while the grim outlines of the huge ship were dimly defined.
               "Father father!" she cried out; "there's a ship on the rocks! Father, come, wake up I wake up!"
               The old fisherman being thus roused from his slumber, leaped to the window, and saw the signal for himself.
               "Yes, Carrie, that's a ship ashore, sure enough! But it's mighty queer how she came there. There 'aint no blow worth talking about."
               "Well, she's there and they're making signals fast. She must be breaking up already. O! my, but that's awful! I can see women and children on the deck."
               At this moment the light of the signals suddenly went out, and they thought the ship had sunk. But presently a rocket shot up from the deck into the dark, murky sky.
               "Come, father, we must save some of those, people. Let us get the men and boats out."
               "You stay here, Carrie, and I'll dress myself and go down to the houses."
               "And I will help you, father. Come along, there's no time to lose!"
               Carrie, who is an impulsive girl, spoke quickly, as she saw her father waiting to dress, and put on his regular sea-clothes; and without halting, she seized a blanket and strap, buckled the former about her waist, and ran out of the cottage.
               She knew every step of the way, and, with breathless haste, she flew rather than ran from house to house, shouting out:
               "Rouse up! rouse up! every man of you! Out with the boats! for there's a big ship on Mar's Rock!"
               One after another of the hardy fishermen, leaping from their beds, answered the brave girl's summons.
               "Is that you, Carrie? All right. We'll come right away!"
               As each one of them hurried forth, he added his efforts to the others, until, in an incredibly short time, the whole village was in motion.
               While the men, after a hurried consultation, began to move off for the boats, the women made preparations for receiving such of the victims of the wreck as might be rescued. Hot teas, and potions, and blankets, and bandages, were gotten in readiness.
               As for Carrie—that brave young creature started off for the beach, which she soon reached.
               It was now coming daylight, and she could clearly perceive the whole scene, which momentarily grew more and more distinct in the strengthening dawn.
               As soon as she could distinguish perfectly, she noticed particularly the situation. She could see the struggling people, each intent on saving himself or herself, in the awful moment of peril.
               Now, the boats were not at hand, but had to be carried across a neck of land, which was a slow and somewhat laborious task, and consumed much time, every moment of which was most precious.
               Feeling that even words of encouragement would help the endangered people aboard, Carrie raised her voice as loud as she could and shouted to them. But the distance was so great, and the wind blowing so heavily, that she could not make them hear.
               All at once a happy idea suggested itself to her mind.
               "Now I have it!" she exclaimed; "if they can't hear, they can see; I'll rig up something."
               With nimble footsteps this brave fisherman's daughter ran and got two oars and a black tarpaulin, and plunging the oars' handles deeply into the sandy beach, she stretched the tarpaulin across between them, thus forming a kind of rude blackboard. Then with a bit of chalk she wrote in large letters on its surface these memorable words: "CHEER UP! BOATS COMING!"
               
               Attracting the attention of the perishing passengers, she pointed to what she had written. The next moment, after they could distinguish and comprehend the welcome words of hope, a wild, wild shout of joy and hope went up from those poor wretches.
               Half in dishabille, with her blanket girded about her, that noble-hearted fisherman's daughter looked like one of the fabled genii of old, as she stood pointing to the words she had written.
               In a short time after this the boats arrived on the scene, and the work of rescuing the poor victims commenced in earnest. Boat after boat, impelled by sturdy rowers, approach the rock, and at every favorable opportunity, one by one gathered up its harvest of half-numbed persons, and bore them back to the shore, where they were speedily taken by the fishermen's wives and daughters to the various cottages, and tenderly cared for by these rough but kind-hearted people of the shore.
               The more determined and least nervous of the crew and officers, headed by Master Brady, took a rope and made it fast between the ship and the rock. From the rock a second rope was sent to the beach, and along this uncertain way was many a passenger passed to safety.
               Even among those who most loudly condemn Captain Williams for allowing the vessel to get wrecked, there was not one that did not praise his personal bravery and unselfish care for the passengers during the trying moments of the rescue. Repeatedly he was urged to get into one of the boats and go off from the wreck; but he steadily refused to do so, though he was so benumbed with cold and wearied with fatigue as to be ready to drop into the sea. It must not be forgotten either that Captain Williams was at this very time so lame from injuries received on a previous voyage during a storm, that he was obliged to use a cane to help himself about. He would not leave the ship until the last living passenger and sailor was taken off safely to the shore, when he permitted the rescuing parties to take himself away.
               Among the various persons who started for the beach along the rope were a man and his wife and baby. The lady held the baby in one arm to her bosom, and clutched the rope with the other hand. Behind her swam this man, holding on to the rope with his right hand, and supporting her with his left. Just as they neared the shore, a huge roller drove a settee or lounge with fearful violence against the man, who sunk at once, no doubt stunned with the blow. The woman was now alone, but she struggled on, in the wild hope of saving her baby. Carrie was a good swimmer, and plunging into the sea, she made toward the lady, calling out to her:
               "Keep a good heart, and hold tight to the rope, and I'll save you!"
               When within almost reaching distance of her, a heavy wave swept the lady and baby away forever, and Carrie had quite a struggle herself to again reach the shore. On doing so, she went back to the cottage, and getting dry clothes, returned to the beach. Before proceeding with our narrative, we give the following official testimony regarding the wreck, that the reader may the more fully comprehend the magnificent bravery and physical endurance of our beautiful heroine.
            
            
               
               THE OFFICIAL INQUIRY.
               MR. McDONALD, in opening the Court, said that the inquiry was to be held under the thirty-eighth chapter of the Dominion Acts of 1865, and would have the force of an English Board of Trade Inquiry. He had not received a commission for the court, but he had received an official telegram stating that it was on its way, and if all parties would consent, he would go on at once and rely on the commission being received in good time.
               MR. RITCHIE, for the Captain, consented.
               MR. BLANCHARD said that unless there was a full and unequivocal consent he would object to going on. It might appear when the commission was received that there were special instructions which would require us to begin again.
               All the parties consented, and Captain James A. Williams was called, sworn, and read a statement.
               In reply to questions by his counsel, he added:—I was on the bridge up to 20 minutes past 12. Up to midnight it was brilliant starlight; after that there was occasional sight of the stars. When I left the bridge I went in the chart-room, thirty feet abaft the bridge, on the upper deck, within easy call of the officer on deck. I got up at 2 o'clock, looked into the wheelhouse, and then lay down for an alarm. In making my calculations I estimated her speed to be 11 knots; she had increased gradually from 7½ to 12 knots; the third officer reported that she had run 122 miles at 12 o'clock; that agreed with my calculations. I expected the ship at 3 o'clock would be 18 or 20 miles south of Sambro, and intended to lay by until daylight. I had not my clothes off at all. I had every reason to put confidence in the second officer. He had made two voyages in the ship. I had always found him a steady, sober man. The bridge was 36 feet above the level of the sea. I knew I was approaching shore. The' clearness of the night and the certainty of seeing the light were my only reasons for not sounding. I am now satisfied that when I went into the chart-room I was mistaken in the locality of the ship. She must have been further northward and westward than I thought. I knew the coast was an iron-bound and dangerous one, though I had never been on it. [Here the Captain took a chart and explained the position of the ship.] I would not have got into forty-five fathoms of water until I was thirteen or fourteen miles south of Sambro, where I should stop the ship. If I had been sounding regularly from 12 to 3 o'clock, I would have been on deck, and the ship would not have gone ashore. There were three quartermasters and the second and fourth officers on deck. It was my second voyage to America in that ship.
               Cross-examined by Mr. Blanchard.—I had the latitude by observation and by chronometer when I bore up for Halifax. The charts have all been lost. The ship increased her speed after I bore up for Halifax, because we were not then so anxious to economize coal. The speed at twelve o'clock was about twelve knots. I reckoned then we were forty-eight miles off Sambro, then bearing north, five degrees east. I did not shift the course. I considered we would pass five miles east of Sambro ledges. I had never before brought ships into Halifax, or been on this coast. The third officer had been in the harbor twice. None of the other officers had ever been here. I did not use the lead at all in coming to Halifax. I knew we were within soundings north of Lahare. I did not sound, because the night was clear, and Sambro light should be seen twenty-one miles in clear weather, and in moderate weather fifteen miles. When the ship struck there was considerable swell on, and there was no sort of warning. She was going between nine and ten knots at the time. In some of the statements in the press, it is said I left the ship when about fifteen persons had been taken off the rigging. What I said was, that when I left all but about fifteen had left. When I left, I was so benumbed and cold that I could be of no assistance. I had had my leg broken about a year before, and was weak. I was asleep when the ship struck. It was five minutes past three by my watch, and fifteen minutes past three by the chief engineer's, when she struck.
               Cross-examined by the Commissioner.—I left word to be called at three o'clock. I do not know whether I was called at three o'clock, as the ship struck but a few minutes after. I do not think I was. Had I been called at three sharp, I think I would have seen land in time to have averted the calamity. From the state of the weather when I came on deck I think the white snow line of the shore would be visible at a distance of from two to three miles. The officers on duty, had they been energetic, might, I think, have seen that there was something ahead, and if orders had been given to reverse the engines, the calamity might have been averted. I have always made it a rule to make all my officers participate in the navigation of the ship, so that each and all are equally conversant with myself in the position of the ship, and deviation of courses steered by the compass. White Star steamers are supplied with the printed orders for the guidance of commanders. These orders are, that all are to take all possible precautions against fire, collision, and wreck. There are no special instructions as to precautionary steps in approaching shore. That is left entirely to the judgment of the commanders. The officers in charge have full power to change the course or stop the ship, if necessary, without consulting the captain. There are no special instructions as to soundings.
               This ended the captain's evidence. Once during his statement, he was much affected.
               CORNELIUS L. BRADY, the third officer, testified as follows:—Was third officer of the Atlantic; my watch was from 8 to 12 o'clock that night; we (the Captain and the four officers) were all conversant with the ship's position at 1 P.M.; bore off for Halifax; course, N. 24 E; by compass there was on that course 9 easterly variations by solar observation; Sambro at noon bore N. 5 E., distant 170 miles; in the afternoon had variable weather; first S.E. with rain; then shifted to S.W., cleared up, and then, to W.N.W.; fine with occasional passing clouds; brilliant starlight; at midnight, at the request of the Captain, made out by the log slate the distance run since shifting our course at 1 o'clock to be 122 miles; this calculation is not always strictly correct, but is nearly so, and is corrected by our judgment; I did not look at the chart, but I know the position of the ship, and that it was distant from Sambro forty-eight miles; we used a common log line, and it was hove every two hours; the speed of the steamer often varies considerably, from various causes, as from currents, different qualities of coal used, &c.; I did not know the number of revolutions the screw made, but by looking over the side I could tell the speed that she was making within half a mile; the course was shaped to counteract the westerly set of the current; I have been to Halifax twice before, but never to stop or lay here, and am not well acquainted with the coast; the Captain's orders when he went below low, were to call him immediately if any change in the weather occurred, that is, if it became hazy or thick; both leads, patent and common, were on the bridge, ready to be thrown at any time the Captain did not give orders to heave the lead; I gave the Captain's orders to the fourth officer and immediately turned in after being relieved; I did not know anything afterwards until the ship struck; my berth was in the after-end of the ship; my room was locked; and the fourth officer had the key; I had no means of getting out; I ran on deck just as I turned out of bed, and met Quartermaster Williams; he was afterwards drowned; I asked him what was the matter; he answered, "My God, the ship has gone ashore;" I ran at once to No. 5 lifeboat (the Captain's boat), on the saloon deck; my own boat had been stove during the previous heavy weather on the passage; I got an axe and succeeded in clearing the boat;, while in the act of launching the boat the ship fell over on her side; as near as I could judge it was only six or eight minutes after she struck that she keeled over; when I found that she was going over, I scrambled up and succeeded in getting into the mizzen rigging; finding that I was of no use I made my way forward, accompanied by Quartermaster Owens and the storekeeper; I heard the Captain at the main rigging and called to him; I do not suppose he heard me in the confusion; when I got forward I made out the rock in front of the ship, and thought that if I could get to the rock I could save myself and others; I unrove the starboard foretopsail vang, a new rope, and also the signal halyards; I took these on the outside of the ship, and sent Quartermaster Williams with them to try to reach the rock, but he failed, and we had to haul him back to the ship; I then sent Quartermaster Speakman; he succeeded, and I immediately followed him; we hauled the stout rope by means of the vang to the rock, which was about twenty-five yards, I suppose, from the ship; we hauled a number of men from the ship to the rock, but finding it getting crowded, we then made the rope fast to the rock and communicated with the island by the same means, and in this way saved a number of lives; on the island I met Clancy, and asked him if I could communicate with Halifax; he told me that there was no regular means of communication, and that I would have to send a messenger on horseback; this I did, and went back to the ship; then the boats came; I remained on the rock encouraging the people, and thus saved a number of lives. [Here the witness, produced a diagram of the internal arrangements of the ship, and showed that was nothing to prevent the steerage passengers from getting on deck.] To my knowledge, nothing was said or done to impede any of the passengers in coming on deck; the statement that there was, is absurd and incorrect; the steerage passengers were well acquainted with all the ways of ingress and egress; from my own positive knowledge the passengers had every facility that was possible under the circumstances for reaching the deck; in fact, I met some of them going up when I was making my way to the deck; I am positive that no orders were given or carried out to keep the passengers below. [Witness here produced another plan showing the position of the companion-way leading to the deck, of which many persons availed themselves in going to the deck.] During the time that I was on the watch the ship may have been going faster at times than at others, but the speed was pretty uniform; I do not recollect what the speed was before we bore up, but it was increased after that; I do not know what the speed was when the vessel struck; the Captain did all that any man could possibly do to save life; I could distinctly see and hear him from the rock, exerting himself.
               
                  
                     Sambro Light House. Coast of Nova Scotia.
                     
                        Sambro Leuchtthurm an der Küste von Neu Schottland.
                     
                  
               
               
               Cross-examination by Mr. Ritchie—The dead-reckoning was always very accurate; no observations were obtained during two or three days, but we always found the dead-reckoning very correct when we subsequently took observations; during the first watch that night, after we bore up for Halifax, the speed was from eleven to twelve knots per hour; the quartermasters generally threw the log under the superintendence of the officers of the watch on duty; during my watch that night the log was thrown either by Quartermaster Speakman or Owens, and reported to me in making up the distance run, as directed by the Captain; at twelve o'clock that night used the scrap-log and slate; every time the log was thrown it was entered in the scrap-log-book; I was satisfied of its correctness, and that the distance was made up correctly.
               The sailing directions of the Admiralty were here introduced, and the sailing directions of the Nova Scotia coast pointed put to the Court. It is there stated that Sambro light should be visible at a distance of twenty-one miles. Ten miles south of Sambro soundings would give a depth of at least forty-five fathoms.
               I went down to the wreck in a tugboat on Thursday and last night; I saw the Sambro light from the tugboat, and from the deck of one of the schooners, but when I got about a quarter of a mile from the wreck, Hennant Point just shut the light in; I did not notice this fact so much last night as I did on Thursday night. The life-boat spoken of by Mr. Allan in his evidence given on Saturday could not have been launched; all the modern appliances were on board the Atlantic for lowering the boats; the officers were all at their respective posts; the Captain was one of the most competent and efficient officers that I ever sailed with; I know that the provisions were inspected by government officers; I went to the wreck in a boat to take the Captain off, knowing that he could not hold out much longer, but he refused to leave until I had taken more of the passengers off of the wreck; he was much exhausted when taken off, and had to be supported in climbing the rocks when we landed; regarding Mr. Allan's statement of the condition of the crew, I may state, from my knowledge and experience of crews, that that of the Atlantic was far better physically, and fully as well disciplined as are the average. The Captain, the chief officer, and myself took the solar observation on Monday at noon; we all agreed in our result; had a well-defined horizon; in estimating the deviation caused by the current, I did not know the true course or force, but the Captain allowed for a northwest current; I do not know what rate of speed the Captain allowed for the current; I knew that the currents on this course vary in force and direction; no means were taken to ascertain the force or direction, so far as I know; I did not compare the speed as given by the log with the engineer's estimate from the revolutions of the engine; I have often found a great discrepancy between the estimated speed by the revolutions of the engine and that given by observation or by the log; this discrepancy arises from the slipping of the fan; the revolutions, therefore, cannot be depended upon; the difference frequently amounts to as much as between thirty and forty per cent.; the look-out men were stationed at Nos. 1 and 2 houses, and on the bridge, on the side opposite to that on which the officer in charge stood. I do not know whether any one was sent aloft as a lookout.
               At the close of his examination, Mr. BRADY stated on oath that the stories of robbing of the dead, that it has been attempted to contradict, are entirely true. He claims to be in a position to be certain in this matter, having been on the ground all the time.
               JOHN BROWN, the fourth officer of the Atlantic, testified as follows:—I joined the ship at Liverpool on the previous voyage; the Captain about one o'clock on Monday directed me to alter the course to N. 24 E. for Halifax; at that time we were running seven knots; the coal was increased afterwards, and at four o'clock the speed was eleven knots per hour; I then went below and remained till six o'clock; when I again came on deck the course and speed were the same; at eight o'clock I again went below, and remained till twelve o'clock; the Captain and first officer were on deck when I returned; the third officer told me the distance to Sambro Light was forty-eight miles; between one o'clock in the day and midnight the ship ran 122 miles; at midnight she was running nine knots per hour; at half-past one o'clock, when I hove the log, the wind was W.N.W., with little swell; the leads were all on the bridge ready for soundings; we could have sounded in an instant; between half-past one and the time the ship struck I was on the saloon-deck, about ten feet below the bridge; two quartermasters, one at the wheel, were on deck at the same time; the Captain's boy came up with a cap of cocoa at three o'clock; I told the boy not to call the Captain till three o'clock, and afterwards the second officer told him that he would call the Captain; the second mate was on the bridge; the night was cloudy, with here and there a peeping star, and not thick; before I left the deck I went to the weather-side, and shading my eyes with my hands, looked for the light, but did not see it or anything else, except the open sea; it was about half an hour from the time I left the deck till the ship struck; I did not let the boy go to call the Captain because I knew the ship had not run anything like her distance of forty-eight miles; all the officers knew we were running in to make the shore; no one in my hearing told the second officer that the distance had been run; one of the quartermasters asked me if he should go to the mainyard to look for land; I told him it was too soon; I can only account for the decrease of speed that they made it in clearing the bunkers below, or that the coal was of a poorer quality; one of the quartermasters was on the starboard side; the second officer was on the larboard side; I did not hear the "rout" of the sea on the shore, probably, because of the noise of the engines; I left the wreck about nine o'clock on Tuesday, and have not been there since; we must have been a good mile from Pennant Point when we run in; but I neither saw the breakers nor heard the "rout;" I was in the steerage at the time; I had not looked at the chart, and did not know the coast; I have been at sea ten years, and an officer three years; to my knowledge nothing was done to prevent the passengers from coming on deck; the Captain did' everything he could to save life, and was much exhausted when he reached the shore; none of the officers spoke of heaving the leads or stopping the ship; the ship was 2,376 ton register, 420 feet long, 40 feet beam; there were nine hundred and odd, all told, on board; the crew numbered 146; the leads were not hove on account of the clearness of the night, and the certainty of seeing the light; I do not think the vessel after she struck was aground astern.
               
                  Cross-examined by Mr. Ritchie.—I went below at a quarter to three to inspect the steerage; I returned when this duty was performed; the door between the wheelhouse and the chart-room was open at two o'clock; the Captain was within six feet of the man at the wheel; the crew worked well; the Captain and other officers were very attentive and efficient; they were all temperate men.
               
                  Cross-examined by McDonald.—No cards or other games were allowed; it is not true that the Captain was playing cards half an hour before ship struck; I did not think of such a thing as the Atlantic running twelve or thirteen knots at a fair rate of speed; she did not run at her full speed during the night, before we changed the course for Halifax; she only ran seven knots; I do not know what quantity of coal was on board when we left Liverpool.
               WILLIAM HOGAN, a steerage passenger, was then examined by Mr. Shannon. He testified as follows:—I went to bed on the night of the disaster at nine' o'clock, and remained there until five bells, (half-past two o'clock;) I went to the upper deck, and for awhile walked up and down near the engine-room; the night was extremely cold, but the weather was better than it had been before; I heard the watch call out three o'clock, and then went below; before I did so I looked out; it was partly for that reason I came on deck; looked out on the side I afterwards found to be nearest the land; the sea was light; I neither saw nor heard anything to indicate the close proximity of land; almost immediately after I laid down for the second time I heard a fearful crash; the windows instantaneously opened; I looked through a port hole and saw the rock; my companion and myself made our way to the second deck; I do not know how we got up, because the concussion caused by the shock had knocked the companion ladder away; some of the passengers below cried out, "The doors are closed!" but I think they had in their hurry missed the place where the doors were; I found it very hard to get out; I positively believe that a great many more would have been saved had the means of exit been more ample; there is, I think, only room for one to get out at a time; I went to the side of the vessel nearest to the land and reached the engine-room by the time the steamer began to go over, and caught a rope; the ship turned over gradually for about half a minute and then sunk; all who had not hold of a rope or a rail went down instantly; I stopped on the ship until a boat came and took me off; the officers and crew all acted as good men would under the circumstances.
               
                  Cross-examined by Mr. McDonald.—I went on deck because it had been rumored that we should reach Halifax about half-past 2; the rumor probably originated in the preparations which had been made to cast anchor, &c.; I did not hear any of the officers say when it was expected the ship would reach port.
               JOSEPH CARROLL, able seaman, testified.—I went on the lookout on the night of the disaster at 2 o'clock; I was stationed in No. 1 house, forward of the bridge; the night was calm, but a little hazy, and the wind was right abeam; I could see out on both sides of the vessel; I was looking out for a light, as I knew we were making land, and that the coast was dangerous; I remained on the lookout till the ship struck; she was going pretty fast, I should judge about ten knots an hour; about eight or nine minutes before the ship struck I saw the breakers first, and then the land on the starboard bow; I sung out "Breakers ahead!" to the officers on the bridge; I did not hear the breakers at all; I stood about thirty yards from the bridge; I am sure my cry of "Breakers ahead" was heard by the second officer; I do not think that even if the engine had been reversed the ship could have been prevented from striking; I never spoke to the officer before giving warning; I remained on the lookout house five minutes after the ship struck.
               
               
                  Examined by Mr. McDonald.—I received only the usual orders when I went on duty; after I left the lookout I went aft and helped to get the boats clear; the lookout house in which I was, was about eight fathoms from the stern of the ship.
               PATRICK KIELY, able seaman, testified—At two o'clock on Tuesday morning I went on the bridge with the second officer; the latter told me to keep a good lookout for a light on the starboard side; I did so; I kept a good lookout for my own sake; I have been thirty years at sea; I have frequently been on this coast when in the Cunard line; I knew that extra care was required; when I saw the breakers I called out, "Breakers or ice ahead!" one of the quartermasters saw them at the same time and told the second officer; he immediately went to the telegraph and called out and gave the signal, "Full power astern;" I did not hear any noise of breakers; as near as I can judge, the ship was about a quarter of a mile from the breakers when I first saw them:
               
                  Cross-examined by Mr. Ritchie.—I know of no person calling the Captain; there were no stars, and the night was as dark as the grave.
               CHARLES WILLIAM RAYLANCE, quartermaster, testified—On Tuesday morning I was on duty in the after wheelhouse, where I remained till about seven or eight minutes before the ship struck; I was looking out of one of the windows of the wheelhouse and fancied I saw breakers; I ran forward and asked the lookout man on the bridge, "Are those breakers?" he said he did not know whether they were ice or breakers; the second officer was instantly informed, when he pulled the telegraph signal three times, and had not removed his hand when the ship struck; I cannot tell whether the engines were reversed or not; the ship was running at about nine knots; the night was very dark, and even after the ship keeled over it was hard to make out the land.
               MR. SPEAKMAN, quartermaster, testified—I have made nine voyages on the Atlantic; on Monday night I was on duty in the wheelhouse from eight to twelve o'clock; on leaving duty gave Roylson, who succeeded me, directions about the lines, &c., which had been made ready; turned in at twelve o'clock and did not return until the disaster; at that time I went on deck, ran aft and fired eight rockets; then I assisted in getting a rope to the rock; the average speed of the Atlantic was from eleven to thirteen knots per hour; do not know her rate of speed previous to the wreck;, Quartermaster Purdy hove the log at half-past nine, and I think that he reported that the ship was making thirteen knots per hour; at half-past eleven Owens hove the line; I held the glass; I did not notice his report; we used to note the rates of speed on a slate and then report to both officers of the watch.
               ROBERT THOMAS; quartermaster, testified—I was on duty between twelve o'clock and the time the ship struck; my duty during the first two hours was to make coffee for the officers and clean the brass work; went down, got the coffee, and gave it to the officers at half-past one; went to the second officer and remarked that the ship ought to stand to the southwest, and that she had run the distance necessary to make Sambro light at one o'clock the previous day; got the latitude and longitude of the ship's position, and also the latitude and longitude of Halifax ; this information I got from a cabin passenger, and I made the calculations in my own mind.
               Witness submitted a calculation made in pencil. Estimated that the ship had run from eleven to twelve knots per hour, and according to that estimate had passed the light.
               Witness then repeated the words he addressed to the second officer. The latter, he said, replied that he was not captain and I was not mate, and he could not do as he pleased; he was standing in company with the boatswain, Lang, who was drowned, on the port side of the ship; I then asked Mr. Brown, fourth officer, if I could go to the main yard and look for land; he answered, "It is no use;" I then said, "I could pick up the land more readily than any other man, as I had been on the coast before." I knew the character of the coast, having visited Halifax in 1865; I told the fourth officer he would not feel the land until he struck upon it. I then took my turn at the wheel; at three o'clock the weather began to set in a little hazy; about that time the Captain's boy came on deck with a cup of cocoa; the second officer told him not to call the Captain, as he would do it himself; at twelve minutes past three o'clock the Captain was called; I knew the time precisely, because I was asked by the second officer; the Captain did not arouse at first, and the second officer and I went away; in a few minutes the second officer returned, and I said, "The best thing that you can do is to shake him and get him up;" as the Captain was being called for the second time, I heard Carrol, who was on the watch, cry out, "Ice ahead!" I left the wheel and ran to the door to see whether it was ice; I saw white foam and ice, and I immediately ran back to the wheel and put the helm hard a starboard; and ran to the telegraph connecting with the engine-room, but at that instant she struck; I ran aft to get axes to cut the boats clear; a woman at that moment rushed up and cried out, "Save me!"
               I told her to wait till I came back; when I returned with the axes, I took her and her boy up to the saloon-deck; when I heard Mr. Brady cry out, "Where are the axes?" I called out that they had all been distributed; I was cutting away the starboard boat when she listed over; Mr. Purdy, another quartermaster, was with me at the time; he said to me, "Thomas, will you come and swim ashore with me?" I said, "Not yet. I am going to save Mooney's mother;" he then wished me good-by; he was the first man who left the ship for the shore; after I saw Mary Mooney and her boy swept away, I thought I would try to save myself; I took off my coat and jumped overboard, and safely reached the shore.
               
                  Cross-examined by Mr. Ritchie.—After one o'clock I calculated that the ship had run 144 miles; the wind about two o'clock was south, and pretty even astern, but variable; when the second officer called the Captain, he said it was getting thick, and Sambro light was not yet in sight; when the ship struck, the second officer and the Captain were both in the chart-room; I did not notice any person standing on the bridge; I cannot say if I was fourteen miles from the place where the ship struck, how Sambro light would bear, or the course we ran, but I looked straight ahead; when Mr. Brady called out, "Where are the axes?" I did not see him. This was the third or fourth voyage I made in the Atlantic; at half-past one o'clock, A.M., I judged we were fourteen miles from Sambro light; at one o'clock on the previous day I estimated that we were one hundred, or one hundred and seventy miles from Sambro.
               
                  Cross-examined by Mr. McDonald.—I spoke to the second officer as I did because I felt very uneasy; I knew the coast was difficult to make out, for when I was in Halifax before, in the City of London, I remembered that the ship sometimes went very slow—sometimes at half speed—and that the lead was hove every ten minutes; I did not notice that any sleet fell on Tuesday night; I do not think that the ship was in a condition to run thirteen knots without canvas; I have now reason to believe that my previously expressed belief that the ship had run her distance was correct.
               
               
                  To Mr. Ritchie.—I have heard that there is a current on this coast in the winter time running from three and a half to four knots; I cannot tell how it sets, and I made allowance for it in my calculation.
               JOHN FOXLEY, Chief Engineer of the Atlantic, testified—At noon, on the 31st of March, the Captain sent Mr. Brady to me for an account of the speed of the engine during the twenty-four hours; the Captain was in his chart room; I made up the statement and took it to him. [The statement was here submitted by the Captain, who had it in his pocket-book, and was identified by the witness.] The statement gave the speed, the coal expended during the day, 60 tons, and the coal remaining, 127 tons; the Captain said we were about 480 miles from Sandy Hook, and 170 miles from Halifax; there was a south-west swell and falling glass; he called the chief officer; told him what quantity of coal was on board, and asked if it would not be advisable to put the ship about for Halifax; we all agreed that as the barometer was falling it would be advisable to put about for Halifax; she was making little headway; the Captain was afraid we might get within about 80 miles of Sandy Hook, when the coals would about be expended; after the ship was put about at one o'clock we commenced to clear two more fires so that we would be able to keep sharper steam on; from one P.M. till midnight she was going a little faster than she had been when we put about; at midnight I turned in, leaving my subordinates on duty.
               
                  Cross-examined by Mr. Ritchie.—The fourth and fifth engineers were on duty at the time of the accident; they were on duty from twelve o'clock; the fifth engineer was lost; 847 tons of coal were put on board at Liverpool; there were 120 tons on board from the previous voyage, making the total 967 tons; we used about 80 tons before starting on the voyage; our average consumption was 69 tons a day; we had been eleven days out when we bore up for Halifax; the consumption was greater than usual, because the coal was mixed, English and Welsh; this was my nineteenth voyage in the Atlantic; I joined her as third engineer, and was raised; this was my second voyage as chief; we consumed about the same quantity of coal this time as on the last voyage; on that voyage we had a much larger quantity than this time—probably 1200 or 1300 tons; we were out thirteen days, and had 129 tons when we reached New York; it was all put in for the use of the ship; the highest rate of speed the Atlantic could make in favorable weather was twelve and a half and thirteen knots an hour without sail; her average rate of speed from the time we bore up for Halifax was ten and a half or eleven knots; previous to the last two voyages we had all Welsh coal on the passages to New York; I heard the chief engineer say the average consumption was fifty-nine or sixty tons per day; I know it was less than when we used mixed coal.
               
                  Re-examined by Mr. Ritchie.—What I said about the high price of coal being the reason for taking no more on this voyage is only my opinion; if we had twelve days' full supply we could, by reducing the speed, say from twelve to nine knots on the tenth day, we could make it last a little longer; we always ran at her best speed, generally fifty-four pounds of steam; when we reduced our consumption of coal we had from fifty to fifty-four pounds; when we left the dock at Liverpool we had thirteen days' full supply of coal, but we consumed eighty tons on the river; the regular bunkers held 767 tons.
               WILLIAM PATTERSON was sworn.—Was fourth engineer of the Atlantic; was on duty, and had charge of the engine room from twelve to four o'clock in the afternoon, and from twelve to four o'clock in the morning; the engines were going slower from twelve to two o'clock than they had been going during the twelve hours previous, but they began to improve from half-past one o'clock, when the engines were doing their best work. We had about fifty-four pounds of steam, with the expansion valve fully open; between twelve and two o'clock the lowest pressure of steam during the night was reached, and was thirty-six pounds, with the expansion valve partly on; when I went on duty at twelve o'clock the guage indicated fifty pounds. I account for that because when I went on watch there were no coals on the plates, and no round coals to fill in the two fires; after the grate had been cleaned the fires were a little low; we took some time to get coal for the fires, then a farther time to get out the round coals to put on the fire; our speed increased between two and three o'clock; we had fifty pounds' pressure on the guage at the time she struck; the guage stood at fifty-one, and we had increased speed with increased pressure; I was standing on the stoke hole plates, opposite No. 2 boiler, when I felt the ship touch the bottom, almost under my feet, on the starboard side of the keel, as if she was grazing over something; at the time I was surfacing fire number one of the starboard boiler; I immediately shut the surface cock and ran up to the engine room; when I got there I found that the telegraph had been thrown around beyond the usual mark for going astern full speed, as if it had been pulled violently, and the signal had been answered from the engine room; the fifth engineer (since dead) was in the act of reversing the engine; the greaser, James Dennier, (since dead,) also was there in the act of assisting him; I came to his assistance, and from the, time I got to the platform until the engines were going astern occupied about fifteen seconds; I then watched the telegraph for a short time, to see if any more telegraphs were given from the deck;. at the same time I looked at the engine room clock, and found it was nineteen minutes past three; the clock was reset at noon; I went below to shut the surface cock; as soon as I got to the foot of the engine room ladder, the log lines went away with a race very suddenly; I called to the engineer to stop her; then turned to go into the stoke hole, and just as I was going there I heard her go away with another race; I turned back to see what was the matter, and saw the engineer in his shirt sleeves with the throttle-valve in his hand; the chief engineer, Foxley, then stopped the engine, and ordered the fifth engineer to shut the main stop valve; I suppose that he (the chief engineer) opened the safety valve, at least he told me that he had done so, as I heard steam blowing off; when I got to the stoke hole all the men had left; the firemen's room was above the stoke hole, and I called to the men to attend to the fires; this all occurred in the space of two or three minutes—that is, from the time that she struck till I shut the seacocks; while I was shutting them I saw water coming out of the starboard bunker; I had only about twelve feet to run, and before I reached there, there was a foot of water on the floor; I then made my way to the deck, being the last person to leave the engine room
               
                  Examined by Mr. McDonald.—It appears to me that from the time she first struck until she finally settled, she was rattling and jumping over the rocks; it was about two or three minutes; if the ship had been afloat and free, I would estimate that it would take from three to five minutes from the time the engines were reversed till she would be going astern.
               CORNELIUS L. BRADY, third officer, recalled and examined by Mr. McDonald.—I had a certificate of competency as master, and also passed in steam; do not remember the date or number of my certificate; I got them about five years since; they were left at home; have been in command of a steamship out of Liverpool.
               
                  Cross-examined by Mr. Ritchie—The greatest speed of the Atlantic, under the most favorable circumstances, was thirteen knots with the fans she had; this was with sail and steam; the day we ran three hundred miles we had a strong easterly gale, and all sail set; I never heard or saw Quartermaster Thomas from the time she struck till I got ashore; I did not ask him for an axe; I went up to Clancey's to get some of the men to help me, and found Thomas there. Mr. Beady stated on oath that the stories told by Quartermaster Thomas of his (Thomas') activity in saving life was untrue, and that he only thought of saving his own life.
               JOHN W. FIRTH, first officer, was recalled.—Have been captain of steamships, and my certificate as master dates from May, 1859; the number, as well as I can remember, is 20,489; it was lost in the Atlantic; the highest rate of speed was thirteen knots, but the steamer has averaged this in any day's work during the last voyage, even with a fair wind and sails set; this was my second trip across the Atlantic Ocean; my previous experience was in the Mediterranean and India trades; I think 900 tons of Welsh coal would be equal to 1,050 tons of Lancashire coal, and would not take up any more room.
               EDWARD D. MULLIGAN sworn.—Am captain of the steamer Carlotta which runs between this port and Portland; have been master of steamships coming and going between here and Portland for four years, and am familiar with the Nova Scotia coast from Cape Sable to Halifax; the Carlotta is 549 tons; I made Sambro light on Monday night, March 31, at ten o'clock, Portland time, being about twenty-five minutes past ten o'clock, Halifax time; I judged that Sambro Light bore N.E. by E., distant between three and four miles; the night at this time was disagreeable, dark and thick; up to nine o'clock it was raining hard and unsettled, wind S.E.; after that time the wind set in W.S.W., somewhat high and it was drizzling; after that it improved; at twelve o'clock it was clearer, and the light could now be seen easier and at a greater distance than at ten o'clock, but the weather might have been different then from what I had it in the harbor; I got in here about ten o'clock; saw other lights as I came up; made Chebucto Head, Devil's Island and Meagher's Beach Light; I steered E.S.E. coming up; when I made Sambro Light I was not sounding; cannot say anything about the currents; they are irregular and uncertain; cannot say how they will set for twenty-four hours at a time; the currents are greater in winter than in summer, and are much governed by the winds; we appear to have a stronger westerly current in winter than in summer; there was a better chance of seeing the light when coming in from the sea than when running along parallel to the coast; did not make Cross Island Light, it being thick when passing; had no more difficulty in making the light that night than at other times; at ten o'clock that night I instructed the engineer to slacken speed, but while in the act of doing so I got hold of the light; if I had not got hold of the light I would have slowed the ship and hove her head off shore; would not have sounded, because soundings are irregular. I use Massey's patent log; my speed at the time I saw Sambro Light was ten knots; I always find Massey's log correct; have had every opportunity of testing it; I use the log at all times, irrespective of weather, and have tested it frequently and found it correct; we always tested the log in running from light to light, and found it satisfactory, but never considered ered it safe to run up to the last mile that the log would allow, but leave a margin; I think the accuracy of the common log might depend on the  sea, but where there are currents the patent log is most to be depended on; coming to the eastward in thick weather I always use the lead.
               
                  Examined by Mr. Ritchie.—The last night I saw previous to making Sambro was Little Hope Light, sixty-five miles from Sambro; when I was going slow I knew I was nearly up to Sambro; Sambro Light is a treacherous one to be depended on as to distance; our wheelhouse is about fifteen feet above the water, and we can see Sambro Light on a clear night about twelve miles at the masthead; thirty feet higher, we could make it out three to four miles further; I was in the pilot house when I came up that night; I always remain in the pilot house from the time we make Sambro Light till we go to Halifax; at sea Massey's log has a tendency in rough weather to show more miles than actually run; heard no guns from Sambro.
            
            
               CAPTAIN WILLIAMS' STATEMENT.
               The following is a copy of a part of Captain Williams' letter, which has been written from Halifax to the owners of the "White Star" line:
               "On the 28th of March the engineer's report showed the coal getting short, we having experienced three days of very severe weather. The coals on board were three hundred and nineteen tons, we being eleven hundred and thirty miles from Sandy Hook. Speed came down from eight knots per hour, and with moderate strong breeze to five knots per hour. Hoping that the wind would change favorably, I kept on until the 31st inst., when our coals were reduced to one hundred and twenty-seven tons, and the ship distant from Sandy Hook four hundred and sixty miles, latitude 41° 39', longitude 60° 54'. As the ship by this time was making but seven knots per hour, the wind being at south-west, the glass falling, and westerly swell on, I thought the risk too great to keep on, as in the event of a westerly gale coming up, we might find ourselves shut out of all sources of supply.
               "The chief steward also reported the stores short of fresh provisions—enough for the saloon for two days—and but salt food for the steerage for two days, when all but bread and rice would be out.
               "At one P.M., after receiving the engineer's report, I decided to come here, Sambro island being then north five degrees east, and distant 170 miles. During the afternoon the wind was south south-west, with rain. At eight P.M. the wind veered to the west, and the sky was clear and starlight. I several times corrected the course of the vessel by the Polar star. The course steered by the compass was north twenty-four degrees east, with seven degrees easterly deviation, which I considered ample allowance for the westerly set, and to lead five miles to the east of Sambro island.
               "I left my orders on the bridge as to the lookouts, which word was passed to the officers relieving at midnight the second and fourth officers. I corrected the course the last time at 12.20, when I repeated my caution and orders. I then went into the chart-room and sat down. In about fifteen minutes a Mr. Fisher came in to ask some particulars about the ship, as he was writing to the Cosmopolitan (newspaper). He stayed about twenty minutes and left. My intention was to run on until 3 A.M., and then to heave to and await day.
               "At midnight the ship's run was 122 miles, which would place her forty-eight miles south of Sambro, the speed by the log at 12.20 being nine knots per hour. The night at this time was cloudy.
               
               "The first intimation I had of anything wrong was the ship striking on Meagher's Rock, or Meagher's Island, and remaining keeling slightly to port. The officers were quickly at their stations, accompanied by the quartermasters. The first sea swept away all the port boats, and the ship, keeling over rapidly, soon rendered the starboard boats useless.
               I left the fourth officer and four men at the wreck to identify and take charge of the papers, valuables, &c., that might be thrown up. I saved thirteen saloon passengers, lost twenty; saved four hundred and sixteen steerage, lost five hundred and twenty-seven steerage and crew. But three women were seen; the two I have spoken of, and one who got up beside the chief officer and died in the rigging with her baby.
               
                  JAMES AGNEW WILLIAMS."
               
            
            
               GHOULS PILLAGING THE CORPSES.
               It is very sad to say that the bodies were pillaged after they washed ashore, and were then turned adrift again. An emigrant with thirty sovereigns sewed in his vest was found, and all of them cut out. The robber of the dead was apprehended by the magistrate.
               A large trench was dug, in which the bodies of the poor unclaimed were put to rest.
            
            
               THE SCENE AT PROSPECT ON THURSDAY MORNING.
               The weather had been gusty all Wednesday afternoon, and towards eight o'clock at night became quite stormy, the wind blowing dead on shore, and, according to the local authorities, working woe to the wreck. When day dawned the storm had lulled, and the waters of Prospect harbor were calm and smooth as glass. A boat was speedily engaged to convey the anxious news seekers first to the mill of death, and secondly, to the spot where the broken and dismembered Atlantic lies. As the skiff shot round the points, and passed among the numerous islets and rocky masses that stud the coast, there were glimpses obtained of the wrecking fleet, comprising schooners and tugs beyond number. Row boats, manned by hardy fishermen, that sped full quick to the spot, where were already made fast, more than one, whose equipment of grappling irons, drags and ropes, told plainly the mission on which its crew was bent. A glow ascent of a deep declivity, marked by huge projecting granite masses; a glance at the distant breakers, seen from the top of the rock; then, on turning a vast block of stone, the visitor gasped for breath, as at his very feet, still, stark, and cold, with glassy eyes opened out to widest extent, and gazing up, lay in rows what not many hours before had been human beings.
               A feeling deeper than reverential awe, a sensation as might be experienced by one standing on the threshold of death, chilled to the very marrow the bones of the looker-on. Then what a sight met the eye! There, on the brow of that rocky island, partly on the stone, partly on the grassy earth, wet with last night's rain, and cut up by brown patches of moss, lay the aged and the young, the strong and the feeble, equalized at last by the blow that fell so suddenly on them. Ay! man, woman and child had been alike swallowed up by the greedy deep. Side by side lay they, some of whose faces bore the imprint of that peace so much spoken of; others were set resolutely, as if the last thought of the living creature had been duty; and others again revealed nothing of the final emotions that must have crowded the few fast passing minutes that elapsed ere eternity opened up before them.
               The dead lay in all positions, too—half recumbent, stiffened by death, and icy cold; wildly agitated, as if the struggle had been long and bitter; easy and natural, making one almost believe that no agony had been suffered by the departed; defensive, as if resisting the buffeting of the maddened waves on the horrid still night on the bare cliffs; in all stages of dress, from the well-to-do emigrant with his clothes all on, evidencing his habits, to the weary sailor just relieved from his watch, who had turned in, clad in wet garments; women, whose dresses had been torn to rags by the action of the breakers; children as they might have been in their beds—but one and all carefully and reverentially covered where mutilations disfigured the form, for, alas! the work of rescue needs a bold and unscrupulous hand, and the floating body must be gaffed as it washes by, and, no matter where the sharp hook strikes, whether on face or neck or body, it cuts and tears frightfully. Some corpses had been so terribly lacerated that sail cloth had been used to cover up the features and limbs which love itself could no longer recognize. Hands, arms, feet and legs, that were bare were seen around, and all were bleached and shrunken horribly.
               Faces were discolored and blotched red, green—yes, all manner of hideous colors; and again, there were those fair and rosy as in life. Gazing upon some of these forms, one would have sworn they slept, and so strong was the illusion that in stepping by them the step was light, for fear of waking those who never will wake until the sound of the "last trump."
               In this awful array of one hundred and ten bodies—all that were discovered up to twelve o'clock—two faces struck the Beholder with undisguised horror; one, that of a man, whose outstretched arms lent additional force to the wild expression of the wildly distended eyes. These glared so intensely that their fixed look of despair was a force unequalled by any save that of a female body, and then, indeed, was the agony of death angrily, fiercely, furiously, depicted with startling vividness on rigid lineaments and firm-set features.
            
            
               POSITION OF THE WRECK.
               Leaving this grievous sight and taking boat once more, the visitor was landed on the narrow neck of Mar's Island, and traversing rapidly came full in sight of the wreck itself, nearly covered by the breaking seas that washed constantly over it. On Golden Rule rock itself, a portion of the bows of the ill-fated steamer still showed above the surf, and directly in front of the spectator the masts projected from that portion of the hull which had apparently slid back from the rock.
               At Golden Rule Rock, on which the ship struck, boats innumerable were cruising around the fallen monster, not daring, however, to approach too closely, for fear of the rush of the waters. The shore was thickly strewn with débris—planks, masts, beams, yards, staves, boxes, coops, broken boats, oars, ropes, skylight frames and all the strange objects cast up from the Man of the Ocean. The rock was crowded by men anxious to secure a share of the huge quantity of lumber that was being continually washed up. United with Swedish and Danish letters were young fruit saplings, defaced photographs, iron bolts, and fragments of books in different languages. But the sea ran too high to permit the employment of divers or the approach to the sunken hull, and the various crafts busied themselves scouring the heaving main in search of bodies and floating cargo.
            
            
               MR F.D. MARCWALD'S STATEMENT.
               
                  HALIFAX HOTEL, HALIFAX, April 3, 1873.
               
               
                  To the Editor of the Herald:—Say to the friends and relations of the unfortunate cabin passengers by the steamer Atlantic that I, a cabin passenger, will remain by the wreck to recognize the different lost ones as they come ashore, and will see to it that they are properly cared for. I have an undertaker going with me to the wreck with plenty of boxes, and the bodies will be cared for. We have the body of Mrs. C.M. Fisher, of England; also that of Miss Merritt, of New York. I think there is great hope of recovering the bodies of John H. Price, of New York; also Mr. and Mrs. Merritt and Miss Scrymser, also of New York.
               The shipwreck was a terrible sight. Hundreds perished with cold. The passengers and crew acted nobly. It was impossible to save a woman, for within a few moments after we struck the ship careened and threw those on the decks into the sea, and those only were saved who jumped quickly into the rigging. One or two women from the steerage, who were in the rigging, perished with cold. Many of those saved are suffering with cuts and bruises, but all are being properly cared for. If it was not for the brave fishermen, who came to our rescue, every soul would have been lost, for after we had struggled and made the rocks and  afterwards the main land, we surely would have perished with cold but for their houses that sheltered us. Their wives and daughters found us plenty of blankets and warm clothes, and furnished us with food and drink. The most that we regret is, that it was impossible to save a woman. I will be happy to furnish information to friends and relatives.
               
                  F.D. MARGWALD, Cabin Passenger.
               
            
            
               STATEMENT OF QUARTERMASTER THOMAS.
               ROBERT THOMAS, the Quartermaster, said:—At 2 o'clock I went upon the bridge with the second officer, Mr. Metcalf, and told him not to stand into the land, so, as the ship had run her distance to make the Sambro light
                     Carrie Clancy and Rev. Mr. Ancient carrying Refreshments around among the Wrecked People.
                     
                        Carrie Clancy und Pastor Ancient vertheilen Erfrischungen unter die Schiffbrüchigen.
                     
                  
                   from my calculations. He told me that I was neither captain nor mate. I then went to the fourth officer (Brown), and asked him if I should go on the main yards, as he would not see land until he struck on it. He told me that it was no use for me to go up. I then relieved the man at the wheel, and at 2.30 o'clock the second officer told the Captain, who was reposing in the chart-room, that the weather was getting thick. The second officer went outside of the chart-room. The man on the lookout called out, "Ice ahead!" They were among the ice, and shortly after the ship struck. The time was fifteen minutes after three. I put the helm hard starboard and reversed the engine's full speed astern. I left the wheel-house and went to the after wheel-house and got the axes out and distributed them, for the purpose of cutting away the gear about the boats. A little boy and his mother, named Munney, both steerage passengers, with her brother, Alfred Munney, all from London, were lost. She called to me after she came out of the after steerage, and said to me, "Robert, where are you?" I said, "I am here." She said, "Save me!" I took the mother and child on the saloon deck, and told her to stay there until I could get the boats clear to put her and the boy into. The ship suddenly listed over, and they lost their hold on the rail and were swept overboard, and sunk to rise no more. I think they have some friends or relations at Yonkers, Westchester county, New York, as I received an address to the above effect the night before. William Purdy, Quartermaster, was the first who attempted to swim ashore, but when going, he said, "Good-by, Thomas; will you come with me?" I replied that I wanted to save the boy and his mother. Their I saw that the boy and his mother were swept away. I swam on shore, and when I landed on the rock a passenger called out, "Save me!" which I did. I traversed from rock to rock, falling sometimes from exhaustion, with this man with me, until I found the signal port, a place which the fishermen have to look out and signalize boats. I then called out for help. Two old men and a boy came to our assistance, and I went to the house with them and procured a line, and then retraced my step to the beach, where I saw a lot of passengers and crew upon the rock. Speakman, the Quartermaster, swam towards me with a line from the rock, and I hove my line and caught him, and pulled him ashore. As soon as I had done so, we hauled in the line which he had from the rock and made fast the end of my line to it, so as to make it stronger. As soon as I got the line made fast, I told those who were on the rock to come on ashore, one by one, as I would save them.
               The first man saved in this way I do not know, but the second one was Mr. Brady, the third officer. I saved in this manner about seventy, as near as I can remember. In some instances, as the line was some distance overhead and the persons too exhausted, I had to reach down and pull them up. Some I had to go into the water for, which was out of my depth, with a line around my waist. In these cases the two old men would drag me the man I rescued ashore. I remained there from four o'clock till nine, when I fell down through exhaustion. One of the stewards and somebody else came and relieved me, and I was carried away to a house where I was kindly cared for. As soon as I recovered sufficient strength, I was conveyed in a boat to the main land, and went to Mr. Ryan's, the magistrate, where I was kindly treated and attended to, as I had the cramp. The Chief Steward and another man, who threw his arms around the steward's neck when coming ashore on the rope, were drowned at my feet. The reason that I could not render assistance in this case, was that the two old men went away with a man that I had rescued, as they feared he would perish; therefore there was no one present to haul me ashore if I had jumped off the rocks after them.
            
            
               QUARTERMASTER RAYLANCE'S STATEMENT.
               Quartermaster Charles Raylance says:—About twenty minutes past three o'clock I hove the log, and the ship at that time was going at the rate twelve knots per hour. I went into the aft wheel-house and was looking through one of the windows, whey I fancied I saw breakers on the starboard side. I then ran forward to the lookout man on the bridge, and I asked him if he did not think there were breakers on the starboard side. He reported to the second officer, who telegraphed to the engine room to reverse the engine's full speed astern. We both then jumped off. the bridge together on to the deck. Then he gave me orders to call all hands on deck. I ran forward and burst the quartermasters' room open with my foot, and of them, three in number, got out through the panel of the door. Then I and one of them went aft and got out the rockets and fired about eight, when the rocket box rolled away from us. The Captain gave orders to get the boats clear and save the passengers. I and the Captain went to No. 3 boat and were getting her clear, when he asked me if the plugs were in her; I told him they were not. As the passengers were huddled together in the bottom of the boat, crying, I could not get the plugs in.
               The Captain then passed the order around for every one to look after himself. I, with the Captain and a passenger, got into the main rigging and stopped there. The ship had previously keeled over, and I heard the Captain ask if any quartermasters were in the rigging. I answered, Yes, here is one. I then went up aloft by the maintopmast rigging, as the Captain gave me orders to unreave the signal halyards to heave ashore. When I got up aloft the maintopsail brace was carried away, and I had to come down again. At that time the lines were ashore, and I assisted the Captain in getting to the forward rigging. The Captain and I cut the forebrace and passed it to Mr. Brown, fourth officer, who sent it on and passed it ashore by one of the other lines. By this time passengers were going ashore by the ropes, and the Captain gave orders for the passengers to jump and do the best they could for themselves. Then I heard Quartermaster Thomas sing out, "Stay where you are; a boat is coming to your assistance." Therefore orders were given for the passengers and crew to stay where they were. When the boat did come, the sea running high, it could not render us any assistance, and the Captain therefore told the passengers to get ashore by the line which they did. During this time two large boats were being launched, which went to the rock, and were taking passengers off the rock to the island. The Captain, seeing this, told the boat's crews that those in the rigging were in the most imminent danger, more so than those on the rock, and to come and take them off first, and he offered them ¥500 for every boat load they would rescue. The boat then came to the ship and took the passengers from the rigging first. I then went myself, and one of the sailors carried me, as I could not walk alone, to one of the houses, where I was treated well.
            
            
               THE ONLY SURVIVING YOUTH.
               The only youth saved from the *reek makes the following statement:—
               My name is John Hanley. I am about twelve years of age. I got on board of the Atlantic at Liverpool, with my mother, father and young brother. We all belonged to Ashton, Lancashire. The first thing worth mentioning that he knew of, was that he was asleep in his berth when a great noise awakened him, although he did not hear any voices. There seemed to be a great rush, and be stumbled out of bed and into the crowd. The greater portion passed him, but he saw six men crowding into a top berth in the upper steerage, and he followed them. One of the men broke through a window and got out, and the boy did the same, one kind-hearted individual pushing him through before he made the egress himself. Once outside, he held on by the ropes until himself and his comrades were rescued by the life-boat. What became of his parents and brother he did not know, but is certain that they were drowned. The family were on their way to New York at the invitation of two married daughters settled there.
            
            
               THE CREW A BAD LOT.
               The crew was one of the hardest that was ever gathered in any vessel. They were picked up about the Liverpool wharves and docks, and it was with the greatest difficulty that they were kept under control during the voyage. The storekeeper says that one of them made an attempt to snatch his watch and chain one night, but was foiled. On another occasion during the storm of the 25th of March, he states that some of the crew attempted to break into the spirit-room, and it was for a while feared that force would have to be used to prevent them. When the boats came from the shore to rescue the survivors, the sailors repeatedly pushed the passenger aside, or knocked them down and jumped into the boats themselves.
               [This has since been denied, and again repeated. It seems at least some of them were as described here.]
               Some of the incidents of the disaster, as related by the survivors, are harrowing. At one time during the weary watch before dawn, the foreboom boom broke loose, from its fastenings and swinging around instantly crushed to death about two hundred persons who were gathered on the house on deck. Several passengers were drowned by life-boats which, not being properly managed, overturned and drowned the unfortunates before assistance could be rendered. Some of them had life-buoys, and endeavored to reach the rock by means of the line from the vessel, not having them properly adjusted, but on the lower part of their bodies, were floating with their heads down and in this way many were drowned before reaching the rock. One young man, with no clothing save a shirt and vest, and two life-buoys fastened around his body, leaped into the water and attempted to reach the rock. The passenger who give the statement say they endeavored to dissuade him from the attempt, but he persisted, and when finally they were rescued and landed on shore, the body of the young man who perished in his attempt was the first they saw, and the life-buoys were still on the body.
               Among the passengers was a native of the old country, who had been in the United States for some time, and had lately returned to England to bring his wife and family of five children to the home he had provided for them in the new world. They were on board the ill-fated Atlantic, and father, mother and children all perished.
               Several of the passengers who were landed from the steamer Delta were considerably bruised about the body and lower limbs. One man had both legs broken, and others were so sore from being knocked against the rocks that they wore scarcely able to stand.
            
            
               THE JAM IN THE GANGWAY.
               The survivors say it was a fearful sight to witness the manner in which many of the unfortunate persons met their death. Unable to reach the deck, in consequence of the jam in the gangway, several rushed through the port-hole, only to be seized in the icy grasp of the merciless waves and dashed to death against the sides of the ship.
            
            
               A VERY SAD CASE.
               Among the passengers known positively to have been on board the steamer Atlantic was a German draughtsman named John Charles Graf, who left here last fall, in company with his stepson, Charles Henry Ruck, for Germany, where he had some property on which he desired to realize. Mr. Graf intended to return by the last German steamer, but failing to complete his arrangements in time, he informed his wife, who, with her two children, aged respectively seven and three years, resides in Seventy-fourth street, that he had secured passage in the White Star steamer of the 20th of March. Mr. Graf had, as he informed his wife, about four thousand dollars in cash with him, he not wishing to purchase a draft.
               Mrs. Graf and her friends are quite certain that her husband and son were on board the ship, and as his name does not appear among the passengers
                  
                     Correct Likeness of Captain Williams.
                     
                        Sehr ähnliches Portrait des Capitän Williams.
                     
                   gers saved, the poor woman, who is thus thrown from comparative affluence into a state of abject poverty, is on the verge of insanity.
            
            
               STATEMENT OF MR. M'ALLISTER.
               James McAllister, a native of Glasgow, Scotland, who proved to be a very intelligent person, gave a clear and distinct account of the wreck. He said that the Captain sighted land on Tuesday morning, near his exact position, being near Halifax harbor, where he had decided to call for coal. The 3 o'clock bell rang "All's well," and a quarter of an hour afterwards, when I was asleep in my berth in the forward steerage, I heard a crash. I immediately jumped up, put on my clothes and rushed on deck. Nearly all the passengers in that part of the steerage, to the number of one hundred and twenty-eight, if not more, also rushed upon deck at the same time. Some of the passengers who first succeeded in getting upon the deck were told by some of the officers in command that nothing was wrong; that they had only lowered the anchor. The passengers then went down again and tried to persuade the rest to that effect. I think this was done to prevent confusion on deck. I came up again, and had just time to get on the saloon deck. It was about ten minutes after the ship first struck when she turned over towards the land and sank. A number of persons clung to the bulwarks, but the sea being high, they were washed off and many were drowned. The others, along with myself, who got into the rigging, swung themselves off by ropes into the water and swam to the rock a distance of about fifty yards. About one hundred and fifty, who were passengers principally belonging to that part of the steerage that I was in, saved themselves in this way. We remained on the rock about two hours, when assistance came to us from the shore, and we were taken off, but in an exhausted condition.
               One steerage passenger, who succeeded in reaching the rock, died there from exhaustion before assistance came. We were treated well, and every care taken of us by the fishermen on shore at Prospect, especially by the Clancys. That's a splendid, brave girl, that daughter of his. About one hundred and fifty who got in the rigging and on the ship's side, beside the number I have already mentioned, were taken off first and landed.
               The Captain, who was clinging to the ship's side, passed off about a hundred passengers into the boat, and advised them to jump into the water and swim ashore.
               About fifty who were still clinging to the ship's side when the Captain got ashore were rescued by boats. I think that the one hundred and fifty, and about the same number which were clinging to the ship's side and rigging, were saved, making about three hundred saved. I think that no more than that number were saved. My chum and one of the passengers named Cunningham, of Glasgow, I know were saved.
            
            
               STATEMENT OF WILLIAM HOGAN.
               William Hogan, of Waterford, tells the following:— I was a passenger on board the Atlantic, and was on deck at three o'clock. I heard the sailor on duty call out, "All's well! Three o'clock!"  After hearing the sailor saying All's well, I went to the forward steerage and got into bed. About five or ten minutes afterward I heard watchmen cry out, "Breakers ahead!" and almost instantly I heard a tremendous crash, and the air rushed in and blew out the lights. It was my impression that the boilers had bursted. I called up some of the boys that were sleeping near me. I told them to rush on deck, that the boilers had exploded. Some of them rushed to go and said that it mattered little—thinking the steamer was out at sea—and said that it was just as well to meet death below as on deck; but I and Pat. Leahy, my chum, determined to save our lives if possible, and as all was confusion below I really cannot tell how we got on deck. The orders were given, as is a common thing on steamships with sailors, that the hatches should be closed, and no one to be permitted to ascend to the deck. Thinking that our lives were in imminent danger we forced the hatches up and ascended to the deck. This has been denied by the officers under oath. As soon as we went on deck we rushed to the side of the vessel, and saw the rock, as I supposed, about three hundred yards distant. I thought at first it was an iceberg we had struck, but immediately afterwards we noticed that the ship commenced to heave and plunge, and after three or four plunges she settled and the water seemed to be rushing in. I surmised that our safety depended on our being on the side of the vessel nearest to the land. I rushed to that side and caught hold of the rigging, when the ship commenced to turn over gradually on her side. I got on the side of the ship and caught hold of a rope. I then heard a dismal wail, which was fearful to listen to. It proceeded from the steerage passengers, who were below, and were then smothering. It did not last more than two minutes, when all was still as death. The Captain then shouted out that the last chance the survivors had was to get on the rigging. Several of them did so; I afterwards heard the first officer shout out that the only chance to those who could swim was to jump overboard and endeavor to reach the rock. One old man held on most desperately, but he seemed to have lost his presence of mind. I helped him to get nearer to the boat when some of the passengers were being rescued; he said that he would give a hundred dollars reward to any man who would save him, but nobody seemed anxious to earn the money. I gave him all the assistance I could under the circumstances, and afterwards saw him get into a boat and safely land on shore.
               During that time several of the passengers were being conveyed to the rock, which, as near as I can judge, was about thirty feet from the vessel; there were three ropes from the ship to the rock and one rope from the rock to the island, which was about one hundred and fifty feet distant. The passengers, by means of these ropes, saved themselves and got on the rock, where they remained about an hour, very few of them venturing to wade ashore with the assistance of the single line to the island. At six o'clock a small boat or skiff came to our assistance, but the sea was so heavy that they could not rescue any of those who were on either the rock or the ship. A quarter of an hour afterwards a man on shore wrote on a black board, "Cheer up; the boats are coming to your assistance," which elicited hearty cheers from the unfortunate beings, who thought that at every minute they would find a watery grave. About half an hour afterwards we saw some men carrying a boat over the rocks on the island, and in a few minutes thereafter they launched it and went to the rock, and rescued in this way three boat loads of passengers, or about thirty-six persons. During the time they were rescuing these men from the rock the Captain and the passengers on the ship called loudly to those in the boat to come to the ship and take them off first, as they were in most imminent danger. The Captain called out to the men in the boat to come to the vessel and he would give them $500 for every boat load they would rescue. The boat commenced taking men from the ship and rescued two boat loads, and in half an hour afterwards another boat came to their assistance and took off those persons who were clinging to the rigging. A third boat came off with the third officer, Brady, who had succeeded in getting to the shore previously by the aid of ropes. I got into this boat with several others and landed in safety. When I left, about eighty persons still remained on the side of the vessel and the rigging. Those remaining when I left, seemed quite cool and confident of being rescued. I, being wet through to the skin and much exhausted from the cold, crawled, as I could scarcely walk, to the nearest house, where there were a great many persons before me. We were treated with the greatest kindness. In about an hour after getting warmed I went down to the wreck and it was a fearful sight to behold. Some were still remaining on the vessel; others had been washed up on the beach, which was strewn around in all directions with dead bodies. I saw one woman who exerted herself in getting out of the cabin to the rigging. but as no one could render her any assistance she froze to death in the rigging. She seemed to have been lashed to the rigging, as when I saw her from the shore her body hung downwards. I saw that no more assistance could be rendered, so I, with some others, got into a skiff and rowed to a fisherman's house, where the first, third and sixth engineers were, with about fifteen others. We took dinner, and afterwards we thought it the best plan to walk to the city, as the accommodation there was meagre, so many people being there from the wreck. The roads were in a fearful condition,—a foot of snow in most places—but as we received refreshments in two places along the road, which helped us, we arrived in the city at a quarter to eleven o'clock, saw the Mayor of the city, who directed us to the police station, where we were taken care of in a first-class manner.
            
            
               THE CHIEF ENGINEER'S REPORT.
               John Foxley, Chief Engineer, said the vessel struck on the rock at a quarter past 3 o'clock A.M., on the 1st instant, and commenced to heel over to the port side, the sea breaking over the ship, and vessel filling rapidly. All the female passengers who were asleep at the time the ship struck were prevented from coming on deck by the seas washing over the ship and filling her. Some of the passengers got in the life-boats, the davit falls being cut away to allow the boats to float clear of the davits, in the expectation of getting clear of the vessel by that means, but a sea broke on board and washed the greater portion of the passengers who were in the boats out, the boats were stove, and those who ventured in them perished. The third officer, Mr. Brady, and two quartermasters swam ashore with a small line which enabled a great number of the passengers and crew to get on shore. I got on the rock soon afterwards, and also Robert Herring, second; John Hodgson, third; William Patterson, fourth; Samuel Davis, sixth, and Robert McFarlin, seventh engineers, and we and others of the crew and passengers assisted others to proceed from the vessel to the rock. A great many of the people were drowned while coming from the vessel by the rope to the rock. The cold was so intense that some of them, being benumbed, were unable to hold on to the rope and they let go, and we were unable to render them any assistance. The rock that we were on was covered with seaweed, which made it very dangerous to stand upon, and its edges were round.
               All on the rock being soaking wet and cold, were unable to render any assistance to those who were in the greatest peril. A number of them were washed off the wreck and drowned, and a number who were trying to get from the rock to the island by a line were also washed from it and drowned. We could perceive people falling from the ship's side and rigging. Three boats, which were carried across the island, rendered assistance in conveying the passengers and crew from the vessel and rock to the shore. [These were the boats about which the noble girl, Carrie Clancy, wrote on the tarpaulin, as described in the opening pages of this book.] Several persons who became completely exhausted, laid down on the rock and died. Some of the passengers became maniacs, foamed at the mouth, and tottered about like children. We were very kindly received and treated by the people on shore. Mr. Ryan, magistrate, and Mr. James Covely, fisherman, rendered us every assistance. The chief officer, Mr. Frith, who it is supposed was drowned, was seen clinging to the rigging, but no assistance could be given him. At 11 o'clock the same morning the ship was breaking up and the cargo washing ashore. Corpses were also washed within reach. We started at 2 o'clock yesterday afternoon for Halifax, and arrived in town at 11 o'clock P.M., where we were well cared for. The fifth engineer, Thomas Grant Urquehart, belonging to Dumfries, Scotland, is among the drowned. Incidents of the most heartrending character occurred. The little fellow, the only child saved from the wreck, rushed up on deck with the stream of passengers when the first alarm was given. His parents and other members of his family were still below. They perished when the ship filled and fell over on her side. Hustled about along with that struggling mass of excited humanity, the piteous screams of the poor little fellow went to the stoutest heart. He leaped upon the back of one of the men in the hope of being saved by him. But the man shook off the wailing boy. His cries at last attracted the attention of the Captain, who, perceiving the tenacious manner in which he was struggling for life, called out to the men who were surrounding the lines that led to the rock and safety, to endeavor, if possible, to save the boy. The poor little fellow was immediately passed over the heads of the struggling mass of beings and placed in the boat. The kindly men who were struggling to save life, almost wept for sympathy as they put the lad on shore, safe in body, though sadly afflicted by the loss of his parents.
               Mr. Foxley, the chief engineer, who remained on the rock for several hours, assisting the passengers to land from the ship, said it was extremely harrowing to behold the sufferings of the unfortunate creatures, even after they were rescued. Many of them became insane, frothed at the mouth, and toppled off the rock into the water and were drowned; others were so chilled and exhausted with the cold that they laid down and died. Some died after they had been taken to the mainland. All the passengers speak in the highest terms of the gallant conduct of the third officer, Mr. Brady, and the first engineer, in particular, who remained on the wreck for hours, assisting the passengers to reach the rock. Two lady cabin passengers came on deck in the excitement, and stood near the wheel-house. They hesitated a moment, as if panic-stricken, and returned into the companionway, as if looking for something. Presently they came out and endeavored to read the forward part of the ship, from where the passengers were being sent ashore on the lines. At that moment a huge wave swept over the ship's quarter. The men clinging to the rigging heard two heartrending shrieks, and when they looked again the women had disappeared. These are only a few of the terrible incidents of that fearful wreck. Young men as well as old became paralyzed, and as they clung to the rigging or to the sides of the vessel, they seemed bereft of all reason, and when spoken to by the others to make some effort to reach the boat and save themselves, they would roll their eyes, then stare fixedly at the speakers and ask, in a whining tone, "What boat?" Many again who were roused out their berths had scarcely time to put their clothes on and rush on deck ere they perished. One cabin passenger, a young man, came up with only a vest on. He clung to the ship's side for a time, and finally rolled off into the sea and was lost.
            
            
               STATEMENT OF A STEERAGE PASSENGER.
               A steerage passenger makes the following statement:
               I turned into my berth about eleven o'clock on Monday night. The night was dark, but starlight, and the weather fine. I knew the ship was going into Halifax for coal. The last I remembered was that two bells (one o'clock) struck. I then went to sleep, and woke up with a shock, and remarked to my mate, "There goes the anchor." I thought, of course, we were safe in Halifax harbor; but as soon as she made a second plunge I said, "Good God, she's ashore." With that we got up and dressed. The companion-way was thronged with the lower steerage passengers. Seeing that the sea was commencing to break over the ship, and lower down the companion-way, I got as many as possible to take to the bunks and hold on by the iron stanchions. There we remained until after daylight. The ship had fallen over, and the steerage was full of water, one side only being out of it. Our only chance of escape was the ports. A number of men, probably twenty, got out through the ports to the side of the vessel. I remained until all who were alive were out. There were a great many drowned in their bunks. and others were drowned while trying to reach the ports. I got out through a port and held fast to the side of the ship for about two hours, and then went to the shore by the "life line." When I left the ship there were still a great many in the rigging.
            
            
               HOW A QUARTERMASTER LOST HIS LIFE.
               This officer was one of the number who had secured a place on an impromptu raft that had been thrown overboard. One after another the others had been washed away, until he only remained, the wind driving his frail craft rapidly towards the shore. He evidently thought that he would be saved, as he waved his hat to those on board the ship, not in a despondent, but rather in a triumphant manner. A wave which came immediately, even while he had his hat in his hand, dashed the raft against it to the foot of the rugged ascent, while still another threw him about six feet upon the rocks, where it stranded him. When the water was receding it carried the raft away, leaving the quartermaster lying motionless. On first striking, he scrambled about on the slippery surface. He must have been wounded, and attempting to rise fell backward into the sea, struggled for a moment and sank to rise no more. Every succeeding minute recurring waves washed off one, two or three, sometimes six. Then a dozen were swept away and went out side by side into the Valley of Death. There is no language that can describe the feelings of a man holding on for dear life to a bit of rigging and watching his friends and companions struggling, clutching, sinking, dying. The weakest, of course, went first. One poor fellow had managed to get himself in a position where he was penned in by pieces of timber which could not very well be affected by the action of the waves. His body was nearly entirely protected. From my position in the rigging I could see the expression of his countenance as from time to time he took his hands from his face, gazed about as if not daring to lift his head, and then again hid his sight. In an unlucky moment, during a lull he lifted up a portion of his body to make himself more comfortable, when the largest wave that I had yet seen, caught and swept him in a moment out of sight.
            
            
               
               PATRICK LEAHY'S STATEMENT.
               Patrick Leahy, a young Irishman hailing from Waterford, had been on deck at three o'clock A.M., and then everything was going on as usual. He went into the forward steerage, and had not been there but a few seconds when the crash came. With his chum, one Hogan, he instantly attempted to gain the deck, but even in the moment the passage ways had become blocked. Such was the startling nature of the shock that it had aroused passengers out of their berths and into passages before they knew or even thought of what was the matter. When Leahy had reached deck the ship had commenced to rock over from side to side, but then there were few but the officers and crew visible. He saw several men jump overboard and sink. Some of them did not make an attempt to swim, but, as in all cases of shipwreck, became dazed and ventured on the first chance of getting out of the vessel that presented itself. There were six life-boats swung to deck. These were taken possession of by men and several cast off. Others the waves swept away. All, save one, succumbed to the fury of the waves immediately, and the occupants were drowned. When the water commenced to come in the steerage the passengers made for the hurricane deck. The Captain shouted for any men who had life-belts or buoys to rush into the sea or mount the rigging, as those were the only chances for life. Leahy and his chum immediately ascended the rigging after much trouble, and from thence had a good view of what was going on.
               "Then," said he, "I saw the first and awful sight. It was just gleaming day. A large mass of something drifted past the ship on top of the wave, and then was lost to view in a trough of sea. As it passed by, a moan—it must have been a shriek, but the tempest dulled the sound—seemed to surge up from the mass, which extended over fifty yards of water."
               "What is that?" asked Leahy of one next to him. "Sea lions," said the one addressed, probably a foreigner, who did not know that we had none such on our shores. "My God," said another, "it's the women." And so it was. The sea swept them out of the steerage, and, with their children, to the number of two or three hundred, they drifted thus to eternity.
               Leahy was in the rigging seven hours, moving up and down to keep his blood in circulation. He saw men on both sides of him fall from exhaustion, mostly able-bodied Germans. The only chance of escape there was, was by means of a rope to the shore, which Mr. Brady, third officer, swam ashore with. Nearly half the number of those who ran the risk of crossing on this, lost their lives.
               One man had just secured a flour barrel on deck, when he was washed overboard, but not before he had obtained a hold, grasping either end, the bottom being out. The barrel, from its build, would be precipitated by the sea some distance above the waves and then fall back. One more than usually heavy sea sent barrel and man at least six feet high. He had lost his hold before he came down, falling in the trough of the sea; but though on top of a wave, which rose a little further on, the barrel rode buoyantly, the man did not come to light.
               "We saw very little of the women and children," said another informant; "everything happened so quick that before even those who were strongest had got out of the choked passage way, the females were either so bewildered or the water had so impeded their progress, that very few came on deck. Those that did, were swept away before they could fasten themselves or be secured by others."
               "I saw one woman," said he, "in the water with three children just as they were washed overboard—two in her arms (one infant) and the other with its arms about her neck. They went down almost instantly, I think." [This is supposed to be the lady whom Carrie Clancy almost saved, as shown in our engraving, for another passenger says that he saw her with the children. As her strength gave out, first one, then another sank. The baby was the last, and just as she made the last effort to throw it towards Carrie, the sea swallowed both mother and child forever.]
               This steamer left Fall river with one of the most melancholy living burdens ever borne by any vessel, having on board about two hundred and seventy of the survivors of the wreck of the ill-fated steamer Atlantic. These men came chiefly by the steamer Falmouth from Halifax to Portland, thence by rail to Boston, and from that city to Fall River by the Old Colony and Newport Railroad. When they reached Boston they were met by Mr. Murdock, of the White Star line, and officer Perry, from the company's dock at Jersey City, who had come on from New York to take charge of them. There was also quite a strong squad of Boston police to escort them. With the exception of two or three whose limbs had been frost-bitten, they all marched under the police escort to Faneuil Hall, and were followed by a large crowd of people, whose curiosity to see them was so great that it was with difficulty the police could keep them from swarming down on the little phalanx of unfortunates.
               At 
                     Fanueil
                     Faneuil
                   Hall the Mayor and other prominent citizens were present as a committee to attend to the necessities of the shipwrecked men. Several large tables had been spread for breakfast, and in a short time the men were satisfying their hunger at the hospitable hands of the "the Hub" city. A police guard was maintained at the door to prevent intrusion of the crowd outside, and to prevent the unfortunate men themselves from getting out. This latter precaution was providential, as each man of the  batch, had he got outside, might have found twenty philanthropists who would have "taken him in tow," and doubtless have treated him generously; but it was feared that they might become too convivial in their generosity, and that a still greater number of the men than those who were crippled might have to be carried to the railway station. The men passed their time in the hall in eating, drinking (coffee, &c.), talking, letter-writing, and in describing their misfortunes to such gentlemen as were permitted to enter. It was noticeable too that almost whenever any citizen was engaged in conversation with their guests, he usually went down in his pants pockets for his wallet before leaving them, and the result was quite an inspection, by the sea-wails, of our various denominations and issue of legal tender.
               The very much sought individual was little Johnny Hanley, the only child saved from the wreck. Everybody wanted to see him, and at times there was much confusion around him in consequence of this desire. At last some practical individual procured a table and seated Johnny at it, and laid a sheet of paper and pencil on the table. The hint was taken, and Johnny now has that paper with him, with the autographs of some of Boston's generous people on, one margin and some of their figuring on the other.
               A gentleman connected with the Boston Traveller took Johnny around to the office of that journal "to show him to the editors." On the way Johnny was followed by a crowd, and when he entered the office, they clambered about the doors and windows to see him. A large number of gentlemen also called in to see and talk to him, and all seemed to look upon him as the result of a miracle.
               
               "Poor little follow," remarked a gentleman who had just finished asking him some questions. Turning to a bystander, the gentleman said, "Has he got any money?"
               "Not a cent," was the reply.
               "Not a cent! Yes he has, too, for I'll give him one," and the gentleman "drew his leather" and "a subscription for Johnny" netted about thirty dollars before it closed. He was afterwards taken to the Exchange, and the brokers quizzed and petted him awhile, and while Johnny was eating a dozen peanuts they put something near a couple of hundred dollars to his bank account. As the men were marched from the hall to the Old Colony depot they were followed by an immense crowd, and the carriage in which Johnny rode, accompanied by Mr. Murdoch, Officer Perry and Stewart Roberts, of the Atlantic, was surrounded by ladies, both before leaving the hall and upon its arrival at the depot. As the train left the depot the crowd gave a parting cheer, and upon its arrival at Fall River, quite a large gathering of people was at the steamboat dock to see them.
               They were soon marched on board the Newport, and half an hour afterward one side of the grand dining saloon was filled by them as they sat down to enjoy a first-class meal. They were brought to the dining-room in squads of about sixty, as it was impossible to accommodate them all at one time without displacing the regular passengers. Supper ended, the poor fellows tramped about between decks, smoked, and were interviewed by the passengers, and peeped at by the ladies from the railing of the staircase of the grand saloon. An hour later and they had gone below, and while some of them curled up for a good sleep in the clean, nice berths, the majority of them pulled their pelisses out on the carpeted floor, and chose to sleep there. At 10 o'clock, when nearly all had gone to bed, it was a curious scene to stand on the stairs and look down at the irregular array of sleepers. Their position, with limbs drawn up or half extended, and arms thrown over their heads, and in every conceivable shape, was altogether too suggestive of scenes that marked, not many nights before, the fatal shore they had so lately left.
               Almost all of these men were young, and but one or two of them were married—or rather, widowers—for almost all the married men were drowned, as they slept with their wives. These, too, were clad in almost every variety of  costume, new and old, and not one in ten of them, it may be noticed, had even sufficient spare wardrobe to make a handkerchief bundle.
               Upon their arrival at New York, they were taken to Castle Garden and registered, and provided with accommodations until they were ready to proceed to their respective destinations.
               I conversed with quite a number of them last night, but they all tell substantially the same narrative. There is one, however, whose whole surroundings seem to be so peculiar that his story will, beyond doubt, be interesting to the public, so I append it in full, as I obtained it from him.
               Little Johnny Hanley, the child hero of the lost Atlantic, is a chubby and cherry-faced boy of apparently nine years of age. His features are well formed, and his eyes are large and of a soft, deep gray hue, with long dark lashes. As he appears now, one would take him to be a sort of miniature purser on the half-shell, or just out of it, for some good people in Halifax bought him a regular sea jacket of blue cloth, with gilt buttons and a navy cap, which is also trimmed with gilt buttons and cord. The unfortunate little fellow lost his father and mother, and a brother, nineteen years of age, his only surviving relatives being two sisters, residing in Newark, N.J., one
                     The Dead Lady in the Rigging.
                     
                        Die todte Dame in dem Tafelwerf.
                     
                  
                  
                     Rescue of the only Child that was Saved.
                     
                        Rettung des einzigen Kindes von dem Schiffe.
                     
                  
                   of whom is married. Johnny is the pet of all the survivors and the "lion" of the populace in all the towns through which the company have passed. His pockets are generally well supplied with nuts, candy, and fruit, and the way the ladies "buzz" him and fondle him, is a fearful premonition of what his future career will be if they continue their attentions. He says he is English, and comes from Ashton, but does not know in what shire that town is situated, nor his own age. He speaks with a strong English accent, and is quite a child in manner, for it seems almost impossible to fix his attention seriously upon the fearful scenes through which he has passed. Indeed, he seems scarcely to realize its terrors, or the fact that his father and mother are among the victims of that awful night. Last evening, however, after talking to him for some time, I managed to induce him to sit by me at a table in the saloon of the Newport, assuring him that I would not detain him long, and obtained from him the details of his recollections of the shipwreck.
               Jay Gould, the railway magnate, and quite a number of other gentlemen, crowded about the table and listened to such portions of the child's narrative as they could hear, but he was so intently engaged playing with his fingers and scratching the marble of the table top, that they had difficulty in hearing more than occasional replies to my questions.
               I asked, "Did you sleep with your father and mother on the night of the wreck, Johnny?"
               "O no, sir," he answered. "The married people slept in one part of the ship and the single people in another, and so I wouldn't be allowed to sleep with them. I slept with my brother."
               "What was the first thing you knew of the wreck of the ship?"
               
               "I heard the ship hit again the rock; it seemed like a big noise, and woke me up. My brother got out of bed before me, and then I got up and went up to the second stage, and while I was standin' there, two men lifted me up and put me in the highest bed there was in it."
               "Were you able to dress in the dark?"
               "O, you know, there was lamps burnin', and I had most of my clothes on—I only had to put on my jacket and waiscoat and shoes."
               "What did you do next? Tell me all you remember now of what you did?"
               Johnny wriggled a little and looked around as though he wanted to get away from the New York reporter, and run about in the handsomely furnished and decorated saloon.
               "Go on, Johnny, and tell me," I said, "how long were you in that berth?"
               "I think I was there about two hours or more, and then I remember the men were shoutin' to the men outside the ship to break the window in. There was a man outside as took a hammer or somethin' and knocked in the glass, and I saw six or seven men pass up through the window from the bed where I was."
               "Why didn't you go out of the porthole or 'window,' as you call it?"
               "I couldn't reach it. These men went up through it and didn't say anything to me."
               "Was the ship turned over on her side then?"
               "Yes; she was layin' over, and I crawled over the berth and on to the up side of it when she turned."
               "Then this 'dead light'—this window—was in the side of the ship, but was up over your head, was it?"
               "Yes, sir. I couldn't reach up to it, but some men lifted me up to it, and then some more men that was outside took hold of my arm and pulled me up."
               "How long do you think you were outside on the ship's side?"
               "I think about two hours."
               "Were there any people out there with you?"
               "O yes, there was plenty of other men there, and I was among them."
               "Did the sea wet you out there?"
               "Yes. It beat over about every ten minutes—it was like rain falling; it was the highest part of the ship there, up for'ard."
               "What did you see next?"
               "I see'd a little boat come to us, but it wasn't strong enough, and they couldn't reach us."
               "Did you see any women there on that part of the ship?"
               "No, there was no women there, not as I see'd. I held on to some ropes, and had to hold on nearly all the time."
               "When the boats came at last, did you ask them to take you in?"
               "Yes. I had to go down the ship's side, and some men took me by the arm. I asked the men in the boat if they'd pull me in, and a man stood up in the boat and reached up, and when I came near enough he took my leg or arm and pull me in. There was a good many people in the boat; they were sittin' all round the sides of the boat."
               "Did any of the men try to keep you from getting wet, or hold you between their knees or anything?"
               "No; I don't think so. They had to hold on, and they was all wet enough themselves."
               "When did you see your father and mother last?"
               "I see'd them that night when I went to bed."
               "And never saw them after that?"
               "No, sir."
               "Did your brother speak to you when he got out of bed?"
               "Yes, he said as I had better get up, and then he went out, and I haven't seen him since he went away."
               "Did you see anybody you knew that night?"
               "Yes, I seed the man as slept in the next berth to me; that was outside the ship, and I was crying with the cold, and he took hold of me and told me not to be crying; but I wasn't crying for the first hour or so."
               "Did you know what was the matter?"
               "I knew we had hit on a rock or something, because somebody said so, and I heard the noise."
               "Were there many little boys like yourself on the ship?"
               "Yes, there was a good many there, but they were very near all Germans. I don't remember seein' any of 'em that night."
               "Did you see any people drowned off the ship?"
               "I didn't see anybody drownin' at all—only two men."
               "Did you see them sink in the water?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Did you see the line that was stretched from the ship to the rock?"
               "Yes, sir. I seed people goin' along the line holdin' by their hands and with their feet hangin' down and their bodies in the water. It was there I seed the two men let go, and they were drowned."
               "Did you see any of the dead people after you got on shore?"
               "Yes; I seed a lot of bodies—they said there was thirty of 'em—besides a boat load as come in, as was picked up in the water about the ship."
               "Did you have a cap on that night, Johnny?"
               "No, sir; I was bareheaded and wet all the time."
               "Do you know how it was you didn't see your father and mother?"
               "Yes; they were in the stern of the ship and I was for'ard, and the stern sunk deeper and filled up with water, and I think that was why I did not see 'em."
               It was now becoming quite late, and Johnny began to yawn as though tired, and in five minutes more he slipped off the chair and said, "I'd like to go to bed," and he went.
               As I went toward the door of his stateroom with him, I asked:
               "Johnny, did the people cry and shout much?"
               "No," replied the boy, "not much."
               "Did you hear any of them saying prayers to God, and asking Him to save them?"
               "Yes, I heard a good many prayin'. I don't remember what they said, but I know that they were prayin'; but," he added, as if an after-thought had suddenly struck him, "that was when they were inside. I didn't hear any praying' on the ship's side."
               And so the little wonder went off to bed.
               I understand that the White Star Company has signified its desire to become the guardian of little Johnny and educate him, with a view of ultimately taking him into the company's service and trying to make a man of him. Meantime Johnny will live with his sisters and brother-in-law, Mr. Thomas Hanley, of Howard street, Newark.
            
            
               ANOTHER TALE OF THE WRECK.
               I had a conversation also with the only cabin passenger comprised in this party of survivors—Henry Hirzel, a young man from Zurich, Switzerland. He is a graduate of the Swiss Agricultural College, and had emigrated to America to engage in agricultural pursuits. He is decidedly intelligent, and possesses an excellent way, despite the difficulty he experiences in speaking English, of conveying his ideas in a crisp and direct manner. Mr. Hirzel says: "The weather had been partially unpleasant, or rough and changeable during the latter days of the voyage, and on Monday, March 31, about noon, the ship's course was laid for Halifax. About three, or twenty minutes past three o'clock on the morning of April 1, I was awakened from my sleep by three very sharp shocks, following in quick succession, with intervals, as near as I can judge, of perhaps two minutes. I didn't leave my berth when the first blow was struck, as I had no thought of such a thing as shipwreck, and I stayed still until after the second. The first shock was a sharp knock, that made a crashing noise, and shook the whole ship. The ship seemed to stick fast for a moment, and the engines stopped working for a short time, and then began working again. The vessel then struck a second time, and the engines stopped working completely. I ran up to the deck as quickly as possible, find found one of the officers and some men burning Bengal lights and discharging rockets, but they only discharged two or three, as they were wet and would not ignite readily. I heard the Captain and officers order the boats to be lowered, but, as you know, only one was got overboard, and a crowd of people rushed into it. The Captain next ordered everybody to go up the rigging if they wanted to save their lives. I went up almost immediately, as the water was rising, and there was a strong tide. At first there were a great many passengers up the rigging, but by ones and twos they came down and tried to reach the front of the ship, where the land line was being rigged. I did not attempt to use that line. I saw forty or fifty people try to go over to the rock, and I saw quite a number of them washed off. The line didn't seem to be of any use. I saw three or four women at the head of the stairs leading to the saloon. They appeared to be greatly frightened, and soon after that I saw two of them, who had come on the deck, washed away by a wave. The others didn't come out on deck. They were the only women I saw, except one from the steerage, who came up into the rigging, and was frozen to death, as you have read in the papers. I was, taken off by some fishermen who had brought a few boats there about daylight. I cannot say anything about the Captain's conduct, because he was forward and I was astern. I saw no children come up to the deck that night, because the women and children were all down in the stern of the ship, and that part sunk first. About ten minutes after the ship struck she began to roll over on her side, and kept turning that way until the deck was straight up and the ends of the yard-arms were down in the water. Of course, we could not remain on a deck in that position, and we clambered out to the side of the ship that was lying uppermost. The waves dashed over the ship from both sides, and the passengers were wet both backwards and forwards, and many of them were washed away. I think the passengers acted very coolly, and I should have expected that there would have been much more noise from screaming, crying, and praying, than there was. In the beginning I heard a few praying, but not very many. I was taken off in the last boat that left the wreck, the first officer being left behind in the rigging. The life-preservers were very poor, because I saw a great many people in the water with them on, who struggled on their faces and on their backs, and sometimes their heads went under. I saw one man who tried to go to the shore on a floating fragment of the wheel-house. He got from it on to the rock, but was washed off and lost afterwards. It was generally understood when I left the wreck, that the boilers had exploded when the water rushed in on them, the force of the explosion being downwards and sideways."
            
            
               WHAT THE DEAD OFFICER SAID.
               Hearing that one of the survivors present had heard a "short and sharp" dialogue on the night of the disaster, concerning the course of the vessel, I inquired for him, and found a man of perhaps thirty years of age, named John Holland, a native of Standish, Lancashire, but for the past seventeen years a resident of Belfast. I asked him in relation to it, and he made a statement as follows:
               "Well, sir, I was on deck about an hour and twenty minutes before the ship struck, and overheard the quartermaster tell the second officer that he was 'too near the land,' and the reply was that he (the quartermaster) was 'neither a captain nor a mate,' and that he 'knew too much.' I heard this myself, and I thought the second officer was under the influence of liquor. This Quartermaster Thomas was the man that got the first line ashore. I saw him take the line to the rock by tying the line around his body and jumping into the sea and swimming to the rock. The same man took the first line from that rock to the shore. I say this because other men have claimed the honor of the deed, and I think it should go where it belongs. I saw Thomas take those lines. With regard to the mutilation of bodies to obtain jewelry by the crew, I can only say that I did not see any of the crew do that, but I saw them offering to sell the rings on the steamer Delta, coming up to Halifax. Brady, the third mate, who claims to have taken the line ashore, was, in fact, about the sixth man to get ashore.
               
               
                  
                     On the Fatal Rock. Fishermen to the Rescue.
                     
                        Auf der verhängnißvollen Klippe. Fischer kommen zur Hülfe.
                     
                  
               
               The bravest work of all, I think, was done by William Hoy, who was on the rock all the time helping out the passengers who came over on the line. They could not get out of the water, and he stood, there and lifted them out until he became almost exhausted, and his hands were so benumbed with the cold that he couldn't grasp them at all at last; Then he actually reached down and took hold of their clothes with his teeth and lifted quite a number out in that way. It was gallant work. The trouble about that line was, there were too many at one time on it, for I saw several of them let go and drown. The Captain made the mistake of hurrying them too fast off the ship, and they got on the line faster than they could be taken out of the water at the rock. There are plenty of men here about me now who will verify what I say now. And there is another thing in regard to the first officer, Firth. When he was on the rigging with Mrs. Bateman, the lady who was frozen to death, he was not there trying to save her, but he was there because he had not up to that time had a chance to get off. He was one of the first to run up the rigging and the last to come down, because those who went up last were in front of him. Mr. Bateman is now in Boston, and he told me that his wife asked Firth if he would help her to get to the front of the ship, he taking one hand and her husband the other, and Firth refused to do it. This is actually what Mr. Bateman, who was a steerage passenger as well as myself, told me.
            
            
               A YOUNG NEW YORKER.
               Among the cabin passengers saved, was Mr. Freeman D. Marewald, a young New Yorker, now in the employ of Thompson, Langdon & Co., of No. 391 Broadway. Mr. Marewald was born in Brooklyn, in 1844, was educated at the Brooklyn public schools, and has never done business in any other city than New York. While in the employ of H.D. Norton & Co., he travelled as salesman throughout the United States, and established, an enviable business reputation. Less than one year ago he engaged with the house of Thompson, Langdon & Co., and his present employers speak of him with evident pride and confidence in his abilities. He was a passenger on the Atlantic, returning from his first visit to Europe, where he had been engaged in a thorough study of the perfumery trade. Upon his return he is to take charge of that branch of the trade of his house. He is unmarried, and has parents and brothers residing in Brooklyn.
               Emil Christianson, born at Erfde, in Schlesswig-Holstein, in 1850, and educated for a physician at the colleges of Kiel and Giessen, was a passenger on board the Atlantic. He took passage in the steerage with three other who were friends of his. There were also on board four young ladies and two little children, from the neighborhood of Erfde. With one of these young ladies Christianson had been acquainted from childhood, the other he became acquainted with on the voyage. From the day when he went on board at Liverpool, to the end of the unlucky voyage he claims that the food was never of good quality, though plentiful, and there was not a sufficient supply of water. Dr. Christianson was asleep when the vessel struck. The shock was tremendous, but did not throw him from his berth. He was partially dressed, and thrusting his feet into a pair of slippers, he hastily ascended to the upper deck. At the hatchway a ship's officer stopped him, and ordered him below, saying:
               "It's all right; boys, you have no right on deck at night."
               Christianson said he had a right to see what caused so great a shock to the ship, and the officer must let hit pass or he would box his (the officer's) ears. After some altercation. the officer allowed him to pass up. In the meantime his friends had followed, and one of them, intimidated by the officer's manner, was about to return, when Christianson stopped him, and thus saved his life. On gaining the deck the full danger was at once apparent. The sea was not heavy, and though the sky was a little overcast, the rock upon which the ship had struck was plainly visible to seaward under the starboard bow, and astern the shore of Prospect Island loomed up indistinct in the gray of early 
                     down
                     dawn
                  .
               An hour after, the people upon the island could be plainly seen. Christianson, thinking of a girlish playmate, ran below and to the stern of the vessel to save her, and just as he came near the mizzen-mast a heavy sea swept over the decks, and he, finding he was too late, rushed back and to the upper deck. At this moment the Captain shouted for men to clear one of the life-boats. Christianson rushed forward and began to cut away the boat. It was found to be nailed fast, and the nails had to be drawn. When the ropes had all been cleared away, with the exception of three small ones in the hands of Christianson and one other passenger, the Captain and his officers suddenly left for another part of the ship, and the life-boat, giving a great lurch, threw Christianson's companion into the sea. The boat in its return lurch fell upon the Doctor's right hand, crushing it. With his left hand, however, he caught a man-rope and passed himself along towards the bow, as the ship gradually went down stern first. The morning was very cold, and the sea was washing over them. Two passengers at his side became benumbed by the cold, and letting go, sunk into the sea and were drowned. Some of the sailors, according to Christianson, thrust the passengers away from the ropes, in order to get their places and save themselves. About 7 o'clock a few of the islanders were seen bringing a boat across the land from the opposite shore. It was a small boat, however, and the sea by that time had grown so violent that it was of no use. Half an hour later, two large life-saving boats were brought over, launched, and came to the rescue. In the meantime the ropes which had been carried to the rock on the starboard side, had been the means of saving a hundred or more of the passengers, but the rope swinging from the rock to the shore had been little used. The life-boats in their first half dozen trips took the people who remained upon the rock, then, believing the ship would soon break to pieces, came alongside and began to take the others off. The third time the boat came alongside, and just as they were rowing away, Christianson, who could no longer maintain his hold on the rope, fell into the sea. The boat put back and he was drawn up from the water. It was then 10 o'clock. On arriving at the beach he was unable to walk, and two men took him in their arms and carried him to a fisherman's cottage. It was crowded, and there was no room for him. He was taken to another cottage, and from this, he, with others, was driven by the sailors, who came ashore and took possession of it. Dr. Christianson says that he saw the sailors from the Atlantic recover the bodies washing ashore, and that, in the presence of himself and many other passengers, they robbed the bodies of the women of the rings upon their fingers, and wrenched the earrings from their ears. The Doctor speaks in the warmest manner of those who so kindly aided himself and fellow passengers in Halifax, Boston and New York. He has lost all his clothes and private papers, including letters of introduction from his German professors to medical men in this country.
               William Glenfield, aged twenty-six (married and wife lost), was one of the three married men saved out of the after-steerage. He comes from Plymouth mouth, Devonshire; and was going to Chicago. Mr. Glenfield was in America before, and went back to England last fall to marry the wife he has lost. He was caught between the life-boat and the davits when the boat was carried away with three of the crew and swamped. He then clung to the rigging, though his right hand was badly bruised. He remained in the mizzen rigging five hours, the sea washing over him at intervals. From the mizzen rigging he crept to the main rigging, and there clung for two hours and a half longer, when he was taken by the last boat to the shore. Mr. Glenfield, who is an intelligent workman, lost wife, money, clothes, and everything. He is entirely destitute. His wife's trunk, washed ashore, was rifled by the sailors, from whom he succeeded in recovering a few valueless things—a pair of slippers and other minor articles—as souvenirs of his brief honeymoon. He corroborates the story of Dr. Christianson, and says he was driven from the shelter he found on the island by the plundering sailors, who claimed to have been "on watch." The people of Halifax gave him clothes, but he now lies in the hospital destitute of money.
               Thomas Renny was in the single men's berth—clear forward. He felt the shock, and first supposed the ship had dropped anchor in Halifax, and the grating, crashing noise came from the chain cable running out. He arose and went on deck, when he was carried by a heavy sea against the bulwark, and received a severe cut in the eye and a badly-bruised hand. He finally reached the main rigging, where he remained for five hours and a half. From here he crawled to the forward rigging and reached the boat His left foot was frozen.
               Hugh O'Neil, of Castle-on-Tyne, was in the fore steerage. He crept to the galley, where he remained for two hours with the waves dashing over him. There were five swept off. He saw two men in the rigging, and begged of them to drop him a rope. They did so, and pulled him up. He remained in the rigging a while, and then passed over the rope to the rock, whence he was taken off by the boat. He lost everything.
               Michel Zanover, a Pole, had his leg fractured on deck. He came off in the fifth boat, at about half-past six o'clock.
            
            
               THE ARRIVAL OF FRIENDS.
               The scene upon the arrival of friends, inquiring for passengers sailed, or supposed to have sailed, upon the wrecked ship, was painful beyond measure. The long hall of the Hart's Island Bureau was thronged with a great gathering. There were strong men weeping torrents of tears, not womanly; and there were women whose eyes were red and swollen with a grief that had lasted longer than a day.
               The little boy who escaped through the port-hole, and to whom the ladies of Halifax presented a navy suit, was received with a perfect tempest of hysterical laughter, of sobs and tears. One after another, episodes full of pain, but rarely reflecting any humor, occurred. Reporters, policemen, and vagabonds, all shed tears at the sad spectacle.
               It was hours before the crowd finally deserted the place, some going home brimful of happiness, and some with sad and broken hearts.
            
            
               INTERVIEW OF A REPORTER WITH CAPTAIN WILLIAMS.
               
                  Reporter—
                  Captain Williams, how do you find yourself after your terrible experience?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Improving, bodily; though my limbs are still very stiff and painful, but in mind stunned—the whole disaster seems like a like a dreadful nightmare.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  You spent last night at Marr's Island, with the bodies and looking after the wreck.
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Most of the night, and until I had personally examined and identified all that lay upon the hillsides, and, God knows, would willingly have exchanged places with them could the lost have stood where I did.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Were the bodies much disfigured?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Many were, though about forty presented the appearance of quiet sleep, especially so in the cases of the little children.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Was there any truth in regard to the mutilation of the bodies?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  None, whatever. I specially examined the fingers, to disprove, if necessary, such sensational reports. I believe that many of the bodies were rifled by others than those from Prospect Point, before brought ashore, but there was no mutilation.
               
            
            
               THE MISCALCULATIONS.
               
                  Reporter—
                  Do you consider that you were sufficiently coaled when left Liverpool?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Yes, if not for those three days of heavy weather.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  But how do you account for being so much out of your position?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Solely on account of the current. It must have been a northerly set, as well as westerly. I allowed what, in my judgment, was ample—namely, eight degrees to the eastward.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Were you quite certain of your position on Monday noon?
               
            
            
               THE LATEST OBSERVATIONS.
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Yes, quite; both barometers agreed, and the observations were taken by different instruments and observers. I made it a rule that all the officers should participate in the navigation of the ship, and make themselves daily conversant with the position of the ship and the deviation of the compass on courses steered.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  But how did you strike the land when, according to all your reckonings, you should still have been a safe distance from it?
               
            
            
               WHY HE STRUCK THE LAND.
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  I have already stated to you that a northerly "set" proved greater than I allowed for. For two or three preceding days I had found the ship, by observations, to have been "set" to the southward and eastward of her position. By reckoning I was not astonished at this southeasterly "set," knowing the heavy northerly and westerly gales that had prevailed in the Atlantic during the winter; in fact, when making the northern passage homeward bound, I decided to near the Virgin Rocks more than Cape Race.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Were you on deck when the ship struck?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  No; I was in the chart-room, which is on the saloon deck, and less than thirty feet from the bridge. When the wheel-house windows were open I could hear anything that went on on deck.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Had you the leads and lines prepared?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Yes, both deep sea and hand, coiled on the bridge deck, the leads being armed and patents attached; both anchors were also in the bows.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Did you use those leads?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  No.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Is it not customary to do so when approaching land?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Yes, when approaching a low, sandy shore, or in making the land in hazy weather; but the night being clear, though overcast, and knowing that Sambro Island light should be seen from fifteen to twenty one miles, I did not think it necessary.
               
               
                  Reporter—
                  Mr. Metcalf was the officer of the deck at the time; did you consider him a faithful and competent officer?
               
               
                  Captain Williams—
                  Undoubtedly, or I should never have left him, but should have remained on the bridge with him.
               
               During the conversation the Captain curiously handled a little pistol belonging to your correspondent. I could but think when he when was toying with it that I was glad the cartridge was absent.
               Such are Captain Williams' responses to direct questions. He may have been criminally negligent, but he seems to have been a man in the supreme moment.
            
            
               THE ASSEMBLY OF NOVA SCOTIA ON THE WRECK.
               This legislative body moved promptly after the Atlantic was wrecked to take official notice of it, and it was through their action that the investigation was instituted.
               In the Provincial House of Assembly, Hon. Daniel McDonald, Commissioner of Mines and Works, said that an application had been made to the government for assistance to bury the bodies that had been recovered from the wreck of the Atlantic, and that the Chief Clerk of the Board of Works would be sent to the scene of the disaster with a sufficient number assistants to perform the work.
               Hon. W.B. Vail, Provincial Secretary, made a farther statement to the effect that Mr Morrow had called upon the government to say that, although 180 coffins had been sent down yesterday, and a number of carpenters to furnish others if required, he had just received information that it was impossible to get men there to bury the dead, and that the bodies were still lying on the shore. Mr. Morrow had stated further that, although the company were disposed to pay any reasonable amount, they had been at large expense already, and that it was desired that the government should make an appropriation for this purpose. Mr. Reid, the Clerk of the Board of Works, had been sent up to confer with Mr. Morrow in regard to the matter.
            
            
               NOBLE WORDS FROM THE OPPOSITION LEADER.
               Mr. Blanchard, leader of the opposition, said he was afraid, from what he had heard, that the work of burying the dead could hardly be accomplished at the scene of the wreck. He understood from Dr. Hannan that in the neighborhood of Prospect there was merely a thin soil covering the rocks, and that it was impossible to find a suitable place for the interment of so many people. He thought that the bodies should be brought to Halifax, and hoped the time would come when there would be a monument in our cemetery to preserve to future generations the memory of this sad event, and to mark the last resting-place of these unfortunate people.
               Hon. Mr. Vail said he had made some inquiry from Mr. Sumichrast, who had visited the scene of the disaster, and had learned from that gentleman that a large trench had been prepared at a short distance from the spot where the bodies were lying. It had occurred to him that it would be better to remove them by steamer to some place where it would be more convenient to have them buried, and the Honorable Commissioner of Mines would probably see Mr. Reid and arrange about the matter.
               Mr. Ryerson said he had met with a gentleman who had come from the scene of the wreck, and had learned from him that it would be more convenient and less expensive to bring the bodies to Halifax than to bury them where they were. There was only a small cemetery at Prospect, and it did not afford room to bury all the bodies that had been recovered.
               Mr. Blanchard said there was a large space in the Halifax cemetery that had been appropriated for purposes of this kind. He thought it better therefore that the bodies should be brought to the city, and he had no doubt that the steamer Lady Head could easily be obtained for the service; they could then be respectably interred in the cemetery, and eventually, either at public or at private expense, a suitable monument could be erected which would be creditable to the city and gratifying to the friends of those who had perished in this disaster.
               The Hon. Commissioner of Mines said he was informed that graves had been dug already, and that a number of bodies had been buried.
            
            
               REMARKS OF THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL.
               Hon. H.W. Smith, Attorney-General, said that it was certain that very few of the bodies of females had yet come ashore. It was thought that the poor women had been kept below the deck, and their bodies would not be recovered until the divers were able to explore the cabin. It would be more satisfactory that the bodies of the dead should be buried where some suitable monument could be erected to point out their resting-place to the relatives and friends who might hereafter visit the city.
               Mr. Pineo said he had spoken to Mr. Brady, the third officer, within the last hour, and he had understood that no bodies had been interred yet, and that to-morrow had been appointed for the burial.
               Mr. Blanchard said that the celebrated diver, Mr. Sheridan, had gone down, and had not been able to do anything, owing to the roughness of the weather, but he was quite certain that he would be able to recover the bodies of the women and children.
            
            
               PROCEEDINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
               The City Council of Halifax having met, received a message from the government asking permission to bury the dead in the public cemetery, if that course should be determined on.
               The Council, after brief discussion, unanimously voted to grant permission.
            
            
               A WEEK ON THE WRECK.
               The following vivid account of the appearance of the wreck and the shore a week after the awful catastrophe, was written by the reporter of the New York Herald:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              HALIFAX, April 7, 1873.
                           
                           The mantle of mourning still darkens this agonized and staid old-fashioned city. The very air seems to be full of death, the streets fall of mourners, and the hotels crowded with the anxious and sorrowful friends of those who were sent so summarily to their final account through the incompetency of the Captain of the ill-fated steamer Atlantic. The Herald reporters, with their special steamer, have cruised around and watched the wreck and the surrounding scenes almost from the moment of the terrible calamity. Notwithstanding withstanding the weather has been clear and calm ever since the eventful disaster, the monster ship, with all her strength, has slowly and constantly drifted to pieces. Divers, though, have worked their best, and have recovered hundreds of the bodies of the unfortunate victims. To look upon the position of the sunken hull, it becomes more and more incomprehensible how it was possible for the vessel to have been driven in where she now lies. It is the opinion of the fishermen of the locality that she struck on the Grampus Reef, about half a mile east of the scene, and ran along the reefs until she brought up against the fatal rock. She is lying on her port side, well under water from amidships; the hull is almost abreast of the reef, and forms a sort of breakwater between it and the shore of the island, which appears only about forty yards off. All that portion of the hull from the forward hatch is severed as completely as if it had been cut with some piece of machinery. The sea has caused it to forge ahead thirty feet or so, leaving a gap or passage way, where the small boats are continually running in and out, and carrying curiosity seekers from the shore to the wreck and back.
                           The fatal rock looks close enough for one to leap on to it from the forward part of the hull. It is a small rock, or rather that portion of it which was above the water, scarcely thirty square feet, and upon this two hundred or more human beings stood for two or three hours, until rescued by boats from the main land. Volumes and volumes of harrowing incidents might be written of heroism as well as of cruelty and inhumanity; but no pen can ever convey the faintest idea of the ghastly spectacle which at this very moment exists on the shore at the scene of the dreadful disaster. This afternoon and yesterday several of the fishermen, who have been engaged in the sad business, carried the bodies up the bank and laid them on the grassy knoll where the other bodies had been lying. The visitors crowded around and gazed mournfully upon the sad sight. Many could not stand it, and turned away from the place which has appropriately been, called "The Hill of Death." Others lift their hats, and with reverential awe step lightly along, as if afraid to awake those who are sleeping their last sleep. The bodies were those of steerage passengers, and most of them were females. One young woman was particularly handsome, and looked as natural as if she had died peacefully and calm. She was a fine featured young woman, beautiful, no doubt, in life. Her name was Bennett, and she had a through-ticket for Boston. Her scapulars and beads were left on her neck when her name was entered in a book by Squire Ryan. On the body of one man thirty-six sovereigns were found, and upon that of another twenty. All the men and many of the women had valuables, such as gold rings, brooches, money and watches. The magistrate and those who were assisting him in searching the remains, said that the bodies found yesterday had more property on them than all the rest who had been buried, except the body of Mrs. Davidson, which was recovered on Saturday evening. One of the romantic incidents of this terrible calamity has been the discovery that one of the men, a common sailor, and one whose life was sacrificed in efforts to save others, was a young woman of about twenty or twenty-five years of age. Her sex was not known until the body was washed ashore and the rude clothing removed preparatory for burial. She had served as a common sailor for three voyages, and was a favorite shipmate with all. She is described as having fewer of the vices incident to a sailor's life than is usual, but she was, nevertheless, as jolly an old tar as any of them. One of the survivors of the crew in speaking of her, remarked, "I didn't know Bill was a woman. He used to take his liquor as regular as any of us, and was always begging and stealing tobacco. He was a good fellow, though, and I am sorry he was a woman." The most singular part of the whole story is that the woman was an American and was about the only one of that nationality belonging to the crew. Who she was, and where she came from, and her motive for leading such a strange life of hardship, never was and never will be fully known.
                           All along the coast, a few rods back from the shore, are hundreds of rude, plain, unpainted coffins, piled up in a hideous, conglomerated mass. In front are long lines of dead men, women and children, in all the various positions which result from sudden death. There was a woman with her hands clasped in prayer and a peaceful expression upon her face; then a man who had evidently perished in terrible agony; then, most heart-rending of all, a little girl staring sightless; a babe with its arms clasped about the neck of its mother: and, the dead woman clinging to her child so firmly that they had not been parted, was but one of the many scenes which made strong men weep.
                           One very handsome woman, with long, flowing dark hair, had died seemingly in the effort to screen her beautiful person from rude gaze. Almost her only raiment was a night wrapper, and that was clutched about her person. Another woman, lying still and stark, was in the very act of hooking her dress when death overtook her. An old man had one arm raised, and the other hand, grasping a purse containing fifteen sovereigns, had been wrenched from it. The grasp of the dead almost defied that of the living.
                           The examination of the bodies as they came ashore was conducted in a very loose way. Frequently considerable sums of money would be taken, and before the record was half made, the magistrate in charge would be examining the next body. This method of procedure became so criminally careless as to excite the indignant protest of several New York gentlemen who were present to look after the bodies of friends. The sad work proceeded under the direction of an island magistrate and a few equally incompetent assistants. In the meantime the Dominion revenue steamer Lady Head lay quietly at her wharf in Halifax. Brutes in human form were drinking and quarrelling upon the rocks, and two of them who were fighting fell into the sea. Two regiments of soldiers were idling about Halifax, and their officers strutting in the streets.
                           So far, there has been a disgraceful lack of system and organized effort protecting property and caring for the dead. The company's agents and Captain Williams did not even reach the scene on Sunday, and were indebted to the Herald's tug to tow them back when they were found becalmed halfway to the wreck.
                           Every incoming train and steamer brings mourning friends in search the bodies of their beloved. Many have been recovered, identified, and forwarded to their homes. W.P. Scrymser, of New York, who arrived Friday night, to forward the bodies of his brother-in-law, W.H. Merritt, and of his niece, Miss Merritt, awaited the recovery of the body of Mrs. Merritt. Mr. Christian, who lives near the scene of the wreck and took charge of the effects of Mr. Merritt, which were supposed to be lost, called upon and restored them to Mr. Scrymser. They consisted of a gold watch and chain, which he was bringing as a present for a New York friend; also a couple of rings, a pocket-knife, some pieces of money, and a bunch of keys.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  
                     Carrie plunged boldly into the sea, to save the struggling mother and her baby.
                     
                        Carrie's kühner Sprung in das Meer, um die mit den Wogen kämpfende Mutter und deren Säugling zu retten.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               THE HERALD CORRESPONDENT IN THE HOLD OF THE VESSEL.
               Anxious to obtain a view of the ship below the water,, the Herald correspondent procured a diving suit, with the permission and under the direction of the wrecker and divers who were at work upon the hull, and descended into the interior of the wreck. The waters were clear, and every object plainly visible around the ship where she lay upon the reef. It was the first time for the correspondent to seek information beneath the waters, and the sensation is almost indescribable. The air from above, which is furnished through the rubber tube, comes with a hissing sound, producing a strange feeling. I shudder at the thought of being immersed so deeply, and how slight an accident would insure instant destruction. All around the objects looked weird-like; the glasses in the casque magnifying the already bloated forms into twice their size. The waters are very cold, and a chilly feeling creeps over me at first, but as I proceed it wears away, and I enter upon the task I have undertaken, with more nerve than I fancied I possessed. The immense hull lies well down on the port side, which is broken in several places, from contact with the reef. Fish were swimming around, eagerly devouring the particles of food which are to be picked up. Picking my way towards the hull I catch hold of a rope and scramble up the deck. The place where I have descended is where the ship parted, and a sectional view of the hull and cargo is obtained. The forward hatch is open, and I peer down the hold.
               O! what a spectacle is presented! The cargo has broken bulk and lays heaped up in a confused mass; bodies of men and women, bruised and torn, were jammed among the cases and crates. It is a horrible sight to look upon, and the magnifying power of the orbs through which I gaze upon it, renders it all the more horrible. Fishes swim in and out among the bodies and boxes, feasting upon the bodies of the dead. Limbs are strewn around, having broken off from the body from the continual action of the waters, which, when agitated, drive against the ugly pieces of the broken hull that stick up here, and render my movements very hazardous. Having seen enough of this part of the sunken horror, I proceed towards one of the steerage cabins, the one where all the women and children were drowned as they lay in their bunks. Scrambling along the deck, guided by the rope from above, and assisted by one of the divers who has undertaken to conduct me through the wreck, I reach the companion-way. If the sight in the hold among the cargo was horrible, the one that how met my gaze was ten times more so. There, lying in an immense heap, were a hundred or more bodies. They looked for all the world as if they were alive, with arms dislocated, eyes staring wildly, faces grinning as it were at you, and moving backward and forward with the under-current; some were dressed, many were half nude. Children were clinging to their mothers, and stout men were clasping their wives, and seeming as if they met their fate with calm resignation. No description of the bodies brought to the surface could convey an idea of the horrid sight in that cabin. I close my eyes and motion to my conductor my readiness to leave. I have seen enough in that charnel-house, the recollection of which will never fade. My conductor motions me towards the steerage cabin, where the men were by themselves, and where there was such a rush for the companion-way. Peering down into that cabin, I saw a similar picture of death. Bodies of stalwart men, old and young, were hustled together on the stairway, giving—from their distended nostrils, gaping mouths and staring, glassy eyes—some conception of the terror which seized them as they vainly struggled to reach the deck, but were prevented by the waves, which swept over the ship as she keeled over and filled the cabin.
               From another part of the vessel I obtained a view of the sleeping apartment. Here, piled up in heaps on the port side, were numbers of bodies of men, and strewn among them bed-clothing of one kind and another. From continual knocking against the stanchions and sharp, jagged wood-work, which is splintered and broken from the linings of the bunks, the faces and limbs of these dead are more ghastly than any I have ever seen. Imagination cannot picture anything more terrible than what was seen in this compartment. The flesh is torn from the faces of many of the dead; others again are bruised and battered about their heads and faces, which are red and bloody, and in striking contrast to the pale, livid features of others, which the action of the waters has not disturbed. While I stand here another of the divers descends and commences to send up some of the bodies. He, however, is more intent upon securing the cargo than sending up the bodies, and only does so now to gain access to some boxes and trunks which are lying beneath them. Having seen enough of the horrors beneath the water on that fatal reef—horrors of the deep which will never be erased from my vision—I decided to go above, and motioned accordingly to the men who were above in the boat, and pumping down to me the necessary supply of air to sustain life; in a few minutes I was once more at the surface, gazing upon the light of heaven and experiencing a sensation of relief at having left the chambers of death in the cabins of the ill-fated Atlantic.
            
            
               ABOVE THE WATERS AGAIN.
               For some time I could scarcely realize that I was above the water. Below everything had a greenish hue, and as the sunlight struck across my eyes, I experienced a strange emotion about them. Although the undertaking was a hazardous one, and the scenes below appalling, it is well I went down, and am thus enabled to convey feebly to the reader something of an idea of the hidden scenes of a calamity which has caused the whole world to mourn.
            
            
               MIDNIGHT.
               The last steamer of the Herald fleet which will come up from the scene of the Atlantic wreck to-night, has just arrived. The divers had ceased work when she left, but if the weather is fair they will resume at daylight in the morning. Only the bodies of steerage passengers were recovered to-day, about twenty in all, and they were buried on the shore as soon as they could be prepared and coffined. A considerable quantity of the cargo was recovered, but in a damaged and almost worthless condition. Wreckers and thieves who have for several days hovered around the scene, and plundered what they could, are being rapidly brought to grief since the arrival from New York of Mr. Pennell, the White Star Company's representative. The local agents of the company had done nothing whatever in the way of caring for, recovering or protecting bodies or cargo, and the local Provincial and Dominion governments were equally indifferent until stirred up by the New York attaché of the line, and Captain Merritt, the representative of the New York Wrecking Company. He has employed all the divers to be had here, and others are now on their way to the wreck from New York, Boston and Detroit, and will probably be at work during the week. All this, it will be seen, is in commendable contrast with the apathy or indifference of the agents here, who have done nothing whatever in the way of securing divers, notwithstanding their instructions to do so from the New York agents. On Sunday, the day when the weather and every thing was favorable for the operations of gathering up the unfortunate victims from their watery graves, the only representative of the company present was a steward and one of his waiters. The only steam tug in the harbor was chartered by the Herald correspondent, and the White Star line agents here, or their representatives, secured a sailing vessel. The tug went down, and when returning in the evening, was hailed by the becalmed schooner. On board of her was Captain Williams and other representatives of the company, on their way to the wreck. The tug came up to the city, and was afterwards permitted to return and bring up the sailing vessel and her passengers, but they did not arrive in Halifax until nearly 3 o'clock in the morning.
            
            
               THE COMPANY ASTONISHED AT THE CAPTAIN'S STATEMENT.
               It is said that the White Star Company are astonished and dumbfounded at the statement made by Captain Williams in the investigation. The story of an insufficiency of coal, it is said, is simply ridiculous, and that she had enough to last for thirty days. This only revives the old questions of what brought the steamer to Halifax, and if she was coming here, how was it that such an incomprehensible blunder was made as to cause this terrible disaster? The farce of an investigation will probably end to-morrow, and the survivors of the crew will sail for Liverpool on the Cunard line steamer which leaves here at noon. The investigation is still progressing this evening in the Parliament building. Great interest is manifested, and eager crowds surround and throng the building.
               [It was the bad quality of the coal that caused so much to be used, so this is the secret. For this the Company are responsible, and not Captain Williams. Coal now is very high in England, and the Company bought cheap, bad coal, instead of the coal they had usually bought.]
               The examination of the quartermasters was continued. Mr. Thomas, who was on duty when the alarm was given, testified most emphatically that Captain Williams and second officer Metcalf were not on the bridge at the time. He supposed that the cry of breakers meant field-ice, but ran to the telegraph and put the wheel hard to starboard. So far the investigation has failed to elicit but few important facts, and the evidence of the officers is decidedly conflicting. The examination failed to inspire profound respect, so far as it has been conducted. Lawyers seem more anxious to display their skill at pettifogging than to elicit truths, for which the world is waiting, in connection with this most shocking affair. Captain Williams watched the evidence closely, and took notes. The populace stared at him angrily, and whispers of indignation were numerous and expressive, even at the hotel.
            
            
               
                  April 9.
               
               The cloud of affliction and mourning still hovers over Halifax—in fact, it is doubtful if anywhere in the world where the particulars of the Atlantic disaster are known there is not a universal feeling of profound sorrow. The men who are here from the States, mostly from New York, seeking the bodies of brothers, sisters, and relatives, go about the streets in a despondent mood, all hoping that they may, at least, have the sad consolation of paying the last sad tribute to the inanimate forms of loved ones, even though they may be distorted, bloated, stiff and stark, in the cold embrace of death. The people of Halifax are very kind, and give such comfort as they can; but it does not bring back their dear ones who are lost, and are now floating around in the broken cargo of the sunken steamer.
               
               The scene of the wreck from the shore is very little, if any changed from that described in the despatches yesterday. Divers were at work almost at daybreak this morning, and did not cease their labors until the departure of the Herald tugboat at twilight this evening. The weather was fine, the water calm and placid, and everything combined to favor their efforts. The result of their labors, briefly told, was the recovery of five bodies; four of them the remains of steerage passengers, and the other the corpse of one of the crew. Not a single cabin passenger, in addition to those reported, has been found. The total of the cargo recovered during the day was about a hundred and seventy tons, consisting largely of machinery, dry goods, crockery, and now and then a case of silks and other valuable dry goods. An effort was made to cut into the saloon, and after fifteen iron bolts had been drawn and a large plate removed, it was found that the portion of the wreck which the divers took for the saloon was only a part of one of the coal bunkers. Among the broken fragments of the cargo and debris floating below, the submarine workers can discover the distorted and mutilated corpses staring at them, and drifting here and there with the wreck, at the mercy of the rolling sea, all forming a hideous and revolting spectacle, which it is almost impossible to describe. Captain Williams, the commander of the ill-fated steamer, viewed the wreck carefully to-day, and reports to the Herald correspondent that he has no idea but that many of the state-room locks were so dislocated by the shock when the steamer struck the rock that their occupants were unable to open the doors; and he therefore concluded that their bodies will be found within when the divers are able to get at them. It is well known that some of the rescued were obliged to smash the panels before they could get from their rooms, and one of these narrow escapes has been told in the thrilling experience of Mr. Brady, the third officer. The expected divers from New York, Boston and Like Superior have not yet arrived, but are hourly expected. When they do come, the submarine force will be more than treble, and probably the saloon will be speedily reached.
               The Herald diver is at the scene of the wreck, anxiously awaiting the opportunity to go below, and when an entrance has been effected to the cabin, the public will be promptly advised of the terrible spectacle which probably exists, and which the most fearful and vivid imagination must fail to contemplate.
               The scene on shore where the bodies of the poor victims are being consigned to their last resting-place, are most harrowing and revolting. Some of the corpses it is positively sickening to gaze upon. They are in many cases bloated, bruised and disfigured in a most terrible manner, and in other instances their appearance denotes as if they were enjoying a peaceful slumber, rather than lying in the sleep of death.
               The graves or trenches where they are consigned are about twelve feet wide, thirty or forty feet long, and four or five feet deep. The rude coffins containing the unfortunate victims are placed in these four abreast and two deep, and then covered over with twelve or fifteen inches of earth. Such have been the rude ceremonies over the hundreds of human beings who went down in the ill-fated Atlantic. There have been no obsequies, no friends near to shed a parting tear over their graves, and the only requiem which will be heard will be the dashing surf along the coast where they met their untimely fate. The Collector of the port of Halifax has increased his means at the scene of the wreck for the protection of the property recovered and the valuables found upon the bodies of the unfortunate victims, but he has not as yet managed affairs in person. He goes down to Prospect to-morrow,
                  
                     "You wretch!" exclaimed Carrie, "I'll brain you with this boat hook if you rob that corpse!"
                     "Du Elender!" rief Carrie entrüstet, "ich werde Deinen Schädel mit diesem Boothaken zerschlagen, wenn du den 
                           Lichnam
                           Leichnam
                        
                        
                           eplüderst
                           plüderst
                        !"
                   for the first time, on the Dominion cutter, which has been lying here almost from the moment of the disaster. The magistrates are very indignant at being compelled to give up the property which they have taken from the bodies of the victims, and one of them came up to the city yesterday to consult counsel as to whether the Collector had the authority to demand their delivery. The Collector, in all that he has done or failed to do, says that he is acting under instructions from the Dominion government, and the property retained in his possession will be held one year, and if not reclaimed up to that time, will be appropriated towards defraying the burial expenses of all the bodies.
               The brave minister, the Rev. Mr. Ancient, takes charge of the burial of all, except those who are.identified as Catholics and taken to the Catholic cemetery at Terrence Bay. He assists at grave-digging, conveys the bodies in boats, and reads the burial services.
               The Court of Inquiry will be postponed until Saturday.
            
            
               WHAT SHOULD BE DONE TO PREVENT LIKE DISASTERS ON THE COAST.
               Although Captain Williams has not as yet shown himself blameless for the appalling calamity, it must be admitted that his is but a divided responsibility, and other causes and other means contributing to the disaster must not be overlooked. While the Dominion authorities are investigating, in a manner somewhat novel and extraordinary, the cause of the terrible disaster which resulted in such a fearful and unprecedented loss of life and property, it would be well for them also to turn their attention to the neglected condition of a dangerous coast, and ascertain what additional means of safety are necessary. It is considered that the interests of commerce and of British and American underwriters, apart from what is due to the cause of humanity, imperatively proves that something should be immediately done.
               The Herald correspondent has taken pains to inquire from various sources what is absolutely needed to remove existing dangers, and relieve life and property from the perils of navigation along an extended coast. First, at Sambro, where the Captain of the unfortunate steamer supposed he was heading, there is a light-house and a fog-trumpet, which can only be heard in ordinary weather about two miles, and in a heavy blow probably not more than one mile. Now this terrible calamity shows that what is required at Sambro, in addition to the light-house, is a steam fog-whistle which can be heard at least five miles. And furthermore, in the vicinity of the scene of the disaster there should be placed a light-ship with a steam whistle which can be heard at least four or five miles distant. Had these means of safety existed when the ill-fated Atlantic was approaching Halifax harbor, in all probability this heart-rending disaster would never have occurred. Again, at Prospect, near the scene of the wreck, there should be a station or coast guard, with lifeboats and proper appliances for saving life and property. With these, the movements of the Dominion revenue cutter at the time of the calamity would not have been so lamentable. At Little Hope, a little rock island about sixty miles from Prospect, there is a red revolving light, but a fog-whistle is also required which. can be heard half a dozen miles. At Cape Sable, also, there is a bright revolving light, but in addition, a steam fog-whistle is absolutely required, for the approach to it is the most dangerous along the whole coast. On Seal Island, seventeen miles from Cape Breton, in addition to the fixed light there is a sort of fog-whistle, but the safety of navigation requires that there should be placed a steam fog-whistle which can be heard at a much greater distance than the one now there. About three and a half miles from Seal Island Light there is the blind rock, which at low water can be partly seen. Besides this, seven miles from Cape Sable, is the Brazil rock, on or near which there is nothing to indicate its location or existence to mariners. This rock at low water is twelve feet below the surface. If the Herald can be instrumental in directing the attention and influencing the action of the Dominion government to supply the needed requirements for the protection of life and property along the Nova Scotia coast, it will have conferred benefits, not only upon the people of the Dominion, but upon the friends of humanity everywhere. British and American underwriters, and all classes of ship owners, will especially feel grateful for contributing to lighten their responsibilities, and at the same time promoting the interests of commerce, in which all are interested.
            
            
               MONEY AND VALUABLES FOUND ON THE BODIES OF VICTIMS.
               The following is a list of money and valuables found on the bodies, and held by Mr. Edmund Ryan, a magistrate:—
               
                  Lot No. 1. Frances Machaward, stewardess, five sovereigns and $205 in silver.
                  No. 2. Mrs. Davidson, eighty-two and a half sovereigns, United States paper $181, letter of credit from the London and County Bank Company of Falkner, Bell & Co., San Francisco, in favor of Mrs. Laweston Davidson, and ¥150.
                  No. 3. Christopher Moore, 5 sovereigns, $226 United States paper, draft drawn by the Hibernia Bank at Liverpool on Messrs. Harnett, Hares, Hambrey & Lloyd, London, for ¥100; silver watch and chain.
                  No. 4. John Croke, 36½ sovereigns, 37 cents, silver, deposit receipt of National Bank at Kilkenny, dated 17th of March, 1873, for ¥150.
                  No. 5. Unknown, a silver watch.
                  No. 6. Unknown, ¥5 Bank of England note.
                  No. 7. Unknown, 15 gold twenty franc pieces and a silver watch.
                  No. 8. Unknown, $81 United States paper and a lot of keys.
                  No. 9. Unknown, 15 sovereigns.
                  No, 10. Unknown, a $20 gold piece and 5 sovereigns.
                  No. 11. Unknown, $12.50 in gold, a silver watch and pin.
                  No. 12. Unknown, 5 sovereigns.
                  No. 13. Unknown (woman), 50 cents.
                  No. 14. Unknown (man), 4½ sovereigns.
                  No. 15. Unknown (woman), 55 sovereigns.
                  No. 16. Unknown (man), a twenty dollar gold piece.
                  No. 17. Mr. Hosford, $25 in gold and $3 in silver.
                  No. 18. Unknown (man), $50 in gold and $2 in silver.
                  No. 19, Unknown (man), $140 in gold and $120 in silver.
                  No. 20. Unknown (man), 5 sovereigns and 50 cents silver.
                  No. 21. Unknown (woman), 1 sovereign.
                  No. 22. Mrs. Ann Smith, of 513 West street, 5½ sovereigns.
                  No. 23. Unknown (man), $47.75 in United States currency, a silver watch-chain and a gold locket.
                  No. 24. William Williams, one pistol, nine sovereigns, one chain, $2.25 in silver and one lot of German manuscript, including a draft for ten Prussian thalors.
                  No. 25. Robert H. Eccles, 21 sovereigns.
                  No. 26. An unknown woman, 7 sovereigns, 1 plain ring, 1 bunch of keys and one silver chain.
               
            
            
               ARTICLES PICKED UP.
               The following articles were picked up: Three silver watches with common chains; 6 plain gold rings; 1 emigrant passenger's ticket for two, dated at London, and good for New York to Chicago, via the New York Central and Great Western and Michigan Central Railroads; 1 emigrant passenger's ticket from Chicago to Nebraska, with checks attached; a bill of exchange drawn by Wm. H.M. Hayward, dated March 4, 1873, on George Harris, Land Commissioner, Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, Lincoln, Neb., payable to the order of George Fletcher, for ¥100; a marriage certificate of Joseph Booth Haywood and Hannah Hooley, of Lower Broughton, Lancashire, dated February 26, 1873.
               All the above articles were delivered to the Collector of Customs by Mr. Ryan.
            
            
               ARTICLES SAVED.
               The following articles were saved and delivered by N.P. Christian:
               
                  Lot 1.—Two rings supposed to belong to Albert Sumner, one being a signet, marked "S." and the other a plain one marked "From Allan to Albert."
                  Lot 2.—Taken from a vest, five twenty franc gold pieces, two ten franc pieces, one five franc piece and one silver watch.
                  Lot 3.—Two Post Office orders, Nos. 462, and 463, for $40 each, drawn in Rockland, Me., and payable to Amanda Richards, Surrey, England; a receipt by J.W. Lawrence, Boston, for $46.40, from John Richards, dated September 21, 1872, for a draft on the Metropolitan Bank for ¥8 sterling.
                  Lot 4.—A silver watch, marked on the paper inside, "Mr. Hawkins," and showing that it had been cleaned and repaired at Bridgetown, Totness, England.
               
               Besides these there is a lot in the hands of Mr. Longard, another magistrate, who has refused to give it up to the Collector.
            
            
               THE LOST AND SAVED.
               
                  SALOON PASSENGERS LOST.
                  The names of the saloon passengers drowned are as follows:
                  Ladies.—Miss Agnes Barker, of Chicago; Miss Brodie, of Chicago; Mrs. Davidson, of London; Miss Davidson, of London; Mrs. C.M. Fisher, of Vermont; Mrs. W.H. Merritt, of New York; Miss Mary R. Merritt, of New York; Miss Annie Scrymser, of New York; Mrs. J.W. Sheat, of Nevada; Miss Rose Sheat, of Nevada. Total number of ladies lost, 10.
                  Gentlemen.—Mr. Cyrus M. Fisher, counsellor-at-law, Vermont; Mr. Henry F. Hewitt, of W.J. Best & Co., 448 Broome street, New York; Mr. H.A. Krüger, of 54 Exchange Place, New York; Mr. W.H. Merritt, of New York; Mr. John W. Price, of 151 Broadway, New York; Mr. W.H. Sheat, of Nevada; Mr. W.J. Sheat, of Nevada; Mr. Albert Sumner, of San Francisco; Mr. H.M. Wellington, of Boston. Total number of gentlemen lost, 9.
               
               
                  SALOON PASSENGERS SAVED.
                  The gentlemen whose names are given below, registered as cabin passengers, were saved:
                  Mr. Charles W. Allen, Mr. Nicholas Brandt, Mr. James Brown, Mr. Simon Carnack, Mr. W. Gardener, of London; Mr. P. Hirsch, Mr. Spencer Jones, Mr. Adolph Jugla, Mr. Daniel Kuiane, of Springfield, Ohio; Freeman D. Marewald, of Thompson, Langdon & Co., 391 Broadway, New York; Mr. B.B. Richmond, of Detroit; Mr. S.W. Vick, of Vick & Melone, Wilmington, N.C. Number of gentlemen saved, 12. Total number of saloon passengers, 31.
               
               
                  STEERAGE PASSENGERS SAVED.
                  Otto Anderson,. O.R. Anderson, M. Anderson, Peter Anderson, John Anderson, C. Anderson, Christopher Anderson, James Batement, Benjamin Burns, Alfred Braman, Patrick Baglan, William Booth, Thomas Beering, John Burkman, August Brigelsen, Hans Bernden, Thomas Booth, Michael Burns, William Barron, Alfred Bishop, A. Bier, Martin Coyle, Thomas Culy, Joseph Carroll, Patrick Carroll, E. Cornwall, William Cunningham, C.M. H. Chanson, Christian Curling, Clause Classficht, Patrick Cosgrove, Michael Collins, John Carlesen, Theodore Colsen, C. Cornelius, Thomas Cunningham, Michael Carmody, M. Christeaum, Alexander Cameron, Thomas Connolly, Patrick Connolly, Christopher Crismcraft, Robert Carter, William Coughlin, Michael Cunningham, Michael Chaplain, Edmund Doherty, P. Dunn, John Dinotoe, James Dorcan, James Doyle, Johannes Deer, Frederick Drumbuski, Edward Doyle, Cornelius Driscoll, Owen Donnelly, John Donnelly, W. Dondler, John Doyle, John Dalton, Edward Egan, Emile Ellinger, John C. Elly, August Elfiske, Marcus Erison, John Fungo, Simon Flinn, Mr. Falk, Edward Figgins, John Frum, Jameg Foley, Thomas Farrell, James Flanagan, M. Greener, Alliarte Giovani, Osmond Gundersen, Richard George, Charles Groom, Edmund Gayner, Patrick Graceford, A. Gustave, William Glenfield, C. Huff, Robert Hawlett, P.N. Hanson, O.P. Hanson, E. Hanson Harris Hanson, W.H. Hayman, William Hayman, Charles Havily, Hugh Hughes, John Hanley, William Hay, Patrick Hannon, John Hessel, William Hawk, John Holland, Stephen Hammell, Michael Hanay, Andrew Huxley, J.A. Jolrausen, Henry Jones, J.M. Johnson, J.H. Johnson, Charles Johnson, N.E. Johnson, Henry Jacobs, Thomas Jarvis, John R. Jones, John D. Jackson, P. Kelly, William Kelly, William Kelly, Joseph Kelly, Thomas Keys, Mr. Kalfan, Fred W. Kohn, G. Keski, E.P. Lawson, John Lucas, James Lucas, B. Lunsem, Hampton Leadon, Peter Levert, Mr. Lizdall and son, John Leamner, John Larver, John Lowe, John McNamara, Peter McAdam, Charles McCabe, John McGrath, Paltrick McGrath, James McGrath, James McAllister, Joseph McLatchy, Thomas McCuppen, Terence McCarthy, John McMann, Peter McKay, William Malone, Edward Mills, Victor Meyer, Patrick Moore, Thomas Moffatt, Charles Morris, Thomas Murphy, Thomas Manning, Daniel Moore, John Mung, Thomas Medcalf, Peter Mormon, John Mander, John Murphy, E.M. Neilson, Neil Neilson, O.J. Nelson, Richard Nesbitt, Jeremiah Neal, Tim. J. O'Sullivan, Patrick O'Connor, Hugh O'Neil, John Owen, R.R. Peterson, George Parker, Frederick Potter, J.A. Peters, Chris M. Pederson, R.E. Pritcher, Henry Parsons, Benjamin Peck, Thomas Pratt, James Pratt, William Parker, Alexander Parrish, James Patterson, John Quinn, John Richard, Thomas Robert, Richard Reynolds, James Ryan, Patrick Reilly, Peter Reilly, Frederick Raby, Peter Rogers, George Russell, Daniel Riedly, Peter Riland, William Roland, Thomas Redney, Thomas Sinclair, John Soiensk, R. Svenson, John Stanelland, M. Schwartz, Jacob Schmidt, G. Steverman, Patrick Sampson, John Smith, William Smith, George Smith, Patrick Sutcliff, Michael Sullivan, Jacob Smidt, Henry H. Shammay, Andrew Schwartz, William Shaw, Neil Sulsen, Patrick Sullivan, Andrew Staalbursen, Ralph Smith, Peter Sussey, Mitchel Sinover, John Schwartz, William Shutt, Michael Schwartz, M. Sullivan, Daniel Schelby Michael Sullivan, Cornelius Scanlan, Michael Shamer, John Swanki, Cornelius Sullivan, Patrick Slattery, John Splanzer, Edmund Tye, L.P. Thompson, K. Thompson, Richard Taylor, Joseph Telleff, Thomas Trevereaux, John Taylor, John P. Tapman, Alfred Valiski, William Valentine, Robert Wood, William Wood, Thomas Wilson, Daniel Walsh, John Williamson, John Wakerman, William Worthington, John Wren, William Wallam, Francis Williams, John Wadley, James Walsh, Frederick Wayden, John Wreckenburgh, Dubler Zinck. Total, 252.
               
               
                  OFFICERS LOST.
                  Ambrose Worthington, purser; Hugh Christie, chief steward; Henry Metcalf, second officer.
               
               
                  OFFICERS SAVED.
                  James Agnew Williams, Captain; J.W. Frith, first officer; Cornelius Brady, third officer; John Brown, fourth officer; — Cuppaige, surgeon.
               
               
                  THE SAVED OF THE CREW.
                  B. Acton, Robert Atkins, George Anderson, John Baillie, Peter Burns, John Bulger, John Cosgrove, George Cheers, Walter Campbell, James Connolly, John Cummins, Thomas Dunn, James Dunn, Charles Dudley, John Devine, D. Davidson, Walter Donnelly, Patrick Evans, Patrick Evans, (2) John Frederickson, Owen Fostler, John Gilbert, William Griffith, David Horn, William Hughes, William Hannar, Robert Irving, William Kiely, John Kelly, Daniel Lane, Alfred Lower, Alexander Lindsay, Robert McFarlane, Matthew Montgomery, Samuel May, James Monaghan, Daniel McNichol, John Murphy, James McMullen, Frank Moffat, Patrick Matthews, Daniel Mahoney, George Myers, Henry Newton, Alexander Norton, William Patterson, Robert Payne, Charles Royalance, John Ryder, John Simpson, Irving Stullaford, George Sanders, William Sunderland, John Sheridan, John Speakman, P. Tapman, Patrick Tuck, Robert H. Walker, Arthur Wilding, Thomas Wilson.
               
               
                  STEERAGE PASSENGERS.
                  Females.—Margaret Broas, Martha Beedhan, Suen Bengtssen, Rosa Bateman, Bridget Broan, Isabella Barry, Alice Bell, Alice Cardin, Margaret Cardin, Catharine Cassidy, Eliza Crawford, Matilda S. Carlson, Anne Cook, Caroline Cook, Anne Carter, Sarah A. Crawford, (infant), Margaret Corrigan, Bridget Cullen, Annie Dambrowskie, Mary Boyle, Jane W. Dunwoody, Mary Donovan, Eliza Engler, Dorothea Engler, Margaret Engler, Magdalen Engler, Christina Engler, (infant), Verona Eredenberg, Rosie Eredenberg, Bridget Flynn, Mary Fitzpatrick, Hannah Fletcher, Jane Gustafsen, Brugta Gustafsen, Anna Gensdotter, Daetta Giger, Jane M. Golden, Catharine Golden, Louisa Golden, Margaret Hoadley, Isabella Hoadley, (infant), Eva Heifer, Eva Heifer, Eliza Halison, Sarah Hasbett, Mary Hanley, Sarah Hasbitt, Eliza Irwin, Catharine Jones, Amelia Jones, Mary Jones, Sophia Johnson, Sarah Jones, Joanna Klats, Eliza Kinlay, Ellen Kilmore, Rosa Klusat, Bridget Lennon, Hannah Lurgy, Prudence Larman, Jane Leeper, Emily Leeper, Biddip Lavan, Bridget Malion, Bridget Murphy, Mary Murphy, Augusta Meyer, Isabella Murray, Margaret McKeon, Annie Mervan, Bridget McNally, Bridget Moore, Eliza Moore, Elizabeth Pearson, Bengta Persdatter, Alice Paris, Mary A. Poccard, Mary Power, Annie W. Piers, (infant), Catharine Rich, Verena Rich, Maria Rich, Marie Sihgeld, Marietta Sihgeld, Catharine Sihgeld, Anna Sihgeld, Anna Schlegel, Mary Sheeran, Ann Smith, Jane Todd, Sarah Turnbull, Margaret Welsh, Annie Wadley, Joanna Wiese, Elizabeth Williams, Eliza Williams, Sarah E. Williams, Catharine Zioroth. Total—98 females.
                  Males.—G. Anderson, Johann Anderssen, A. Alsopp, John Adams, Edwin Ball, Anthony Bridhan, A.B. Bengsson, August Bottcher, Anders Bengsson, William Blake, George Blake, Thomas Blake, Alfred Bishop, William Booth, James Bateman, David Boswell, Michael Burn, Philip Brady, Chris Barry, R. Barham, J. Burn, Thomas Byrne, Sven Bengssen, David Calvert, — Calvert, John Chapman, William Coughlin, Niel C. Craft, Lewis Cook, Frederick William Cook, John E. Cook, E.M. Cook, George Henry Cook, (infant), Richard E. Carter, Stephens Cornwall, Esau Cornwall, Emile Christianson, Robert Carder, William Clegg, William Cunningham, Owen Danley, — Danley, Joseph Dethalff, Frederick Dumbrowski, Henry Dey, Guiseppe De Pasti, George De Pasti, W.H. Durr, George Douglass, Arthur Devlin, Josh. Dunwoody, Denis Donovan, James Donovan, William Darnbow, Patrick Derrick, Marcus Erickson, Olaf Eskelsson, Henry Edwards, Andrews Engler, Andrias Engler, David Engler, Christian Engler, John George Engler, Thomas Farley, Owen Foster, Alfred Fielden, Edward Figlins, Simeon Flynn, James Foley, George Fletcher, John Golden, Ola Gustafson, Jans Gustafson, C.E. Grann, A.M. Gumraldsen, George Gagliardi, J.J. Gutathuler, John Gutathuler, Jean Goedez, Kish Grime, George Groates, Richard George, Hugh Hughes, Thomas Hasbitt, James Hasbitt, John Haywood, Michael Higgins, Patrick Hanley, John C. Hoadley, Wolff Haufman, William Hoy, John Haviland, G.T.M. Hoadley, Henry Heley, Per Hadensfon, Rastus Hakensen, M. Henrickson, William Hayman, William Hayman, William Hawkins, C. Haff, William Hook, George Herris, John Hennessey, Samuel Heifer, Mathias Heifer, Leonard Haub, Hendrich Hogman, James Henry, John Hoskin, W.P. Hill, R. Howlett, Moses Halfon, Thomas Honer, — Irwin (infant), Arthur Jones, William Jones, John Jones, Robert R. Jones, T. Jones, Charles Johnson, Pier Johanson, Angelo Jonas, Peter Janssen, Joseph Kramer, William Kelley, Johan Klusat (infant), —- La Linquist, Henry Lloyd, Edwin Lurgwy, Chris Lauba, James Lee, John Lyons, Thomas Leeper, William Leeper, James Leeper, John Myers, James McAllister, William Mould, William McKee, James McKee, Denis Moore, Christopher Moore, Magnus Molla, — Mattison, —  Mattison, James D. Murray, Dennis McConnell, James Moore, Peter Mormon, Thomas Maycroft, James Maswell, James Mander, Charles Morris, Joseph Matharon, Thomas Moffatt; Frederick Meadow, John Mahon, E.A. Mills, John C. Mervan, John Murphy, Patrick Moore, Patrick Neosgrove, Richard Nesbit, Olaf Nielson, P. Nielson, Neils Nielson, Olaf Nielson, Johann Nielson, Bengt Nasussena, Robert Nestwell, Niels Olsen, Niels Ohlsson, Andres Ohlsson, Hugh O'Neill, J.F. Peterson, Neils Pehrssen, Gustav Peterssen, James Piers, Harry Piers, George Piers, Ellis Piers, William Palmer, Thomas Palmer, Joseph Parver, Sylvester Parver, Thomas Parver (infant), George Parker, Thomas Pratt, Thomas Pearson, William Porter, J. Pymm, Richard E. Poccard, John Petar, Hugh Parsons, John Quinn, Peter Rogers, William Rolands, J. Roster, Patrick Riley, James Ryan, Alvis Ragger, Daniel Rich, Jacob Rich, Daniel Rich, Jean Rich, Benjamin Rich, George Russell, James Rennick, John Richards, Thomas Bennie, John Smith, George Smith, Lorghiln Stretch, Jacob Schmire, — Severing, Oder Scrivensen, William Shaw, John Jacob Sihgeld, J. Jacob Sihgeld (2d), Michael Schlegel, Christian Schlegel (infant), Christian Schlegel, Patrick Sitcliffe, Henry Smith, William Smith, W. Smith, T. Smith, William Sizer, Thos. Sinclair, William Street, William Todd, Edward Tigne, John Taylor, George Tracey, William Thomas, Thomas Trevoroon, Charles Thorne, Dan Tyehard, Thos. Trumbull, Thomas Tarris, Richard Taylor, George White, W.H. Wilson, Herman Wiese, William Williams, Amos Wadley, Nicholas Warden, Benjamin Warden, William Werthington, William Waite, James Warden, Daniel Walsh, Thomas Wilson, D. Williams, Thomas H. Williams (infant), Francis Williams, John Wareham, John Watson, John Williams, William Wood.
               
               
                  FIFTY-FOUR ADDITIONAL NAMES OF PERSONS SAVED.
                  E. Anderson, Mr. Anderson, Gustave Beren, A. Bartzeron, Wm. Blanter, James Baskful, George Blants, Mr. Bentrosmuson, Thomas Black, George Black, G. Coates, Henry Day, Euloph Esmelsen, Henry Goodall, John Gustave, Peter Hanterson, Pierre Hargenen, C.A. Isaacson, S. Ingilson, A. Jones, James Lepper, William Leiper, Rudolph Lee, William Lophain, M. Merlo, Henry Meilly, Albert Miley, James Meyer, Olaf Neilson, W. Neilson, Neil Parsons, Martin Penson, John Peters, Evan Pugh, Olaf Partignessen, E. Peterson, Thomas Rift, James Ronack, Thomas Redfon, William Schuppal, Mr. Svenson, O. Svensen, E. Svensen, U. Svensen, Charles Thorne, Daniel Tolsard, William Tyonarizer, Peter Unson, J. Ulston, William Wade, William Wade, James Warden, Charles Wenser, B. Ward.
                  The following list contains the names of Swiss and Norwegian emigrants who sailed from Liverpool on the Atlantic, March 20:
                  From Leveler, Switzerland: Christian Engler, Magdalena Engler, Christian Engler, Andreas Engler, Andreas Engler, David Engler, Elizabeth Engler, Dorotha Engler, Johannes Engler, Margaret Engler, John Jacob Schlegel, Marietta Schlegel, John Jacob Schlegel, Marietta Schlegel, Catharine Schlegel, Anna Schlegel, Grita Giger, Michael Schlegel, Anna Schlegel, Christian Schlegel, Christian Schlegel, Leonhard Staub, H.D. Hagmann, John George Engler, Samuel Scibert, Eva Scibert, Eva Scibert, Mathias Scibert, Marie Spitz.—From Mauensee, Switzerland: Casper Krauer and Eliza Krauer. From Oberkirchs, Alois Rogger.—From Movelier: Pierre Frund, Marie Frund, Marie Anne Frund, Henry Joseph Frund, Jules Leon Frund, Lewis Eugene Frund, Joseph Frund, Mariana Frund, Therese Frund, Louis Frund, Marie Frund, Joseph Frund, James Joseph Fuche, Marie Therese Fuche, Marie Elise Fuche, Agnes Florent Fuche, James Joseph Fuche, Antoine Burjard, Justine Burjard, Ida Maria Burjard, Antoinetta Burjard, Judette Burjard.—From Pleigne: Oliver Oliet.—From Christiana, Norway: Christensen Andras and three ladies, Anna Olson, Claus Schacht and two friends, Gottlieb Tesmer with three grown persons and five children, Daniel Wiese with two grown persons and three children.
               
            
            
               SUPPLEMENTARY STATEMENT OF CAPTAIN WILLIAMS.
               At the final examination by the Custom-House committee, the following testimony was given: 
               Benjamin Fulker was sworn, and testified as follows:—I am keeper of Duvil's Island light; have been keeper for twelve years; was on duty on the night of the 31st ultimo, at nine P.M., at eleven P.M., and again at three in the morning; the light is visible from nine to ten miles; at nine P.M., I could see Sambro and Chebucto Head lights; at eleven P.M. the weather was thicker and hazy, with a rain shower; could see Chebucto Head, but not Sambro; at three A.M. the weather was clear; could see both Sambro and Chebucto Head; wind westward; my light was in perfectly good order; previous to becoming lightkeeper I was in the revenue cutters, and also in the coast survey; cannot say how far Sambro light should have been seen that night, as the weather was thick outside and clear near me; am acquainted with the current off the coast; it is stronger in the spring than at other times; it might make a difference of half a knot or more in a vessel's speed; it is generally southwest and west southwest; sixty miles off, near Sable Bank, it is northwest; have found it a little northerly closer in shore; it varies much; have known it to change with the wind in three or four directions in five or six hours off Cable Back; when not affected by wind the current is westerly; it is stronger on the banks off shore than on shore; Duvil's Island is distant about nine miles from Sambro.
               Captain Wood, Harbor Master of Halifax, who had been subpœnaed, was called as a witness, but did not answer. Messengers were sent for him, but could not find him.
            
            
               THE CAPTAIN'S SUPPLEMENTARY STATEMENT.
               Captain Williams then made a supplementary statement as follows: The Atlantic and other White Star ships were intended to consume from fifty-five to sixty tons of coal per day, but when the coal is bad, as it proved to be in this case, the consumption went up to seventy tons to maintain the same rate of speed; the Company have contracted and paid for the best coal in the market, and cannot be held responsible for the quality of the coal supplied by the fault of the contractors; the English portion of the coal supplied to the Atlantic appeared to have lain at the pit's mouth for some time, so that its heating properties were very much impaired; had the coal been the quality expected by the White Star line she would have had fourteen and a half days full consumption, no ship of the White Star line having made a passage longer than thirteen and a half days from Liverpool to New York; the extra coal supplied was to prevent the necessity of taking in any in New York; there was an ample supply of provisions on board, the Government Inspector at Liverpool having certified to thirty-three days' supply when she left Liverpool; what we were greatly short of was salt-fish and potatoes for the Roman Catholic passengers, the supply having been washed overboard in a gale; in regard to the efficiency of the crew, they were as good as usual, though a little rougher; we consider ourselves lucky if we get ten good seamen among forty taken on board; this is so with all the lines, since the abolition of apprenticing seamen having deteriorated; the best run of the Atlantic this voyage was 300 miles in twenty-four hours and thirty minutes; the second officer was not in the chart-room when the
                     Correct Likeness of Carrie Clancy, the brave fisherman's  daughter.
                     
                        Ein gelungenes Bild des braven Fischermädchens Carrie Clancy.
                     
                  
                   ship struck; I felt the ship strike; the quartermaster was at the wheel when I passed on; I met the second officer at the fore part of the wheelhouse; he was coming from the bridge; I said to him, "Mr. Metcalf, you have been in collision; why did you not call me?" he said, "We are on the rocks."
               
                  Examined by the Commissioner.—From 12 o'clock noon to 1 o'clock P.M. on March 31, we steered west by north with two degrees westerly deviation; I think that was the course, but am not certain; the exact course would be west seven degrees south, and making seven miles the distance, at noon, to Sambro, and to the point where she struck would be about the same; I account for the fact that the ship made 170 miles in fourteen hours and a quarter, while her log showed a maximum rate of 11 knots, solely by the current; the number of the ship's crew, including officers and men, was 146; I believe there were 811 passengers all told, of whom 235 were cabin; about 250 of these came aboard at Queenstown; of the 957 persons on board, I think 422 were saved: I hold a certificate of competency as extra master, No. 22,216; I believe it is on board of the ship; we intended to get provisions at Halifax, but did not come here for that purpose; besides the two lookout men and the quartermaster, there were about fifteen men in the watch when the ship struck; they must have been at work washing the decks, &c.; I believe the statement of Quartermaster Thomas, that he cautioned the second officer, to be false; no officer would allow such a breach of discipline; I made allowance for the current, but not enough; I supposed that the heavy westerly winds that prevailed during the winter would have neutralized the westerly set; I expected at daybreak to have had the land east of Halifax in sight.
            
            
               THE VERDICT.
               E.M. McDonald, the Commissioner before whom the evidence was heard, rendered the following decision:
               The conduct of Captain Williams and his officers during the time of trial after the ship struck, seems to have been all that could be demanded of men in their situation. Their efforts to save life appear to have been characterized by judgment, coolness and bravery, but unfortunately all human efforts at such a time were of comparatively little avail. The sea, washing over the ship, swept away by scores the timid and the weak, and only men of strong nerve were able to save themselves by the rope communicating from the wreck to the rock and from the rock to the shore, that had been established by some of the petty officers. The ship falling over so quickly after striking, made it impossible to successfully lower any of her boats, and before assistance could reach them by boats from the fishermen residing in the locality, many of those who had succeeded in reaching the deck before the ship fell over, were swept into the sea and drowned. I have already said that I believe the action of Captain Williams in bearing up for Halifax at one P.M. on the 31st of March, was prudent and justifiable, and also that his conduct and that of his officers, from the time that the ship struck, was marked by intrepidity and coolness, and a desire to do everything in their power to save the lives of those who had been entrusted to their care; but I regret that I find it impossible to speak with approval of the management of the ship from the time her course was changed at one P.M. on Monday until the time she became a wreck on the morning of Tuesday. The fact of the ship striking the land at a point some twelve or thirteen miles westward of that which Captain Williams believed the course he was steering ought to have made, is accounted for by the westerly current which usually prevails to a greater or lesser extent on the coast of Nova Scotia, and which is said to run with greater force during the months of March, April and May than during any season of the year. Whether or not sufficient allowance was made by Captain Williams for the current in the course he steered does not seem to be a question of vital importance; for it is very probable that the same error as to the speed of the ship, and the lack of vigilance on the part of the officers who were on duty, which is too apparent, and the total neglect to obtain soundings or use the most ordinary precaution that ought to be used in approaching the coast, would have run her ashore had she been on the course that Captain Williams supposed her to be, the distance from her point of departure, at one P.M. on Monday, to the land, had her course been correctly held, being about the same as the distance from that point of departure to the spot where she was wrecked. It seems to be impossible to account in any other way than by want of vigilance for the fact of no lights being seen. It has been proved that Sambro Island, Chebucto and Duvil's Island lights were all in good order on that night. Sambro light was distinctly visible from Duvil's Island light—a distance of about nine and a half miles—at a little before the ship struck, and when she could not have been more than seven or eight miles distant from Sambro light. The night seems to have been fine. Captain Williams states that at midnight, when he left the deck, and again when he came on deck, the stars being visible, the light ought to have been seen, and that even the land might have been seen at two or three miles distance. Some of the men on duty have sworn that at one time during the interval between twelve and three o'clock it was very dark and some fine sleet falling; but the whole weight of the testimony goes to show that the night was one on which the light might have been seen and ought to have been seen some time before the disaster, if a proper and vigilant look-out had been kept. A gross error must have been made in estimating the speed of the ship. From a reduced consumption of coal and a speed of seven knots previous to her course being changed, on Monday, the consumption of coal was increased after she bore up for Sambro, to her full allowance for her highest rate of speed. It is in evidence that under favorable circumstances, with steam alone, the Atlantic would make from twelve to thirteen knots per hour. Bales of merchandise drifting: seaward from the steamship Darien, wrecked off Clam Harbor on the 3d of April last year, proved the existence of an off-shore current at that time, and we have annual confirmation of the fact of an off-shore current in the circumstance that the ice drifting from the northward around Cape Breton, instead of lining our coast closely, as would be the case if an in-shore current prevailed, is very rarely seen in sight of our shores to the southward of Canso, so it therefore seems impossible to account for the error in estimating the ship's speed, except on the ground of incompetency or carelessness in calculating, on the part of those attending to the log. I have also to observe that the conduct of the Captain in leaving the deck after midnight seems to me to have been, at least, imprudent, and calculated to create the impression on the minds of the officers on duty, that they were not so near land as to make extra vigilance imperative. Captain Williams states that at that time he believed himself to be forty-eight miles from land. In this belief it is now known that he must have been mistaken, and it seems to have been culpable rashness for him, under the circumstances, to order the ship to be run towards the land for three hours at that rate of speed without taking the precaution to guard against any possible error in his estimation of his position, as in the event of the light, which ought to have been seen at eighteen or twenty miles distance, not becoming visible in that time. Had the very ordinary precaution been taken of sending a look-out at intervals to the masthead, the disaster would in human probability have been prevented. But the greatest and I must say, perhaps, the fatal error, is found in the fact that the lead' was never used, although the ship was in soundings for eight hours before she struck. This is a neglect of duty for which there can be positively no excuse. So accurate are the soundings laid down on the chart, that had the leads been used at proper intervals the ship's safety would have been guaranteed, even had the night been one which the lights could not possibly have been seen. It is true that the frequent use of the lead right have delayed her for a few hours in reaching port, but there was nothing to be gained in point of time in making the port before daylight, or, even if there had been, these few hours of detention ought not to have been allowed to weigh against the safety of nearly one thousand lives that were imperilled, and more than half of which have been lost by the neglect of this plainly manifest duty. From a careful review of all the facts of the case, I feel compelled to state my belief is, that the conduct of Captain Williams in the management of his ship during the twelve or fourteen hours preceding the disaster was so gravely at variance with what ought to have been the conduct of a man placed in his responsible position, as to call for severe censure, and to justify me in saying that his certificate as extra-master and master might be cancelled, but in consideration of the praiseworthy and energetic efforts made by him to save life after the ship struck, the mitigated penalty of suspension of his certificate for two years should be imposed. I also feel it my duty to state that the conduct of Mr. Brown, the fourth officer, in preventing the servant from calling Captain Williams at twenty minutes to three o'clock, as ordered, was, under the circumstances, an improper violation of the Captain's orders; and further, in the fact that he was one of the officers of the watch after twelve o'clock, and ought to have seen the light and did not see it, and ought to have seen the land and did not see it, there is an implied culpable neglect and want of vigilance which considerations for the public safety demand should be marked by censure and moderate punishment. I therefore decide that the certificate of Fourth Officer Brown, master, should be suspended for three months.
               
                  E.M. McDONALD, Commissioner.
               
               
                  We concur in the above.
                  P.A. SCOTT,
                  George A. McKENZIE.
               
            
            
               THE MYSTERIOUS FEMALE SAILOR.
               This strange and romantic person was not discovered until the Rev. Mr. Ancient and his assistants went to bury her and the rest who were tossed up on the beach by the remorseless billows. First the pockets were searched, and whatever they contained was marked and put away for reference. When this corpse was reached, one of the men pulled open the breast of the sailor's shirt and turned it down off the arm, to see if there was any India-ink name thereon.
               At once a suppressed murmur went from lip to lip, as the exclamation was uttered:
               "Good heavens, Bill was a woman!"
               It would have caused any one to feel quite affected to see how instantly the rough men standing around that dripping form, altered their demeanor toward it. The blue shirt was immediately and reverently drawn together and pinned, so that the cold bosom should not be rudely exposed to the wind. And so tenderly did the strong hands raise the body that one would have supposed each man a brother to the dead girl, arrayed as she was in the dress of a common sailor.
               No one could give any account of who or what she was. All that could be found out was, that she had shipped at Liverpool, that she was a free, good-hearted fellow, as jolly as the jolliest, yet never had any of her messmates heard her utter any rough language, such as sailors proverbially use.
               She was laid gently in the trench, and her companions each had a word of sorrow for her sad fate as her coffin was covered up beneath the sand.
               Subsequently one of the men asserted that a circumstance recurred to his mind which shed some light on the mystery. In Liverpool, in the sailor's house in which he had stayed before this voyage, a London detective officer had been making inquiries whether a certain young woman, whose name was Mary Merrill, had applied for a situation as cook. She had run away to avoid a marriage with a man whom her father and mother wished her to have, and whom she did not like. She had been traced from one sailor's house to another, trying to obtain a situation. Here, however, all trace of her was lost.
               Immediately after the detective left, this young man came in and offered to "inlist" as a sailor, he said. He was so evidently green, that he was subjected to a good deal of chaffing by the men around, but bore it all in good humor, and finally engaged as a landsman, as we would say in old times. I thought kind of queer of it at the time, but now I am perfectly satisfied that he, or rather she, was that self-same Mary Merrill.
               This was the only direct intelligence we could learn of that strange, singular girl. Doubtless she was aware at the time she entered the service, that she would soon be captured if she did not disguise herself. So she had donned a man's suit, and chosen a most laborious and dangerous profession in order that she might be safe from further pursuit. Poor girl, in avoiding one fate she brought upon herself a more dreadful one, at least, in the eyes of the world.
            
            
               OUR HEROINE.
               Never for one instant did the brave and noble-hearted fisherman's daughter, Carrie Clancy, relax her exertions; for when the groups of exhausted men were gathered upon the beach at different points, she, accompanied by her father and Rev. Mr. Ancient, carried coffee, and bread and meat around among them, refreshing and encouraging them.
               We have noticed that a number of subscriptions have been started for the Reverend gentleman, who is every way worthy thereof. But we hope that the modest but heroic girl, Carrie Clancy, will not be forgotten because of her modesty; for, since the days of Grace Darling, there has not been a braver, nobler girl on any coast.
               
               
                  
                     Rev. Mr. Ancient reading the service over the victims' bodies.
                     
                        Rev. Mr. Ancient's Leichenrede über die Opfer.
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
