
    ----CITATION----
        Peppergrass, Paul, (1810-1864). The Spaewife, or, The Queen's Secret, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5854 wright2-0330v2
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  "On wi ye!" she vociferated, jumping on a rock near the altar and waving the dagger above her head, "on wi ye, and bury yer skeins to the hilt in them."—PAGE 406.
               
            
         
         
            
               THE SPAEWIFE;
               OR, THE QUEEN'S SECRET.
               A Story of the Reign of Elizabeth.
            
            BY PAUL PEPPERGRASS, Esq., AUTHOR OF "SHANDY M'GUIRE," &c.
            With Six Fine Illustrations, by Rowse.
            IN TWO VOLUMES. VOL. II.
            
               BALTIMORE:
               PUBLISHED BY JOHN MURPHY & CO 178 MARKET STREET.
               LONDON: CHARLES DOLMAN,
               61 New Bond Street, and 22 Pater Noster Row.
               SOLD BY BOOKSELLERS GENERALLY.
            
            1853.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by JOHN MURPHY AND COMPANY. In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Maryland.
            
         
      
      
         
            The spaewife, or, The queen's secret
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               IT seemed the knight had some difficulty in finding his pictures, or was detained among the tombs by some unforeseen cause; for he was absent longer than the monk expected. And when, at length, he did reappear, his countenance seemed considerably discomposed from its usual quiet expression; his breath came thick and short, and his hat was pressed down flat upon his head, giving him the look of one who had been struggling with an antagonist.
               "Look at that!" said he, handing a scroll of parchment to the monk.
               "And what may it be, good Sir Geoffrey? or hath it been injured, that thou seemest so ill at ease? Ah! it's thy classification of insects; truly, yes—and the, rats, I see, have been meddling with it. They have eaten up one or two of thy beetles; verily, these rats are unconscionable animals."
               "Curse the rats!" vociferated Sir Geoffrey, striking the desk; "they've ruined me!"
               "Hut, tut! Sir Geoffrey; be not so angry about so small a trifle."
               "A trifle, sir! a trifle! the only specimen of the treble-winged beetle in England. A trifle! I say again, curse the rats, sir." And he indignantly buttoned up his doublet to the chin, and struck the desk a second time with his clinched fist. "Perdition catch the whole accursed race! they've robbed me of the grandest specimen of the seven-spiraculated three-winged beetle in Europe. Ay, there's my daughter's drawing, which she labored many an hour to accomplish, now in the stomach of this pest of humanity. Look ye here, sir monk; an thou but catch me that thieving villain, and rip me the beetle from his scurvy stomach, I'll befriend thee to the death."
               The monk smiled, and looked deprecatingly at the baronet.
               "Soul o' my body, monk; dost mock at my misfortune?"
               "Misfortune?"
               "Ay, by my halidome; and no ordinary misfortune. Have I not been writing a treatise for the last two years on the constitution of insects? and here's the one by which I was to prove the existence of bronchi, or tubular respiration, destroyed by that infamous vermin. Sir, the original was found fifteen years ago, and sent me as a most precious gift, by Sir Toby Flingamup, of Flingamup Castle, in Shropshire. And now, sir, both copy and original are gone, eaten up, devoured by the meanest of the brute creation. Come, brother, I must quit the place instantly; and see thou tarry not, or—or—or I might lose my temper."
               "But, good Sir Geoffrey, wilt not——"
               "What, stay till the villains eat my venerable pictures also? ay, faith, not leave a feature on their faces. Pshaw! what a rank smell's in the tombs! Methought once, last night, I had never been able to endure it."
               "So the rats stole the parchment from the altar," observed the monk, moving along.
               "Ay, the sacrilegious varlets; and had carried it well nigh into their burrows. By my certies, I was almost suffocated. Paugh! I envy them not their hunting grounds."
               When brother Felix reached the door in the broken pillar, he paused for a moment ere he turned the key. "Sir Geoffrey," said he, "I have a request to make."
               "Make it promptly," replied the knight; "we have no time to tarry; my books may be lost while we babble here."
               "I feel I must soon quit this place."
               "Marry, the parting should cost thee but little regret, methinks," responded the knight.
               "And would fain see father Peter once more, to receive from him the last rites of our holy church," continued the monk; "or if he may not come, peradventure the pilgrim, whom men call the Gaberlunzie, might visit his old amanuensis. Say to the first thou meetest, that brother Felix would crave his ghostly office, about the end of June, ere he quits this old tenement for another country."
               "Where thou mayst meet with more social companions than the rats and weasels, eh?"
               "Nay, I mean not the vault, but a tenement frailer, far. This poor, old, empty, broken shell, not worth a shroud to cover it. And yet, as thou hast spoken of the old place, I will confess to thee, Sir Geoffrey, I could never well dissociate the idea of my existence from these walls. I've fancied, somehow, that the monk and his cell should crumble together; and were it God's will, I would rather die here, amongst the ruins, than live out my few remaining days elsewhere."
               "But the rats," said Sir Geoffrey; "art not afraid of the rats, when sickness cometh, and thou'rt unable to speak or move thy hand to drive them away? Ah, paugh! the very thought maketh me shiver."
               "They know me," replied the monk, "and would harm me not."
               "Know thee, man?"
               "Ay, truly do they, and come at my call, except, indeed, when the priest is here."
               "Sorry companions, methinks."
               "They're living things, at least," responded the monk, "and even that's sometimes a comfort to the recluse."
               "Old man," said the knight, laying his hand familiarly on the monk's shoulder, "I cannot part thee,— mayhap forever, for we know not what a single day may bring forth in these troublous times,—I must not part thee without again entreating thee to come and spend the remainder of thy days at Brockton."
               Brother Felix shook his head. "Nay, Sir Geoffrey," he replied, "it must not be. I know not how it is, but I love the old place and its associations so well that I cannot bear the thought of quitting it. Here I took my first vows; here I have lived almost since my childhood; every stone of the ruin is familiar to me; they seem like old acquaintances, whom I should not abandon. Nay, nay, I will die as I lived, in the ruins of Glastonbury."
               "Hearken, brother," urged the knight. "I must tell thee right roundly, I cannot reconcile it with my conscience to leave thee here; indeed, thou must accompany me to Brockton; and I promise and pledge thee, on the honor of a Christian man, neither to disturb thy studies, nor meddle with thy habits. Thou shalt have thine own way in all things. Not even Reddy Connor shall be suffered to intrude on thy privacy."
               "Heaven reward thee, Sir Geoffrey, for thy proffered kindness to a worn-out, worthless being, who hath no claim on thy bounty. But it cannot be; I'll draw my last breath in the old place. I feel that I'm a fixture here, which cannot be removed. My heart still clings to the old consecrated walls, and he who would take me away should wrench every fibre in twain. Fare thee well, Sir Geoffrey, and the blessing of a grateful old monk be with thee. Send me a priest to assoil me ere I fall into the grave, for I could ill bear the thought that my unanointed bones should mix with the sainted remains of our holy brotherhood. Fare thee well," he continued, unlocking the secret door, "and may God deliver thee and thy daughter from the hands of thy enemies. Ah, but stay; I had almost forgotten," he added. "Should I die ere the priest comes, thou'lt not fail to remember that my old manuscripts will be found under the altar, in the vault. So, pax vobiscum, peace be with thee," he concluded, embracing the knight, "and may the Holy Virgin guide and guard thee forever." So saying, the monk of St. Dominic opened the marble door, and Sir Geoffrey, with quivering lip and moistening eye, reluctantly left him to return to his gloomy cell.
               
               "He'll die down there all alone," muttered the knight to himself; "I foresaw all that this morning, when I awoke and beheld him writing at his desk. 'Twas as plain to me as the light of day. I always said so," he continued, stepping from stone to stone, and looking warily round, lest some spy might lurk in the shadows of the old walls to arrest him in his exit from his hiding-place.
               Sir Geoffrey felt, the moment the monk had locked him out and retired to the vault, that he was exposing himself to the danger of detection, and well knew if Sir Thomas Plimpton, or any of his followers, did but succeed in capturing him, the second tender of the oath would be instantly made, and his daughter and himself dragged to London to suffer for their obstinacy, and Brockton Hall become the reward of the captors. Yet in face of this danger, he could not overcome the anxiety he felt about his favorite copy of the holy fathers; and even then, were the alternative offered him of retiring to some obscure corner of England, with his books, his beetles, his instruments, and his gentle Alice, he would have accepted it thankfully, and, much as he loved the venerable mansion of his ancestors, would have abandoned it forever. His library was his world, and Alice was the light of his life and his book of reference when his memory failed him. Of both these was his existence made up, and to separate him from either would have broken his heart. When the good old knight, after many a stumble over rotten timbers and slippery stones, had at length reached the portico of the church, he peeped out cautiously through the breaches in the walls, to see if any of the pursuivant remained on guard in front of the abbey, to prevent his escape, or if he could see any trace of his books or Reddy Connor; but not a living thing was visible. All was as silent as the grave, if we except, indeed, the occasional chirp of the sparrow, sitting up there on the sash of the broken window, picking the chickenweed, or the twitter of the swallows about their nests under the eaves.
               As he turned away, satisfied he had no immediate danger to apprehend, he saw that a dead cricket had stuck to the palm of his hand, which had been resting on the wall. He shook it off, and as it lay on the ground, folded his hands on the head of his cane, and looked sadly down on it.
               "What a sight!" he muttered, nodding his head contemplatively; "the very crickets are dead and gone. Poor fellow! thou, too, wert driven from thy hearth, where, many a time after the midnight hour had struck, thou hast sung the merry roundelay, in concert with the monks at their matin hymns. Ay, verily, thou wort a chorister in thine own way, and did thy best to worship God according to thy ability; albeit, as my theory runs, thou'rt not gifted with lungs. And moreover, thou wert always a good Catholic; ay, faith, a right stanch old inmate of the cells and convents. Indeed, there's a character of antiquity about thee; a multitude of venerable associations connected with thy family, that would ill become thee otherwise. So thour hast followed the fortunes of thy venerable friends, and chose rather to die than tune thy voice to strange psalmody. Ah, dear me! dear me! and they cut thy very head off," continued the knight, turning over the cricket with the end of his cane; "'twas poor revenge,—a sorry deed. One would have thought it enough to banish thee, murder thee; but thus to outrage thy poor remains——" Here the knight caught a side glimpse of some object falling over the spot where the cricket lay, and looking up, beheld a large black spider making a rapid descent upon its prey.
               "Ay, ay," said the knight, "there it is; there's the illustrator of the spirit of the times. He hath already taken his life, and now comes to tear asunder and scatter his bones. But to thy work —to thy work; it's thy instinct; begotten of the devil, thou must needs gratify thy lust. Nay, thou needst not fear me. I will leave thee to thy profession; thou canst not injure him now; he is beyond thy reach. O, the—the—glutinous despot," muttered the old man, shaking his head and moving slowly through the portico. "What a picture he presents of the power of human passions! and, O dear me! who can tell but the old recluse of Brockton Hall may one day meet the fate of the poor cricket?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               ON descending the steps from the portico of the church, Sir Geoffrey perceived the horse and wagon at some diistance in the field below, and, to his great delight, the box also lying on the ground near the place he had left it in charge of Reddy Connor. With all the eagerness of a Jew on seeing a lost diamond after a long search, the old man sprang forward to clutch it, and ascertain if it had suffered any injury. Alas! the treasury was broken open, and two of the books gone. Looking round, he saw one of them lying open among the rubbish near the wall, and the other at some distance beyond the latter having two of its leaves torn out and flying round with the breeze. As Sir Geoffrey picked up the leaf next him, and hurried along to secure the other, he tripped and fell among the loose stones; and as he rose again, regardless of his hat and cane, both of which he dropped in his eager haste, he had the mortification to see the precious paper whipped up, and lodged in an aperture of the wall, some ten or twelve feet from the ground. He looked up wistfully for a few minutes, expecting the next breeze would dislodge it; but finding it still remained fixed there, he returned to the box, restored the two volumes to their places, and again nailing it down securely, carried it in his arms, placed it beside the wall, immediately under the lost leaf, and stepped upon it. But, alas! it was too low. He then tried to reach it with his cane, and then with his sword: both were too short. Perceiving some holes in the wall where the stones had been picked or fallen out, he bethought him of climbing by these footholds, and thus reach the leaf even at the risk of falling. With this intention, he had just inserted his right foot in the step, and caught hold of a projecting stone above, when, all of a sudden, he felt a man's arm pass round his body, and lifting him gently, but firmly, set him on the ground.
               "Nonsense," said the new comer; and taking up the box, he carried it off, and hid it in a corner where the nettles grew thick and rank.
               Sir Geoffrey turned, and gazed after him with astonishment, unable to utter a word of remonstrance, so confounded was he by the suddenness of the act. "Dear me," said he at length, "that's very surprising."
               The stranger, having secreted the box, returned and boldly approached the knight.
               "Avaunt, villain!" cried the old man, unsheathing his sword.
               "Why, Sir Geoffrey, don't ye——"
               "Begone, thou slave of Jezebel, or thou'lt find this old arm strong enough yet to teach thee better manners. Away, sirrah! and provoke me not, or I might be tempted to do thee injury."
               "Ha, ha!" laughed the stranger; "begorra, he disn't know me."
               "What, churl, wouldst mock me, eh? wouldst mock me?" repeated the knight; and he advanced a step, as if to drive off the intruder. "Away with thy tender and thy warrant, and tell thy employer I despise both; begone, or by my halidome, I'll spit thee like a capon."
               "Why, thunder an ages, don't ye know me?" shouted the stranger, who was no other than Reddy Connor, after leaving the troops some six or eight miles off on the road to Hoxley.
               "Know thee? Why should I know thee?" angrily demanded the knight.
               "Why shudn't ye though? I'd like ye'd tell me that."
               "Know thee; know thee, eh!" and the knight lowered his voice, as he began to look sharply at the trooper.
               "Faith, it's nearly time, am thinkin', afther takin' care o' ye these five years an more; begorra, I've raison to know you well enough, any how."
               "Why, fellow, thou'rt not my servant Reddy Connor—eh—what?"
               "And who else id I be?"
               "Reddy Connor in that uniform!"
               "Ay, and by the powers, a brave convenient shuit it is, that same, on a pinch."
               "And pray, Reddy, what meanest thou by this freak?" inquired the old man, recovering his natural amiability of temper. "How hast come to be a troop sergeant of her majesty so suddenly, eh, man? Tell me that. Ha, ha! gramercy, and the moustache—where came ye to find it? By my word of honor, thou lookest a most valiant soldier—ha, ha!" And the knight laughed heartily at the figure before him.
               
               "Aisy, aisy, master," replied Reddy; "I'll tell ye all time enough; but I'm in a hurry now; so stay there till I come back;" and he vanished round the corner of the old building in a twinkling.
               "Soul o' my body, the fellow hath lost his wits altogether," muttered the knight, half amused, half astonished at Reddy's changed appearance. "The villain's never out of mischief; always doing some kind of deviltry; but now I fear me he is mad in right earnest. What! he cannot have killed one of these cowardly troopers, and then assumed his dress. Nay, by my good sooth, he would have small scruple on that score; methinks the maltreating of the queen's followers would give him but little trouble. Marry, it's but a week gone since he carried that canting preacher under his arm to the horse pond, with as little concern as I would carry a volume of Eusebius. And the villain spoke to the poor fellow as civilly as if he were doing him a favor. Ha, ha! He thought as little of drowning the poor knave as if he'd been an old harier who'd lost his fore claws; but this trick of his seemeth of a new fashion, and somewhat out of the line of his usual deviltries. So ho, here he comes, and, upon my life, on horseback."
               As he spoke, Reddy appeared, wheeling suddenly round the corner, mounted on a powerful black horse, and dashing up to the knight, ordered him peremptorily to mount on the pillion behind him.
               "What! art mad?" demanded Sir Geoffrey.
               "Not entirely," responded Reddy, with his usual coolness; "but I soon will if you hould on this way."
               "What way, varlet?"
               "Why, meanderin' here, an breakin' my heart afther ye, when ye ought to be at home in yer bed."
               "Thou impudent saucebox," cried Sir Geoffrey, displeased at Reddy's boldness, and shaking his cane at him somewhat in the style of a country schoolmaster, when threatening an insolent schoolboy, "how presumest thou to speak me thus?"
               "Come, come," responded Reddy, "ye may threaten as long as ye plaze, but ye know ye'r undher my charge; so mount, and come home with me."
               "Thy charge, sirrah?"
               "Av course, my charge; didn't I take care of ye these five years past? So lave yer ould thrash iv books there till we send for them, and come home, this minit."
               "I'll suffer it no longer," said the knight, annoyed, as usual, at Reddy's assumption of authority, and stamping his foot on the ground; "this is intolerable, sir. I'm most willing to return if I may do so with safety, but I shall not suffer thee to control me. I will not be commanded, sir; no, sir, I tell thee, fellow, I will suffer no man to rule me. I must have reason for't, or thou goest alone."
               "Ay, begorra," said Reddy, "ye must have raisons for every thing; faith, it's luckin' afther them same raisons that fixed ye, so it is. Ye spent six months last year to find the raison for a crab havin' a hard skin; an I'd like to know what good it did ye, and what business ye had to interfere in sich things at all at all. Faith, it'd be fitter for ye be mindin' yer own affairs, am thinkin'. There's yer steward, an may I niver see pace if ye know as much about his accounts as a child does of Haybrew. Humph! ye'd rather be countin' how many feet a grasshopper had, than how many horses in yer stable, or cows in yer byre. Its no wondher things are gone asthray in spite i' me, when I have such a masther to dale with. An here he's now turnin' agin me, afther all I did for him. O, murther, murther! it's a miracle am livin' at all at all."
               "I ordered thee off a score of times, ye villain; but it was all in vain."
               "Humph! I tould ye that; there's more av it," murmured Reddy.
               "And here thou'rt still, as troublesome and persevering as ever," continued the knight.
               "Throublesome! well, now, that word id vex me, only I know ye don't mane it."
               "Nay, I tell thee, sirrah, I'm wearied of thee— heartily tired of thy presumption."
               "Presumption! O, by Jaminy, if that disn't flog the primmer out and out. An will ye tell me, now, Sir Geoffrey, jist atween ourselves, have ye any notion of what ye cud do without me?"
               "What I did before I saw thee—take care of myself."
               "O, powers o' patience, listen to this. Conshumin' to me," cried Reddy, striking the pommel of the saddle with his fist, "but ye'r the most ungrateful masther iver mortal man was burdhened with. Here I am, advisin' ye night, noon, and mornin'——"
               "Ah, marrv come up thee," interjected the knight; "advising me! why thou——"
               "Stop!" ejaculated Reddy; "stop! don't, or ye'll be sorry for callin' me out iv my name; the laste said's soonest mended, ye know; but answer me this, masther, av ye plaze, answer me this, and then am done: Didn't I give ye the benefit iv my advice and counsel ivery time I thought ye needed it, didn't I? Didn't I keep throttin' at yer heels like a lapdog, round the pond, there, five years, day afther day, afeared ye'd be dhrowned some time or other, when ye went to catch a throut for yer experiments, didn't I? Stop now till I'm done spakin'. Hadn't I to take ye to bed ivery night in the year, for fear yeld read yerself blind, hadn't I? Didn't I make a haythin iv myself, amost, keepin' them dirty schamin' blackguards from about the house, that come to sell ye the birds an bumbees, didn't I? Hadn't I to guard ye, when ye went out, from the beggars, that wudn't lave a stitch on yer back, or a penny in yer purse, hadn't I? Is it ten days ago since I had to purshue that ould chate from the village, that brings ye them livin' things in the bottles, and tuck yer last new shute o' clothes from undher his arm, that ye stole to him through the windy when ye got my back turned? Eh, will ye answer me that? And now ye tell me to lave, ye ungrateful man; and lave ye I will, begorra, as soon as I can get a dacent Irish boy I can thrust ye with in my place."
               "Get an Irish boy to trust me with!" repeated the knight, staring at the fellow in surprise. "Am I a lunatic, sir? Eh, what? Am I, sir?"
               "Well, in regard o' that," replied Reddy, scratching his head, "I'll warrant there's a difference iv opinion atween us; but I make bould to tell ye this, any way, Sir Geoffrey, that ye'r the quarest kind av an ould gintleman I iver met at home or abroad, and it's a mighty great blessin' yer not fond iv the liquor, for upon my conscience, if ye war, it id take stone walls to hould ye. And I tell what's more, sir, since ye tuck it out av me, that it's not here I'd be now, meanderin' afther ye, like a sthray gander afther an ould —hem!—companion, if I cud reconcile it with my religion to lave ye to yerself, and desart ye to the marcy o' the world in yer diffiquilties. So I ax ye again, civil and quate, as I always threated ye, will ye come home or not? for I can stay here no longer."
               Sir Geoffrey listened attentively to every point Reddy advanced to prove his title to his gratitude, and seemed disposed, once or twice, to dispute their applicability; but as the Irishman continued to pile proof upon proof, the old man's look grew more and more submissive, till at length, taking off his hat, he stroked down his gray locks, as was his habit when obliged to surrender, and gave up the contest, as usual.
               "There's but little use in legitimate reasoning with thee," said he, looking down at his shoe; "but I feel it due to myself to deny the supposition. I never required watching; no, no; I repudiate the idea— Nego, suppositum. So let it rest so under protest."
               "Agreed," said Reddy; "and now jump on the pillion. Up with ye, here; step on this flag, and give me yer hand."
               "O, but the leaf!" ejaculated the knight, withdrawing his foot from the stirrup, where he had just placed it; "the leaf, Reddy; I cannot go without the leaf;" and he cast a supplicatory glance up at the rider.
               "I can't," replied Reddy, in answer to the look; "no, bedad, I cudn't at all at all; it's entirely out o' my power. It id be a mortal sin to waste time afther sich a thrifle."
               "A trifle! nay, Reddy, it's a thing of great value," pleaded the knight; "it contains the status quæstionis, and the prolegomena."
               "O, hierna," cried Reddy, "there's more av it."
               "It's the chapter de gratia gratis data. And the Nestorian heresy, which I will explain to thee in a few minutes."
               "To the divil with the heresy," cried Reddy; "my heart's broke with you and it; come away, sir."
               "Nay, but I would convince thee of the importance of this leaf. The question in dispute between the Nestorians——"
               But Reddy waited not to hear the knight's explanation. Springing from the saddle, he disencumbered himself of his long, heavy riding boots, and climbing the wall, soon secured the leaf. Sir Geoffrey received it with all the joy of a child recovering his lost plaything, and was hastening away towards the box to insert it in its place in the volume, when Reddy caught him by the middle, and fairly lifted him on the pillion. Then, without a word of apology for the liberty he took, he seated himself firmly before the knight, and, putting spurs to his horse, galloped off at a thundering pace to Brockton.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               AFTER the murmurs of surprise, and whisperings of suspicions, caused by the detection of Whitret Macbairn in the cell, had ceased, Alice conversed a moment in private with father Peter, and then retired to a remote corner of the apartment, where she sat down to recover her composure, by the side of her old friend and protectress. And now a new scene presented itself to her view—one, indeed, she had often heard described, but never witnessed before.
               Along the walls on either side torches were placed at regular intervals to illuminate the apartment. These were made of the bog fir found in the swamps of the Thames, and sent up a thick, resinous smoke to the high-vaulted roof, there to seek egress through the fissures and apertures which Nature had left in her hurried and ill-jointed masonry. On the floor of the cell, and leaving a space in the middle to serve as an aisle or passage way, were to be seen a multitude of persons of different ages and sexes. Some were speaking to each other in low, subdued tones, others reciting the rosary together in little groups of five and six, and here and there a solitary individual apart from the rest, praying with upcast eyes and outstretched hands. Beyond, at the further extremity, appeared the altar, with its usual furniture—the chalice covered with the vail, the missal, the antependium falling down to the ground, and showing its gold-embroidered cross in front, and the crucifix surmounting and overlooking the solemn preparation. Alice fancied, as she gazed on the scene before her, and thought of the desolate place and midnight hour, she beheld a true picture of the catacombs in the reign of Dioclesian.
               "Nell," she whispered, grasping the old woman by the arm, and looking round the apartment, "this truly is an awful sight; so many driven to seek this poor shelter from the pitiless storms of human passions; so many of God's creatures hiding from the face of their brethren, whilst they stealthily offer homage to the Creator and common Father of all."
               "Ay, ay, lassie, to ane like yersel, wha ne'er afore saw sic a meetin', it maun surely be an unco sad and dolefu' sight," replied Nell; "but to me it's as fameeliar as the meetin's in the auld chapel o' Linlithgow, where me and my forbears worshipped lang syne."
               "And yet it hath its beauty and its grandeur, too," continued Alice.
               "Grandeur! hugh! lassie, and what ken ye o' its grandeur?" responded Nell, somewhat slightingly. "Ye wha spent yer life mang auld beuks, ploddin' awa, frae leaf to leaf, to please an auld daft body, that's mare intent on makin' nice distinctions atween ae doctor's logic an the tithe, or, may be, huntin' after dates, an names o' places, an sic fusionless things, than studyin' the spirit and the grit o' his religion. Out, woman; ye ken nothin' o' its grandeur ava. It's no in the bowin' down o' crowned heads afore the altar, nor in the costly equipages, wi' heralds and flunkies and a' that; nor in the sheen o' the swords that begirt the sanctuary, nor in the costly vestments whilk the hands o' queens hae worked for the bishop, an the abbot to read the mass wi' in the royal palace, as ye aft hae seen in France. Na, na, my bairn," pursued Nell, whispering her words with a force and emphasis that showed how much interest she felt in the subject, "it's no in sic things ye can see the spirit, an the pith, an the beauty, an the grandeur o' yer religion, but in the grip it taks o' the hearts o' the poor, and sae hauds them thegither, when poverty, and disgrace, and persecution wad hae bracken and crushed them wi' their weight o' woe. O, na, na; it's in the puir widow's smile, and the puir' beggar's laugh, ye maun gang look for its grandeur and its beauty; it's in the bra honest look o' the country tyke afore the heretic judge, threatenin' him wi' rape an fagot, ye can see its grandeur, an no in the proud, scornfu' face o' the high-bluided knight; wha draws his rapier to defend it fra insult. O lassie, gin ye'd ken weel the beauty an the grandeur o' yer religion, ye maun herd wi' the poor, an the houseless, an the persecuted, as I hae done, an learn it there in the school where Christ, yer Redeemer, liked maist, to teach it. Ay, bairn, right weel I know that nathing, in a' this earth o' ours, is ower guid or costly to adorn it; an muckle it gars me greet to see it stripped o' a single ornament; an weel am I pleased to see noble dames tak the jewels and precious trinkets frae their necks an airms and lay them down! on the steps o' the holy place as an offering to our God or his Virgin Mother; but after a', this show o' the great's nathing mair nor the outer coverin' o' religion; it's een but the shell whilk, when cracked, may hae a musty kernel within. Ay, woman, I hae seen nobles, an knights o' high degree, draw their hangers an fight like vera deevils, for the honor, as they ca'd it, o' Catholic faith; an still after a' that, an a' their boastin' o' the glories o' the past, an a' the uphaudin' o' the memories o' bygone times, an their pride o' antiquity, I saw them sink down an cower like bairns afore the mock an the leer o' their heretic friends. Ay, ay, lassie, I saw them conquered by the finger o' scorn that a' the armies o' France cud na quail. An wha's the reason— wha's the reason? why, een because it was na religion, but pride, that swelled the heart, an nerved the arm; an, when the pride was killed in the scorn, there was naethin' left. O, I wouldna gie a kail blade for sic faith. When dukes and earls defy ilk other to the outrance for ae word spaken in jest, what wonder is't they'd mak the word o' God a cause o' quarrel. But, lassie, it's no God's honor they fight for; it's their ain. O, gie me the simple, pure faith that maks na pretence, that looks na twa ways at aince, —at God an the world,—but maks its way right straight on, through a' obstacles, not wi' the angry countenance, but wi' the wee modest blush. Look there," continued Nell, pointing to a peasant girl, who had just entered with a noiseless step, and retired behind a projecting rock, which almost hid her in its deep shadow; "that's the faith that wears weel; that's the faith an the religion whilk's aye the same, ne'er changing a jot, though fortune, an friens, an hopes, an name, an honor, an respect, an a' has left her. That's the beauty an the grandeur o' yer religion, and gin ye want to learn it, gang look for't there."
               "I know not how it is," observed Alice, "but thy words almost terrify me, and make me shudder for myself."
               "Ye wudna stagger, bairn, wad ye?" demanded Nell, looking into the maiden's face and squeezing her arm.
               "O, God forbid," responded Alice, "that I should ever waver in my adhesion to the old faith of my fathers."
               "Hugh! yer fathers!" repeated Nell, again resuming her contemptuous tone; "it's for aye yer fathers. Be constant to yer God, woman, an dinna mind yer fathers: gin yer ain father's head lay aside the block, an Brockton an a' its mementoes desecrated by the heretic, or may be a heap o' auld ruins like the waa's o' Glastonbury, an yersel a houseless, hameless wanderer, think ye, puir, silly bairn, yer pride o' Catholic ancestors wud sustain ye?"
               "Ay, verily would it," replied Alice, turning round to face her companion, whilst her eye brightened, and her cheek flushed at the thought.
               "God grant it, God grant it, my bonnie lassie," said Nell; "God grant that ye dinna trust, like mony anither fair lady o' my ain knowin', to what's na better than a boor-tree sucklin' that aye bracks wi' the leanin' on't. O, dinna speak too bauld, lassie; ye hae na seen the warst o't yet. Noo hearken to me. I wud gie ten years o' my life to come, mistress Alice, to see ye safe at Holyrood."
               "I never shall leave England without my father," firmly responded the young girl.
               "Ha, ha!" laughed Nell; "haud yer peace, haud yer peace, bairn; if I daur risk the journey, I'd no fash mysel muckle about yer consent. But, alack, thar be too mony eyes turned on Whinstane Hollow to mak the attempt."
               "Thou'rt a strange being," said Alice, casting a look of wonder at the old woman. "Thou speakest with confidence of ten years of thy life to come, though a reputed witch whom the laws of the land devote to the pile, and who art even now almost arrived at the ordinary term of life."
               "Haud a care, bairn," interrupted Nell; "we maun na speak o' these things noo. But I wud hae ye ken, natheless, that o' a' the Gowers that met wi' a fair, strae death, sin' my forbears first followed the Campbell, nane o' them e'er sunk wi' less than a hundher years on the back. And yet gin I were come o' a short-lived race, an e'en lay a bedrel in the neuk anent my ain fireside, I hae that within me, Alice Wentworth, that gies me assurance I'll ne'er see death till I mak the highest head in this lan' bow doun before the Scotch spaewife. Ay, ay, girl," continued Nell, in a forced whisper that seethed on the maiden's ear as the old woman's lips approached her cheeks, "I can see, e'en noo, the livin' proofs o' her shame an infamy follow her about like vampires, to suck the proud, lecherous bluid frae her heart. I'll live to see her ain misbegotten bairn rise up in judgment against her, an stan' atween the angel o' mercy an her saul, when her last hour comes. I see it a' noo," pursued Nell, gazing as if she looked through a long vista into futurity. "I see them noo; the two red heads grinnin' at her, like deevils, in the throes o' her agony. Heh! woman, it's an awful sight to look at, an yet it's too mild a punishment for the enormity o' her crimes."
               "Nell, Nell!" ejaculated Alice, "this is most unchristian speech of thine, and ill befitting the time and place; pray, rather, that God may convert her from her evil ways, and save her soul from so terrible a fate."
               "Maiden, I dinna wish for the death o' her saul, nor the scaith o' her body. Na, na; wert possible to hope, I wad pray for her as we're obleeged to pray for our enemies; but it canna be. Heaven, in its awfu' jistice, has decreed her destiny, an I maun live to see it. Fain, fain would I escape the sight o' that doleful tragedy; but Heaven maun be obeyed. She hanged my only brither for but aince spakin' lightly o' her friendship for Seymour; she drave his twa sons, as douce callants, an as guid, as e'er drew bow or claymore, frae their hearth stane, an then frae their native soil a' thegither, to die fightin' for a foreign prince, unassoiled an unhouselled; wae's me, wae's me; she has na left me kith or kin, in a' the wide world, to house wi' in my dyin' hour; an last and warst o' a', she noo plots the murdher o' the queen o' Scots, as if she wad na leave a fibre o' my heart-strings unbroken; an yet I could pray for her whyles, ay, could I, when I think o' Him that died for us, an when the guid thoughts come ower my heart; but alas, alas! it's na use, it's na use ava; she canna be saved. The Jezebel o' nations maun die the death——"
               "Hush, hush!" cried Alice, fearfully looking round; "thou forgettest thyself, Nell; thy overheated imagination hath made away with thy wits."
               "Na, na, bairn; when the voice came to my bedside that night, the vera night o' a' nights, that Mary Stuart landed at Leith, the 19th o' August, 1561, and commanded me to rise, an gang awa to Whinstane Hollow in the forest, near to the royal palace o' Hampton, an bide there in the neighborhood o' the court, an keep watch o' Elizabeth, that she harm not the bonnie queen, an be guardian spy for the persecuted o' the church, an thwart an baffle the wicked queen wi' a' my craft o' kin an race, an no abandon my post till I saw the wanton pay the awfu' penalty o' her crimes. An speir ye wha that's to be? Bend ye ower, I'll whisper't in yer ear: She'll die mad at the sight o' her ain flesh an bluid. When that voice came and slowly sounded sic words in my ears, it was na imagination; na, na, Mistress Alice, I was as muckle awake as yersel this minute, an wi' the fu' enjoyment o' my senses. But stan' back, lassie, stan' back, an let the people gang by; we maunna speak mair o' these things now, as the chapel's fillin' fast.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               As the time for divine service drew near, the people began to flock in in greater numbers. The majority, indeed, were of the humbler classes, as might be seen by their coarse gray doublets and Dutch hose. But now and then a knight, or noble, wearing a rapier under his cloak, appeared, slowly passing through the low door of the chapel, accompanied by his family, and attended by his domestics, and walking up through the aisle more confidently than the rest, knelt down before the altar.
               "Who may that be?" said Alice, directing Nell's attention to a tall personage of the latter class, wrapped in a dark cloak, who just entered alone, and paused for an instant within the threshold to look about him. "See, he retires now behind the little group there, near the wall, and keeps his face concealed in the folds of his mantle, as if he wished to avoid recognition. Who may he be, Nell?"
               The latter turned to look in the direction Alice had indicated, and in the new comer soon detected the bearing and figure of Rodger O'Brien.
               "O lassie," said the old woman, leering up at the maiden significantly, "ye need na ask that question; yer ain twa een can mak him out better than mine."
               "Nay," whispered the blushing girl, "I only thought—I fancied——"
               "Ay, did ye noo, I'll warrint," interrupted Nell. "Hoot, toot! woman, dinna be sae dowie wi' me; I'll wager a baubee yer wee beatin' heart felt him comin' fore yer een got the first blink o' his handsome face. Weel, weel, Alice, dinna blush, dinna blush; ye needna be ashamed to acknowledge an interest in the lad, for his like's no to be met wi' ilka day o' yer life. He has as bra a heart an as stout an airm as ye'll find frae here to Brockton. Ay, ay, bairn, he's a guid honest chiel, that same Rodger, an come o' a kingly stock, and wad be sma disgrace to link wi' the best o' them."
               "I little expected to see him here," said Alice; "indeed, I was beginning to think he had left for Scotland."
               "Na wondher ye'd hae thought it, the foolish lad. He shud hae been in Holyrood by this time, keepin' watch and ward o'er his bonnie young queen, an no whilin' awa his time here, after a wee silly wench that disna ken her ain mind twa minutes thegither. But haud ye, woman; look! wha comes here?" she ejaculated, drawing Alice back a step, and directing a side glance at a stout, middle-aged man, who appeared at the door in cap and cassock.
               "A priest!" observed Alice.
               "I dinna ken him gin he be," replied Nell. "There's but five in the hale deestrict, an he's nane o' them. An wha gars him bide there, when his cassock gies him right o' place near the altar?" she muttered, as the stranger mingled with the crowd.
               The tingle of a bell was now heard, warning the congregation to prepare for worship; and each one seemed to understand the signal, for all rose, simultaneously, and stood awaiting the entrance of the officiating priest. The waxen tapers were then lighted, and the communion cloth spread along the front of the sanctuary. At this moment, and while the people were moving to and fro, each choosing his place to kneel during the service, the stranger in the cassock came close up to where Nell and Alice were standing, and giving them the usual benedicite, and a searching look that seemed to scan them from head to foot, passed on, and was soon lost amid the throng.
               "Wha can he be?" muttered Nell; "I hae seen him afore, I'll be sworn on't, and na sae vera long since, either. That bullet head and sharp gray eye are no unfameeliar to my een."
               "He's of right humble bearing, and saintly look," observed Alice.
               "Na doubt, na doubt he's a' that. But the deil can make himself an angel, ye ken. Na, na; we maunna trust the outward appearance, Mistress Alice, in sic kittlesome times and places. Mony a spy I hae seen as muckle like a priest as that same chiel. But gae wa, bairn; gae wa, an tak yer place by the altar, an prepare for the holy communion, for I hae somethin' to see aboot, an canna bide here longer; an hark ye, my bonnie innocent lassie,— whin ye pray, dinna forget the auld spaewife wha's no worthy to pray for hersel, nor the puir queen o' Scots, yer ain bosom friend, that needs yer interest so much wi' God an his blessed Mither. So gae wa noo, and hide yer face in yer mantle; min' that, hide yer face weel, an dinna be glowerin' aboot ye, for gin I be na much mistaken, there'll be mair nor lover's een peerin' after ye the night. Awa noo, and guid be wi' ye, bairn. I maun gae out a while, mysel, but there's ane here that'll no think it muckle trouble to tak tent, to yer safety."
               The old woman, on quitting her fair protégée, passed close to where O'Brien stood wrapped in his cloak, and whispering a word or two in his ear, made her way on through the crowd to the place where she had lost sight of the stranger in the cassock. But though she looked sharply and cautiously round for him in every direction, he was nowhere to be seen. Concluding he had left, she again crept through the throng, as quietly as before, to the entrance, and placed herself in a recess of the narrow passage outside, so that she could see distinctly all who passed in or out, without herself being seen. She had not stood there, however, more than a minute or two, when the man in the cassock again appeared, making his way from the chapel with somewhat more haste than he entered. As he drew aside the curtain, the light from within fell on his face, and revealed the countenance of one of the drunken revellers whom Nell had seen, at the Whitehorse of Wimbleton, disputing with his comrades on the question of Elizabeth's divinity. He was the one who answered to the name of Master Millar; and, doubtless, the same whom Plimpton met at the palace gates on the night Nell carried away the child.
               "Harkee, Master Millar," said Nell, plucking his skirt, "come hither;" and she retreated farther into the dark recess, where there was no possibility of his recognizing her.
               "Who art thou to speak me by that name?" demanded the fellow, attempting to lay hold of her dress.
               "Keep thy hands off, sirrah!" commanded Nell, with a voice of authority, and dexterously dropping her native dialect. "What wouldst thou in this place?"
               "That's my own affair, and doth not concern thee, I trow."
               "Nay, deny it not, master; thou hast a warrant to seize the person of Alice Wentworth, and thou'rt now come hither to execute it."
               "Ah! how cam'st thou by that knowledge?"
               "From the same source whence thou hast thy instructions."
               "How?"
               "From Sir Thomas Plimpton!"
               "And who art thou?"
               "Nay, my name matters little if I know thy secret."
               "Art man or woman?" demanded Millar, again groping for her dress.
               "Keep thy hands off, fellow!" repeated Nell, afraid he might detect her by the hood of her cloak; "touch me not, or I'll poniard thee on the instant!"
               "Ah, by my faith! thou'rt bold withal."
               "Where may Sir Thomas be? I would see him presently. Answer me, sirrah; I've no time to palter with thee."
               "And what proof have I that thou knowest my business here? 'Tis but a small part of my secret to have learnt that I hold a warrant for the arrest of a recusant damosel and a mass priest. Such things are common enough, I trow."
               "Ah, thou'rt cautious; well, hark thee! she must be carried off to Blinden Lane—eh; what sayest thou to that?"
               "Proceed; what further token?"
               "And detain her here till his return from Scotland, should he, indeed, happen to travel thither."
               "Humph!"
               "And didst thou not have counsel from Sir Thomas concerning the very garb in which I have just detected thee?"
               "Enough, enough; what wouldst thou?"
               "Is Sir Thomas here?"
               "Ay, within arrow shot of the cave."
               "And well attended?"
               "Some thirty stout soldiers, armed with sword and buckler, petronel and carabine."
               "Didst see the maiden in the chapel?"
               "Ay, she's now under ward of that old hell-pet witch."
               "Whom meanest thou? Nell Gower?"
               "The same; and I fear the beldam will play us some scurvy trick ere she parts with the maiden."
               "Doubtless she'll endeavor to protect her; but what can she against a troop of soldiers, with a brave knight at their head, and the queen's warrant to give them authority?"
               "Marry, folks say she can call up a whole regiment of the evil one to help her in a strait. Gadzooks, I saw her not five minutes gone, and she looks fiendish enough herself to frighten an army."
               "Give thyself little trouble about the old woman," said Nell; "I shall take care of her. But get thee gone instantly to the chapel, Master Millar, and watch ye well the maiden, that she escape not, and keep ye near her, that when Sir Thomas and his party come hither, thou mayst point her out without delay."
               "Nay, but I've had commands to return as soon as I had seen the girl, and marked her dress, and the spot where she may be found, and report accordingly. My certies, stranger, I must first obey my master."
               "An thou do so this bout, I tell thee, Master Millar, thou'lt bring such injury upon thyself as thy master will hardly be able to mend. Away, away, sirrah, and remember the knowledge of thy secrets gives me right to command thee. Nay, tarry not, but hie thee back to the chapel, and watch well the maiden."
               Millar, though he little doubted the unknown had been admitted to the full confidence of his employer, yet obeyed with some reluctance; for in those times of plots and conspiracies, and general want of faith, every one suspected his neighbor. The fact, however, of his being placed thus in charge of the girl, gave him strong reason to think the unknown intended no treachery in the affair.
               When the spy had again disappeared behind the curtain, Nell made her way noiselessly through the long corridors of the cavern, and issuing forth, ascended the precipice. Having reached the summit, she paused for a moment to listen. The faint sounds she soon heard coming up from the rocks below, in various directions, led her at once to believe that Plimpton stationed his soldiers in front of the entrance in order to intercept the people as they came out, whilst he himself, with a small guard, intended, probably, to enter the cave on the return of Millar, and thus not only capture his long-sought victim, but the priest, and many of the landed proprietors and gentry of the neighborhood, who were supposed to have assembled there on the occasion. The prospect of so extensive a seizure pleased Plimpton exceedingly; not only on account of the profit he would derive from it, but because the arrest of Alice would probably be ascribed to the same feeling that prompted that of all the rest, namely, his zeal for the interest of religion, and the welfare of the state; and thus obviate all the odium which naturally would attach to her individual capture.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXX.
               NELL saw it was now impossible that Alice and the other two personages in whom she felt so great an interest could escape, there being but one point of egress from the cavern. Nevertheless she did not forget that the father of the babe under her charge, who, since her last interview with Grace Goodniff, she no longer doubted, was the Earl of Leicester, had appointed to meet her that very night, at a little hut above the precipice, in order to transfer the infant to the custody of another; and she thought it might be easy to induce the earl to interpose his authority, and prevent the execution of Plimpton's warrant.
               Nell was too knowing a woman, and had too much experience of Elizabeth's duplicity, to rely entirely on her written promise of protection, had she even received it from her own hands; and it was, therefore, from no dread of surprise or detection of herself or co-religionists, that she bargained with the Earl of Leicester for the sanctuary privileges of Whinstone Hollow, but imply in order that he might the more readily intrust the babe to her keeping, seeing how great a value she set on the place, and how careful she was likely to be of the child, as the best means of preserving it. All she longed for was the possession of the babe; on that she founded her hopes for the protection of Mary Stuart against the malice of Elizabeth beth, and of Alice Wentworth against the cupidity of Plimpton. For herself, she felt assured the knowledge of such a secret would prove her best safeguard through all her difficulties. As to the cavern, it might be no longer a safe hiding-place; a few days would decide its fate. The report of the meeting and the capture of recusants, which was probably about to take place, would soon spread to the court and the city, and a thousand eyes be set to watch it. Even if the queen had actually signed the license, of which Nell had well-founded doubts, still it guarantied only certain immunities within the cell, but gave no protection to those going in or coming out. And last of all, if Elizabeth found that her promise of protection interfered with her church policy, or was calculated to create misgivings about the sincerity of her religious professions, or in the slightest degree likely to provoke such inquiries as might lead to awkward suspicions regarding the services for which such sanctuary privileges were granted, Nell was well assured, from long experience, she would break the promise, and withdraw the protection, particularly if she had been deceived by Plimpton, as to the death of the child, which Nell had now every reason to believe. She, however, still hoped that the cell would prove a safe retreat for Atlice Wentworth, till such time, at least, as the maiden could be safely conveyed to Scotland, and that those of the neighborhood, who still remained true to the old faith, might continue to meet there, for a little time longer, to practise their religion; but the reckless and brutal impatience of Plimpton for the possession of the heiress, and the anxiety of the queen to second his wishes, in order that he might retire with his bride the sooner from the court, where his ever-watchful eye was continually following her through all her intrigues, completely disappointed her expectations.
               "Weel, weel, it canna be helped noo," she muttered to herself, drawing her hood closer round her head, and proceeding on her course through the woods; "it's bad enough, but it might be waur,—ou ay, it might be waur; an we'll see if we dinna balk them yet wi' a' their warrints. They may tak the maiden awa wi' them to the queen, an the queen may send her to the Tower, or may be to the altar wi' her minion; but the deil's in their plottin' if I canna match them, and gar them gie her up again without scaith or scar."
               As Nell concluded her soliloquy, she found herself at the door of the hut, to which she had directed Whitret Macbairn to conduct Southron from the Peacock Tavern, and where the latter, now in the company of the Earl of Leicester, waited to receive the child and carry it home to Ashley Park. When about to knock at the door for admittance, she heard some one groan within a short distance above, among the trees, and advancing to the place, demanded to know who was there at such a late hour.
               "Oach, hoach!" groaned the same voice again, the sound dying away, as if the sufferer lay in mortal agony.
               "Who's there?" she again inquired.
               "Oh, ay; ask who's there, indeed. Nell, Nell, hugh! give me but a draught of ale, and I'll die more comfortably; ough, grace and patience, my back's broken and my throat's parched."
               "Hoot, awa wi' ye, ye lazy, guid-for-nathin haggis," cried Nell; "wha gars ye sit doon there sic fashion? Up wi' ye, man, an dinna keep blowin' and roulin' that gate, like a stuck porpis."
               "Nell, Nell, I say, wilt answer me a simple question?"
               "Ay; out wi't."
               "Humph! out wi't," repeated the fat host of the Whitehorse, who had thus thrown himself down to die, from sweat and exhaustion, in his endeavor to reach Whinstone Hollow. "Out wi't; ay, that's always the way—always in a hurry; hugh! never, never giving time. But hark thee, Nell, hark thee, and tell me truly, hast any old grudge against me, for which thou wouldst be avenged?"
               "Why, ye puir, daft, silly saul, what grudge cud I hae agin ye?"
               "And dost not know that I weigh three hundred and odd pounds, eh?"
               "Weel, an gin ye weigh four hundher, what's that to do wi't?"
               "And this here place where I sit," continued Oliver, "is two long miles from the Peacock."
               "Ay, is't? I'll no deny that."
               "And thou knowest well my father, honest man— hugh!—died of surfeit."
               "Ay, did he, puir fellow, guid rest his saul; his fat choked him ae mornin' gaein' up his ain stairs."
               "True; and now, with all that knowledge, thou wouldst order me here at this hour, on some damnable affair o' thine,—hugh! hugh!—which, if it kill me not in the outset, by loss o' sweat and overstretching o' lung, will most likely send me to the gallows in the end. Hugh! grace and patience! what a plight I'm in! Marry, woman, look at me; here I'm sitting on this tuft of grass, a man of three hundred pounds and odd, who has not walked a mile on foot, except—hugh! how the sweat streams off me!—except on thy errands, and from my own fireside to the tap; ay, marry, here am I, after bobbing and sousing on a pillion thirteen good miles to the Peacock, on a high-trotting Flemish horse, and falling from his back on the pavement. Hugh! my head's still dumfoundered with the awful shock; and after having it broken and plastered over with that barber's most villanous balsam, then stumbled and floundered over roots of trees and brushwood —hugh! hugh! grace and patience—ay, for two long miles in quest of a place called Whinstone Hollow—why, woman, an that be not murder with intent to kill, an it be not a dev'lish plot against my life, why, then, tell me, what is it?"
               "Haud yer tongue, man, an get ye up; is this a fittin' time to claver aboot sic trifles?"
               "Trifles!" gramercy, woman, trifles! d'ye call the loss of human life a trifle? Ah, Nell, Nell, thou never hadst much sympathy for corporal distress," groaned out Oliver, endeavoring, with great exertion and waste of strength, to regain his feet.
               "Hugh! hugh!" he ejaculated, as he rose up at last, and leaned back against a tree; "grace and patience! how stiff my joints have become all of a sudden! Well, now to it again," he added; "to it again, and finish the work thou hast so nobly begun. Marry, shall I run barefoot to London to buy thee an apron string, or catch thee a rabbit for thy supper, or challenge Kit Harlow, the mad poet, who's so remarkably thin of flesh, to fight me with the long rapier, or——"
               "Haud yer peace, haud yer peace, man, an dinna mak sican a rout, or ye'll draw the folks frae the cabin doon by there, aboot yer lugs."
               "Well," pursued Oliver, "proceed; ay, ay, proceed with thy sentence, and fail not, I pray thee, through foolish delicacy—hugh! delicacy! gramercy on't!— fail not to speak thy wishes concerning the manner of my death. I only stipulate, if it so please thee, that it be somewhat sudden, and require not an over exertion o' lung or limb."
               "The deil tak yer tongue; canna ye keep it frae waggin' for ae minit?" cried Nell, shaking Oliver by the arm. "Hearken to me, man; there's a wee bit bairn here ye maun tak under yer charge."
               "A bairn! woman—why, grace and patience!"
               "Whisht, ye bletherin' clift; hae ye na reason ava?"
               "A bairn! O, doubtless, thou'lt strap it on my shoulders, cradle and blankets, and all the other appendages; eh, marry, and send me tumbling back again to Wimbleton."
               "Listen. Ye'll return without delay to the Peacock, and bide ye there till Southron ca's for ye wi' the child. An dinna forget to tak tent, that it disna fa', whilst yer jerkin' up an doun on the pillion."
               "Grace and patience, Nell! on the pillion didst thou say? On the pillion? I carry a child on a pillion?"
               
               "Hush, man, an be na sae glegg. An min when ye come to the Whitehorse, ye'll no be surprised to see twa three Irish lads, wi' blue blouses, makin' merry wi' yer ale. An gin they pick a quarrel wi' Southron, and tak awa the bairn frae his custody, why, ye can bluster, ye ken, an gie them a wallop o' a cudgel now an then, to show yer no privy to the plot. But dinna fash yersel aboot the wee donny thing, honest Oliver, for ye maun be sure it will fa' into guid and careful hands."
               "Humph!" said the innkeeper, when Nell had communicated her wishes, "and so it was for this instruction thou'st brought me hither fifteen miles— two on foot and thirteen on horseback."
               "Ay, an wad hae brought ye as mony mair, on the same erran'. Ou, trust me, cousin, it's na common brat o' some nameless light o' love, or Nell Gower wadna trouble hersel sae muckle about its safe keepin'; na, na, Oliver, the puir thing may yet repay ye for a' the ills ye hae suffered on its account."
               "But why didst not come thyself, with thy instructions?" demanded Oliver, somewhat wrathy at Nell, for thus needlessly dragging him out on so long and fatiguing a journey. "Thou wert lighter of foot, methinks, to trip it to Wimbleton on thine own business than Oliver Goodniff to run to Whinstone Hollow for information that doth but little concern him."
               "Ou, ye dinna ken, man, ye dinna ken, it may yet concern ye mair than ye wot o'; ye hae na forgotten the auld waa's o' Westlow Abbey yit, and the weird woman's prophecy—
                     
                        'In twenty years more ye'll be just two score;
                        There's a secret that night to be told,
                        That will wake ye, or ward ye, for a queen will reward ye
                        With a collar of hemp or gold.'"
                     
                  
               
               "Nell, Nell," cried Oliver, shaking his head doubtingly, "I fear me much the hempen one's the more likely. And it's not that thou hast done much downright evil either in thy time, nor perilled thy soul by wicked practices, like other women of doubtful repute, nor, if I may say it, required many deeds of darkness at my hands; but, Nell, Nell, thou hast a most damnable name; the very sound of it tells of old bones, and crickets' legs, and boiling caldrons, and filings of tin, and strangled babes. Nell, Nell! Hugh—hu!"
               "Deil thraw the wisen frae ye, for a bletherin' skyte," cried Nell, as soon as Oliver's cough had interrupted his direful category; "wha gars ye aye rin on that gate? When I come t'ye for a bit favor, it's nathin' but a hale string o' ill names an upcastins I'm greeted wi'."
               "Harkee, Nell; thou canst not deny thou hast a most villanous, unsavory repute."
               "Weel, an wha cares?" responded Nell. "If I maun spae a fortune aince an again, an play cantrips to blindfauld my enemies, for a lawfu' honest purpose, whay shud I fash mysel about ithers' opinions? I hae a mission, man, that stands muckle in need o' some sic awsome repute to carry it on wi'."
               "True, Nell, most true; but didst never suspect thy ill name might one day tuck thee up in the gallows, and send thy associate and abetter of witchcraft, a certain Oliver Goodniff, to dangle at thy side for a warning to all good Christians?"
               Here the door of the hut opened, and Nell, seeing the danger of prolonging the conference in such a place, seized Oliver by the sleeve, and towed him off, in somewhat of a hurry, on his way to the village, cautioning him all the time to be prudent and careful in his conduct of the business intrusted to his management; whilst he, on the other hand, suffering her to drag him away, kept constantly beseeching her to travel at a slower pace, and to remember there was a trifling difference, in respect of agility, between Nell Gower and Oliver Goodniff.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               WHEN the spaewife returned to the hut, after parting with Oliver, she found the Earl of Leicester sitting in a corner, wrapped in his cloak, with his mask on, as she first saw him at the cavern, and Southron standing at the door seemingly impatient at her delay. The light, which came from the dying embers on the rude hearth, was so faint as barely to reveal the shadowy form of the earl, as he sat, moody and solitary, leaning against the wall in the remotest corner of the cabin. The strict silence he maintained lest Southron might detect him, or afterwards recognize him by his voice, gave him leisure to meditate on the plans he had formed for his future guidance in his intercourse with Elizabeth. He felt the die was now cast, and that life and death depended on his adroitness in managing her, through fear of exposure. He had himself witnessed the effect which his mere hint at the life of the royal babe had produced on her bold and stubborn heart, in the scene of the antechamber. He saw how the very thought had crushed her in the presence of her assembled courtiers, in whose sight she was never before known to quail. And yet he felt it was a dangerous experiment; for the woman who laughed to scorn the rumors already circulated concerning her amorous intrigues, might, in a moment of revengeful passion, send him to the block, and with her customary effrontery defy his charges and his posthumous claims. She was not a simple, gentle Amy Robsart, whom he might appease by flattery, or soothe by blandishments, and who loved him with a pure and disinterested affection, but a woman as cunning as a serpent, and as revengeful as a tigress; a woman who loved him with the heart of a Jezebel, and the vulgarity of a courtesan. He was, indeed, well convinced of the difficulty of managing such a woman, and nothing but his own presumptuous self-reliance, and his insatiable ambition, could have prompted him to undertake the task. Himself a confirmed libertine, he had no real love for Elizabeth; had he but once seen himself king consort, he would have shown his contempt for her after their union, as manifest as his pretended love before it. And thus it was, Elizabeth enamoured of the person of the earl, and the earl enamoured of the throne of the queen. Leicester, in the absence of Nell Gower, was cautiously weighing these perplexing matters over in his mind, and marking out for himself the only course which his late unpleasant interview with the queen had left open to him, namely, perseverance in pressing his claim on her regards, and using it as a means to accomplish the object of his ambition.
               As Nell Gower entered the hut, Leicester rose, and waving his hand as a sign for Southron to withdraw, approached the spaewife. "Why hast thou come hither without the babe?" he began.
               "E'en to mak a condition wi' ye ere I part wi't," promptly replied Nell.
               "Ah, thou wouldst bargain once more?"
               "Ou, na, I canna say it's a bargain either; only jist to remind ye that ye maunna see the queen's promise o' sanctuary rights to Whinstane Hallow braken to yer vera face, an no mak an effort to prevent it."
               "Who dares disrespect the royal license?" demanded Leicester.
               "One Sir Thomas Plimpton, at yer service, wha comes wi' a troop o' soldiers, an a warrint frae her majesty's ain hand and seal, to search for priests an mass mongers, an aboon a' for ane Alice Wentworth, that's noo under my speecial protection."
               "By my halidome this is strange," muttered the earl; "I had thought this man had gone to Scotland this morn. Where is he?"
               "Doon by there, amang the rocks in the hollow."
               "Hath he much force of escort?"
               "Ay, I'll be bound has he, twa three dozen men or mair, an waits only for the return o' a spy he sent to the cavern, to spier after the bit lassie. If ye dinna mak haste, ye'll be ower late to stap him. An gin he aince maks his way in, ye'll hae trouble to get him out."
               "And the child; where may the child be?"
               "Ou, dinna fret yersel aboot the bairn; ye'll hae it gien ye, safe an soun, as soon's ye send Plimpton awa."
               "But I'm unattended, my good woman, and cannot therefore compel him to leave; besides, I feel no desire to be recognized at such a time and place."
               "Weel, weel, jist as ye like it; but I maun haud the child till ye mak guid the queen's promise;" and Nell made a motion towards the door.
               "If thou'lt give the babe to this fellow without further delay, I shall hasten to the court, and return with sufficient force to defend the cavern, and give safe escort to all its inmates beyond the forest."
               "Ou, ay; it wud be the auld story, I'll warrint: get haud o' yer ain, an the deil tak the rest."
               "No; I promise thee right faithfully——"
               "Pugh! my Lord Leicester, I wudna gie a bodle for yer promise, or the queen's either," interrupted Nell.
               "Ah! how knowest thou I'm Lord Leicester?" demanded the earl, somewhat taken aback by the recognition.
               "I spaed it, my lord; didna ye learn frae the queen how I tauld fortunes, an tuck bairns' lives, an concocted poisons, an a' that? Hoot, my lord, ye surely didna tak me for sa blate a body as no to spier after yer name."
               "Whatever be my name," replied the earl, in a tone of vexation and disappointment, "I would have thee speak of it with proper respect; for by my good faith, if I but once hear of thy connecting it with this affair of thine, I'll have thy carcass thrown to the jackdaws and ravens, e'er thou'rt a day older."
               "Ha, ha!" chuckled Nell; "ye'd frighten an auld woman, wud ye? Ha, ha!"
               "An old devil, rather," replied the earl, provoked more and more at her contempt of his threat.
               "Ou, ay; ain an auld deevil jist noo; but when ye cam to secure my services, a night nae sae lang gane, I was e'en a wise, carefu', sonsy auld woman; an if ye dinna, forget, I tould ye then ye'd see me burnt wi' fagots the neest minit after I'd hae done yer biddin'. Ou, I ken ye well, my Lord o' Leicester; I penned ye sin' yer nursery days, and could tell ye mair o' yer doins than ye wot o'; so jist keep a quiet tongue in yer head, an gang yer ain gate, ne'er mindin' yer neebors, for ye'll fin' enough to do, I ween. Ay, ay, gang yer ain gate, and mak yer ain way after yer ain fashion, for by my hopes o' mercy, Robert Dudley, in yer strivin' to reach the throne, or the block, gin ye come foul o' the Scotch spaewife, she'll mak ye repent o't ilka day o' yer life."
               "A murrain take thee, old witch," cried the earl; "I'm sorely tempted to order that fellow without there to fling thee over the precipice."
               "Ye wudna di that, my lord, for an earl's ransom."
               "How so, dame?"
               "Ou, ye ken a trick worth twa o't; ye didna clap haud o' that, guid faith, I wudna, for my auld gray cloak, bide wi'in airm's length o' ye, or that dour chiel withoot there. But come awa, an daff yer cloak an mask, an in yer ain proper person gie this Plimpton orders to gang hame agin wi' his warrant, whilst I manage to let him see the queen's ain handwritin' an seal to the license."
               "Ah, I had almost forgotten that; pray let me see the paper."
               "Na, na," responded Nell, "I dinna carry sic a precious trist aboot me; there's nathin' wrong in the drawin' o't, I hope."
               
               "Nothing," said the earl.
               "Nathing ava?"
               "Nought that I know of."
               "Barrin' that it's yer ain writin', or, to speak mair plainly, a forgery," she whispered, approaching a step, and stretching out her neck in mock confidence to the earl, "an might yet be an unco awkward thing in the angry queen's possession, gin she ever wanted a fair excuse to hang the Earl o' Leicester for presuming too much on the strength o' a delicate secret."
               Leicester gazed at the old woman a second or two in an attitude of surprise, not knowing how to reply to the startling revelation; and Nell looked at him as fixedly, and judged from the heaving of his chest and the twitching of his mask, that the words were producing the effect she anticipated.
               Leicester, when he wrote this license, and appended to it the signature and seal of her majesty, never suspected it would cause him the least uneasiness. He gave it, as he supposed, to please a foolish old crone, who expressed an eccentric predilection for a most extraordinary place of residence, and concluded the affair would never again be spoken of. In fact, so unimportant an act did the forgery seem to him, under the circumstances, that he would quite have forgotten it, had not his thoughts of the child occasionally recalled it to his memory. But now, the circumstances had somewhat changed; he was no longer in a position to take such a liberty with impunity. The queen had been outraged by his audacious conduct in the antechamber; and how did he know, if this paper once fell into her hands, but she might, as the old woman said, make it a pretence to rid herself of his annoyance.
               "Wilt thou return me the document?" at length demanded Leicester.
               "Na," responded Nell; "I'll keep it to remind ye o' my past services, gin I e'er happen to get in trouble."
               "I'll give thee gold for it."
               "Hoot, man! I dinna care a thistle down for a' the goud in yer coffers. I tauld ye aince afore, that goud and siller cud buy na comforts for me. So come awa to the cave, my guid lord, or bide here, jist as ye like it." And Nell opened the door, and disappeared without further parley.
               Reëntering the passage leading to the chapel, she heard Millar conversing with some one on his way out, and suspected he was communicating to a messenger from the impatient Sir Thomas the cause of his delay.
               The mass had well nigh ended, the holy communion given to the faithful, and Alice Wentworth just returned to her place, after receiving the blessed sacrament, when Nell, walking stealthily up the aisle, knelt down behind the young girl. Hardly had she done so, however, when a clatter and a rush, as of armed men, was heard at the door.
               Every eye turned in the direction of the fearful sounds, and every form, bent and prostrate before the sacred altar, as if moved by one common impulse, rose up simultaneously, and turned round to gaze back, like a herd of startled deer, when the first distant bay of the hounds breaks upon their ears. The women trembled with fear, and backed through the crowd in the direction of the altar, or clung to the arms of their husbands and friends for protection; and the men drew their swords and dirks from under their cloaks and jerkins, and prepared to defend themselves.
               The instant Nell heard the first sound from the corridor without, she plucked from Alice's neck the red scarf she wore, and substituting a black one, directed her to keep among the women near the altar as much as possible.
               "What mummery is this?" demanded Plimpton, advancing with his sword drawn, and flinging down the missal from which the priest was commencing to read the concluding prayer. "I arrest thee, Sir Mumbler, in the queen's name; hoa there, men; tear off these gewgaws, and bind him in irons."
               "Away, fellow! take thy hands off, and pollute not the sacred vestments!" cried one of the Catholic gentlemen, who had stationed himself near the priest as soon as he heard the first rush of the soldiers. "Away, caitiff!" he shouted, throwing aside his cloak and drawing his rapier, "or the sanctuary itself will not save thee."
               Plimpton's followers, in obedience to orders, had laid hold of father Peter, and commenced to tear off the vestments, when some half dozen peasants came driving on in a body from the direction of the door, and, snatching their daggers from their belts, attacked the soldiers. They struck, however, with the handles of their weapons, probably from an unwillingness to shed blood, and especially in a place so sacred. One of the soldiers, who had torn the chasuble, or outer vestment, almost entirely off the priest, received a blow on the temple from the hard knuckles of a stalwart fellow in a blue gabardine, that sent him with a thud against the wall, whence he sank down senseless on the pavement. Another fell at the first moment of attack, and was crushed under the feet of the combatants. The priest, now released for an instant from the hands of the soldiers, begged earnestly that no blood might be shed in the holy place; but his words were lost or unheeded in the confusion. The soldiers then rallied, and, smarting under the shame of defeat, and reinforced, as they were, by sone of their comrades from without, drew their swords; and made a desperate and indiscriminate attack on the defenceless Catholics through all parts of the chapel; and the yells and cries that followed their sword thrusts, and blows of their carabines, occasioned a scene of indescribable terror and confusion. Again the priest was heard imploring the soldiers to desist, and promising submission on the part of the unfortunate Catholics; but his entreaties had little effect on the maddened multitude. At this moment, a sharp cry came up from the middle of the chapel, and the name of Alice Wentworth was heard, distinctly pronounced by a strong, coarse voice, commanding her to submit, without further resistance, to the queen's officer. In a second after a shot was fired, that rang along the vaulted roof, and echoed through the passages without. The aim was the deliberate and unerring aim of a marksman; for the ball passed through the priest's forehead, as he turned with uplifted hands a third time to deprecate the fury of the soldiers, and he fell back against the altar, his brains scattered on the antependum. Then was heard a yell of such terrible anguish from the spectators of the murder, as human ears never heard before; and in the midst of it, Nell Gower, with her hood thrown back, her gray hairs streaming behind her, and a gleaming dagger in her hand, came driving towards the altar. When Alice saw father Peter lying dead, with his vestments still upon him, she gazed silently on his face for an instant. It was a gaze of unutterable anguish; she neither moved nor wept, but stood over him like a statue. Then, as the terrible truth gradually unfolded itself to her bewildered brain, she slowly sank down, and falling upon his breast, lay there in speechless agony.
               "Where's the Earl of Leicester?" cried Nell Gower; "can he be here an stan calmly by to witness this butchery? is this his promise o' sanctuary preevilege? is this the protection o' a queen's license? On wi' ye, Catholics!" she vociferated, jumping on a rock near the altar, and waving the dagger above her head "on wi' ye! and bury yer skiens to the hilt in them. A perjured queen an her fause minion hae broken faith wi' ye, an there's nathing now to depend on but yer ain strong airms. Look here!" she cried, pointing to the dead; "here's a sight to look upon; yer ain priest, that tended ye in yer sickness an yer sorrow; that prayed for ye ear an late; that loed ye an yeirs wi' a' the fondness o' a father— behauld him here dead at the altar. An ye hae sauls in yer bodies, or bluid in yer veins, can ye bear this sight? Will ye thole this?" she vociferated, as the tears streamed down her wrinkled cheeks, and almost choked her utterance. "On, on wi ye! an let yer dirks rive ilka heart o' them."
               The Gaberlunzie, now in the dress of a priest, the same in which Alice had failed to recognize him before at the door of her little cell, made his way through the crowd, and commanded Nell Gower to desist from her inflammatory harangue.
               "Is this the conduct of a Christian and a Catholic?" he cried; "down with thee, woman, and see to thy charge, there; it's more befitting thee, I trow, than thus to excite the fury of these men. O God!" he added, as another shot and another scream broke on his ear, "save thy suffering people."
               "Hoot, awa wi' ye, father Henry! are we to bide here to be slain without an effort to defend oursels? Here, my lads," she cried to some of those near her, "tak him ahint the rock there, and haud him weel. We canna spare anither life like his; awa wi' him back there, an dinna let him budge till a's ower. Hugh!" she ejaculated, as a ball flattened against the corner round which the Gaberlunzie had disappeared in the men's arms; "ain minit mair wad taen a precious life."
               By this time every soldier from without had poured in, and made an onslaught on the people, without distinction of age or sex. Every arm in the chapel appeared raised in deadly fight; but there was one seen to wave above the rest, and prostrate all before it. Nell's glance followed that arm through all the vicissitudes of the bloody fray; and as the soldiers fell, crushed one by one under its terrible blows, her old cheeks flushed fresh again, and her eye shot forth once more the enthusiastic fire of her youth.
               "O, guid God!" she cried; "gie us but a dozen arms like that to defend us. Hecgh, sirs, what a sough's in his blows! On wi' ye, my bra young callant, an avenge the murder o' God's minister. Down wi' them, my bonnie lad, down wi' the dogs o' hell, down wi' them."
               Here a number of shots were fired, as the soldiers succeeded for a time in extricating their fire-arms from the crush of their assailants; some of the balls taking fatal effect, and others wounding, or flattening harmlessly on the rocks. In the midst of this discharge, Nell stood upon the rock, waving her dirk with her right hand, whilst she threw back her long hair with her left. Her gray locks, falling from the roll in which she always kept them bound up, almost reached her feet; her motions and gesticulations, as she swayed from side to side, lent an impressiveness and force to her words that seemed to infuse fire into the hearts of the Catholics. And as the glance of the torches along the walls illumined her flushed and fiery countenance, she seemed like Hecate haranguing the Furies.
               "Nell, dear Nell," cried the trembling Alice, who had now ventured out from behind the altar, where she had the body of father Peter conveyed, "come down, or thou'lt be lost; listen, they're shouting thy name; they're firing at thee. O, dear Nell, expose not thyself thus."
               "Awa, awa wi' ye, bairn, and dinna mind me," responded Nell in a hoarse, exhausted voice; "what care I for their powder an balls, their bolts an arrows? They canna harm me. God has gien me mony a long year to live for his ain holy purposes, an a' the deevils in earth or hell canna hurt a hair o' my head. Awa wi' ye, lassie, an save yersel. On wi' ye, Catholics," she resumed, again waving her dagger—"on wi' ye, an fight for yer altars; down wi' the dogs, an' dinna spare a coward heart o' them."
               Whilst Nell spoke thus, a wave of the furious crowd rolled up and broke against the altar, driving the old woman from her tribune, and scattering some of the sacred vessels on the floor. The gold ciborium, in which the blessed sacrament was kept, just then attracted the notice of one of the soldiers, and he made an attempt to snatch it from the altar, with, no doubt, the intention of appropriating it as his share of the plunder. But Alice, who had turned to secrete herself behind the rock, perceiving the man's object, and trembling with fear and indignation at the bare thought of the outrage he might offer the sacred body of her Redeemer, sprang forward, and caught him firmly by the wrist.
               "Touch it not," she cried; "touch it not, sir; 'tis the Holy Eucharist."
               "Gramercy, woman," replied the fellow, endeavoring to shake her off with brutal violence, "what care I for thy sacrament? This vessel's my booty, and by —— I'll have it."
               "As thou valuest thy salvation, give it to me," entreated the trembling girl. "I will repay thee a hundred fold. Here, here, take all my jewels; they are a hundred times its worth to thee; but spare me this. O, sir—sir, I pray thee touch it not."
               
               "Away there, away, with a wannion t'ye, thou saucy wench," he muttered in reply to her earnest entreaty; and shaking her free of his arm, again snatched at the ciborium. But Alice was too quick for him; ere he recovered from the powerful exertion he made to throw her off, she bounded past him like an arrow, and securing the sacred vessel, sprang with it clasped in her arms to hide it behind the altar. But she was not destined to escape so easily; for just as she gained the corner, she was stopped by Sir Thomas Plimpton himself. He had already searched for her through every part of the chapel, fighting his way as he went, and always mistaking her person, through means of the black scarf which Nell Gower had thrown over her shoulders to mislead Millar. Now, however, he had little doubt of her identity, even though her long, shining tresses had fallen down and partly concealed her face. He needed but the single glance of her dark, lustrous eyes, through her dishevelled hair, to recognize her.
               The instant the devoted girl saw who barred the passage, she halted suddenly on her step, and drawing herself up to her full height, gazed fixedly on the dark face of her persecutor.
               "Surrender thyself, fair maiden," he commanded, bowing low, and dropping the point of his blood-stained sword. "I attach thee under warrant of arrest." And so saying, he stretched forth his left hand to seize the ciborium and hand it to the soldier, who stood hard by claiming it as his right. Alice spoke not a word, but still gazed at him, like a young Pythoness, her bosom heaving with indignation, and her form as firm and erect as a statue. As Plimpton approached the sacred vessel, she drew forth the dagger from her heart, which she carried from Brockton, and pricked his fingers so painfully that he started back, exclaiming,—
               "What, maiden! I knew not thou hadst carried such sharp weapons. Ah, by my halidome, Mistress Alice, thy temper is much changed of late."
               "This is the vessel that contains the Holy of Holies," responded Alice, in a calm but firm voice. "God willeth that I guard it, albeit unworthy the trust. And as this dagger once shed royal blood in defence of my mother's honor, it shall now shed thine in defence of the honor of my God; ay, and drink it to the hilt if thou but touch with the tip of thy finger this sacred treasure."
               "Hoa there, varlets! why stand ye staring at the silly wench?" shouted Plimpton; "pinion her behind there, but see ye harm her not."
               "O man," cried Alice, with a burst of enthusiastic confidence in the power of God, "neither thyself nor thy minions have power to pinion me whilst I hold this blessed cup."
               "Give it me," said Plimpton, again advancing.
               "Never," cried Alice, "while I live and have strength to guard it."
               Two of the soldiers now made a motion to execute the orders of their master, when a shout was heard behind, and then a tall, muscular, active young man, his jerkin torn and blood-stained, his left arm slung in a red silk scarf, and followed by Nell Gower, suddenly appeared at the side of the dauntless girl.
               
               "Which of ye dares molest this maiden?" he demanded, stepping before Alice and looking round till his eye fell upon Plimpton.
               Poor Alice! the moment she heard the rich, manly voice of the young Irishman beside her, and felt sure of his protection, her woman's heart could no longer sustain the struggle she had so long maintained against the natural weakness of her sex, and she sank down insensible at his feet,—still holding her hands folded over the sacred vessel, and pressing it to her bosom.
               "O God of my fathers," cried the Gaberlunzie, who had witnessed the whole scene from behind the altar, where he remained still guarded; "I thank thee for that sight. It repays me for years of suffering. Alice, Alice, thou hast well proved thyself the daughter of Anne Howard."
               As the girl fell, Nell Gower, assisted by one or two others, removed her. O'Brien, then turning on Plimpton, who had just raised his rapier to stab him from behind, leaned his back against the wall, and shouted to him to come on.
               "Saxon dog," he cried; "I have searched for thee long, but have found thee at last. O for one stout arm to keep off these bloodhounds, while I avenge the murdered priest on this craven hind. O for one stout arm!"
               "Here it is," shouted the Gaberlunzie, bursting from his guards, and rushing forth with the dagger in his hand, which he snatched from Alice's unconscious grasp. "Here it is, my gallant boy; it hath fought many a fair fight for the honor of a perjured king; it may once, at least, protect the honor of the King of kings. On with thee, my brave young soldier; resistance is no longer a crime, but a duty."
               Whilst the Gaberlunzie, with many a stunning blow from the handle of his dagger, wielded sure and strong in his well-trained arm, kept off the followers of Plimpton from overpowering their master's assailant, the latter struggled desperately with his opponent. Exhausted from fatigue and loss of blood, and having his left arm broken by a bullet in the beginning of the fray, he fought against overwhelming odds. Plimpton, on the other hand, inflamed with jealousy, and maddened with rage at this attempt of the young Irishman to rescue his prize a third time, struck and thrust with his rapier in all the fury of revenge and despair.
               The quarrel, however, lasted not long, for Plimpton's rage soon exhausted his strength. Relying, as he did, more upon force than skill, in the management of his weapon, his passes were made with so murderous an impetuosity that he exposed himself more than once to his adversary's cooler weapon. It was after seeing one or two blunders of this kind, so unusual in honorable fight, and which he was by no means prepared to expect, that O'Brien resolved not to let the next pass with impunity; and sliding his sword up under that of his antagonist, as the latter missed his longe, fairly ran it through his sword arm. The instant Plimpton felt himself wounded, he threw himself down, and sued for quarter; but O'Brien, unwilling to treat so mean a villain on easy terms, placed his foot on his neck, and crushing him beneath it, commanded manded him to renounce all pretended claims which the queen's warrant had given, or would yet give him, to the custody of Alice Wentworth. Ere the fallen man, however, could mumble a syllable in reply, a tall, noble-looking personage, wearing a white plume in his bonnet, appeared at the head of some twenty men, armed with sword and buckler, and dressed in light-blue doublet and close-fitting hose, and ordered all instantly to sheathe their weapons, and surrender to the officers of the queen's majesty.
               "See to it, knaves," he cried, "that ye disarm these brawlers. And thou, sir," he continued, turning to O'Brien, "who art thou, who would thus strangle a fallen adversary?"
               "Nay, sir, thou mistakest; he's but a treacherous dog, and deserveth to be strangled under the heel of every honest man he chances to come foul of."
               "Dog, or devil, Sir Stranger, let him rise, I command thee."
               "Thou commandest! and who art thou, pray, master?"
               "The Earl of Leicester, if it so please thee, sir; and thou,—ah, my good sooth,—if I mistake not, the very hero of the Tartan bonnet. Spurn him from thee, and let him rise, sir; he's not worthy to wipe the feet of so gallant a fellow as the costard monger of mid-summer eve. So ho, Sir Thomas Plimpton," he added, as the latter rose inexpressibly crestfallen and disappointed at the turn things had taken, and mortified by the presence of the earl, his bitter enemy. "Marry, sir, thou'rt in a sorry plight, methinks; but get thee gone—get thee gone, and take thy followers with thee, and see to it thou'rt forthcoming on the morrow, when this matter shall be investigated. As to the prisoners here, I shall answer for them myself." Plimpton seemed doubting for an instant whether he should resist or obey the order.
               "Thou'rt my superior officer, my lord captain," said he at length, biting his lip, and casting a ferocious look at the earl, "and therefore I must needs submit. But we shall meet again. As for this meddler," he added, casting a side glance at O'Brien, who stood leaning on his sword, eying him with a smile of unutterable scorn, "I've a debt to pay him, and he shall have it in proper season."
               "Nay, sir, not to me, not to me," responded Rodger, with the same contemptuous smile; "I'll send thee my henchman, for thou'rt a most treacherous and cowardly hind, and unworthy the courtesy of knight or gentleman."
               When Plimpton and his surviving followers had left the cavern, carrying with them the dead and wounded of the party, Leicester turned to look for Nell Gower and the child. He found the old woman sitting on the ground, behind the altar, supporting the head of the dead priest upon her lap, and Alice beside her, resting hers on the breast of the Gaberlunzie.
               O'Brien followed the earl, and stood for a while silently gazing on the face of the priest. Once only he cast a furtive glance towards Alice, as if he wished, yet feared, to look at her in her hour of sorrow. Nell saw him, and muttered, in answer to his thoughts,—
               "Ay, man, he was her godfather; 'twas himsel stood up for her at the blessed font; ay, 'deed was't, an the puir wee bairn, when she cudna spak, used run aye to greet him wi' the sign o' the cross, ilka time he'd come to Brockton. Frae that hour to this, she was aye his theme, when he'd sit down wi' us to hae a bit crack roun the chimney neuk. An after he took orders, an cam down here whiles to say the mass, Wullie Hasleton, the auld clerk, ust aye hear him whisperin' the name of Alice Wentworth in his prayers. But he's gone frae her noo, puir thing; he's dead and gone. Mony a hunt they gaed him these twa years, and mony's the hill he crassed 'tween here and Allanbury, or Glastonbury, as the new-fangled name gaes; an in troth, Rodger O'Brien, there was nae a bonnier face nor a brawer airm than his this side the border. But he didna care for thae things, this mony a year, beein' a priest o' God, a man o' peace. O, ay, was he, lad," she cried, bending down to kiss his forehead, "and died for his auld faith, lik a brave, dauntless soldier as he was, wi' his armor on."
               O'Brien kept his eyes still fixed on the dead, whilst Nell thus spoke her simple but affecting panegyric, his lips twitching, and his breast heaving with emotion as he gazed and listened. But when she at length concluded, the noble, generous fellow could no longer restrain his tears, and kneeling down, he fervently kissed the pale forehead of the confessor.
               As he slowly rose up again, Alice's eye met his. He approached and spoke to her low and tenderly; but she replied not in words—her heart was too full to speak; she did better, gentle reader; she took his hand, and pressed it to her lips, and wet it with her tears—the holiest tribute of gratitude she could offer him for his veneration of the dead. Leicester, seeing her take the young man's hand, looked in her modest face and sighed, libertine as he was, when her guileless symplicity recalled the memory of his gentle Amy Robsart.
               In the silence that now prevailed, a tiny scream was heard in a distant part of the cavern.
               "Come," said Leicester, beckoning to Nell Gower, "I would speak with thee."
               The old woman rose up, and conducted him to the place where she had left Whitret Macbairn in charge of the infant.
               It was then arranged that the dwarf should carry the child to Southron, who still remained expecting it at the hut; that Alice and Rodger O'Brien should accompany the earl to the royal palace, not as prisoners under Plimpton's warrant of arrest, but as free petitioners to her majesty; and that the Gaberlunzie, with the other surviving Catholics, should remain unmolested to bury the dead and carry home their wounded.
               "There's ae thing mair, my Lord Leicester, whilk I'd mak bauld to remind ye o'," observed Nell, "and that's een jist this—that shud ill betide the lassie at the hands o' this Plimpton, or the queen's, I'll haud ye accountable for't."
               "Me accountable! ha, ha!" laughed Leicester; "why, woman, thou speakest like an empress."
               "Weel, weel, man, ye need na laugh an tak on that gate," responded Nell; "I ken the power I hae ower ye weel enough, and tak care I dinna mak yersel ken it sooner than ye wot o'. But let's guide our business canny and fairly; let's gie an tak, een though the ain be a mighty earl, an the ither a bletherin', daft auld spaewife. Ou, ay, let's gie and tak—gie me yer protection for ae bairn, an I'll gie ye my secrecy for the tither."
               "And what knowest thou of secrets respecting this child?" said Leicester, assuming a composure he was far from feeling.
               "Ha, ha! did ye no hear I was a Scotch spaewife?" muttered Nell.
               "Ay, marry, have I; and what of that?"
               "Haud out yer han', an come ye nearer the light," she replied. "I'll tell ye a' the secrets o' the bairn in a clappin'."
               The earl assented, and held out his jewelled hand.
               "Now," said Nell, looking at it under the torchlight, "there's a wee spot there, that's ay termed a secret; it's a red mark or blemish, as ye may ca' it. Weel, sae far sae gud; an these sax lines here, runnin' slantin' into't, we ca' the guards, or secret keepers. This ain ye see's blacker than a' the rest, and may be, for aught I ken to the contrary, a mediciner, or doctor, or some sic person; but it's amaist worn out, ye observe, sae that his watchin', an wardin', an secrecy, an a' that, did him nae guid. Weel, here's anither ain; it's a fairer line, an lies close by the secret, so nae doubt it's some bosom frien that keeps near, an's muckle thought o'. An this third line, ah! look there, my lord; dinna ye see it's the secret keeper maist interested o' them a'; it's no straight, like the tithers, but winds itsel roun the wee spot, as if 'twud crush it, like a serpent strangling its ain young; an look ye, man, there's somethin' aboon it, jist for a' the world like a crown on the head o't."
               Here the earl showed some signs of uneasiness, and made a motion to withdraw his hand.
               "Bide a wee, bide a wee; am no done yet," said Nell. "An here's the fifth; it runs itsel atween the serpent an the red spot, an signifies that it wudna suffer any injury to befa' it, for some reason or tither, for its ain sake may be; wha kens? An here's anither auld fared lookin' thing, that's curled up into itsel, an keeps aye lookin' and watchin', but disna interfere muckle atween them, though it could stretch itsel, ye see, an mak itsel troublesome to baith, gin it was sair disturbed."
               "Enough," exclaimed Leicester, at length withdrawing his hand; "I see thy palmistry hath cost thee some study and research; and yet, methinks, had one of my squires given thee his hand, thou mightst have discerned the same lines in it."
               "Ha, ha! wha kens?" again repeated Nell; "but he wudna catch the meanin' sae soon's his master."
               "Thou hadst an apt instructor, doubtless."
               "Ay, twa o' them."
               "Two of them!" exclaimed the earl, somewhat startled in spite of his precaution. "Their names?"
               "The duke o' Richmond an his godmither."
               "There's no such duke in England."
               "Weel, weel, bide a wee, bide a wee; time maun tell," cried Nell; and she peremptorily waved him off, without further explanation.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               WHEN Sir Geoffrey alighted in front of Brockton Hall, his first look was turned to the grated window of the cell in which he still supposed Alice was confined. He shook his hand playfully, and signed to her that he was just hurrying off to open her prison door, and set her free. Indeed, so intent was he on her liberation, and so preoccupied with the thought of again embracing her, after so long an absence, that he perceived not his hat had fallen in his descent from the horse, and that he was then hastening on, bareheaded, through a crowd of gaping servants assembled at the door to receive him. Even when one of them, more considerate than the rest, followed the old man, and pressed his well-worn hat down upon his head, he seemed not to notice it, but ambled away quite unconscious of the attention.
               The peevish old cripples, also, who had hobbled up the steps on their crutches to receive their customary dole, and ranged themselves, in the order of seniority, on either side of the porch, were, to their no small astonishment, passed by unnoticed.
               On entering the hall, after leaving his horse in the stable and removing his morion and moustache, Reddy found his fellow-servants conversing, in low, earnest whispers, about their master, and confidently expressing to each other their conviction of his insanity ity. The abstracted manner and disordered appearance of the knight, combined with the exaggerated notions they had already conceived of him, led them, no doubt, to believe he had actually run mad at last. Their various remarks on this score at first rather amused than surprised Reddy; for he was aware how seldom they had seen or spoken to Sir Geoffrey, shut up as he continually was in his library; and he naturally supposed they had formed their estimate of him more from hearsay than personal experience. But when he heard them communicating to each other their fears respecting the sequestration of his property, and the possibility of their losing their sallaries, in the event of Sir Thomas Plimpton's seizure of the place, the smile of pleasure on his honest face turned instantly to one of contempt and scorn.
               "Mad," said one; "ay, marry, is he, mad as a martlemas hare! didst not see how he laughed and shook his fist at the foul fiend?"
               "And his eyes," said another, "how fiery they looked!"
               "Learning hath crazed his brain," said a third; "and so they'll doubtless bring him to the madhouse, which folks say the queen is building near Richmond. Verily Master Sewall here hath often prophesied he would die raving, and his daughter be driven like a beggar from Brockton. Gad's life, I'm right sorry for the master, for he was easy to serve, and grudged us not plentiness of ale and venison."
               "And Mistress Alice, what shall become of her? —live in a convent?"
               "Tut, tut! Thou'rt a fool, man; there be no convents vents now. Didst not know the queen hath made a new law to suffer no female virginity in the kingdom but her own? Ha, ha! thou'rt as ignorant of state affairs as Hall Wallinthrift, the ploughman."
               "Well, and pray tell us, Master Riddle, an thou'rt so wise, what's to befall ourselves."
               "Why, thou'lt be driven hence without as much as a noble to pay scot at the next hostelrie—ha, ha!"
               "Nay, by my good sooth, thou'rt mistaken there, Master Wiseacre."
               "How so, comrade?"
               "Why, I'll even come beforehand of the queen's warrant, and make sure of mine own. Gadzooks, sirs, we have better claims to the silver ladles and tankards, and such like valuables as were under our safe keeping, than the queen's majesty, I trow, or this Sir Thomas Plimpton, either."
               "And wilt take the oath also?"
               "The oath?"
               "Ay, of the queen's supremacy, as folks call it; otherwise thy plunder will buy thee but small comfort."
               "How so?"
               "Why, they'll hang thee for contumacy."
               "Nay, nay, I hate hanging most damnably. I prefer swearing to hanging."
               "Gramercy, man, I'd be a fool not to swear to save my head. And look ye here, master; we're bound, moreover, to obey the queen; so, if she command us to forswear Papistry, it's our duty to submit. And hark thee, hark thee, comrade; I fear me Papistry will make but a poor recommendation to a new place, an we be driven from the old."
               "For my part," said the first speaker, who stood in the centre of a group of five or six—"for my part, I have not heard the mass since All-hollowsmas last."
               "Not since father Peter refused to assoil thee for pilfering."
               "Paugh! 'twas but a small matter of waste."
               "A leak in the wine butts—ha, ha! comrade, thou'rt a most droughty and unconscionable wine-bibber."
               "Hoagh, then! an it be an unpardonable sin to pilfer from the wine butts, master, methinks thy chance of salvation will be but small."
               "How show ye that?"
               "Why, between thee and Master Sewall, there hath been little else than pilfering and stealing for three years gone. Hark thee, man; I know more than thou wot'st of; for albeit London is somewhat of a journey hence, there be newsmongers enough to carry us tales of Madam Sewall's shopgoing, and costly dresses, and companies, that tallies but ill with her husband's limited wages. Marry, hath he not more oxen in his barn, and crowns in his purse, than his master? And there's Hollybrae, the best half of Sir Geoffrey's farm, now made over to him and his heirs forever; and there's Brookdale in possession of his brother-in-law, Luke Davidson, not to speak of but four horses in his stable, when five years gone he had well nigh a score; and then the fences all broken down, and the gates unhinged, and the deer park without an antler to grace it; and worse than all, the old gentleman himself can hardly come by a sixpence to share with the beggars. As for thyself, master, there be misgivings enough of thy honesty, too; so, gadzooks, an ye must speak of the sin of pilfering, tell thy story to some one less acquainted with thy misdeeds, and thy friend Sewall's, than Gannet Hippinwall."
               "Well, but an he abjures the pope," interposed a third one of the party, "what matters it if he had robbed his master of the last spoon in his sideboard? Dost not understand, a Papist hath no right to property under the new law? Ha, ha! Stinson hath been laying up like a wise man; ay, and no right but his own, either, seeing he hath long purposed to change his religion, and thus make himself the lawful owner."
               "And how came ye by that news, Master Hopperchops?" demanded Stinson, slightly vexed.
               "Why, thou hast already told me, man; and albeit 'twas in thy cups, yet no less true for that. Didst not often tell me as how thy wife, being a reformer, had learnt all the secrets of the new religion; and how the queen and her council were wiser than the pope and his cardinals, and that, in her religion, there were no fasts, nor pilgrimages, nor confessions, and one might drink and wench, and have his rights for his services, and so forth, without rendering up his accounts at Christmas and Easter?"
               "Ay, but these are all sins, nevertheless," said a tall fellow, thrusting his head over his neighbor's shoulder, "and must needs be accounted for one day or other."
               "True; but thou shouldst know they're only Protestant sins."
               "Marry, Protestant sins! ha, ha! and pray, what be they, man?"
               "O, mere trifles, which may be repented of at leisure. The new religion leaves thy conscience entirely to thine own management. Shouldst thou rob a church, or kill thy neighbor, or burn a house, or steal thy master's gold, why, thou'rt only to wait patiently for the grace of repentance, and give thyself no concern for thy soul's welfare, since thou canst not pray with aught of fruit, or repent, or do any other good work of thyself. God will make thee repent, an he like, and when he like; so thou'rt not to be anywise solicitous about thy sins. Now compare that with the old religion. Gad's me, master, didst thou but swear or curse once in a month, or drink an extra flagon, or laugh in the church, or steal the horns of a goat for a powder flask, or miss thy prayers of a morning, why, it was nothing but penance, and prayers, and fastings, and alms, and pilgrimages, and contritions, and restitutions, till one was nigh afraid to sip a dram from a claret glass, or borrow a bodkin from the housewife's store."
               "Ay, servants had small liberties in't," said the tall fellow, again shaking his head.
               "Hugh! when I was fool enough to be led by the old priest, here," continued Stinson, gathering confidence as he proceeded, "I had neither good luck or fortune, neither house or land, gold or silver; and now, since I gave up his masses and confessions, I have prospered beyond all credence."
               "Humph!" said Hippinwall; "but thy change of fortune is not hard to account for, methinks."
               
               "Ay, ay," laughed three or four voices, "it comes of his changing his ghostly father—the black gentleman for the gentleman in black—ha, ha!"
               "Peace, peace, my masters, and a truce with this foolish speech," said a servant, who had just entered the circle wiping a knife in his apron; "see, see, Reddy Connor overhears ye."
               At the mention of Reddy's name, every eye in the group turned in the direction of the door.
               Reddy, seeing the distrustful looks of his fellow-servants directed to him, moved carelessly away from the dark corner he had occupied behind the door, and advancing to the stairway, was about to follow Sir Geoffrey, when, stopping for a moment to replace the antlers of a stag which had fallen from the wall, he chanced to hear the steward conversing with a person in a little room close to where he stood.
               "In good sooth," said a trembling, husky voice, which Reddy instantly recognized as that of old Wattie Wabble, an aged and privileged mendicant, who had long frequented the hall—"in good sooth, Master Sewall, he must be mad at last, or his mind ill at ease, for he hath not thus passed me by without a nod or an awmous these twenty years."
               "Ay, verily, Wattie, he hath been ever a good friend to thee," replied Sewall.
               "May God reward him for't. Indeed, it was but Monday last he stole a new doublet from his wardrobe, when Reddy Connor had gone to Upton, and gave it me to wear on the Sundays and holidays."
               "Ah, poor, silly old man! it's thus he squandered his means, day after day, till he hath not left himself wherewith to pay his servants' wages, at last."
               "Marry, that's passing strange," said the mendicant, "for he hath a very goodly estate, and spends little for his bodily comforts; and, moreover, many of thy city friends speak much of thy great savings since thou camest hither."
               "Savings?"
               "Ay, verily, that thou'st laid by well nigh an half score bags of bright angels for our sweet little lady Alice, when she cometh to be married, two or three years hence."
               "Ah, hah! and how came this foolish report to thy ears, Wattie?"
               "Why, I'll tell thee, Master Sewall; young Sam Wabble, my nephew, that ust to delve in the flower garden here for Mistress Alice, hath gone up to London, to serve an apprenticeship with his mother's brother, Peter Fowravel, the cordwainer; and so Sammy was sent of a day to Mrs. Sewall's, thy wife, in Blinden Lane, with a message; an, marry, whilst he sat there waiting his errand, Master Luke Davidson, here of Brookdale, came in with a grand courtly gentleman, talking together of Mistress Alice's beauty and Sir Geoffrey's Papistry, and especially of the wealth of Brockton, with various other such things; so that I'll warrant it was Sam spread the report; and coming from thy brother-in-law, Master Sewall, thou'lt confess it savored somewhat of truth."
               "Ay, doubtless, it should seem to be of authority. But Sam might be mistaken in the man. Davidson seldom visits my wife in Blinden Lane."
               
               "Ah, gadzooks, and that reminds me of the tail of the story. What with his black dress an shaven crown, and priestly appearance, Sam swears right roundly he never could have found him out but for his voice."
               "Voices often deceive, nevertheless," observed Sewall.
               "Ay," answered Wattie, "and what puzzled him still more, the gentleman called him Master Millar, instead of Davidson."
               "Nonsense," replied Sewall, somewhat disconcerted at this unexpected discovery. "Sam was drunk, or dreaming, mayhap."
               "Nay, sir, Sam's no toper, nor dreamer either, but carries his wits about him as careful as any other apprentice in the city."
               "Well, well, hold thy peace, Wattie, and be not so foolish as to credit these tales. So away with thee, now; I've nothing to offer thee; shouldst thou see me to-morrow, mayhap I shall find thee an alms."
               "Give me but a sixpence," persisted Wattie, "to buy my evening pint pot and loaf, in the village."
               "Nay, man, my purse is empty, I tell thee. So away, away, and take that crowd of cripples at the door along with thee."
               "Hark ye, Master Sewall," said Wattie, raising up his head, which age and infirmity had sunk on his breast, and looking keenly into the steward's face. "Thou wert ever a hard-hearted man, albeit of most pious and saintly bearing; and when thy perfidy cometh to light, thou'lt hear of one Wattie Wabble, mayhap, who might have saved thee many a troubled hour, only thy hard-heartedness would suffer thee not to part with a sixpence to buy his good will."
               "Away, away, old croaker, and rid me of thy presence."
               "One who could have forewarned thee of danger," persisted Wattie, hobbling slowly off, "but, finding himself driven like a dog from Brockton, where he begged before thou wert born, feels no longer a scruple in telling the world of the net thou hast been weaving for thy simple old master, these five years past."
               "Begone, thou scurvy-tongued old villain," cried Sewall, pushing the beggar out by the shoulder.
               "An how thou hast made Davidson or Millar thy pointer, and Plympton thy hound, to hunt the old man into the net thou'st set for him. O Sewall, Sewall," he continued, as he passed out, "thou'rt a most unconscionable villain."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               WHEN Reddy, having threaded the various winding passages that led to the western tower, had come within view of the cellar door, he saw the knight leaning against it, speaking, in forced and earnest whispers, through the keyhole, to his daughter, whom he still supposed to be concealed within. He halted for an instant ere he approached the old man, to reflect how he should best break the news to him of Alice's escape, and excuse himself for not acquainting him of it sooner. As he stopped for this purpose, the knight's impatience began to manifest itself in louder accents, and finally in repeated knocks on the door. Reddy could even hear the sighs of the old man, as, after each knock and call, he turned his bald head to listen for the reply. At length, weary and disheartened, the knight sat down upon a bench near the door, and spreading his hands upon his knees, looked fixedly on the floor for a time, in sad and melancholy mood. Reddy now stepped up quietly to his side, and touching him gently on the shoulder, asked him why he sat there.
               Sir Geoffrey turned up his mild and sorrowful face for an instant, and then nodded towards the door.
               "She's not in," said he.
               "Who? Mistress Alice?"
               "Ay—for she cannot surely have fallen asleep— eh?"
               "No danger iv that, in the laste," replied Reddy.
               "'Twas but last night I left her," pursued the knight, musingly.
               "Av coorse it was."
               "The place is damp. I know that; yet there could be little danger of a —— of her a ——" He hesitated, as if ashamed, or afraid, to say what he thought.
               "Of what?" said Reddy.
               "Of her dying in the ——."
               "Dying, sir?"
               "Ay, in the damp, foul air," he replied, endeavoring to smile, himself, at the supposition, and yet anxiously eying Reddy all the while.
               "Begorra, that's not bad," said the latter, "and her gone since midnight. Sure, sir, she niver was there at all at all."
               "Never was there! gone since midnight!" repeated Sir Geoffrey, gulping the words.
               "Faith is she, sir, and half way to London by this time."
               The knight rose up, and leaning his trembling hand on Reddy's shoulder, gazed at him in speechless apprehension.
               "Listen to me, Reddy," he ejaculated, at length, in a low, husky voice; for fear had already palsied his tongue and parched his lips—"listen to me, and be not afraid. I will harm thee not. But tell me truly, is she—is she lost?"
               "Lost, sir!"
               "Ay, speak the truth, or I'll curse thee; speak or I'll strangle thee," he muttered, and caught Reddy by the throat.
               
               "Who?"
               "Alice. Has he taken her away?"
               "Plimpton?"
               The knight nodded.
               "Well, upon my conscience, now," replied Reddy, looking at his master in feigned astonishment, "it's worse yer gettin'; why, yer losin' yer mimory intirely, intirely, Sir Geoffrey—begorra, if ye forget so soon as that, I'm afeered my trouble's only beginnin' with ye."
               "Forget what, sir?"
               "Why, didn't I tell ye, this mornin', that Mistress Alice and Nell Gower had gone to a place near London, till this Plimpton leaves the counthry?"
               "Never, sir; it's a prodigious falsehood," cried the knight; "thou hast never told me a word on't."
               "Ough! yer not sarious, Sir Geoffrey."
               "Not a syllable of it, sir."
               "Well, look here now. May I never see——"
               "Stop, sir; I shall hear no swearing on the subject."
               "O, thin, by all the ——"
               "Peace, knave, I tell thee, or I'll smite thine ears off."
               "Well, begorra, have it yer own way. I can't help ye," replied Reddy, submitting like an injured man to the imputation. "But she's gone, any way, and expects ye'll follow her as soon as convaynient."
               "Reddy," said the old man, loosing his hold, "take care thou deceivest me not in this, or thou'lt never deceive me again;" and the low, impassioned voice in which he spoke, so different from his usual tone, showed how deeply he was affected.
               "God knows I wudn't desave ye in a matter so near the heart as that for the world," responded Reddy, with a feeling of real pity, for his child-sick and sorrowing master; "and as to Mistress Alice herself, faith, it went hard enough on her to lave ye without as much as a word or a blissin'; but Nell an herself thought it best to go unknownst to ye." And so he went on faithfully to relate all that had occurred, not omitting the directions Nell Gower had left for him on her departure.
               "I never thought she would have thus forsaken me," muttered Sir Geoffrey, when Reddy had done speaking. "I left her but a few hours, to secure some pictures and books I prized, intending to return and put the house in a state of defence against the coming danger; and, alas! she hath fled and left me alone. O dear! O dear!" he added, sitting down again slowly on the bench, and spreading his hands upon his knees, "what shall I do now?"
               "Follow her," replied Reddy, "av coorse—what else wid ye do?"
               "There's no one left here to defend the place for," pursued the knight, not noticing Reddy's suggestion; "my only child hath abandoned me—the last lone tie that bound me to life—the solitary flower that I so fondly cherished, and hoped to see smiling along my pathway to the grave. O dear! O dear! how hard this is for an old man to bear!"
               "Orrah! don't talk that way, master," said Reddy, beginning himself to participate in the weakness. "Sure ye've no raison in the world to be vexed, seein' she's safe and sure with her good friend Nell Gower."
               
               "I'm old now," murmured Sir Geoffrey, "and my heart is dark and desolate, for the only ray of light that used to shine on it is gone. I suppose thou'lt leave me too, Reddy," he added, looking up and smiling sadly in his servant's face.
               Reddy turned away a step or two, and drawing the sleeve of his doublet across his face, replied, in three very short and easily spoken monosyllables, "Not yet, sir."
               "And why not?" demanded the knight.
               "Hem! hem! O, thriflin' raisons av me own."
               "The place will be sequestrated mayhap, and so thou'lt be driven out with the rest of us, Reddy."
               "Well, sure it's not the first time that same happened to me."
               "I have but little gold to give thee, Reddy, in requital of thy services, though people think me rich. Marry, I know not if I have enough to pay thy wages. Indeed, I suppose it's a great shame that I should have to say so."
               "Divil a doubt o' that," responded Reddy.
               "And what art thou to do then?"
               "Faith, I'll stick to ye like a boor till I'm paid; what the deuce else wud I do?"
               "Very good," replied Sir Geoffrey; "we shall see Sewall presently, and make the necessary settlements with thee and the rest of my servants, in value at least, if not in coin. So that all may be arranged before the time comes, for verily I would grieve to see any injury befall ye."
               "What time d'ye mane, sir."
               "Before the seizure of the place, an it must be so," replied Sir Geoffrey, "for I'll neither fly nor take the oath."
               "Upon my conscience yell do one o' thim at laste," said Reddy, confidently.
               "Don't be so positive, Reddy."
               "Well, am blissed if ye don't."
               "What, quit the place, eh?"
               "The very thing, sir; ye'll come with me and see yer daughter; that's if ye don't want to break her heart out and out."
               "Nay," responded the old man, rising up, "I have no daughter to see. I had one once, but she renounced me; so I'll even stay here, where, I have lived so long, and die like an old forest tree, unknown and neglected, on the soil that bore it." And waving his hand to signify the inutility of further attempts at dissuasion, he picked up his cane, and hobbled off to the library, followed by Reddy Connor.
               As Sir Geoffrey passed the little oratory, in which lay entombed the remains of Lady Wentworth and the Abbot of Allanbury, he could not resist the old habit of offering his daily prayer over the relics of the dead, and opening the door noiselessly, he took off his hat and passed in. Hardly had he entered, however, when he suddenly drew back in astonishment at seeing a human form kneeling in prayer at his wife's grave.
               "Look! who can that be?" said he, pointing out the object to Reddy.
               "It might be father Peter, sir," replied the latter at a venture.
               "Nay, father Peter hath a short, brown beard, and his is long and gray; that man seemeth much older. But see, he rises, and approaches the secret entrance to the chapel! Ha! he hath found the mysterious spring. Ho, there, stranger!" at length cried the knight in a loud voice; "who art thou, and how comest thou to visit this chapel?"
               The stranger turned slowly round, and presented to the spectators a noble and commanding figure, clothed in pilgrim's garb. His height was beyond six feet; a long, white beard swept the breast of his gray gabardine, and he held a tall oak sapling in his hand.
               "How comest thou to know the secrets of this chapel?" repeated Sir Geoffrey, walking ciose up to the stranger; "and why dost kneel at that grave?"
               "To pray for the soul of Annie Howard, whose bones lie buried there."
               "Ah, didst know her?"
               "Ay, long ere thou first saw her face."
               "And how know'st thou she lies interred here?"
               "I saw her laid in that grave, and heard the first shovel full of earth fall on her coffin."
               "Ah!"
               "And ere the echo which followed it died away, I shook hands with thee, and passed through that secret door, and have not entered since till within the hour."
               "God bless me!" exclaimed Sir Geoffrey, letting his cane fall, and clasping his hands in astonishment —"God bless me, man—eh!—thou must be Lord Henry ——"
               "Hush!" said the stranger, interrupting the knight, and pointing to Reddy Connor, who stood wondering at a distance.
               "O, I'll go, by all manner iv manes," said Reddy promptly; and turning, he passed out and closed the door behind him.
               Here we must leave the old friends together to talk over the various reverses of fortune they had experienced since they met there last, and remind the reader that it was subsequent to this secret and melancholy meeting, after a separation of twenty years, the pilgrim again suddenly appeared as the Gaberlunzie, in the cell of Whinstone Hollow.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               REDDY, having left Sir Geoffrey and the pilgrim in the oratory, hastened to ascertain what had become of Sergeant Houghton, and whether the servants had fulfilled their promise of strict watch over him till his return. On quitting the hall that morning in the trooper's habiliments, he had some fears of his safe custody, particularly since Houghton had himself betrayed an acquaintance with Sewall during the conversation at the abbey. The steward was a man whom Reddy always disliked, and disliked the more because he tried every possible means to win his confidence, in view of retaining that of Sir Geoffrey through him. He was a sordid, unprincipled fellow, whose sole object was gain, without the slightest scruple as to the where or the how he obtained it. Without honor or conscience, he hesitated not to take advantage of the simplicity of his master, to impose on his credulity, and to enrich himself at his expense. He was always a regular attendant at the confessional and the altar when the priest visited the house, and took good care to sustain the reputation he had acquired for piety, by a meek and humble exterior, when in Sir Geoffrey's presence, or in the company of those whose good opinion was likely to benefit him. His bearing and gait, too, were more like those of an ecclesiastic than a man who had business with the world; his countenance modest and demure, and his words few and respectful, even to a fault. Reddy had often remonstrated with Sir Geoffrey on the danger of leaving the management of his property and his income entirely to this man. He pointed out to him various instances where his conduct of certain affairs had laid him open to grave suspicion. His large and valuable farm, for instance, which had become of late years twice as productive as his master's; his stock of horned cattle, the talk of the whole district; then the extraordinary expense he must have incurred in maintaining his wife and family in the metropolis during a considerable portion of the year. In the management of his master's more domestic affairs there was much to find fault with also. His horses were suffered to grow old and useless, Pepin being the only one that seemed to be cared for, because he was Mistress Alice's favorite; the fences were suffered to tumble down, and the stones to lie scattered here and there through the fields; the grass to rot uncut in the parks; the weeds to overspread the avenues, with the single exception of that before the house, because it lay immediately under his master's eye; the gates, too, had rotted from their hinges, and lay moss-grown on the roadside; the windows of several rooms in the upper story of the house were broken, and the rain had found its way in and rotted the floors. Then the paintings and the tapestries were neglected, and falling in pieces from the damp walls; all, forsooth, because no visitors came to the hall, and fires were expensive. The plate, too, was missing, of late, in a most unaccountable manner; and occasional hints thrown out by the steward's city acquaintances that Mrs. Sewall's table was grander than could be honestly accounted for. Often and often did Reddy bring these matters under Sir Geoffrey's consideration, and implore of him to interrupt his studies for a while, in order to examine into the state of his affairs. But it was to no purpose. Sir Geoffrey never could find leisure; and, besides, Sewall was in his opinion a pious, God-fearing man; for he was punctual at his religious exercises, carried a large prayer book covered with calf-skin, and was never known to swear or drink wine; walked at a measured pace, and wore his clothes well brushed and neatly put on. He was therefore strictly honest—a man like him could not possibly be otherwise; and so poor Sir Geoffrey felt quite at his ease.
               Reddy, on his return from the chapel, took occasion to ask several of the servants, as he happened to meet them, if Sergeant Houghton were still in confinement, and whether any thing unusual had taken place during his absence. But they only shook their heads, and passed on, with their eyes cast down, as if they feared to look up in his face.
               At last he reached the room in which he had left the trooper in charge of his fellow-servants, and found it open and empty, as he had anticipated. The bowstrings by which he bound the pursuivant lay cut in pieces about the floor, and one of the windows of the room was broken.
               "He's gone," said Reddy, looking round him, and scratching his curly head in extreme perplexity. "He's gone, 'ithout doubt; and what's to be done now? He'll be back again before he sleeps, with a party o' robbers from the village, and then all's over. O, murdher, murdher! to think av thim blackguards below desartin' the ould man when they saw the amplish he was in; to hear them spakin' so could iv him, jist for all the world as if he'd been an ould blind spaniel, fit for nothin' but hangin' or drownin' after they tuk their turn out iv him. And for Mistress Alice, the crathur, always so good to them, her that ust to bring them out so often in the summer evenins, and play for them on the virginals while they'd dance and sing on the green—O, to think av their spakin' of her jist as if God had niver put hearts in their bodies at all at all. But shure she's his own angel, any way, who'll niver let her come to shame or harm. O Reddy, Reddy, it's not here ye ought to be, an her wanderin' away, may be, in a could, strange world, jist all as one as a young bird driven from its nest afore it's able to fly. O, then it's myself that id like to be keepin' my hand in practice with that Plimpton, the bloody Sassenagh. Och, murdher, for one welt at him with my trusty blackthorn that I once cracked many a hard sconce with in sweet Tyrconnell. And as to them sarvints, bad luck to them for bastes; they're nothin' but Turks and haythens, ivery mother's sowl o' them, from the steward down to the swineherd. An in regard to dacency or gratitude, faith, it's little throuble it gives them; divil a taste of it iver they felt, the dirty dogs. Humph, ay, and they ust to be great voteens too, an mighty religious, entirely, when the priest id come. Religious gious, O, begorra! the man that id trust to their religion desarves the madhouse. The lazy, beef-eatin', beer-drinkin', big-bellied Sassenaghs. Upon my conscience, they'd make the finest Turks in the world, by reason av the eatin' an drinkin' they'd expect in paradise. Now, here's half a dozen pimple-faced, red-nosed fellows below, that the smell av mate afther two days' fastin' id make forswear the pope, if they wur shure of bein' hung two hours after they got their bellies full. O, begorra, mate, ivery day in the week's a mighty strong argument against Popery in this country. Bedad, if they had the same to expect in the country above, it's little throuble they'd have. Bad scran to me, but I often thought these reformers made a great mistake in that respect. Now, had they only said, hould on to the Scriptures by all manes; but no more fastin', nor penance, nor confession here in this world, and in the nixt ye'll have lashins iv mate, dhrink, washin' and lodgin', and nothin' to do. Begorra, they'd have no difficulty at all at all. Och hoch, give me ould Ireland still; the darlint that niver did the mane thing—niver sould her faith to fill her belly. They're drivin at her these ten years hammer and tongs, with the mate in the one hand and the sword in the other; and she still laughs at them for their pains. O, faith, the pure stuff's in her to the back bone; the stuff that made the saints long ago. She'll niver desart her colors, niver, begorra; I'll lay my life on't. The ould faith's too dear to her—it's too deep rooted down in her sowl to barter it for beef, beer, and Bibles. Arrah, cushlamachree!" he cried, rubbing his hands as he paced the room to and fro; "but it's myself id like to feel the heather iv yer hills under my foot once more, if I cud only lave my poor ould master. But no, no; I darn't do that; no, no, I'd be ashamed to tread the ould sod and look up at the blessed sun, whilst the thought kept tugging at my heart that I abandoned my master in his sorrows. Orra, wurrah, wurrah, then; but it's little comfort I had since I left ye,—dhramin' av ye night an day, and thinkin' iv ye often, may be, at my prayers, when I ought to be mindin' my sowl; but it's natural to us some way, I suppose, that wherever we wander the good ould memories id haunt us still. Ochone, ochone, if my poor master but lived in Ireland, it's little fear he'd have of the queen's pursuivants, and little danger he'd run of his sarvints desartin' him."
               "Thou seemest somewhat troubled in mind, my friend," said a voice immediately behind him.
               Reddy instantly turned, and found himself, in presence of Sewall, the steward.
               "Ho, ho! it's yerself's in it," said Reddy. "Arrah, then might I be so bowld as to ax ye where's the trooper gone?"
               "Verily, I know not," replied Sewall, in the drawling tone of a canting preacher. "I had just come to offer him some refreshments, and lo! he's not here."
               "Ye'd wish td be kind to him, I suppose, for ould acquaintance sake."
               "Nay, I know not the man."
               "Arrah, be aisy now, and don't be tryin' to come over me with yer ould tricks. Jist tell me at onct why ye let him go, and where he went to."
               
               "I assure thee, most truly, I know nothing of the man."
               "I see yer finger's cut, Master Sewall; how comes that? and the windy here broke at the same time, and all since I left ye this mornin'."
               "Can it be possible thou suspectest me of liberating this man?" said the steward, looking up mildly in Reddy's face.
               "In troth, thin, I do, Master Sewall, jist suspect ye for that same."
               "I grieve to think thou couldst form so poor an opinion of me," observed Sewall, with a serene and placid countenance.
               "Look here," cried Reddy, laying hold of the fellow by the breast of his doublet as he turned to quit the room. "Ye expect this Houghton here this evenin' with a party to take possession of the place, under authority of the queen's warrint, don't ye? An ye know the sarvints will be more bent on securin' their own plundher than defendin' their master's property; so that ye'll have nothin' to prevent ye carryin' out yer damnable scheme, eh?"
               "Scheme! what scheme?" demanded Sewall.
               "O, ye'd like to know, wud ye? Well, wait, I'll tell ye. Ye've been robbin' Sir Geoffrey these five years, day after day; ye wurn't content with chatin' him out o' the Hollybrae Farm, but ye chated him out o' Brookdale too, for yer brother-in-law, Luke Davidson, that ye keep in London all the time plottin' and schemin' with yer heretic wife. Ye've conveyed away, time afther time, the horses from the stable, the oxen from the stalls, the furniture from the house, and the very tankards from the table. Ye haven't left the ould man a single silver goblet to drink his canary out iv; nor sixpence in his purse to share with the poor beggars that come to seek their weekly alms. An now that ye've nothin' more to gain, ye open the house to this trooper an his followers, to rob and plundher the little that's left, so that the wreck an ruin they lave behind may cover the proofs iv yer damnable villainy."
               "I swear to thee, Master Reddy, I'm entirely guiltless of the charge," responded the steward, with the patient look and smile of an injured man on his smooth face.
               "Ye needn't smile at me that way," said Reddy; "it's iv no use, for I know ye. If the divil in hell lent ye that smile to desaive Sir Geoffrey, be content with the use ye've made of it, an don't try it on me. As for yer swearin', ye hypocrite, I wudn't give a thraneen for yer oath."
               "Verily, thy language is offensive, Master Connor. I can remain no longer to bandy words with thee. Pray let me go."
               "Answer me this, ye villain," cried Reddy, at last enraged at the fellow's imperturbable calmness of voice and feature, and inserting his fingers in his neckerchief he dragged him back from the door; "wurn't ye afeard Sir Geoffrey id soon call ye to an account iv yer doins, and knowin' yer villany wud shurely be discovered, didn't ye cirkilate the report through London, that yer master had been livin' like an ankerite, and savin' money for the last five and twenty years, till his coffers were full of goold, an all to induce some scoundrel, like Sir Thomas Plimpton, to come here with the test oath; eh? ye dog! an on Sir Geoffrey's refusal, to take possession of the property, and thus cloak yer pilferin' an plunderin' from the world. Spake, acknowledge it, ye hypocrite, or I'll tear ye in inches."
               "Unhand me," muttered Sewall, "unhand me; I shall explain." But as the false-hearted wretch uttered the words, his right hand sought his breast, and was in the act of drawing a poniard from beneath his jerkin, when Reddy, suspecting his intention, grasped him by the arm, and held it like a vice.
               "Scoundrel! wud ye stab me in could blood?" he cried, looking close into his face. "Haven't ye a dacent feelin' at all in ye?"
               "Nay, I thought but to defend myself," gasped the steward.
               "What! so pious a man carry such a weapon concealed in his breast!"
               "I did but threaten," replied Sewall, trembling in every limb. "Thou knowest I love not blood, and thine least of all."
               "Traitor, ye desarve to die," cried Reddy, twisting his neckcloth still tighter, and chucking him under the jaw as he would a snarling cur.
               "Mercy, mercy!" groaned the steward; "I'm not prepared to meet judgment. O, spare me, spare me, and I shall quit the place instantly."
               "Spare ye, dog? an how did ye spare yer master? O, fiend iv hell," he continued, "yer robbery of that poor, innocent, good ould man will damn ye yet, as shure as there's an ever-just God above ye. Yer sin is cryin' to Reavert for vengeance, and will cry forever; for it's the sin that can niver be forgiven in this world or in the world to come. But I'll not have yer dirty blood in my hands; no, no, ye mane, low-sowld wretch, ye don't desarve to die by an honest man's hands: go, go away to the rest of the traitors below there, an herd with them till yer associate, Houghton, comes back again with his reënforcement of apostates and renegades. Away, ye base, low, cowardly, dastardly villain. Away." And raising him in his powerful arms, as he would a child, he dashed him against the wall with such violence that the unfortunate wretch fell back stunned and senseless on the floor.
               For an instant, Reddy seemed to regret the violence he had used, and waited to see if Sewall were likely to recover without the aid of restoratives; but perceiving, after the lapse of a minute or so, he began to show signs of life, quitted the room, and made his way into the library, in quest of Sir Geoffrey.
               When he reached that apartment, the knight was standing in front of a book shelf, on which were ranged a number of large volumes, bound with untanned calf skin and occupied in looking over the precious collection, lest any had been taken away during his absence. At length, having apparently satisfied himself that all were safe as he had left them, he turned slowly round, and saw Reddy behind him, leaning in a melancholy attitude against the door.
               
               "What troubleth thee now, Reddy," said the knight, approaching him, "that thou lookest so sad?"
               "Why, indeed, thin I'm jist thinkin', Sir Geoffrey, that ye'll have to quit the place," replied Reddy.
               "What! abandon Brockton?"
               "Well, yis, to be sure, av coorse," assented Reddy, hardly knowing what he said, in the confusion of mind which the anticipation of Sir Geoffrey's, approaching trial had caused him. "Yer not the first that the fear of persecution forced to leave home, I suppose."
               "No," said the knight, "I'm not the first; but what of that? Those thou alludest to had friends or relatives to fly to, or some one to live for—sons mayhap, or a—or—hem!"
               "Daughters," added Reddy.
               "Ay, or daughters—loving daughters I mean— who would cling to them, and cherish them in their old age. Ah, that indeed would be something to live for! Would it not, Reddy?"
               "Sartinly," replied Reddy; "an haven't ye yerself the most lovin', an beautiful, an kindest-hearted child in the whole world?"
               "Truly," replied the old man, sitting down on his easy chair, and unconsciously opening a book that lay on the table, "I had one; but she hath forsaken me."
               "Forsaken ye?"
               "Ay, without leaving a word or a line that I could think of, or look at, in her absence."
               "Don't say that, Sir Geoffrey; it's a mortal sin to say that of Mistress Alice."
               "Nay, hath she not deserted me?"
               "O, God pardon ye for that thought!" exclaimed Reddy.
               "And where is she, then?" said the knight; as if the fact of her being away from his sight was a proof of her abandoning him forever.
               "She's safe an sound with Nell Gower, at Whinstone Hollow, where ye ought to be yerself, an where she'll be brackin' her heart expectin' ye."
               "Ay, ay, so the pilgrim saith, whom thou hast just seen in the chapel. And, indeed, I foolishly pledged him my word to go see her once more; but since I searched her room and found nothing there, not even one word or a bit of paper, as a token of her loving remembrance, I changed my mind."
               "O master, master, don't speak so could of her, that way, or ye'll kill me entirely."
               "Why, Reddy, suppose she don't want to have any thing more to do with me, and that's the reason she left me as she did."
               "I'll tell ye what it is, Sir Geoffrey, and there's no use in palaverin' about it," said Reddy, walking up and down the room in a resolute manner; "ye'll have to lave the place afore daylight the morrow."
               "Ay, faith, have to leave it! Gramercy for thy haves and thy shalls. Thou speakrest to me with as much boldness, as if thou wert my master. And pray who shall compel me to leave it?"
               "The queen's pursuivants."
               "What! didst not tell me thou hadst carried the party off, and left the leader a prisoner in the cellar?"
               "He was a prisoner when I came away; but he's gone now, an he'll surely return afore twelve o'clock the morrow with another party at his back. So the sooner we lave the better; that's if ye don't wish to have the test oath proposed. If ye wait till they come, ye'll have yer choice iv swearin' to the queen's shupremacy or goin' a prisoner to London."
               "I'll do neither," replied Sir Geoffrey.
               "What else will ye do?"
               "I'll summon the servants, and defend the house," cried the knight resolutely, pitching the book on the table.
               "Ough! bad scram to the sarvint ye have to raise a finger for ye."
               "What, afraid to take arms?"
               "No, but unwillin'. In one word, Sir Geoffrey, (an upon my conscience, though they're Englishmen itself, am a'most ashamed to say it,) they've deserted ye, ivery man i' them, when they saw the throuble comin' acrass yer doore."
               "O dear me, Reddy, thou'rt not serious; all my own servants desert me?"
               "It's the truth I'm tellin' ye," replied Reddy; "ye can't depend on one i' them."
               "What, abandon me to the fury of these merciless troopers? I'll not believe it, sir; I say I'll not believe a word of it."
               "Bedad, I heard them with my own ears."
               "Heard them?"
               "Ay, faith; heard them plottin' with one another about how they'd run away, an turn Protestants, an get sarvice in great houses where they'd have good eatin' an drinkin' ivery day i' the week, an no more confessions, nor fastin's, nor penances, nor pilgrimages, to bother them."
               "Reddy, this is but a scheme of thine to induce me to leave Brockton: confess it is; acknowledge it now, thou villain, and I'll forgive thee."
               "Bad cess to me, Sir Geoffrey, if there's a word lie in it. An shure I heard them whisperin' to one another how they'd take the value i' their wages with them, an how they deserved to have their earnin's first and foremost out i' the rack that was comin' on the place."
               "But Sewall, the steward, surely he——"
               "O, the Judas, the Judas!" interrupted Reddy; "if there's a warm corner in hell, that fellow'll have it."
               "Dear me, Reddy; thou art certainly mistaken."
               "Mistaken?"
               "Ay, truly; Sewall was ever a pious, God-fearing man, and a most careful servant."
               "He was a damnable hypocrite, sir; that's what he was."
               "Hold thy peace, knave; I cannot listen to this vile slander."
               "O, murdher, murdher! what's this?" cried Reddy, scratching his head, and striding through the room in a fit of vexation at his Master's undiminished confidence in the man whom he had so often warned him against. "Listen to me, sir; will ye listen to me for a minit, Sir Geoffrey?"
               "No, sir; I shan't listen to thee belying my steward, sir; it's against my principles and my conscience, sir."
               
               "Sir Geoffrey, will ye sit down in that chair and hearken to me?" said Reddy, suddenly lowering his voice, as if he saw the inutility of loud words, and would now try to convince him by other arguments.
               "Well, sir, proceed," said the knight, sitting down; "what wouldst thou say?"
               "Two months afore I came to live with ye, Sir Geoffrey, yer ould steward, Matthew Carewell, who was born an bred on the estate, an his father afore him, died."
               "Well, very well, sir."
               "Yer income, that time, in clear cash, amounted to three thousand three hundred and forty-eight pounds, six shillin's and sixpence of the present coinage; didn't it?"
               "Somewhere about that," replied Sir Geoffrey; "I'm not particularly sure as to the odd shillings and pence."
               "Divil a doubt i' that, any way; an if ye'd say the thousands too, ye'd be nearer the truth, am thinkin'. Well, ye had the round sum of ten thousand pounds laid by, at that time, accordin' to Matthew Carewell's accounts."
               "Exactly," replied Sir Geoffrey; "just ten thousand pounds; but thoul't remember most of that was of base coinage, which hath been called in by Elizabeth during the last five years."
               "And pray, Sir Geoffrey, how much did ye lose on it?"
               "Eh? lose on it? why—hem—let's see——"
               "Never mind, sir; in round numbers, have ye lost the third?"
               "The third? Well, upon my life, now, I don't exactly remember."
               "No, ye don't jist remember the exact sum—the odd shillin's and pence, ye know—av coorse not. But we'll let that all go for nothin'. An now, will ye be plased to tell me how much Master Sewall has saved these five years, out of an income of three thousand odd pounds, deductin' one thousand for fishes, bumbees, beetles, grasshoppers, alms, instruments, books, cethera in cethera?"
               "Well, indeed," replied Sir Geoffrey, stroking down his gray hair, and glancing timidly at his questioner, "I cannot tell thee at present, Reddy, with any degree of certainty."
               "An can ye tell me how many horses ye have in yer stable, or stock in yer farms? can ye tell me whether yer in debt or out av debt? can ye tell how yer accounts stan? can ye tell me any thing at all at all?"
               "My memory's not so good as it used to be about these things," replied the old man, looking down and fingering the lower button of his jerkin.
               "Ye know no more about yer affairs nor the child unborn," said Reddy, looking compassionately on the mild face of his old master. "God help ye, it's little business ye have in this world."
               "Indeed, I suppose it's a great shame for me," replied the knight. "But with such a steward as Sewall, I feel perfectly secure. I wonder that he don't come to offer me some refreshment after my journey," he added, "for truly I feel somewhat hungry. Take the whistle there on the desk, Reddy, and call him."
               Reddy searched for the whistle, but it was not to be found.
               
               "That's strange," said the knight, rising and looking about for it himself; "I never once missed it from that spot these twenty years and more."
               "It was goold, an iv some value," observed Reddy.
               "Ay, it cost my grandfather threescore guineas; a fine old family relic. But go down, Reddy, and send up Sewall; I would speak with him a moment."
               Reddy promptly obeyed the order, but returned, after a short absence, to inform Sir Geoffrey that neither Sewall nor any other of the servants was in the house.
               "Dear me," said the old man; "where can they be? surely I saw them at the door when I reached home this morning. Come, Reddy, lend me thine arm; we shall go down and seek them."
               When they entered the servants' hall, arm in arm, Sir Geoffrey stopped and looked about him for an instant without speaking a word. "This place seemeth lonely and deserted, methinks," he muttered at length. "Hem! there's a look of desertion about it which I know not how to account for. When last I came down here, my servants received me like a monarch; now there's none to bid me welcome."
               "It's the fate of many a Catholic gentleman, these times," replied Reddy; "deserted by them that ought to be nearer and dearer to them than sarvints."
               "True," said the knight; "and yet, Reddy, I endeavored to be very kind to my dependants."
               "Well, an sure, sir, yer goodness is not lost; if men don't reward ye, God will."
               "O, indeed, Reddy, I don't know that. I'm sometimes times afraid, if I were kindly disposed, it sprung rather, mayhap, from inclination than grace."
               "Begorra, sir, that's the way with ye always; ye niver give yerself credit for any thing."
               "Moreover," continued the knight, "now that my daughter hath left me, and age bent me towards the grave, and the thoughts of death beginning to come nearer and nearer to me day after day, why, I think I feel somewhat uneasy about those flies and fishes— a sort of scruple," he added, looking timidly up at Reddy.
               "The flies and fishes," repeated Reddy, casting down his eyes as if he felt a sort of delicacy in being referred to just then on the subject; or perhaps suspected his master had got some new idea about them in his head.
               "Ay, they have cost me many a long night's study."
               "Av coorse they did, sir."
               "When I should have been better employed, mayhap. Upon my word, Reddy, my mind is not so satisfied about these things as it used to be, since I saw that monk in the abbey beyond there. My theories respecting the constitution of insects don't seem so useful, altogether, as they did before. Besides, Reddy, thou hast often expressed some doubts about it thyself."
               "About the flies, ye mane; O, well, av coorse I did, sir. But here—ye know," stammered Reddy, not knowing well how to avoid wounding the old man's sensibility, "ye had always yer own opinions about thim, an I had mine, yer honor; only ye were backed by the priest, an av coorse had no check on yer conscience in regard iv it. But any way, Sir Geoffrey, this is no time to spake of sich things. Let's see if we can't get some refreshment for ye, afther the fatigue ye suffered all day;" and requesting his master's company, he gave him his arm, and proceeded to the steward's room, where he left him alone for a few minutes, whilst he hastened to consult the buttery and cellar.
               The knight seated himself before the steward's desk, and began to look over the various articles lying on it, when his eye happened to fall on the name of Sir Thomas Plimpton, written in the steward's handwriting on a bit of paper that seemed to be a fragment of a letter. On examining this fragment closely, he found it was addressed to Plimpton, dated some few days back, and had the word "private" written in large characters on the corner. Sir Geoffrey turned it up and down every way, to make sure of it's being Sewall's writing; and then, as the matter seemed no longer to admit of a doubt, leaned back in the chair, and looked up at the ceiling, full of sad and bitter reflections.
               In this attitude he remained for nearly half an hour, endeavoring to reconcile his former good opinion of Sewall with the fact of this unexpected and mysterious correspondence. He tried to discover some possible way to account for the letter without prejudice to the writer's hitherto honest and trustworthy character; but he could find none. Wearied at length by such perplexing thoughts, and impatient of Reddy's delay in bringing him the refreshment he so much needed, he rose suddenly, and left the room, with the determination of visiting the servants' apartments, and of placing the fact of his desertion beyond all further speculation.
               The first room he entered was the kitchen. "Hoa, there, Mrs. A., Mrs. Cook! art thou within?" he cried, knocking on a table with the head of his cane; "hoa! there," he continued, repeating the knock on a door that opened into another apartment. "Is there none to answer? God bless me! there, the fire is out on the hearth, the doors all wide open, and the rain running over the floor. Dear me; when I came down here last year, to see the dead beggar whom they carried in from the wayside, the place was full of willing hands and happy faces; now it's like the abode of pestilence—every one hath run away from it."
               "Quitting the kitchen, he proceeded to the servants' chambers along the passage leading to the buttery; but though he called and knocked on the doors, and finally examined their beds, not one was to be found; even their garments were no longer to be seen hanging from the hooks about the room, nor their trunks and boxes arranged as usual along the walls.
               "Dear me!" muttered the old man, hobbling out from the last room, and looking alternately to both ends of the corridor, "I fear me there must be something wrong. God forgive me if I did aught to drive them away. I don't remember if I did. I didn't intend it. Hoa, there! Sewall, Riddle, Stinson, come out from your hiding-places. Come! an ye drank too much in my absence, why, I'll forgive ye. Be not ashamed—I'll pardon ye right willingly. No answer—no answer. O dear me; how silent are these passages! My own voice almost frightens me. And Reddy, where is he gone? Hoa, Reddy! what detaineth thee, man? Haste thee, haste thee; for I fain would have a sup of wine and a morsel of bread, to support me against the weakness I feel coming about my heart. Why dost not speak, man?" And thus ejaculating, he made his way to the buttery, and threw open the door. The place was empty. "Not a living thing to be seen or heard," he muttered, shaking his head; "not even the scratching of a mouse behind the shelves. Dear me; how deserted I begin to feel! not a cat to mew, nor a dog to wag his tail in acknowledgment of my acquaintance. I'm like the last man of the human race, when all the rest are dead and gone. And Reddy, too, hath abandoned me; O dear, O dear."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               THE bitter thoughts in which the knight indulged grew more and more painful, as minute after minute passed without any sign of Reddy's return. The shadows of night, too, began to fall across the low and narrow windows, bringing with them still deeper gloom round the sinking heart of the old recluse.
               "O my God," he murmured at length, leaning on his cane, as he slowly knelt down on the flags of the deserted corridor, and took off his hat in lowly reverence, "I humble myself before thy everlasting justice. I acknowledge myself a sinner in thy sight. I know I have not loved thee as I ought. I fear me I have suffered my theories to interpose between thee and me; but I will do so no more; I will renounce them all if thou'lt not abandon me. My child hath forsaken me, and my servants have fled away as from a leper; even the one I trusted most of all is gone, and I'm left here alone, a very miserable, desolate old man. But if thou'lt help me, I shall be strong. Grant me but strength to reach my daughter's side; give me but to see her round my dying bed, to touch her hand, to kiss her once pure and loving lips before I die, and I promise thee I shall never touch a beetle or a butterfly again. That is, I mean," (correcting himself quickly,) "after I shall have completed the collection, and finished the theory on bronchial respiration ration. The work is nearly done, and I know thou wilt not be jealous with me for devoting a few days' study to its completion. I need not say a word more on the subject, not a word, for thou knowest my heart, and how strictly I have ever observed my promises. So I am content to sacrifice my collections, and resign all my books; that is, always excepting the four great fathers, with Origen and Tertullian thrown in, for reference; and Brockton too—though it goeth to my heart to part with the old place—on consideration of being once more restored to Alice. So God be praised for having vouchsafed me courage to make the sacrifice." And thus concluding, the knight with great difficulty was endeavoring to regain his feet, when Reddy, who was standing for some time behind him at the corner of a narrow passage, took his arm, and assisted him to rise.
               "Ha," said the knight, looking up in Reddy's face, as the latter lifted him on his feet, "I concluded thou hadst gone also."
               "Where to, sir?"
               "Why, hem!—hem! abandoned me, like the rest."
               "Shure, I tould ye I wudn't go till ye'd pay me my wages."
               "And then—what then?"
               "O, lave immediately, to be shure; why not?"
               "Very well—certainly—thou'st a perfect right to leave if thou pleasest," assented Sir Geoffrey, thrusting his hand into his pocket and drawing out his purse. "I would not have thee remain against thy will for the world. Here, take this for the present," he added, handing the wallet to Reddy with all the liberality of a prince. "When we meet again I shall give thee more. So God be with thee, Reddy, and grant thee comfort in thy old days, for all the kindness thou hast done to me."
               "Begorra, master, it's mighty quare if ye'd be afther pittin' me off with that trifle," said Reddy, turning out the few shillings the purse contained, and holding them up in the palm of his hand.
               "Dear me," said the knight, "is that all?"
               "Bedad, it's no wonder ye'd say it. Bad scran to me if it i'd buy soles for my shoes atween here and Tyrconnell."
               "Well, thou must have value then; go in there to the buttery, and take what thou pleasest."
               "There's nothin' there," replied Reddy, shaking his head.
               "The silver plate, I mean; the tankards, goblets, and such like."
               Reddy smiled sadly.
               "What! thou surely dost not mean——"
               "Bedad, it's the truth, sir; there's not a bit av plate the size i' yer nail left in the walls i' the house."
               "Bless me! dear me, is it possible?" exclaimed the knight, staggering back against the wall, and looking at Reddy in utter astonishment. "Did they take all?"
               "Not as much as a goblet to drink out iv, nor wine ather, I may say, to pit into it. Here, sir, sit down and take this drop i' canary an crust i' bread; it's all I could find, afther a long search, fit to offer ye."
               "So it's come to this at last, Reddy," murmured the knight, looking sadly at the scanty refreshment the (once princely) halls of Brockton could afford. "And the wine, too, is gone. This, Reddy, seems almost incredible. I saw my servants all around me this morning, methinks, when I alighted at the door. Is it possible they could rob the house in so short a time?"
               "Sartainly not," replied Reddy. "But haven't they been robbin' ye day afther day these five years? Shure they might stale the bed from under ye for all you knew or cared about it. An as for goin', I'll warrint they were ready to go any time they saw the danger comin'."
               "So, then, I'm not able to requite thee for thy faithful service, either in value or coin."
               "Niver mind," said Reddy; "I'll trust ye."
               "O, no, not at all," replied Sir Geoffrey, looking sideways at a diamond ring on his little finger. "Thou hast earned thy wages right honestly, and shalt not leave without them."
               "What'r ye lookin' at that for, Sir Geoffrey," inquired Reddy.
               "This ring?"
               "Ay, sir."
               "Why, I was thinking of giving thee—hem!— only it's here," said he, pointing to the chapel; "she gave it me the morning she died; so I believe I couldn't do it."
               "O, by no manner iv means," replied Reddy.
               "'Twould be a kind of sacrilege, I suppose."
               "Av coorse it would."
               "And what then?" inquired Sir Geoffrey; "I have nothing else left."
               "Well," responded Reddy, "I must only wait till we get to London. If ye say ye'll pay me there, why, av coorse, I'll take yer word for it. So come away now, and let me put ye to bed, for we must rise early the morrow, if we'd escape this Houghton and his villanous crew. Besides, I must make haste and get the horses ready for the journey, ye know; come master; yer tired, and want some rest."
               As Sir Geoffrey and his trusty henchman wended their way slowly, through the long passages, towards the knight's room, under piles of old rusty armor, hanging from the ceilings, and tapestries falling in shreds from the damp walls, both maintained, for a while, a sad and mournful silence. The shades of evening, now deepening into night, and relieved here and there by the few stray moonbeams that struggled through the trees, and found their way, at length, into the corridors by the massive windows, lent to the scene an aspect of loneliness and desolation that weighed down the heart of the old man more and more at every step, and made him grasp the arm of Reddy the tighter, as if to assure himself by its touch that there was one yet in the world who did not abandon him in his hour of sorrow.
               "He had no daughter to desert him," said the knight, at length, breaking in abruptly on the solemn silence that prevailed, and speaking in connection with a point he had been hitherto silently discussing with himself.
               "Who d'ye mane, sir?"
               "Job."
               "Humph!"
               
               "Nevertheless, he was a man of very respectable patience under affliction, Reddy. More than I have, I fear."
               "Hush," exclaimed Reddy, stopping suddenly, and pointing to a figure that had just crossed the window at the end of the hall. "Who's that? Sewall! by all that's bad, it is! Hoa, there! Sewall, come back; Sir Geoffrey wants to speak to ye." But the figure vanished in an instant round the corner of the passage.
               "That scoundrel," muttered Reddy, "is plottin' some deep villagy, an has some hidin' place in the house, where he burrows till he has finished it."
               "Dear me!" said the knight, "dost think him so bad as that?"
               "He's no worse than I tould ye he was, four years ago."
               "What! thinkest thou he hath betrayed me to this Houghton fellow?"
               "Jist as shurely as there's a sun in the sky above ye, he has, an that through his brother-in-law Davidson; him ye sould the farm to. An, begorra, if Houghton disn't find he's sould himself, before long, I'm mighty far astray in my reckonin'. Houghton expects the gold, as Sir Thomas Plimpton expects the property; but he'll soon find it's one thing to expect, an anither to get."
               Here Sir Geoffrey trod on a hard substance, which so twisted his foot as to make him stumble.
               "Ah," ejaculated the knight, looking down, "an old nail, I suppose, that fell from the wall."
               Reddy let go the knight's arm, and picked it up.
               "It's the keel of a tinder box," said Reddy, "and dropped by Sewall in his hurry to escape."
               In another minute they had reached Sir Geoffrey's bed chamber, and Reddy, having bid his master good night, and promised to call him early on the morrow, withdrew to make preparations for the journey.
               The stable was the first place to which Reddy directed his steps; but, to his utter disappointment, he found the stalls empty, and the doors wide open. Going from the stables to a little paddock immediately behind them, where the horses were sometimes turned out to pasture in the cool evening, he searched every nook and shady corner in the field, but no horse was to be seen. As he again vaulted over the paddock gate, and alighted on the opposite side, he felt his collar suddenly grasped by a strong hand, and his arms caught behind and pinioned ere he could utter a word.
               "Ha! thou scurvy varlet," cried a voice which Reddy recognized in an instant, "I'll pay thee right roundly for thy villanous and dastardly trick of this morning. Hold thy base tongue," he continued, as Reddy began to remonstrate against the violence he used, "or I'll poniard thee through the gullet as a butcher would an ox. Where's Master Sewall?"
               "Where d'ye think?" replied Reddy, assuming an appearance of the greatest composure, when he felt there was no chance of escape.
               "Answer me, dog; whither went he?"
               "To the devil, may be, where you and he ought to be, long ago."
               "Take that for thy churlish speech, then," cried Houghton, dealing Reddy a blow on the head with the hilt of his dagger, which inflicted a deep gash, and made the blood flow copiously down his neck and over the collar of his doublet.
               "Batter away," cried Reddy, instantly recovering from the shock, and looking round contemptuously at the trooper; "am bound, ye see, an ye've nothing to fear. Batter away; it comes natural to ye to do the dirty thing."
               "What, thou drivelling hind! Wouldst be insolent?" vociferated Houghton, again raising the dagger.
               "Strike! man," pursued the imperturbable Reddy; "don't be afeered; the odds is in yer favor. There's five av ye here, an I'm all alone, and pinioned besides. Come, sir, up with yer weapon, an give the Celt another touch of the Saxon."
               "Hoa, Waglippet!" exclaimed the trooper, "off with thy greasy neckerchief and gag the saucy churl; and ye, Williams and Jobson, hold him fast, till I find the steward."
               "Waglippet! What!" exclaimed Reddy, turning to the little host of the White Hart, "an did you turn traitor too?"
               "Nay, I'm no traitor," answered Waglippet. "Truly I must confess to thee, I have received favors full many from Sir Geoffrey Wentworth, and——"
               "Favors! Why, bad luck to ye, ye spalpeen, didn't he take ye in when ye ust to ramble about, an orphan, 'ithout a mother's sowl to ask ye had ye a mouth on ye? didn't he take ye in to his own fireside, and keep ye there till he made a man iv ye?"
               "Most true," replied Waglippet, "and right grateful am I for his kindness. But, when the interest of our holy religion is concerned, I feel constrained to raise my voice, yea, my hand, against iniquity, should I detect it in my very brother, and battle with it even to the death."
               "By jaminy, then it's a mighty wondherful change that's come over ye all at once for upon my conscience ye niver was much given to scruples, av ould."
               "Ay, verily, I have been long living in the shadow of death, but the light hath at length appeared."
               "The light? humph! what light d'ye mane?"
               "The light of the holy gospel," responded Waglippet.
               "The light of hell, ye ungrateful desavin' little blackguard," cried Reddy, no longer able to restrain himself, and, striking the unfortunate convert on the heels with his yet unbound foot, threw him flat on his back. So sudden was the fall, that the little fellow lay there for a time stretched at full length, staring wildly round him, and unable to tell whether he was struck by lightning or enchantment.
               The other members of the party (none of whom were known to Reddy—being, for the most part, hangers-on of the tavern, whom Waglippet, at the instigation of Houghton, induced to accompany him to Brockton) now secured Reddy from attempting further violence, and carried him bound to the stable, where they resolved to guard him till the return of the trooper.
               Houghton, in the mean time, intent upon accomplishing his ends, had entered the house and searched for Sewall every place where he was likely to be found; but no Sewall was forthcoming. He then commenced calling his name along the deserted corridors, but no reply came back, save the echo of his words.
               Enraged at his disappointment, he resolved to wait no longer, but proceed instantly to find Sir Geoffrey, and make the second tender of the oath of supremacy. For this purpose, however, he was obliged to return and bring Waglippet with him, as a witness of the act.
               The knight was on his knees at prayer when the trooper and his companion entered the room, and his position was such, that they could distinctly see his whole person directly before them, as the door opened. He was leaning, as usual, on the head of his cane, holding the rosary and cross suspended from his fingers. His countenance was as placid and mild as ever; but across his still ruddy cheeks appeared some marks of recent tears, which he had carelessly wiped off with the cuff of his doublet. The large and richly jewelled cross which he carried about him, and generally kept hidden in the breast of his jerkin, hung down, by its massive gold chain almost to the ground, and kept swinging to and fro like the pendulum of a clock. The moment the door opened, a single glance revealed to Sir Geoffrey the presence of strange and unexpected visitors. Instantly he rose up to receive them; and as he did, the blush upon his face spread and deepened, like that of a young girl when friends happen to enter her room suddenly, and discover her engaged at her devotions.
               "Waglippet, my friend," said he, advancing to the dapper little host of the White Hart, and stretching out his hand as he spoke, "I'm right glad to see thee—verily, we have been as strangers for well nigh two years."
               The latter placed his hand coldly in Sir Geoffrey's, but held down his head, and said not a word in reply.
               "And who may this gentleman be, my little friend, whom thou hast brought with thee? His dress, methinks, is not entirely unfamiliar to my eyes, though I remember not his face."
               "My name is Houghton," replied the trooper, "a sergeant in Sir Thomas Plimpton's company, and am here, by his orders, to tender thee the oath of supremacy."
               "So ho, master; thou'rt the fellow whom Plimpton sent to execute the queen's warrant."
               "Ay, verily am I. Art willing to take the oath, and save thyself further trouble?"
               The knight smiled at the question, but made no reply.
               "Nay," persisted the latter, "I must have an answer. An thou'rt willing to swear, I shall take thee unfettered before the next magistrate; but an thou continue to refuse allegiance to her majesty, I must bind thee in irons and send thee a close prisoner to London. So I'll leave thee Master Waglippet here to reason with thee till my return." And so saying, Houghton quitted the room to renew his search after Sewall.
               "Master Houghton's a right zealous, God-fearing Christian," whispered Waglippet, confidently, sidling up to the old man, "and will treat thee kindly, an thou'lt——"
               "Peace, man!" exclaimed Sir Geoffrey, turning on his quondam protegé; "what knowest thou of the matter?"
               "Truly," replied the little host, "it would grieve me much to see injury befall thee, and therefore would I make bold to counsel thee against disrespect of the queen's authority. Sergeant Houghton is right willing to deal with thee as mercifully as his office permitteth."
               "And how cometh he to deserve thy commendation— eh?" said the knight, looking distrustfully at the innkeeper.
               "I have consorted with him somewhat of late, so please thee, Sir Geoffrey, and am well assured of his willingness to befriend thee."
               "What! man, thou consort with the sworn enemy of our holy church, and agent of Sir Thomas Plimpton, the relentless persecutor of my daughter—of her who, when a child, sat so often on thy knee, and taught thee thy devotions! What, sir, thou the associate of this man!"
               "Ah, Sir Geoffrey," replied Waglippet, looking up at the knight, "thou knowest but little of the changes that have lately taken place in the world. Things have altered much since I made my first shrift in the little chapel below."
               "Ay, marry, thine own speech and companions have marvellously changed, methinks."
               "I have at length seen the star that now shines over this benighted land, and Heaven, too, vouchsafed safed me the courage to follow it. And thus have I become a new man, casting off the slough of corruption which I carried about me for so many years. Yea, I have——"
               "Hold thy peace, knave!" cried the knight, raising his cane, "or I'll smite thee on the sconce, if thou speakest another word of that jargon. Tell me plainly, hast thou abandoned the faith?"
               "Even so," replied Waglippet. "The upbraidings of my conscience——"
               "What! thou scurvy little villain!" interrupted the knight, provoked by the fellow's unblushing hypocrisy, and shaking him roughly by the collar. "Answer me, sirrah, in plain words, or I'll throttle thee; art thou an apostate from the faith?"
               "Nay, Sir Geoffrey, I'm, on the contrary, a stanch upholder of the faith—the true faith, I mean, that enlighteneth."
               "Art a Protestant, varlet? art thou? Answer me, wretch," shouted the old man, now carried completely away by a strong feeling of anger and disgust at the orphan creature whom he had taken to his heart and cherished from his boyhood with so much care. "Answer me, wretch; art thou come to this at last? hast fallen so far as to become a paltry little Protestant?"
               Waglippet muttered something in the affirmative.
               "Then come out here, come out, thou little imp," he vociferated, dragging the innkeeper by the hair of the head with the one hand, whilst he held the cane over him with the other. "Come out, thou villain. I'll haul thee to the horse pond, and wash thy heresies out o' thee. Come out, thou canting knave. I'll teach thee thy deserving." And he dragged him from the room by the poll. "Heavens and earth," he continued, "to run thus headlong to destruction—the villanous little rogue whom I instructed myself, with my own lips, even at a great sacrifice, rather than leave him to others—ay, just at the very time, too, I should have devoted all my hours to the great question of the Divine Wills—the voluntas benepulaciti and the voluntas signi, on which St. Thomas hath not been sufficiently explicit. Come on, thou ungrateful little urchin—thou snivelling little devil. Ha, ha! I'll teach thee to deny the faith."
               "Stay, Sir Geoffrey, stay," ejaculated Waglippet, hardly able to articulate, so bent was his fat little body under the knight's grasp—"stay, for justice' sake, and hear me."
               "Hear thee! I have heard enough of thy heretical speeches; come along, thou enthusiastic little, reformer; I'll cool thy zeal and temper thy allegiance."
               "I'm a loyal subject of her majesty," muttered Waglippet, "and I protest against this outrage."
               "Outrage! thou unconscionable little varlet; thou liest in thy throat. I never committed an outrage on any man. As for thee, I have a right to punish thy evil doings, seeing I'm somewhat accountable for thy soul. Come on, thou little viper."
               "I shall answer for my own soul."
               "Nay, thou shalt not, thou deceiving villain; I dare not trust thee. Come along, I say, or I'll drop thee out o' the window here into the horse trough below."
               Sir Geoffrey had now hauled the unfortunate host of the White Hart nearly half way along the corridor in the direction of the great staircase, when suddenly he found himself grasped by the trooper, and ordered to let go his hold.
               "And thou, Waglippet," said the trooper, "follow us instantly, for thou must witness the reading of the oath, and so be able to testify accordingly. That damnable, double-faced scoundrel," he muttered, as he took Sir Geoffrey by the arm and forced him back again to his own room, "hath betrayed us."
               As the trooper entered the lighted apartment preceded by Sir Geoffrey, and followed by Waglippet and three or four of his companions, a dark figure was seen to glide suddenly through the opposite doorway.
               "Sewall! there! there!" cried the knight, pointing to the figure—"there, there he is."
               Hardly had the word escaped his lips, when Houghton, snatching a loaded carabine, sent a ball whizzing after him so promptly that the skirt of his doublet had scarcely passed the half-open door when the bullet lodged in the stile.
               "Perdition seize him," growled Houghton, ferociously grinding his teeth, as he burst into the room and found it empty. "But let him go; I'll live long enough, I doubt me not, to be avenged for this treachery. So, good master, wilt take the oath of supremacy?" he added, turning to Sir Geoffrey.
               "Whose supremacy?" demanded the knight.
               "Thy queen's."
               "My queen's—I know of no such woman in England land, sir. If thou meanest the daughter of Henry the Eighth and Anne Boleyn, I tell thee she is no queen of mine."
               "What! wouldst withhold thy allegiance also?"
               "Ay would I, Sir Trooper; I can owe no allegiance to the bastard offspring of perjury and lust."
               "Treason! This is treason, sir, and thou shalt answer for it."
               "Ay will I—to God."
               "Nay, to thy queen first, before the court, and mayhap on the scaffold."
               "What care I for the scaffold? I have nothing to lose but my head. Here am I,—after a life of well nigh eighty years, the owner of a princely estate, ay, who once had but to wind a bugle call and I had men enough around me to garrison Brockton Hall against a king's army, and servants enough to supply half the barons in Worcestershire; now there's not one left to draw a sword in my defence, or bring a crust and a cup of wine to refresh me. They have deserted me, one by one, as they would an old, crumbling house, after despoiling it of all it once contained, and left me to die amid the ruins. My daughter, too, hath— hem, but I must not speak of that, now."
               "Thou hast hoarded much gold, Sir Geoffrey," put in Waglippet, "and I pray thee carry it with thee under protection of Master Houghton, for an thou leavest it here, right surely will it be stolen in thy absence."
               "And thou'lt share a little with us, worshipful sir, an it suits thy good pleasure," pleaded two or three of Waglippet's followers in a breath.
               "Yea, if thou'lt give me but a barrel of swine's flesh, I shall be content," said another.
               "Or a fat ox, from the park," said a fellow in the rear of the group.
               Sir Geoffrey looked round contemptuously at the party, without a word of reply.
               "Come, old gentleman," whispered Houghton, advancing, and speaking in an undertone, "tell me where I may find thy long-hoarded treasure. I'll carry it safely away from the reach of Master Sewall, who, I little doubt, hath his eye upon it."
               "Ay," suggested Waglippet, "and so thou mayst deposit it for safe keeping in London, when thou reachest there."
               "I have no gold," said the knight, at length breaking silence, and looking down sadly, as he spoke. I had, once, I believe, but it's all gone now."
               "Nay, think of thy savings of five and twenty years," said Waglippet.
               "Ay, that should amount to a very great sum, I suppose."
               "And where didst hide it?" demanded the trooper.
               "O dear me," replied Sir Geoffrey, "I never hid any thing but a few books and pictures. Why should I hide gold? My steward had the management of all such things."
               "And thy travelling expenses—who shall pay them?" inquired Waglippet. "Thou'rt old, Sir Geoffrey, and requirest many comforts on the road. Pray search thy coffers. How knowest thou but something may yet remain?"
               The old man shook his head.
               
               "What, nothing left?"
               "Nought, save this purse," said he, drawing it out from the capacious pocket of his hose; "here, take it, and leave me. I pray ye, masters, away. I'm weary and would rest."
               "Zounds," cried Houghton, "what a most damnable villain is Sewall, to lure us hither, on pretence of Corning at this old recusant's wealth! May the foul fiend punish him for this treachery. He hath not left as much behind in his master's purse as would pay for a pint and platter at the next hostelrie."
               "And yet thou'lt be charged with the robbery, Master Houghton," observed Waglippet.
               "Ay, marry will I, the cozening wretch, and doubtless lose mine office to boot. Misfortune hath been ever on my track since I came hither. What with that damnable Irishman, and the loss of my men, and now the absconding of the steward with the treasure —ay, and thou, too, thou scheming little hypocrite," he cried, suddenly grasping Waglippet by the throat, "thou too hast fed me with the hopes of finding gold even should Sewall fail to keep his promise. Come, then, bring me to it, thou canting devil, bring me this instant, or by the fire of hell I'll strangle thee."
               "Why, how now," muttered the innkeeper; "Mercy! mercy! I pray thee forbear. We will search the house incontinently, and see thou leavest not empty handed."
               "And thou, old cross-worshipper," pursued the trooper, having flung Waglippet, on the floor in a rage of disappointment, and roughly striking Sir Geoffrey on the shoulder with his open palm, "what wilt thou do? for I must not leave without thy Papist bones to vouceh for my trust-worthiness."
               "Keep thy heretic hands off!" cried Sir Geoffrey, turning shortly on the trooper, and groping for his sword as he was wont to do in former years.
               "Ah, wouldst play the braggart? But a truce with this foolery; here's a copy of the oath, so I cry thee patience, Master Graybeard; and ye my comrades, doff yer bonnets and respect the queen's authority. Peace, I say, knaves, and listen devoutly." And he began to read the words of the celebrated oath of abjuration in a very inflated manner, holding the parchment out before the lamp.
               The knight seemed to bear the infliction with considerable impatience, for he paced up and down the room, striking the floor with the end of his cane, and emitting sundry exclamations, as the trooper continued to read aloud line after line of the lengthy and prosy document. At last he came to the final sentence: "And I do make declaration that I believe not that the pope of Rome, or any other foreign prince, prelate, person, state, or potentate, hath or ought to have any temporal or civil jurisdiction, power, superiority, or preëminence, directly or indirectly, within these realms."
               "Hast done?" demanded the knight.
               "Ay," responded the trooper; "so, what sayest thou? wilt renounce the pope and save thyself?"
               "Nay, master, pray tell me by what authority dost administer the oath? It requireth two justices of the peace to make tenders."
               "By the warrant of the queen's majesty."
               
               "Produce the warrant."
               "Here it is," replied Houghton, unfolding the royal instrument.
               "Hand it me, hand it me!" eagerly requested the knight—"both the warrant and the oath. Ha, ha, ha!" he chuckled, as he took the parchments from the trooper, and turned up his ivory-headed cane under his arm. "I'll show thee how I respect thy queen's authority. Look ye here. Thus I tear the Jezebel's warrant, and thus the oath of supremacy, and thus I trample both under my feet. And now, get thee gone, trooper; and tell Elizabeth Tudor that Geoffrey Wentworth, of Brockton, once a trusty supporter of her house, but now a forsaken old knight, deserted and forlorn in the halls where loyal shouts oft welcomed her yet honored sire,—tell her, sir, that he hath done this here; but were he standing before her throne, surrounded by her renegade nobles, with the headsman at his side, he would have proclaimed her a usurper, an apostate, and a perjurer."
               "Seize the old traitor dog!" shouted Houghton, astonishment at the knight's bold language having silenced him for a moment. "Seize him, and bind him in fetters!" and he sprang forward himself, as he spoke, and attempted to lay hold of the knight.
               "Back, villain!" cried the old soldier in a voice as commanding as that which thundered the battle cry at Blackheath, by the side of the then young and gallant King Harry. "Back, thou paltry minion!" he repeated, snatching a sword which hung against the wall, and stamping on the floor; "I am still lord of this mansion."
               "O, I pray thee, good master," whined Waglippet, "be not so wrathful against the royal pursuivant; he doth but his duty, and if thou'lt submit, will suffer no harm to befall thee."
               "Hoa! there, Reddy! where art thou? Reddy, come to my side, thou crazy varlet," cried the knight, not deigning to notice Waglippet, "and methinks we can defend the place against a million such hinds as these. Mongrel hounds, ye have snatched the young and timid fawn and carried her away—but come on; ye'll find the old stag hath antlers yet to defend him."
               As the knight crossed his naked sword on his breast, and raised himself up to his full height, his face glowed, and his eyes flashed out again the fire of his young days. So sudden and startling was the change, that the savage trooper and his followers shrunk back confounded at his look and bearing.
               The knight had retreated by this time to the door of his library, and took his stand there, as if resolved to die on the threshold, rather than suffer the heretic foot of the stranger to desecrate it. His books, his instruments, and his pictures were there. Alas! they were all that now remained to him in the whole world; and he looked like one determined to protect them to the last.
               "Come on," he cried, "an ye will have it so; come on, and execute the Jezebel's orders. Why stand ye there, cravens as ye are, gazing thus at an old man?"
               "Away there, dolts, and seize him," vociferated Houghton; "for me, I would not have it said I crossed swords with the dotard."
               
               "Nay," interrupted Waglippet, "suffer me to speak to him."
               "Out on thee," exclaimed Sir Geoffrey, "thou viper; how presumest thou to speak in my presence? Away, sirrah, or I'll spit thee like a sparrow."
               "Mayhap he's got the mad fit, which some folks say troubleth him whiles," put in one of Waglippet's followers, looking fearfully at the knight, and making a motion as if to advance upon him.
               "If his daughter be as mad," observed Houghton, "methinks Sir Thomas will find it somewhat troublesome to carry her to London."
               "What!" ejaculated the knight, "my daughter?"
               "Ay, marry, one Alice Wentworth, of Brockton, an she be thy daughter."
               "Good God! carried to London—and by Sir Thomas Plimpton; O man, if thou be not a monster, say not so again." And Sir Geoffrey slowly lowered his sword, till its point touched the boards.
               "Gadzooks, Master Valiant, thou shouldst be at her wedding. It would befit thee better, methinks, than stay here to resist the queen's warrant."
               Sir Geoffrey bent his bead for a moment on his breast, and then, as if another thought had struck him, he raised it up suddenly, and looked round the group from face to face, expecting to find there some contradiction of the distressing intelligence; but, alas for him, every countenance gave unmistakable confirmation of the news.
               "Hast seen her?" he inquired at length, addressing Waglippet in a choking, trembling voice.
               "Ay, verily have I."
               "In Plimpton's custody, eh? take thy time and consider. O, do not speak unthinkingly—in Plimpton's custody?—my child Alice? thou knowest Alice —art sure it was Alice?"
               "Yea, truly; I have seen her a prisoner under his escort, and journeying to London. But be not so cast down, Sir Geoffrey; her guardian is a right honorable gentleman."
               As Waglippet uttered these words, the sword fell from the nerveless hands of the knight.
               For a moment he stood there, silently looking., round from face to face, his limbs trembling, and his whole frame palsied as by a sudden shock. Indeed, he presented to the spectators such a picture of unutterable anguish, that no one had the heart to molest him.
               "O dear, O dear," he muttered at last, in low, heart-breaking tones, that seemed to come from the very depth of his soul; "O dear! my little Alice is lost. She will wed him to save her father."
               "Ay, she'll doubtless soon be Lady Plimpton, at thy service," observed Houghton in a tone of mockery.
               "I'm a miserable man now," said the night, sitting down, and spreading his hands on his knees, without in the least noticing Houghton's remarks. "If it were God's will, I wish I were dead."
               The trooper stooped and picked up the sword. "Here," said he to one of Waglippet's followers, "take this and guard the prisoner. In the mean time, we shall see what this secret apartment containeth." And as he spoke, he made a step towards the door of the library.
               "Stay," said the knight, catching the skirt of the trooper's doublet as he passed by, and looking beseechingly up in his face—"stay; I entreat thee not to enter."
               "And what hast got here, thou fearest so much for? ingots of silver and gold, eh?"
               "Nought of gold or silver, I promise thee. Nay, good fellow, it's a—it's a sacred place, and I would not have thee enter."
               "Sacred to Beelzebub, I trow, or some Papist idolatries."
               "O, mock me not, stranger, mock me not. It was my place of meditation. It was the holy place where I have lived so long with the saints of God. Ay, full five and twenty years of my life were spent there undisturbed by the foot or the voice of a stranger. Leave it to me—leave it to me, undesecrated by the breath of an unbeliever. O, leave it to me— leave it to me; 'tis all I ask. These old relics are no value to thee, but they are very dear to the old recluse."
               "Take thy hands off, thou doting fool; let go thy hold of my doublet, I say, or I'll smite thee on thy bald pate. What care I for thy relics of saints or devils?"
               "O, leave it to me to die in," pleaded the knight; "leave it me; it's all I crave from the wreck. Thou mayst take all beyond these four walls, but spare me this, for it's sacred to old memories."
               "Away, wretch; let go thy hold!" cried Houghton, seizing Sir Geoffrey's arm and dragging him down on his knees in the struggle; "by all the fiends, if thou persistest thus, thou wilt repent it."
               "O mercy, mercy, stranger; my God, my God! wilt thou leave me nothing I can call my own in the whole wide world? Here, bind me, and chain my limbs to the floor;—abandon me to my fate. I will not ask thee even for a cup of water; but O, leave me that place undefiled. I have sworn never to suffer the foot of an apostate to cross that threshold. I will not delay thee long; a few days more, and thou'lt find my dead body here. I have no longer aught to live for. My daughter, my Alice, my darling, the light of my life, hath left me. The lamp that hath guided my feet is extinguished. O man, man, spare me that little spot in which I may draw my last breath, surrounded by my old companions."
               "Quit thy hold, I say, and let me pass. I will see the secrets of this mysterious room. By all the fiends, I swear I'll——"
               "Entreat him for me," muttered the knight, still on his knees, and turning to Waglippet.
               "Nay, master, I dare not encourage thy superstitions. So I pray thee get up, and provoke him no further."
               "Never," cried the knight. "Thou mayst kill me, but I'll fulfil my promise. Hadst thou not told me of my daughter's ruin, methinks I could have withstood thee; but now, my arm is nerveless, for my heart is gone out of me."
               "Wilt not loose thy hold?" vociferated Houghton.
               
               "Never," cried the old man; "I'll struggle with thee to the last breath; whilst I live, my sanctuary shall never be desecrated by the foot of an apostate."
               "Then perdition seize thee, old hellhound," growled the trooper, grinding his teeth; and the inhuman wretch struck the aged and enfeebled knight on the forehead with his clinched fist, and laid him prostrate and apparently insensible on the floor.
               "Fire, fire," shouted the fellow whom Houghton had left in charge of Reddy Connor, bursting into the room just as Houghton had turned to enter the library. "The house is every where in flames. Haste, haste, or ye'll be lost."
               "Hah," cried the trooper, turning on his step, and gazing at the messenger. "Sewall hath done this. The infernal demon hath fired the house, that he might destroy the proofs of his villany."
               The whole party now rushed headlong from the room, leaving Sir Geoffrey lying stretched on the floor, and caring little whether he died from the effects of the blow or was consumed in the flames. Waglippet's first thought was to gain the principal stairway, and escape by the main entrance in the lower story; and being best acquainted with the different passages, he took the lamp, and hurried along with as much speed as his short, fat little legs would permit of. But hardly had they quitted Sir Geoffrey's room, when they found themselves enveloped in smoke so dense and suffocating, that they could scarcely breathe or see the light Waglippet carried before them. It was evident also from the currents of hot air, which they felt at the different corners of the passages intersecting the main corridor, that the house was fired in various places both above and below.
               On reaching the entrance hall they stood for a moment irresolute whether to abandon the house at once, or remain to prosecute their search for plunder as long as a chance of escape remained. As yet the fire had not broken out except in two or three places, and consequently left the greater part of the house open to search; and it was only on being assured of this that Waglippet consented at length to conduct his associates to those places, which, from his long residence in the hall, he suspected the steward would be likely to select for secreting his ill-gotten gold.
               The chapel was the first place to which he directed his steps, followed closely by the insatiable trooper and his own guard of brutal retainers, ready to run any risk of flood or fire in quest of plunder. We shall only accompany them, however, as far as the door of the little dark oratory, and leave them there to return to our friend Reddy Connor.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               FOR some time after the party under Houghton had quitted the stable, Reddy sat on the steps leading to the hay loft, silent and dejected, his hands secured by strong cords behind his back, whilst the sentinel stood before him, with a carabine resting on his arm. He felt there was no possibility of escape now, and his heart sank within him, as he thought of his master in the power of those merciless men. At length, after a long and melancholy silence, he slowly raised up his blood-stained face, and looked searchingly, for a moment, at the countenance of his guard, to see if he could discover there any gleam of hope, or sign of compassion; but there was none.
               "It's but little I'd care," said he, hopelessly turning his eyes away, and speaking in a half soliloquy— "little I'd care, if it was only myself was in it, for I'd die in a good cause, any how: but my ould master to be desarted, this way, by the whole world, and no one to save him from thim blackguards iv hell. I'm sayin,' master," he added, suddenly addressing the sentinel——
               "Well," replied the fellow, "what wouldst thou now?"
               "Loosen these cords behind my back, and I'll be behouldin' t'ye while there's a drap in my veins."
               "Nay, nay, Master Connor, I know thee too well to free thee whilst thy master's uncaptured and his treasure unbroken. Mayhap, when he's safe under guard, and his gold thrust into thy friend Houghton's saddle bags, I may untie thy arms, that thou mayest travel the faster to the gallows."
               "Let me only once see my master," persisted Reddy, "an' ye may take me to the gallis as soon as ye like."
               "To the flames with thy master, the old cross-worshipping dog," cried the sentinel; "he should have been sent down to Beelzebub long ago."
               "Listen to me," said Reddy, rising up and approaching the sentinel with increasing anxiety as he felt the time wearing away. "I beg av ye for the honor i' God to let me go for one hour, an I'll swear to ye by all the books that iver was shut or opened, that I'll come back and give myself up to ye, to hang and quarter me, if ye plase."
               "Nay, nay, I dare not disobey my orders."
               "Yer orders! God be about us, man—ir ye a' Christian at all at all?"
               "Ay, marry am I; and how doth that concern thee?"
               "Why, if ye were, I was thinkin' ye might have some pity for an ould man that niver harmed ye."
               "He hath ever been a bitter enemy of the reformed church, natheless."
               "O, well, shure, that was always his way; the poor ould man niver could take to novelties. Its little ye ought to blame him, any how, for not liking a religion that he seen made under his own eyes, by the greatest baste iv a king that——"
               "Hold thy ribald tongue, thou blaspheming villain lain," cried the sentinel, "or I'll cut it from thy foul mouth."
               "Won't ye loose me?" entreated Reddy, every moment becoming more and more impatient.
               The sentinel turned away without deigning a reply.
               "Hear me," implored Reddy; "hear me," he repeated, dropping down on his knees; "I'll swear to ye by the five crosses, if ye let me go, I'll niver sleep two nights in the same bed till I fill yer stockin' full of gould pieces."
               Still the fellow was silent.
               "I'll lave my mother's cross here, about my neck, in pledge with ye."
               No answer.
               "O, murdher, murdher! will nothin' satisfy ye? I'll do any thing to soften ye. O, is yer heart made iv stone? have ye no soft spot at all in it? Are ye a Turk or a haythen, or what are ye?"
               "Hush," ejaculated the sentinel, suddenly stopping, "what shout is that?"
               The cries of "Fire, fire," now distinctly broke upon their ears, repeated by two or three voices in the direction of the house.
               "Let me go," cried Reddy, frantically rushing to the stable door. "Let me go, or my master'll be burnt to ashes."
               "Not a step," replied the sentinel, barring the door with his carabine.
               "Let me go, or I'll pray God to curse ye if ye don't—let me go, or kill me—kill me—kill me dead at once, or let me save my master. O mother iv God, save the poor ould man," he implored, again falling on his knees, and looking up to heaven in earnest supplication.
               The sentinel stepped out a pace or two from the stable door, and seeing the flames breaking from the house in various places, became so alarmed for his companions, that for a moment he forget his charge. Reddy was not slow to take advantage of the neglect. Springing to his feet, he rushed past the sentinel, bound as he was, and ran as fast as his feet could carry him to the burning edifice.
               Houghton, Waglippet, and their associates had remained to search the house as long as a possibility remained of doing so with safety. The little innkeeper, from his long residence at the hall, knew every hole and corner where there was any likelihood of Sewall secreting his ill-gotten treasure, and though he examined and searched with the most anxious avidity, found nothing save a few pieces of silver plate, here and there, lying on the passages, where the servants had dropped them in the hurry of their departure. Even the altar of the oratory was stripped of all its candlesticks, and the boxes, in which the sacred vessels were kept with so much care, broken open and rifled of their contents. When Houghton saw, at last, that all his long-cherished hopes of plunder had thus come to an end, and after so many plottings and intrigues with Sewall, had neither a soldier to protect him, nor a echin in his purse, he raged, and foamed at the mouth, in all the fury of a maniac. The innkeeper, too, seeing the inutility of further search, now glanced anxiously towards the door, as if he was meditating an escape from the vengeance of the disappointed trooper, and the latter looked at him, in turn, and ground his teeth like a tiger ready to pounce upon his victim. Just at this moment, which the little innkeeper had fairly concluded was his last in this world, a strange voice was heard speaking from the opposite corner of the chapel, and every eye turned to look in that direction.
               "Sewall," ejaculated the trooper.
               "Sewall!" cried every one, springing forward to lay hold of him.
               The steward paused an instant to look back at the party. He was dressed, as usual, in his russet garments, his white neckerchief, and close cut hair, helping the dim light of the little window, near which he stood, to bring out into clearer relief his dark puritanic features. For one moment he stood there, like a demon smiling at his pursuers; in another he was gone.
               "Secure him, dead or living," shouted Houghton, rushing forward at the head of the party.
               "Ha, ha!" laughed the steward, leisurely passing through the secret door, by which the gaberlunzie had entered the chapel. "Ha, ha!" he repeated, and dashed it back in the face of his pursuers.
               "Away, fellows, by the other entrance," cried the trooper, after vainly attempting to force the secret passage; "away—pursue him—shoot him down —he has fled by the rear of the building."
               Following his men through the chapel, Houghton perceived, as he rushed by the altar, that some one had clambered on top the tabernacle, and was endeavoring ing to take down a gold crucifix which had before escaped his notice. He had but little difficulty in recognizing Waglippet's dumpy form, now raised to its utmost stretch, in an effort to clutch the precious image.
               "Ha, ha! dog," cried Houghton; "thou wouldst cheat me of the gold idol."
               "Nay, my good master, I will surely share it with thee right honestly," replied Waglippet, hardly able to articulate for want of breath.
               "Haste thee, then; haste thee and follow me. I go in pursuit of Sewall." And so saying, he rushed through the chapel, leaving Waglippet to secure his booty.
               By this time, a great portion of the second story of the house was enveloped in flames. The building had evidently been fired in various places at the same time, for the smoke and flames had broken out simultaneously in different directions. But the basement was, as yet, little injured; and Waglippet thought he could easily manage to wrench the crucifix from the socket in which it was fixed, and escape before the fire had sunk to the lower corridor. With this expectation, he had placed his feet on each side the dome of the tabernacle, and began to twist the stem of the image with all his might, when suddenly he heard the voice of Reddy Connor thundering from below.
               "Down, down! ye sacrilegious villain. O, the curse i' God'll purshue ye for that damnable crime."
               Waglippet, startled at the nearness of Reddy's voice, turned quickly round, when his foot slipped, and he fell head foremost on the marble slab of the altar, and lay there apparently without life or motion.
               "Where's my master?" cried Reddy, bending over the prostrate innkeeper. "Tell me where he is, an I'll forgive ye all."
               But no answer came.
               "My God, my God! ir ye dead? an is there no one to untie my hands?" he went on, stooping to feel if there was breath still remaining. But no sign of life was there. Leaving the apostate innkeeper to his fate, he now ran about frantically through the chapel, in search of some sharp instrument by which he might cut the cords from his wrists, but could find none. Then a new thought seemed to strike him. Hastening from the chapel, he ran through the passages, muttering prayers to the mother of God for the safety of his master, and spying round him, if by chance he could light on something by which he might sever the knot. At length he reached the kitchen, and stepping on a table, managed to loop the cord behind upon one of the sharp hooks that depended from a beam in the ceiling, and then threw himself recklessly forward with all his force, little caring what injury he might receive by the fall on the hard flags below. But the cord would not part. Regaining the table with a powerful effort, he again flung himself headlong forward. This time the cord yielded, and he fell with a heavy crash on the floor. For an instant he lay there to recover his stunned senses, the blood rushing from his mouth and nose the while, and then rose up, and made his way with all the speed he could command to the staircase which led to Sir Geoffrey's library. As he ascended the steps, he found the floor above him in flames, and himself almost suffocated by the smoke. On he went, however, resolved to die or save his master. When he reached the first landing, he saw there was no possibility of making his way along that passage, for the flames had met from both sides of the corridor, within a few yards of where he stood, and a part of the ceiling had cracked and fallen in. Turning in the opposite direction, he swung himself over a partition which the fire had not touched as yet, and ran blindly through the smoke, feeling his way by the walls, till he arrived at the bottom of a private staircase, which led to Sir Geoffrey's private apartments, and had sprung up half a dozen steps at a bound, when he was met by a sheet of flame that drove him back, singeing his hair and dress, and almost shrivelling the skin upon his face and hands. "O Father of heaven," he cried, backing out from the blaze, "must he die in the flames—the good ould man, that niver injured a crathur in all his life? O holy Mary, mother of God, save him, save him for Christ's sake. O mistress Alice! dear, what'll ye do at all when ye bear this news? O darlin' jewel, sure I'd die a thousand deaths to save him for ye. O angels in heaven, look down on the sweet crathur, yer own beautiful sister, and save my ould master for her sake."
               Pursuing another and less dangerous direction, Reddy at length found himself outside the building, and directly under the knight's library. Shouting for help, he ran round the front of the house, hardly knowing whither he went. Two thirds of the edifice was now burning clear and bright, and the heat was so excessive that one could hardly approach within fifty feet of the walls. The devouring flames roared and seethed, and stretched their pointed tongues out along the roof, and up to the heavy square chimneys. The rafters broke and fell in one by one, sending up each time a dense volume of sparks and cinders, which floated in the air for a moment, and then fell among the trees, and on the roofs of the outbuildings, threatening to reduce every thing around to ashes. As Reddy turned up his singed and blood-stained face towards the window of Sir Geoffrey's room in mute despair, he fancied he saw an arm extended through a broken pane, waving a handkerchief. For a moment he paused to think of some plan of rescue. "I'll do it," said he, "in God's name—I'll do it; it's my duty—I'll never die in a betther cause." And flying to the stable, he snatched a coil of rope from one of the stalls, and slinging it across his shoulder, returned, and commenced to climb a large elm tree that grew close by the wall, and reared its branches far above the library. Hampered by the heavy coil, it was some time ere he found himself on a level with the window. When he did, however, he saw the old man kneeling inside, and resting his clasped hands up against the sash, in earnest supplication to Heaven for deliverance.
               "Hilloa, master; hilloa, there," shouted Reddy. "Drive out the sash! drive it out—breaks it with a chair."
               The knight did as directed.
               "Now stand by there to catch the rope." And fastening one end of the coil round a branch of the tree, he flung the other to Sir Geoffrey with all the strength he could exert, in the dangerous and slippery position he occupied. Alas! the distance was greater than he anticipated, and the rope fell to the ground.
               "Save thyself, Reddy," cried the knight, "and let me die. It's impossible to rescue me now; the flames are bursting into the room. Take the books and other things thou'lt find under the window to Alice; and tell her—O, tell her—" Here a crash of the falling roof drowned the old man's words, and covered Reddy with a shower of burning cinders.
               The undaunted fellow saw there was yet one chance left; and climbing still higher up the tree, he caught one of the topmost branches, and began to feel its strength. He was now some forty feet from the ground, and the branch on which he resolved to risk his life was little thicker than a walking stick. "In the name of God," said he, "I'll try it;" and making the sign of the cross, he swung himself down along the wall some ten feet or more, tearing the flesh of his knuckles against the rough stones as he descended. It being impossible for him at first to calculate the distance he should sink by the spring of the branch, he now found it had unfortunately sunk below the window sill, and as Sir Geoffrey could not be trusted to assist him, he should raise himself up hand over hand by the strength of his arms. Fearfully he looked above his head at that weak and sappy twig on which his master's life and his own hung suspended. It was a moment of terrible apprehension prehension. He felt his arms could hold out but a little longer, and he dreaded the strong effort he should make might wrench the branch from the stem. Exerting himself, however, to him utmost muscular power, he raised one hand above the other; then again, and again, in quick succession, while the effort lasted. Sir Geoffrey now laid hold of his collar to assist him; but Reddy cried to let him go, and still rising higher and higher with the same continued exertion of almost supernatural strength, let the branch at last slip from his fingers, and flung himself headlong into the room. For a moment he lay on the floor, exhausted by the daring and awful feat he had just accomplished. Sir Geoffrey stood over him weeping like a child.
               "O Reddy, Reddy, forgive me, my generous fellow, if I have doubted thee for an instant."
               "Hush!" replied the latter, raising his head and looking round, breathless as a gladiator after a long contest. "Hush, sir; this is no time for apology; take the end of this rope that's about me here, and tie it fast round that iron bar; be quick, sir, or we'll be lost afther all."
               Having somewhat recovered his breath, Reddy again started to his feet, and laying hold of the knight, lashed the old man to himself, face to back. "Now, sir," he cried, "wind yer arms round me, and in the name i' God, don't be afeerd; if the rope holds out, we'll both reach the ground in safety."
               In this fashion, he succeeded at last in rescuing his old master from the flames. Their feet, however, had hardly touched the pavement below when the rope fell from above, and the fire burst through the window.
               After both had piously knelt and thanked God and the Holy Virgin for their miraculous preservation, the knight, followed by Reddy, crossed the lawn, and lay down on the grass by the old sun-dial, to take a last look at the conflagration. Scarcely was he seated, however, when he remembered the books he had thrown from the room, and would have hurried back again to remove them from reach of the falling fire; but Reddy drew him back, and ventured himself.
               As the latter returned and laid down the precious burden beside the knight, the old man perceived that not only the poor fellow's knuckles were lacerated by the wall, but both his wrists so torn that the muscles were completely bared.
               "Reddy, Reddy, my friend," said the knight, stroking down his white hair, and looking up tearfully in his servant's honest face thou hast suffered sadly on my account. This indeed is martyrdom." And he made a emotion to take the lacerated hands to examine them. But Reddy drew them away.
               "Bedad, thin, if this be martyrdom, it's a mighty aisy one," he replied, drawing the sleeves of his doublet over the mutilated parts, and endeavoring to look as composed as possible under the smarting wounds.
               "I shall never be able to repay thee now, Reddy. Mayhap Alice will. God grant it."
               "Pay me; what for, sir?"
               "For saving my life. O, if I could but see her once, to tell her something that lies heavy here!" And he pressed his hand on his breast, and looked at Reddy, as if he could have kissed him all over.
               "O, bedad, thin am sure its little thanks I deserve for that, any how," replied Reddy, turning his head away, and plucking the grass with his finger and thumb.
               "Little thanks? Why, God bless me, man, only think on't. Had the branch broke——"
               "Well, an what if it did?"
               "Thou wouldst have been instantly killed—eh?"
               "Iv coorse; but where id you be then, I'd like to know? Ha, ha!" laughed Reddy, totally forgetful of all personal danger to himself.
               "Me! bless my heart, man, and what right had I to expect thee to risk thy life to save mine?"
               "To save yours," replied Reddy, looking round with surprise at the knight.
               "Ay; have I not been abandoned by those who have served me and mine long before thou wert born, and on whom I ought surely to have a stronger claim than on thee?"
               Reddy could have replied at once, that he loved him well enough to risk his life every day of the year to save him, even from a tithe of the danger, but the words would have stuck in his throat.
               "Av coorse," said he, at length; "I'll not dispute about the claim's. But it's little ye could expect of them, at best, am thinkin'."
               "How so, Reddy?"
               "Why, in regard i' them bein' only Sassenachs, an never havin' the advantage of livin' in Ireland."
               "Nay, nay," responded the knight, shaking his head, "I cannot admit the force of that reasoning—and yet, I must confess, circumstances are somewhat in its favor."
               "Well, well, niver mind; we'll settle that again, sir, some other time, sir. Maybe it's betther for me now to look about for some place to sleep in regard i' yer bein' fatagued afther this throuble."
               Sir Geoffrey looked at Reddy as if he did not comprehend clearly the meaning of his words.
               "Well, I know that, sir," muttered Reddy, in reply to the old man's thoughts. It's a hard thing for one to bring himself to think that he's driven out of his own house."
               "Houseless," whispered the knight.
               "I know, sir."
               "And childless, mayhap."
               "Not at all, sir. God is good. Shure it was him put it in her heart to lave before the throuble come over us; and I'll warrint ye tould the Blissed Virgin to take care av her for ye. So don't be the laste afeerd, sir."
               "But Plimpton—thou forgettest him, I suppose."
               "He darn't harm her, sir. There's that in her face that id save her from the greatest villain in the world."
               "What's that? Reddy—her modesty?"
               "I can't tell ye well what it is, sir; but somehow I niver could look at her myself without feelin' the good thoughts comin' over me, jist for all the world as I ust to feel, long ago, afore the picthur i' the Blissed Virgin in the ould chapel i' Tubbernasiggart."
               "Well, well, now, that's a very strange coincidence. But, truly, father Peter hath often said the same thing to me. And indeed, Reddy, I thought myself I never saw so pure and beautiful a creature in all my life. Mayhap it's a shame for me to speak so of my own daughter, only I don't claim any thing for myself, for all her beauty and goodness comes from her mother. O dear, O dear! what shall I do now, Reddy?" he continued, suddenly changing his tone, as the thought of his wife's tomb in the burning chapel shot across his mind—"it's all a wreck and a ruin now." And the heart-broken old man buried his face in the grass, and wept like a child.
               Reddy sat there for a while, suffering this first burst of grief and sorrow to exhaust itself, and shedding many a silent tear over the prostrate body of his master.
               At length, when the old man's sobs had ceased, Reddy rose and touched Sir Geoffrey on the shoulder. "Come, sir," he said, bending down and speaking to him in a whisper, "we must go."
               "Go! and hath it come to this at last?" said the knight, turnhig on the grass and looking up at the burning pile. "See, the roof of the library is falling in. O, what a crash it makes! just as if it knew I was here, and felt all the weight of it on my heart. Ay, that's the last of it, Reddy. Brockton Hall is no more. Look! that shower of sparks is all that remains now of the once stately mansion of the Wentworths. But God's will be done, who doth every thing for the best. I am an old man, Reddy," he added, rising slowly up on one knee and then upon the other, "an outcast and a beggar. I am driven on the world's cold charity—robbed of all the earthly goods I once possessed; but, God of heaven, I thank thee," he cried, still kneeling on the green sod and raising up his hands to heaven—"I thank thee that one treasure yet remains, which no tyrant can reach nor persecutor violate. O God, O God, I bless thee," he continued, bowing lowly and kissing the very ground in the depths of his humble gratitude—"I bless thee, that in my old heart here, there still remains one green spot, where blooms that divine flower which thy dear Son hath planted—the spotless lily of my faith."
               Reddy could no longer restrain himself. The grandeur of the old man's soul, revealing itself thus under its weight of affliction, overpowered him, and he turned away to give vent to his feelings in tears.
               "Come," said the knight, rising now in his turn, and approaching Reddy; "as thou sayest, let us go. But ah, how's this?—art thou weeping too?"
               "Weeping—me—O, no; it was only some foolish thoughts," he replied, raising his still bleeding hand to wipe his cheeks.
               "And where shall we go?"
               "To Upton, I suppose. There's an Irishman there who'll take us in—one Jimmy McCarthy, an uncle's son i' mine."
               "Hush," interrupted Sir Geoffrey; "see, there's some one near the stables."
               "Ah, that's Houghton; he's in search iv us—come, let's steal down by the garden wall."
               "But the books," whispered the knight, holding back and looking at Reddy supplicatingly.
               
               "Niver mind the books, sir; we'll find them the morrow."
               "Nay, I shall feel lonely without something to remind me of Brockton. If I had but one book—just to freshen up my old memories—'twould be a kind of link, Reddy."
               "O, bedad, we darn't, sir; if I ventured back there, Houghton would see us."
               "O dear me, dear me," ejaculated the old man sadly; "must every tie be broken? Is there nothing left to me of all I once loved?"
               "Come," said Reddy, forcibly dragging the knight away; "come, sir, think of Misthress Alice, and don't be lookin' back that way. Shure it's God's will, and it can't be helped now." And thus saying, he disappeared, leading the broken-hearted old man into the deep shadow of the garden wall.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               As the Lord James Stewart, the far-famed Prior of St. Andrew's, advanced to the bar of the council board, with a slow and steady step, his eye was busy scanning every face in the assembly, from under his grim and bushy eyebrows.
               He was now about his thirtieth year—a tall and powerful man—with shoulders broad and square, and a chest full and round as that of a Hercules. His head was large and heavy; his hair cropped to the skull, like a monk's, and his beard, short and bristly, pointed out over the high, stiff collar of his close-buttoned jerkiin and the narrow raffles that overtopped it. The color of his dress, too, seemed in keeping with his character, being dark, rough, and without ornament, save a few patches of black braid worked on the breast and arms of his sombre doublet. Never was there a more striking picture of cold-blooded treachery than his countenance exhibited on this occasion; his dark, lazy, blood-shot eye, and his compressed, thinly-bearded lip, bespeaking him at once the betrayer, the avenger, and the fanatic.
               Every voice in the council chamber hushed as he approached. Even those of the cabinet who stood highest in the queen's confidence, and were therefore most likely to be best informed of his true position and standing with her majesty, instinctively drew back in their seats, as if they would retreat as far as possible from so awsome and dangerous a presence. Cecil leaned his elbow on the table and covered his face with his hands, and the lord admiral the Earl of Lincoln folded his arms and looked at the bold and unabashed traitor as if he could have ordered him to the gallows. The Spanish and French ambassadors smiled and whispered to each other on the right of the royal chair, and Melville's countenance, as he glanced at the queen and then at the earl, showed how silly he regarded the conduct of Elizabeth, in the poor shift she was then making to deceive the world, as to her complicity with this infamous man. Sir Nicholas Bacon was the only one of the privy council who cared to turn an encouraging look upon the earl. Indeed, his inveterate antipathy to the unfortunate Queen of Scots would have prompted him, perhaps, at that moment, to shake the earl by the hand, were it even covered with the blood of his royal sister.
               As the burly Puritan made his profound obeisance to the queen, the latter, turning away her eyes as if in disgust, promptly demanded his object in soliciting a private interview.
               "I came an exile to crave your majesty's protection," replied Murray; "nothing more."
               "And how cometh it thou'rt an exile, my lord?"
               "For having espoused the cause of God, against the powers of darkness," please your majesty.
               "Ah, that should be small reason for thy banishment, methinks, and especially from thy sister's realm."
               "I need not inform your majesty, that the Queen of Scotland hath ever looked on me as an enemy to her person and throne, since I abjured the Catholic faith; albeit she hath at times permitted me to do her service with the disaffected nobility of her kingdom. But now that I have risked my life in the cause of peace and truth, and essayed to save the country from the bloodshed and civil war which must necessarily come of her marriage with the Earl of Lenox, I am a wanderer and a suppliant at your majesty's feet."
               "Ay, marry, thou turnest rebel and traitor to thine anointed and lawful sovereign, and then fleest hither to her loving cousin and best friend for protection. By our royal word, this is strange, Sir Earl."
               "Nay," please your most gracious majesty, "if thou'lt only think. I meant but to coerce the Queen of Scots to sign the treaty of Edinburgh, and to abandon a project of marriage with the Lenox. In both of these measures your majesty should feel deeply interested; in the one, for the sake of a peaceful settlement of the question of the succession, and in the other for the sake of the well being of the Protestant church, of which your majesty is the pillar and the strength. On these grounds alone do I come to seek protection under your majesty's throne." And the earl, resting his clasped hands on the table before him, bowed and awaited her majesty's pleasure.
               "The grounds on which thou canst justify rebellion against thy lawful sovereign, or claim exemption from its penalty, must be stronger than these, my Lord Murray," replied the queen, turning to Sir Nicholas Bacon, as if she wished to hear his opinion of the matter.
               "Under your majesty's favor," observed the latter, "I see not on what higher or surer grounds your grace could expect his lordship to sue for protection."
               "It can never be the right of a subject to levy war against his sovereign," contended Elizabeth; "and thou knowest that well, Sir Nicholas, for thou'st taught it in thy philosophies."
               "Especially to levy war, at the instance and under the direct encouragement of the rival and enemy of that sovereign," muttered a voice that seemed to proceed from the direction of the door near which Melville was standing, surrounded by half a dozen foreign ambassadors. The words were evidently meant for the ears of the group only, but as it happened, they reached the queen's.
               "Hah," she ejaculated, darting a look at Melville, "who speaks there? Who dares, in our hearing, to utter such a charge?"
               "I have spoken, please your majesty," responded Melville, seeing there was no possibility of escaping the difficulty, and advancing a step or two from the centre of the group.
               "What, in our very hearing? By our royal word, sir, thou dependest much on thy sacred privilege."
               "I echoed but the general rumor, please your majesty," replied the ambassador, bowing respectfully.
               "Ay, sayest thou so?"
               "Truly, yes," continued Melville; "report saith that my lord earl here hath not only been encouraged to join the Lords of the Congregation, in levying war against the Queen of Scots, but hath also been supplied with gold from your majesty's coffers, for that purpose."
               "A right weighty charge, my lords," said Elizabeth, smiling, and looking round at the members of the privy counsel.
               "And the presence here of the arch rebel himself, to claim a private audience of your majesty, would seem to confirm the report," persisted Melville.
               "And pray what hath given rise to this rumor?" demanded the queen.
               "Doubtless the supposed hostility of your majesty to the Queen of Scots, and the frequent visits of Sir Thomas Plimpton, your majesty's confidential servant, to the Earl of Murray."
               "Ah, indeed?"
               "As also," pursued Melville, "the fact of the English ambassador at the Scotch court, one Master Thomas Randolph, having been convicted of plotting the overthrow of the marriage of the queen with the Lord Darnley, that same being the very cause for which my Lord Murray is now a rebel and an exile."
               "By our royal faith, this doth look somewhat suspicious, my good lords," said Elizabeth, still smiling, as if she felt amused at the reasons advanced for these charges against her honor. "No doubt there be letters also, and other such proofs of encouragement. Hath report not yet spoken of such? Ha, ha! thou shouldst search, sir; thou shouldst search, and bring all thy proofs of our guilt together. But what say my good Lord De Foys and the learned Marquis of Quadra, concerning my hostility to this protegée of France and Spain?"
               "That the intercourse between your gracious majesty and this rebellious earl hath given our respective sovereigns much cause for evil thinking," replied De Foys.
               The queen nodded slightly, as if she thought the remark too insignificant for a verbal reply.
               "And sincerely I regret to say, that the mutual hostility of your majesty and the Earl of Murray to the French interests in Scotland," pursued De Foys, "have not tended to alter public sentiment on the subject."
               During all this by play, no one seemed disposed to interrupt the speakers. Perhaps they awaited the termination of her majesty's questions and answers before they interposed to settle the difficulty; or, it might be, they suspected the queen had come to some private understanding with the earl touching the matter. Be that as it may, the members of the council sat silent, and looked like men who were quite satisfied to leave the affair to the queen's own management.
               Murray, the while, stood before them firm and collected—his dark, dreamy eye wandering lazily from face to face, as if he were calculating at his leisure the amount of support he might promise himself from each individual round the council board.
               At last, after a dead silence of a few seconds, the queen suddenly turned to speak to Murray.
               "My lord earl," she said, "we would fain terminate this foolish display of questions and answers; first, because it fatigueth us, and secondly, because it seemeth hardly respectful to our royal self. And yet, much as we are dissatisfied with thy conduct in this affair of Dunfries, where thou hast appeared in open arms against thy lawful sovereign, the which no earthly cause can justify, we natheless must prevail over our sense of dignity, to address thee a question in our own defence."
               The earl bowed his head reverently, and listened.
               "The answer I expect from thee, my lord, is not intended to prejudice thy suit, for on that point we have already decided,—but rather to free our royal self from the charge of complicity with thee and thy lawless associates in the hearing of these three gentlemen, of France, Spain, and Scotland. We therefore command thee to declare at whose instigation thou hast taken up arms against Mary Stuart, our royal cousin of Scotland."
               "At that of my conscience alone, please your majesty," replied Murray.
               "What! hast had none to advise or counsel thee to this step?"
               "I myself, your grace, was the first to conceive the project. Others, whom I may not here name, have afterwards become my associates and abetters."
               "From whence didst thou obtain money for the expenses of this unjust and most wicked undertaking? Listen, my lords, and weigh well his answer," she added, looking towards the foreign ambassadors.
               "We needed not much store of gold, please your grace, the country itself being most willing to sustain so holy a cause."
               "Nay, answer me roundly, Sir Earl. Hath this rebellion received foreign aid in money, and from whence?"
               "From the Netherlands, please your majesty."
               "Hast received aught of encouragement from the Queen of England?"
               "None whatever," replied the earl, without the slightest change of countenance.
               "Neither in gold, nor by letter?"
               "Neither."
               Here there was a general movement amongst the members of the council; and their long-drawn breaths were distinctly heard, as if each one had just felt the crisis had passed. The queen looked about her for an instant, to see what impression the earl's words produced, and then leaning her elbow on the table, she pressed her handkerchief to her eyes, and kept it there for the space of a minute or two.
               "My good lords," she said at length, looking up tearfully, "we are but a woman, and must naturally feel aggrieved by such foul charges against our honor. Pardon us, therefore, if we cannot entirely control the weakness peculiar to our sex."
               "I would earnestly crave your gracious majesty," observed Cecil, rising slowly, and casting his eyes down upon the table, as if he felt ashamed of the queen for humbling herself so far as to clear her honor of so absurd an imputation,—"I would earnestly crave your majesty to dismiss this assembly."
               "Nay, nay, Sir William," she replied, smiling sadly on her trusty secretary, "we must have patience, or Sir James Melville here, our royal cousin's youthful envoy, will charge us, mayhap, with making pretexts to evade inquiry into this ungracious affair.
               "So thou hast declared," she resumed, again addressing Murray, "before this assembly, and in presence of my accusers, (for accusers they are, albeit they speak under cover of reports,) that thou hast received neither gold nor other encouragement from us, to further this rebellious rising."
               "I have declared it," replied the earl, "and do again most solemnly declare it in this presence."
               "What sayest thou to that, Sir James Melville?" demanded the queen.
               The latter bowed, and said the earl's answer was just what he had expected.
               "Humph! mayhap thou hast thyself some questions to put to his lordship," she observed, with a triumphant sneer, which all her efforts to affect the humble and injured woman could not entirely suppress.
               "Nay," responded the young but crafty courtier. "I did think of begging the noble earl to tell us whence came the bags of gold which Sir Thomas Plimpton conveyed to a certain house in Dunfries, not many weeks ago, and if he hath yet recovered a straying letter addressed to him by a good friend at Hampton Court, touching the arrest and imprisonment of one Mary Stuart, and intrusted to this same messenger, Sir Thomas Plimpton; but I fear me the questions would so discomfit the noble earl as to make him trip in the answering."
               
               "I know of no gold conveyed to me by Sir Thomas Plimpton," replied the earl, "nor heard I aught of letters from a good friend at Hampton Court. And I do further declare, that her majesty of England hath given no encouragement, directly or indirectly, to me or any other of the Scottish lords, in so far as hath become known unto me, touching this late brawl; and herein I call God and my conscience to bear witness to the truth."
               This was the declaration Elizabeth longed to elicit, but which she feared to press for, lest the earl might happen to hesitate, and thus mar her plan. From the beginning she was fully satisfied he would readily exculpate her from all direct interference; but respecting the secret overtures made him through Plimpton, she was not so sanguine.
               It was therefore with a feeling of inexpressible satisfaction she heard him boldly and unreservedly exempt her from all participation in the odious rebellion. Seeing he was now fairly caught in the trap, she suddenly rose up, and to the astonishment of all present, deliberately ordered him to quit her presence, as a traitor and a rebel.
               Murray stared at her in amazement.
               Melville laughed, and De Foys and Quadra raised their eyebrows and shrugged their shoulders.
               "Begone," cried Elizabeth; "we have suffered thee to remain here till we almost sicken at thy sight— away, rebel and traitor, and pollute this court no longer with thy loathsome presence."
               "May it please your majesty," began the astonished and crestfallen Puritan, drawing down his bushy eyebrows, and scowling from beneath them; for, notwithstanding his instructions from Plimpton, he was entirely unprepared for this unmeasured denunciation—"may it please your sacred majesty——"
               But the queen stopped him short, and, stamping with her foot, ordered him to be removed, and instantly banished the court.
               "Gad's death, my lords," she cried in a passion, which she well knew how to affect, "we know not how we could so long have borne the sight of this unnatural and remorseless man. And now, in dismissing this assembly," she continued, "we must pray our good neighbors of France, Spain, and Scotland to be less ready in future to credit evil reports of our dealing with our royal cousin. We give ye good day, my lords, and may fair thoughts attend ye."
               She then descended from the chair of state, and left the council room by a private door, preceded by Bowyer, Sir Christopher Hatten, and others, who had entered on a signal from an adjoining apartment.
               Hardly, however, had she reached the private door when some thought appeared suddenly to cross her mind, and turning half round, she commanded Sir William Cecil to attend her instantly in her cabinet.
               The secretary hurried to obey the royal order, and the assembly then broke up, and quitted the council chamber.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               THE Earl of Murray was the first to leave the council chamber. He came forth leisurely, and walked at a slow pace along the hall of passage, and through crowds of gentlemen pensioners, and gentlemen of the privy chamber, who had gathered there in groups, to talk over the late events in Scotland, and speculate on the turn things were likely to take in the audience room. As he made his way to the great staircase leading to the lower halls of the palace, he drew his black cap down over his forehead, and belted his short sword, which he had laid aside on entering the royal presence, round his waist in a manner as quiet and collected as if he had been leaving his dressing room for an evening ramble. He had just reached the foot of the first staircase, when a lady, closely veiled, came tripping down behind him, and brushing rapidly by, slipped a billet into his hand, and disappeared in an instant through an open door that led to one of the porticoes of the court.
               The earl thought he recognized in that vanishing form the gracful step and courtly bearing of the Countess of Harrington.
               Having hastily broken the silken thread, he read the billet, and smiling grimly at its contents, committed it carefully to the breast pocket of his black doublet let. Then descending the front steps, he paced along the area, and out through the sentinels to the public venue leading to the village.
               In front of the royal residence a number of people had assembled from the neighboring hamlets, to inquire into the truth of a report "that the Queen of Scots was marching at the head of a powerful army on the English metropolis," to which, no doubt, the escape of the Earl of Murray had given rise. These news-seekers, mingling with crowds of the better classes who had come to pay their respects to her majesty on her first public reception, after her dangerous illness, formed a large and motley concourse, without the walls. It was seldom such a gathering was seen before Hampton Court, particularly one of so diversified a character. The ragged peasant and the coroneted earl, the sanctimonious preacher and the roistering sportsman, the pickpocket and the constable, the soldier and the sailor, the drunken Dutchman and the prim haberdasher, the drayman and the dandy, were jumbled together in strange confusion, and all pressing forward to inquire of the last who passed the gates, the news from Scotland. At a little distance, however, other and still more busy scenes were enacting. There, perched on a barrel, or on the top of some market cart, might be seen the self-inspired expounder of the gospel, laboring at his vocation, before a crowd of gaping listeners, and vociferating his blasphemous invectives against Pope and Popery, Mary Stuart and the house of Guise; here, on the opposite side, ballad singers shouting the praises of Elizabeth, and holding ing out their caps to receive the contributions of the lovers of song; in another corner, a poet, reciting long stanzas on the queen's divinity—or a painter, exhibiting some flaming portrait of the virgin monarch.
               Amongst the foremost of these noisy poets was our garrulous old friend Christopher Harlow, standing on a wagoner's cart, and gesticulating in most grotesque fashion, as he repeated some exquisite verses on the beauty and grace of those identical royal dimples, in the praises of which he had once been so unceremoniously interrupted by Nell Gower. The portfolio, covered with black serge, and tied up securely by various knots of white ribbon,—the ends of which hung far down by his side,—was there still to be seen under his left arm, whilst the right kept waving in graceful motions to and fro in accordance with his theme.
               Regardless of the busy scenes enacting around him, Murray passed through the crowd, his head bent forward, and his black cap drawn down over his brows.
               On quitting the precincts of the court, he entered a field, and ascended a slight eminence that commanded a view of the palace, and the people without the walls. When he reached the summit, he observed a man leaning against a tree, and gazing down at the multitude below with so fixed and unconscious a stare, as to leave little doubt his mind was occupied with other objects than those presented to his corporeal vision. The earl paused for a moment, on his step, to look at this man, conscious he had often seen that dark and fiery countenance, now twitching and working under the broad-brimmed hat.
               The stranger's dress was somewhat like his own, of a brown, sooty color, but of coarser texture, ill made, and slovenly worn. His outer garment, however, was much longer, extending down so as almost to conceal his black worsted hose. His belt, too, was a little different, being simply a strip of gray girth web, knotted loosely in front, while the latter's was of polished leather, and tightly buckled on the side.
               The earl had little trouble to recognize the thoughtful solitary, as he stood there under the shadow of the old oak. Few, indeed, who ever looked on his face could easily forget it. He was now verging on sixty, rather above the middle size, thin of flesh, but of an active, powerful frame. His eyes were small, gray, and piercing; his nose a little aquiline, his ears standing out at nearly right angles from his head, his high cheek bones well nigh visible through the skin, and his face swarthy and tanned from long exposure to the weather. The earl observed that the nerves of his face now kept continually twitching, a sure proof of his passions being at work within, and that the larger cords of his neck, throat, and cheeks were clearly discernible, even at the distance of twenty paces, standing out in bold relief under the bronzed and weather-beaten skin. His hair was now iron gray, short, thick, and grizzly. His bushy whiskers pointed down straight and stiff over his narrow ruffles, and his black, slouched hat lay close to his skull.
               It was impossible to look at this man for one moment without experiencing a feeling of doubt or fear as to the safety of a nearer approach. Nay, there was a something in his very atmosphere that chilled the blood.
               "Thou here?" said the Earl of Murray, advancing a step or two nearer, and addressing him in that low, hollow voice, for which he was so remarkable when under the influence of his sterner passions.
               "Ay," said the stranger, drawing away his forefinger from his lip, where he had kept it for some time, and looking up boldly in the earl's face—"ay, I have followed thee from Bigger."
               "Ah, thou wert in the fray, then. Verily, I thought thou hadst been at Edinburgh."
               "Nay, the danger lay nearer the borders. And so thou hast failed, and come hither to beg thy life at the hands of this Amalekite woman. Verily, verily, James Stuart, thou hast still a hankering after the gilded bawbles that surround the earthly throne; and, I fear me, placest more trust in the arm of the flesh than in the arm of the spirit."
               "Trust in God doth not except us from the ordinary precautions," observed the earl.
               "Hush, hush, sir; that thought is but a temptation of the evil one, who is this moment luring thee to danger; yea, even to the danger of backsliding, like the Laird of Cragburn Heights, my own kith and kin."
               "I have neither gold, nor credit at the Hague," said the earl. "I have lost every thing at home, and thou surely wouldst not have me stay in Scotland to be hung on the first tree between Dunfries and Stirling."
               "Why not?" sternly demanded the stranger, "if it be the Lord's will? wouldst thou dispute the preordination of the Most High? Ah, verily, right joyful shouldst thou feel to be numbered among the martyrs of the new covenant. But thou'rt still a weakling in the faith; ay, truly, a little babe that crieth for its milk sops. If Heaven required thy blood to seal its new dispensation, wouldst hold back? Speak, wouldst hesitate? Speak!" he repeated, half frantically, stamping on the ground, "for the hour cometh when I must know thy strength."
               "Nay, I will not satisfy thy curiosity; thou fearest for the faith of every one who rushes not madly into thy desperate enterprises. I am weary and sick of this everlasting thirst for blood."
               The stranger stepped back a pace or two, and raised his long, bony bands, up above his head, whilst the muscles of his face and neck swelled out almost to snapping, under the sudden thrill of fanatical rage. "This from him? O Lord!" he cried—"the leader of thy chosen people—the Gideon of the new Israel; woe to him, woe to him, ay, even unto the depths of thy vengeance, if he draw back but a foot from thy battle with the hosts of Ammon. Spare him not—smite him with the forked lightning, the instant his heart first quails before the shock."
               The earl suspected, from the enthusiast's sudden excitement, that he himself must have been the subject of his dark thoughts, whilst he stood leaning undisturbed against the tree, and that he had probably retired to that solitary place, to watch him on his exit from the court. Indeed, it was evident to him, he was suspected of some treachery, and the thought moved his sluggish anger.
               "What demon possesses thee now," he cried, "to speak me thus? or thinkest thou I will ever tamely submit to these hellish suspicions?"
               "Peace, peace, James Stuart," vociferated the preacher, drawing down his heavy brows in a dark scowl, and again stamping his foot; "peace! thou hast once driven me back, when the spirit commanded me to rush upon the French woman's mass mongering, and demolish her idols in the chapel of Holyrood. Peace, and thwart not the designs of the Lord in rebuking thee by the mouth of his servant; but rather gird up thy loins and follow."
               "Whither?"
               "Back to Scotland, to preach there the truths of God to the army of the Congregation, whose souls are thirsting for the waters of life. Back there, whence thoulst fled, like a craven hind, from the trumpet blast of the Assyrian. Back there, to hold forth, in the market-places and on the hills, on the carpet and on the heather, against iniquity in the high places. Ay, back there, where the voice of the Lord calleth thee, and where his chosen ones yearn to see thee, and to gather around thee, and to be filled from thy lips with zeal for God's house, and to grow strong and mighty under thy leading, and to arise and smite without ceasing all who enroll not themselves under the black banner of the Lord; to pursue, even unto the shedding blood, this Moabite woman, who sitteth on the shittim wood, and drinks of the wine of Shibmah."
               "Perdition take this jargon," cried the earl, turning away impatiently from the enthusiast; "reserve it for the rabble an thou like it; but as for me, I'll permit thee to embroil me no further in thy mad enterprises."
               "And so thou'lt return to play at checker board with Elizabeth, and sit on her footstool, and suffer her to pull thy beard, and pat thy cheek, and call thee good friend, till she hath made a puling, love-sick boy of the general of the Lord's host;" and the fanatic opened his wide mouth and laughed, or rather emitted a sound intended for a laugh, from the depths of his hollow chest. "Go, then, but remember thou'lt not escape the wrath of God's deserted people." Thus saying, he moved off a pace or two in the direction of the palace.
               "Stay," said the earl, laying hold of his dress; "go not to the court, or thou'lt be expelled thence."
               "Nay, I will go up as I am commanded, and preach the word in the high place. I will sow the seed, and leave it to bring forth fruit, even in the sloughs and mire of prelacy."
               "Man, this is madness; thou'lt be sent to the Tower."
               "Then I shall preach it from the Tower windows. I have preached it before in the galleys at Brest, James Stuart; and though the iron chain was about my throat, yet my voice hath gone forth across the waters, and resounded through the walls of Holyrood, and the worshippers of Baal trembled at the vengeance which the Lord threatened by my mouth."
               "Hold," said Murray, in a deprecating tone; "I would not have thee excite her majesty. It hath been appointed me to see her late to-night, and I would fain have her mind undisturbed."
               "Ah! late to-night," muttered the stranger, rolling his eyes round in their sockets, and compressing his lips, as if he were forming some new design. "And thou'lt meet her," he added, turning on his step, and speaking to the earl in a calmer voice.
               "Ay, surely will I, though she hath driven me from her court."
               "Ha, ha! banished thee as she would a froward servant. Ha, ha! eh? didst not say banished?"
               "Truly, yes; but in that she had a political end to accomplish, so I've but little cause of offence. In the mean while she solicits an interview."
               "Where?" demanded the enthusiast.
               "Not far from hence. But I may not tell the place."
               "Be it so. At what hour?"
               "Nay, brother, my honor forbids me to speak further of the matter. When the third hour hath passed, meet me here."
               "Ah, good and well," said the stranger, looking keenly in the earl's face. "Keep the appointment; and as thou intendest fair or false to the army of the Kirk, and the children of the Lord, so may the Lord do unto thee." And thus saying, the Puritan broke away from the earl, and striding down the hill at a rapid pace, soon mingled with the busy assemblage below.
               The earl's eyes followed the retreating form; nor did he turn away till he saw him enter the crowd near where our little acquaintance, Kit Harlow, was still gesticulating on the dray cart. For one instant only was his gaunt form shut out from view by his adherents, who immediately crowded around him, shooting and cheering as they recognized their favorite preacher. In the next he was seen to spring into the vehicle, seize our little poet by the arms, and swinging him unceremoniously to the ground, commence himself to hold forth, in thundering accents, to the erect and greedy ears that now turned to listen to the far-famed Calvinist.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               LONG before the hour appointed for the secret interview, the Earl of Murray had been walking up and down, in the shadow of the cemetery walls,—his arms folded on his broad chest, and his head bent forward, —deep in melancholy reflections on his late discomfiture, and in devising still darker plots for the ruin of his royal sister.
               Ever as he turned at the end of the footpath, his lazy eye rolled round under its bushy brow, to see if there was yet sign of the royal night-walker, coming from the direction of the palace. All about him was as still and voiceless as the dead, over whose graves he trod; the very owls and bats in the ivy walls above him were asleep, and even the arms of the old gnarled oak, which had so often scared the village urchins with their moaning and creaking in the night breeze, hung there drooping and silent. The moon was yet in her first quarter, and the clouds lay around her, scattered here and there in dark masses, with narrow stripes of light between, so that it was only at intervals the gable tops of the old ruin could be seen shining in the faint moonbeams. The earl now paused to listen for some sound which he fancied to have heard; but it was only the rubbing of the ivy leaves together up against the half-illumined wall. What a little thing sometimes shakes the soul of the strongest man!—a rat behind an arras, or a beetle striking against a window pane. Macbeth shuddered at the sound of his own footfalls, even at a moment when no human sight could detect the object of his vigil. 
                     
                        "Thou sure and firm-set earth
                        Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
                        Thy very stones prate of my whereabout."
                     
                  
               
               The dark earl stood and looked about him, and feared, and looked again, and then resumed his walk. And why should he fear? Was he not awaiting the coming of a queen?—a queen who had, oft before, given him proofs of her confidence, and who still would run the risk of detection for the gratification of seeing him for one short hour? Perhaps he was agitated by the thought of that very risk she was running, lest spies might lurk about and detect her; or he might have suspected treachery in the note he received from the lady whom he recognized as the Countess of Harrington. No, gentle reader, it was none of these; it was the dark plot against a sister's kingdom and life, now maturing in the secret depths of his soul, that made him look around and tremble. And he quailed not in his hellish design, even as he gazed up at the pale chaste moon, and saw her, like the eye of the Omniscient, looking down upon him. No, he recked not of God a jot; he feared only that man might interpose, and balk him in his purpose. Like a tiger he paced there to and fro, waiting for his tigress to come forth from her lair, that they might hunt down the poor fawn together. And well might it be said, that no two were better mated. Both of the same age, being born in the same year, remarkable for the same boldness and duplicity of character, notorious for the same pretended love of religion, and finally, both illegitimate, and children of the two most libertine and sensual monarchs of the world. What wonder, if, with all these affinities, they should be drawn irrersistibly to each other?
               The hour after midnight had passed, and the earl began to grow impatient of further delay; and then another half hour had well nigh worn away, and yet there was no sign of the queen. "It's not possible she could have forgotten the appointment," thought he. "It's entirely of her own making; and besides, the danger she dreads so much is pressing. Lenox is the husband of Mary Stuart, and may soon be offered the crown matrimonial. Doubtless he shall, for he hath powerful influence in Spain, France, and England, not to mention that of the Hamiltons and the Seatons, and so forth, in Scotland. Should his influence be suffered to unite with that of the Guise round Mary's throne, I fear me the crown of England might sit but unsteadily on Elizabeth's head, and the friends of the Cardinal of Lorrain look round for the apostate of Scotland, to revenge on him the injury he hath done the queen regent. Nay, nay, she forgets not the appointment, and for reasons that weigh heavy with her. She hopes to make me instrumental in bringing about the overthrow of the Queen of Scots, her rival and supposed enemy, and the total extinction of French interests in Scotland; and by my faith, she hath met with one who will try hard not to disappoint her. She is well assured that, with the sway I exercise over the Scottish reformers, I can easily raise a force sufficient to cope with all the Catholic armies Mary can gather around her,—especially since Catharine de Medicis would hold back France from interfering for the present, now that the cautious old diplomatist begins to look across the channel, and to lay her plans for wheedling Elizabeth into a marriage with Anjou. Ah, gramercy, and she knows, too, I wear not these russet garments, nor crop these once shining locks, without a purpose. And what thinks she may that purpose be? Humph! marry, ay, the destruction of Catholicity, the establishment of the kirk, and the ruin of my royal sister. Ha, ha! jealousy of Mary's charms hath made her short-sighted. I care not for the weal or woe of either a bodle's worth, but inasmuch as they may become stepping stones to position, whence I can strike down monarchy at a single blow. Ha! a time may come, when Elizabeth herself will discover that she is not the only royal bastard who hath successfully won his way to sovereign power. Ay, and when that hour doth come, she may have reason to regret the scorn and contempt with which she once banished the exiled Calvinist from her court. I was then meek and humble, nay, a very sycophant—hah! But when the tide turns, when the crop-haired, heavy-browed, scowling Calvinist shall stand on his native heather, surrounded by his countless followers, with their long spears in their hands, and their dark helmets on their heads, and the black banner of the Lord before them, then, mayhap, the world shall learn of the deep and damning thoughts that once lay hid in the breast of the wandering exile, when he stood a puling suppliant at the English council board. But let her use me as she will, yea, even to her soul's damnation and mine, it will go hard or I shall satisfy her—ay even to dethronement of her rival, were that rival ten times my sister. Dethronement! ah, if it were to stop there; but no, no; her face would lose none of its angelic loveliness, nor her form aught of its beauty, by the loss of the sceptre or the crown. O jealousy, thou first of hell-born spirits, how useful I shall make thee in this my last struggle for power! Ha, ha! thou wilt help to win me gold from the English coffers, and willing arms from the scandal-seeking followers of John Knox. Thou shaft make Elizabeth furnish the altar, and Morton the victim for the sacrifice. And yet the thought is damnable. Her innocence and purity ever look me mildly in the face and appal me. To plot her ruin thus is to send my soul down to the lowest depth of hell. O, if I could but think her only half so innocent, methinks my arm would feel stronger to strike the blow. But eh! what's here? hark! I hear a rustling—hush! the queen! the queen!" And hurrying across the graves, he entered the old walls, and there stopped for an instant to look about and listen. He was now within the shadow of a high gable wall, which was still covered with thickly-matted ivy, except indeed at the edges, where the fire by which the building was consumed had bared the tendrils of their leaves. Truly it was as dreary and lonely a spot as could well be selected for a rendezvous— the dead below, and the cold cheerless watery moon above; nor did the form of the earl, standing dimly visible within the dark shadow, detract aught from the solemnity of the scene.
               Hardly had he leaned against the wall and begun to look about, when he observed a figure rising up, as if through one of the tombstones, and quickly approach him. The figure was that of the Countess of Harrington.
               "Whom awaitest thou here, at this hour?" she said.
               "A lady, by appointment."
               "Then, my lord," replied the countess, recognizing his voice, and pointing to the spot she had just quitted, "away, and delay not, for there is danger. I shall remain here till thou hast terminated the interview."
               The queen had seated herself between two low moss-covered monuments, that completely concealed her person, so that the earl had almost trod upon her dress before he perceived her. She was wrapped in a night cloak, with a mask under her hood, and was resting against a headstone of one of the graves. The earl uncovered, knelt down, and kissed her hand reverently.
               "Well, my lord," she began, in a half whisper, "we have but little time to waste in useless words. Let us suppose that our bearing towards thee, in the council room to-day, did not find thee entirely unprepared for the surprise it seemed to give."
               "Please your majesty, I have had timely instruction tion on that score from Sir Thomas Plimpton," he replied courteously.
               "Ah, good and well."
               "Yet, methinks, under your grace's favor, that your majesty might have spared me much of the humiliation I underwent before the foreign ambassadors, and, in especial, before the reverend De Foys, and the young Melville."
               "Paugh," replied Elizabeth, "thou wert there but a Calvinist; and, moreover, it suited us not, under such weighty suspicions, to accord thee a better reception."
               "True," said the earl, bowing low, as if in submission to her supreme will, "but I began to fear that hereafter, throughout the intercourse with which your grace might please to honor your poor servant, your majesty may have made too high an estimate of my future patience under such severe trials."
               The queen bit her lip, and answered that she trusted so prudent a man as the Earl of Murray would hardly again put her in so delicate a position, before the court, as to compel her either to refuse him an audience, or avow her hostility to the queen of Scotland.
               "Nay, I had solicited a private interview, as your majesty will please to remember; and by a right secret and trusty messenger," pleaded Murray.
               "Verily, ay, and obtained it too; but unluckily thou hadst shown thyself publicly in our palace, and thus compelled us to refuse thy request. Well, enough of this. And now, my lord, what are thy future designs touching Scotland?"
               "I am here to receive your majesty's commands thereon," replied the earl cautiously.
               "Ah! thou'rt becoming somewhat reserved, eh?"
               "Nay, but important affairs require to be well thought on, and delicately managed, please your majesty."
               "Fair and true."
               "And weighty bargains demand much care and caution."
               "Bargains?"
               "Ay, verily; your majesty would bargain for the dethronement of Mary Stuart, and I, as an equivalent, for your majesty's recognition of my title, as 'protector of Scotland.'"
               Elizabeth hardly anticipated so explicit a declaration, and it somewhat startled her.
               "The dead tell no tales, my liege," said Murray, seeing the effect his words produced; "and there is not sufficient light here by which to read each other's countenance. Therefore, let us hesitate not to speak our thoughts roundly. Mary Stuart is married to the most powerful Catholic peer in Britain, and likely to have issue, which, in default of your majesty's, will be heir apparent to the two crowns."
               "Doubtless."
               "The child will be educated a Catholic, under the eye of France, and your majesty's personal influence in the state will diminish in the exact ratio as its years increase. I need not tell your grace that men worship the rising, not the setting sun."
               "Ay, truly, and with fair reason."
               "Is your majesty then prepared tamely to submit mit to this coming evil, and resign thyself to the chances of time and fate to decide for or against you; or if not, hath your majesty yet discovered a remedy?"
               "Nay, I cannot bethink me of aught, save another trial of strength between the Pope and the Congregation."
               "Ah, that battle might be fought and won two years hence, please your majesty, if Mary had not married, and John Knox were taught to love bloodshed less, and forbearance more, and the people been reasoned with by sensible and God-fearing men, rather than driven by brainless demagogues and mad enthusiasts into a reckless hostility to Rome. Then, truly, the battle for the succession might have been easily fought and won, without further aid from your majesty; but mishappily, Lenox is now king consort, and will exert all his influence (the which is very great) to counteract every further effort of the kirk, and to crush the hopes of the Calvinist party. Moreover, I doubt not a price is already set on the heads of Rouths, Kircaldy, Ruthven, and the rest who have taken part in this Biggar affair; and so, for the present, there's but little chance of a second rising.
               Elizabeth paused for a moment to reflect, after the earl had done speaking, and then, cautiously feeling her ground, ventured to make a suggestion. "Is there, then, no alternative," she said, pressing her finger to her lip, and looking thoughtful; "and must the nation look forward to a Catholic succession?"
               "Nay," observed the earl, perceiving that Elizabeth beth spoke with some hesitation, "I pray your majesty to be less reserved with one whose whole life has been dedicated to the welfare of Scotland; and who, experience may have taught your majesty, can be safely trusted with state secrets. So speak, my liege, for, an I mistake not, your grace hath already hit on some plan for our deliverance."
               "Verily, no," she said, raising her head over the tombstone, and looking about, lest some one might be lurking around. I can think of nothing that promiseth success. A thought occurred to me, but— but—hem!——" The queen hesitated.
               "Speak, please your majesty; I am listening."
               "O, it was nothing to deserve a moment's consideration—a mere idea."
               "Ay, but great events sometimes grow out of mere ideas."
               "True, when confided to cautious and experienced hands."
               "And, moreover, what is called crime sometimes gives birth to great blessings."
               "Called crime! what meanest thou by that?"
               "From the passions of Henry VIII., which men have called criminal, sprung the first act of the great reformation, please your majesty, namely, the king's renunciation of spiritual allegiance to the see of Rome."
               Elizabeth saw from the language and tone of the earl that he had suspected her of forming some dark plot, and was well disposed to approve it, though he knew not at the moment exactly what it was.
               
               "Your grace was about to speak of some idea," said he.
               "O, 'twas merely of the duke; he is very young, is he not?"
               "The duke?"
               "Ay, Darnley, the king consort."
               "Truly, yes; young, passionate, and vain."
               "Somewhat given to loose habits, if we remember rightly."
               "A very libertine, though still a mere boy."
               "Rather inclined to jealousy."
               "So report hath it."
               "Ah, well, the thought just touched me that he might become jealous of the Italian Rizzio, whom the queen seemeth to regard with such favor."
               "So, so; ah! and then——"
               "Such things oft breed troubles."
               "Ay, troubles for the husband and the wife."
               "And sometimes for the state."
               "Nay, I see not how that may be."
               "Marry, my lord, thou must be short-sighted; think again."
               "Rizzio might be dismissed in disgrace."
               "Ah, he is the nominee of Rome and the Cardinal of Lorraine; to dismiss him would be difficult."
               "Nay, if the king have cause for jealousy, he——"
               "Cause for jealousy!" interrupted Elizabeth.
               "Ay, didst not mean so, your majesty?"
               "Well, be it so, an thou wilt; have cause, or made to have cause—or be induced or tempted to have cause—the result would be the same; eh?" and as the queen uttered the words, she sunk her voice to the lowest whisper, and again looked cautiously round the graveyard.
               A long interval of dead silence followed this last observation of Elizabeth, during which both were busy reflecting on the new idea. The earl, however, raised his head at last, and muttered, half to himself, "If I but thought——"
               "What, my lord?" quickly demanded the queen.
               "That she merited such a suspicion."
               "Well, and then?"
               "Then she ought to suffer the consequences."
               "Ha, ha! think'st thou she's blameless?"
               "I ever thought so."
               "What, pure? unsullied?"
               "Ay, as a very angel."
               "S'death! man, thou'rt but a child; nay, a very simpleton in such matters. Ha, ha!" she ejaculated low and stealthily; "hast lived so long about the Louvre, and know so little of woman?"
               "Ah, madam, Mary Stuart was never once, while in France, suspected of a thought against honesty," replied the earl, and in such a tone as made it impossible for Elizabeth to doubt his sincerity.
               "Suspected! well, be it so. But dost think, my lord, a woman like her, young, and a widow, could so long keep up a familiarity so secret as report speaketh of between Rizzio and the Queen of Scots, without danger to her virtue?"
               "Nay, I had not yet learned to form so true an estimate of woman," he responded, tartly.
               Again the queen felt humbled and rebuked; but she had a point to gain, and she would gain it, even at the risk of losing the earl's good opinion.
               "Ah, because thou hast kept thyself aloof from their society," she said jokingly.
               "Mayhap so, your grace."
               "Thou hast seen Randolph at Holyrood?"
               "The envoy?"
               "Ay; he hath observed much of her intercourse with the Italian, and confirms the general report."
               "Ah!"
               "Nay, he hath even known them sup alone, and at late hours."
               "Alone! humph!"
               "Yea, truly; and when he lay ill two months gone, she seldom left his bed chamber."
               "Ah, but please your majesty, she hath done the same good office to Melville—hath tended him even like a sister."
               "Well, well," muttered Elizabeth, "she may be innocent—it's very possible; and I speak so far but from hearsay. Randolph, and the thousand other believers in her guilt, may be mistaken, and most heartily do I hope so; for she is thy sister, my lord, and my very good cousin. Ah, grieved would I be to think poor Mary had lost her honor—that without which woman is nothing. And so, as to any secret proofs of her guilty intercourse with this Rizzio, I shall say nothing; they may also be calumnies."
               "Secret proofs!" repeated the earl; "come they from eye-witnesses?"
               "Nay, my lord; I dare not."
               "Speak, please your majesty. I am not so bound up in the daughter of Mary of Lorraine, albeit she is the daughter of my own father, that I shall shrink from the revelation. The more she is guilty, the less scruples as to our future course. So I pray your majesty to speak freely."
               "Hush! my lord; not for the world would I reveal what I know of her."
               "Know of her?—and from a reliable source?"
               "No more, my lord, no more. Think as well of Mary as thou hast ever thought, for mayhap she still deserves thy good opinion. For my own part, I am grieved to think I have said aught to make thee doubt of her innocence; nor, verily, would I have uttered a syllable, hadst not thou provoked me with thy foolish speeches of angelic innocence, and other such silly prejudices."
               "Then your majesty thinketh her guilty," persisted the earl.
               "Nay, my lord; my thoughts are my own."
               "If I could but believe it," he muttered, letting his head fall, and leaning his folded arms on his knees.
               In the silence which both now maintained for a time, the one awaiting the effect of the poison she had infused, and the other beginning to feel the new sensations it created, something was heard to fall, and ring sharply on the flags at the earl's feet.
               He stooped to pick it up.
               "Give it me," said the queen quickly; "it's but a miniature!"
               "Whose miniature, eh? my Lord Leicester's?" said the earl, unconscious of the indelicacy of the question; for the previous conversation had so excited him, that he knew not well what he said.
               "Nay, Sir Earl; thou art over bold to speak thus."
               "Pardon me, gracious madam. I humbly crave your grace's pardon; verily, I spoke without a thought."
               "Doubtless, my lord; but why should the idea of a miniature in our possession call up so suddenly the thought of the Earl of Leicester?"
               "Public report, mayhap, hath associated these two great personages in my mind."
               "Report of what, sir?"
               "Nay, please your majesty, it ill becometh your servant to repeat in your grace's hearing what slanderous tongues say of my Lord Leicester. Therefore let me again crave your majesty's pardon;" and bending his knee, he presented the miniature.
               "Look at it," said the queen; "there's light enough at least to see it's not the portrait of the Earl of Leicester."
               "Nay, nay," replied Murray, declining the favor; "I must not presume so far."
               "Examine it, my lord," repeated Elizabeth; "we command thee now that we can no longer conceal it without prejudice to our own honor. Verily, when we saw it for the first time this morning, we little thought it should slip so easily from our fingers. And least of all did we suspect it would so soon fall into a brother's hands, and a brother, too, who had so exalted an opinion of her purity; but the designs of Heaven are inscrutable."
               The earl examined it closely, but failed to recognize the features in the faint light.
               "Keep it then," she said, pushing it back as he handed it over; "keep it till the daylight comes and thou'lt be better able to distinguish between the portraits of the Earl of Leicester and of David Rizzio."
               "Of David Rizzio! what may that mean, under your grace's favor?"
               "The portrait itself meaneth but little," responded the queen; "but being found in the queen's bed chamber, with a love verse on the back written by her own hand, it hath a significance which may not be easily mistaken. Keep it, my lord; it belongeth not to me. It's thy sister's; so keep it safely, for we would grieve to have it fall into unscrupulous hands. When the morrow comes, thou canst better judge of the likeness."
               "Enough," said the earl; "enough, gracious madam; I am satisfied."
               "Ah, better thou wert still incredulous," responded Elizabeth, drawing her breath long and sadly; "for we can foresee many heart-burnings, mayhap murder, springing from this secret, which thy rude and unguarded speech hath compelled us in our defence to reveal."
               "Nay, most gracious madam, I thank thee right heartily for the disclosure; for verily and indeed, it; hath lifted a great burden from my conscience."
               "From thy conscience? and how may that be?"
               "Your majesty shall hear. Since our late discomfiture, and during my flight from Biggar, I have often been thinking how we might make use of the young king's jealousies to bring about the dismissal of this Rizzio, and thus interrupt the correspondence, which, to the great detriment of religion and the state, he hath carried on with the Catholic powers. But, notwithstanding the encouragement I have had to regard this means as lawful, under the untoward circumstances in which we find ourselves placed, yet, I must confess, I had some misgivings of the same. Now, however, that I'm fully satisfied of the woman's dishonor, my scruples have vanished, and therefore it is that I thank your majesty so sincerely."
               "But this jealousy, if once excited, and fastened in a heart so fiery as that of the young king, may lead, I fear, to Rizzio's murder, or to some crime equally terrible and scandalous."
               "We cannot always foresee or provide against consequences, gracious madam."
               "Nay, but that would be an unpardonable crime, and most likely to involve the queen in disgrace and infamy."
               "And what then? that infamy would tend to diminish the number of her friends and increase that of her enemies, and, mayhap, eventually lead to the total overthrow of Popery in Scotland."
               "Ah, marry, my lord," said the queen, laughing slightly, "thou'st recovered thy foresight most wondrously, and opened a long vista before us which hath hitherto been closed. I fear me, natheless, the end may not justify the means in this sad business."
               "Truly, no, if the means be unlawful; but doth not guilt deserve punishment?"
               "Ay, verily doth it; but, my good lord, thy zeal for religion and the state hath somewhat blinded thee to the truth of the case? Dost not understand this miniature was found before the queen's marriage, a therefore should not be taken as a proof of her criminal attachment after it? So, therefore, thou must not be too ready to think evil of her as a wife, whatever thou mayst think of her as a widow."
               "The amorous widow makes but a sorry wife, please your majesty," responded the earl, unwilling to abate a jot of the conviction he felt and desired to feel of his sister's guilt, as the only foundation left him, on which to construct a plot for her ruin.
               "As thou wilt have it so, then, my lord, be thou alone responsible for the consequences," said the queen, in a tone of resignation. "As for ourself, we wash our hands clear of the ungracious and scandalous affair."
               "I understand thee well, most gracious and right royal madam, and so I pray your majesty to let the matter rest. And now, may I, in conclusion, venture to remind your majesty that this late brawl hath left me without money or credit?"
               "That's a great misfortune, my lord."
               "Ay, truly, but one your grace can easily remedy."
               "Nay, our exchequer is almost bankrupt."
               "The Earl of Leicester can replenish it, my liege."
               "Marry, he averreth we have already exhausted his coffers: natheless, we must endeavor to prevail on his lordship to lend thee help for this bout. Take thee care, however, thou implicate not ourself in thy undertakings; for an thou do, by our royal honor thou'lt find us more stern and contemptuous than we appeared this morning in the council chamber."
               Elizabeth now rose, and took the earl's arm to support her, across the graves and tombstones, to where the Countess of Harrington impatiently awaited the termination of their long interview. As they passed the corner of the old ivy wall opposite to where the Countess lay hidden in the deep shadow, a tall figure, in a loose black dress, stepped before them, and in a coarse voice commanded them to halt. The words seemed to come with so authoritative a tone, that the queen half shrieked out.
               "Stand back!" said the earl, recognizing in a moment the voice and figure of the Puritan preacher whom he had met on the hill, after his expulsion from the palace—"stand back and let us pass. Why comest thou hither at this hour?"
               "To meet Elizabeth Tudor, where I may rebuke her without fear of the gallows."
               "Fool, thy mad zeal will destroy all our plans."
               "Nay, James Stuart, but thy sinful dallying with woman, at the hour when Heaven calleth thee to its work, will bring the vengeance of the Lord upon us. Woe, woe to thee if thy sickle rusteth that should be cutting in the field of thy Master—cutting down the brambles and thorns that choke up the wheat. And thou," he added, sternly addressing the queen, "thou who shouldst be an Esther in the court, and a Judith in Bethulia, hast been wantoning with lewd courtiers at home, and suffering many a degenerate Ozias to betray God's people into the hands of an enemy more dreadful than Holofernes. Ay, when thou shouldst have called around thee and taken counsel with the Chabrises and Carmises, for the deliverance of God's people. But I prophesy unto thee that an hour will come, Elizabeth Tudor——"
               "Hold," interrupted the earl, "or thou'lt bring the whole court about us."
               "Nay, James Stuart," continued the enthusiast, raising his voice still higher. "I will speak and spare not, for the Lord hath commanded me to proclaim the judgment he hath decreed against the breakers of his eternal covenant; yea, and the more in especial against those whom he hath raised to the high places, to serve unto his people as lamps to guide their steps to the sanctuary of his presence, but who have become stumbling blocks and rocks of scandal. And I tell thee, therefore, Elizabeth Tudor, that the eye of the Lord is upon thee, and upon thy heart, and upon thy thoughts, and upon thy works, and upon thy secret backslidings, and that the vengeance of Heaven shall overtake thee, and wither thee up, if thou dost not repent of thy evil doings whilst the Lord may yet be appeased, and take up the sword in thy hand, and smite the Philistines, and the Amorites, and the sons of Jeroboam, who have broken the gospel covenant, and take the money from out the iron box, and from the folds of the wolfskin, and give unto him who even now standeth beside thee, and whom the Lord hath called to be another Saul in the battle that must be fought with the powers of darkness. Woe, woe to thee, Elizabeth Tudor, if thou holdest back in this our day of need. Woe to thee if the children of the promise are driven, by the sword of the unrighteous, from drinking of the waters of life, whilst thy hand can wield a sceptre or thy coffers yield gold."
               "Hold thy mad speech," again cried the earl, when the exhausted fanatic had paused for an instant to take breath; "hold, or by our hopes of deliverance, I'll poniard thee through the windpipe."
               "Avaunt! begone, thou presumptuous man," persisted the preacher, "and think not to bridle the tongue of the Lord's messenger."
               "O great God!" ejaculated the queen, "look— see those people."
               "Who? Where?"
               "Entering the graveyard. See, they come hitherward. O, let us fly."
               "Away, I beg of thee," entreated the earl, hurriedly addressing the preacher, "and trust the cause of God and the kirk to me. Away, away, brother, I beseech thee, and breed no further evil to this lady."
               "Who is he?" inquired Elizabeth, in a low, trembling tone. The earl turned, and whispered something in her ear that startled her.
               "Ah, John Knox! is it he? I had not known him."
               "Ay; poor man, our defeat at Biggar hath driven him to the very verge of madness. But stay, I pray your grace; hold back within shadow of this wall; we cannot now quit the cemetery without meeting these people."
               At the earl's suggestion they retired cautiously, step by step, till they reached the wall, and then hid themselves behind the nettles and fern that grew by the side of the old ruin.
               
                  
                     "O great God!" ejaculated the Queen, "look—see those people!!"—PAGE 544.
                  
               
               
               "It's but a funeral," whispered the countess, "and doubtless of some one lately executed, or mayhap assassinated."
               "Most likely," replied the queen, "for I see but four mourners—hardly enough to carry the coffin."
               "Look, they have halted."
               "Hush—speak low—they're within a few paces."
               When the little burial party stopped before the open grave destined to receive the remains, and laid down the body beside it, one of the coffin bearers, motioning the other three to kneel and pray for the repose of the departed spirit, drew a black stole from his breast pocket, and quickly throwing it about his neck, began to recite the de profundis in a low but distinct and solemn voice.
               "A Popish priest," whispered the countess.
               "Hush," said the queen; "listen."
               The man who had taken upon himself the office of priest, on the occasion, was tall and erect as a statue, and habited in a long gray gabardine that descended below the calves of his legs; his feet were without shoe or sandal, and his white hair fell over his shoulders in great profusion. When he had recited the usual prayers prescribed by the ritual, and assisted the others to lay the coffin in the grave, he proceeded to cast the first shovelful of earth on the remains, accompanying the act with the usual words slowly and solemnly pronounced.
               "Remember, man, thou art but dust, and unto dust thou shalt return;" then, sinking the shovel in the loose mould, and kneeling down himself beside the grave, said in the same solemn voice, "Brethren, let us pray for the soul of Giovanni Maraschi, the queen's physician."
               As the last words fell upon the ear of the Countess of Harrington, she started and shuddered. "I knew not of his death," she muttered, looking round fearfully at the queen. "I heard your majesty was to order his removal from the lower dungeon to the ——"
               "Hush," said the latter, placing her fore finger on her lip, and furtively glancing at the earl.
               The figure of a woman closely wrapped in a cloak, and who had come late for the service, now stole noiselessly behind the little group, and touched the venerable old man on the arm as he rose up after finishing his devotion.
               "Father," said the figure, "I have brought thee the letter thou wot'st of." The tall man turned slowly round, and revealed the mild but noble countenance of the Gaberlunzie.
               He had left the cavern of Whinstone Hollow, shortly after the massacre, to inter the remains of the unfortunate Dr. Maraschi, which, contrary to his dying request, had been buried in Potter's Field on the previous day, and now exhumed by a few of Nell Gower's trusty followers, to be deposited in consecrated ground.
               "The letter," repeated the Gaberlunzie.
               "Ay; dost not remember in the cavern, when I confessed to thee concerning the ——"
               "Hold, I know nothing here of thy confession, good woman. This is not a time and place to speak of such matters. Come hither, out of hearing of these men, if thou wouldst consult me as a priest." And he led her away from his companions, and, as it happened, within four or five feet of where the queen and her party lay concealed in the fern."
               "It's a right weighty matter," father.
               "Ah, well, proceed, and tell it under the seal of confession."
               "It respecteth the child Nell Gower told thee of."
               The queen gasped for breath, and would have screamed out, had not the countess prevented her.
               "The child she hath been nursing for the Earl of Leicester?" said the Gaberlunzie.
               "The same."
               "And what knowest thou concerning it?"
               "This letter, so please thee, reverend sir, is the proof of its parentage."
               Elizabeth's head now fell against the countess's bosom, and the slight groan which followed it made the earl turn quickly.
               "Is her majesty ill?" he inquired.
               "Nay," replied the countess, "'tis nothing; the cold hath slightly affected her. Be not disturbed, my lord; she will revive presently."
               "It suiteth not my office," said the Gaberlunzie, "to have aught to do with such letters. Natheless, I shall keep it, lest it breed mischief in thy hands."
               John Knox, who had all this time been sitting on one of the tombstones, in a deep and absorbing reverie, and totally unconscious of what was passing before him, now looking suddenly up, saw a man standing in front of an open grave, wearing a priest's stole about his neck.
               
               "Who art thou, to presume thus to practise thy mummery at this solemn hour and place?" he cried, springing off the tombstone, and confronting the Gaberlunzie.
               "Ah, thou here?" ejaculated the latter, stepping back and gazing at the excited preacher. "I thought I had left thee in Edinburgh."
               "I am where the Lord willeth, Henry Howard."
               "Ever, ever on my track. And what wouldst thou now?"
               "Arrest thee in the name of justice, for practising Papistry against the law of God and of the state; for inasmuch as thou hast led away the children of promise from the living waters to quench their thirst at the stagnant pools, where they sicken and die; for laboring to set up again the idols we have broken in the temples of Baal; for having done these evil things, I now summon thee to the judgment. Come before the judges of the land, that they may condemn thee to death for thy abominations." And seizing the Gaberlunzie by the arm, he attempted to drag him away.
               In the midst of this altercation, the earl and the two ladies escaped unobserved round the corner of the wall, and were soon on their way to Hampton Court.
               "What," exclaimed the Gaberlunzie, pushing back the excited preacher, "dost not see we are five, and thou'rt alone?"
               "Five! I am stronger than five thousand Assyrians," replied Knox.
               "Away with thee, madman, and trouble us not. And ye men," he added, turning to his assistants, who now seemed disposed to take part in the dispute, "touch him not, as thou fearest my displeasure."
               "Nay, I will drag thee to the judgment," persisted Knox; "yea, even should I die in the effort; for thou art an emissary of the evil one, and I would be as a traitor to the Lord to let thee escape. Come, wretch, and resist not," he vociferated, laying hold of the priest by the breast of his gabardine; "come to the judgment, thou man of sin, thou slave of Antichrist, thou ——"
               "Away, demon of hell; for thou hast not a drop of human blood in thy heart," cried the Gaberlunzie; "begone, and tempt me not further;" and wrenching the preacher's hand from his breast, he flung him back with such force as to hurl him to the ground.
               It happened that, in falling, he struck against a gravestone, and cut his cheek; but though the blood flowed freely from the wound, over his ruff and jerkin, he was nothing daunted, and instantly starting on his feet, was about to rush a second time on his prey, when the earl seized him by the arms and held him back.
               "Avaunt! keep thine hands off, James Stuart," cried he, struggling to free himself. "I command thee, let me go, that I may smite the idolatrous son of Baal, and bring him before the judges of the land."
               "Hush, hush," said the earl, hissing the words in his ear; "hush, thou maniac; "by our hopes of deliverance, an thou but speak that name again, I'll poinard thee as I would a dog."
               
               "Unhand me, and begone, backslider and traitor; unhand me, that I may seize this Amalekite priest, or I shall curse thee in the name of the Lord, and of his people, whom thou art betraying. Unloose me, James ——"
               "Hold, thou spirit of hell—be silent;" and the earl shook the word from his mouth.
               While the two Calvinists thus struggled, the one like a bloodhound bounding to break the leash and pursue his victim, and the other holding him back by the wrists like a vice, the Gaberlunzie and his assistants lost little time in covering up the remains of the unfortunate doctor.
            
            
               CHAPTER XL.
               AS the queen and countess crossed the fields beyond the cemetery wall, they saw it was now approaching day; and the former, fearing to be recognized by the guard or household of the palace, in the gray light of the morning, ran with all possible speed through the sharp brambles, and long wet grass, followed by her faithful attendant. In her breathess haste, however, she could not help expressing her dread of exposure.
               "The letter, the letter," she ejaculated, as she ran on.
               "Fear not, madam," replied the countess; "we shall find means to secure it ere it can do the least injury to your grace."
               "Great God! what if he hath revealed all?"
               "Who? Dr. Maraschi?"
               "Ay, in revenge for his imprisonment."
               "Impossible."
               "Nay, some Catholic about the prison may have supplied him with writing materials; and I fear me, moreover, he hath been all the while he resided at court corresponding with Catharine de Medicis."
               "That cannot be, gracious madam; we have intercepted his letters, and could find in them nought to excite apprehension."
               "Ah, would to God, natheless, he had been more closely watched."
               
               "Nay; but thinkest thou Catharine would speak so distrustingly of your majesty in reply to those letters we wrote her in his name, if she suspected they came from us, or from other than the doctor himself?"
               "Ah, she's a cunning woman," muttered the queen.
               "Truly, yes; but—but hark—hark! I hear footsteps; some one speaks from behind the hedge. Hush—let us conceal ourselves here beside the pathway, under this old hawthorn till they pass."
               "Mayhap the priest and his party," whispered the queen.
               "Nay, your grace; they come from the direction of the forest."
               "It may be the spaewife in her night rambles."
               "Hush—here they are, and we can see them through the hedge."
               The queen and countess now crept stealthily under an old hawthorn that grew by the side of the fence, and took such a position as to be able distinctly to see the new comers. "Keep quiet," said the queen; "listen; that's Leicester's voice—heavens and earth! and a lady by his side."
               The Earl of Leicester, accompanied by Alice Wentworth and Rodger O'Brien, the latter carrying his left arm in a sling, now passed rapidly by on their way to the palace, and within three feet of the royal watcher. At this moment, as fate would have it, the light breeze of the morning lifted up the veil from the young girl's face, and exposed to the fiery, concentrated gaze of Elizabeth one of the most beautiful countenances she ever beheld.
               "Fear not," said Leicester, confidently, as he turned his head and smiled familiarly at the maiden; "I shall protect thee, even against the queen's anger."
               The words had just time to reach the queen's ear, when her hand, which had been hitherto resting fondly, as a sister's, on the countess's neck, tightened with so sudden and convulsive a grasp as to make the latter start from her recumbent posture, and almost scream out with pain.
               "Traitor!" muttered Elizabeth between her clinched teeth, darting a fierce look at the retreating form of the earl and his companion—"traitor! villain! would that I could stab thee to the heart by her side."
               "Nay, your majesty must not be disturbed," said the countess soothingly, taking the queen's hand in hers, and tenderly pressing it to her lips.
               "Away!" ejaculated Elizabeth. "I am no child to be fondled thus." And she snatched her hand, and turned in anger from her confidant.
               "I beseech your majesty not to charge the noble earl too rashly with ——"
               "Peace, babbler; what knowest thou?" And folding her arms, she stood for a time fearfully silent, her eyes fixed on the ground, and her whole frame trembling with increasing excitement.
               The countess remained behind, wringing her hands in an agony of terror; for she dreaded, from her long experience of the queen's ungovernable temper, she might be tempted to do something terrible in the first burst of her jealous rage.
               "The false villain!" again muttered the queen, as the fire of revenge, fed by jealousy, now broke out and spread through her whole system, shaking it as by a palsy—"the false villain! to cast me thus off in my fall."
               "Please your majesty," pleaded the countess, venturing to lay her hand tenderly on the queen's shoulder, "may not the lady be the companion of the youth with the wounded arm?"
               "Ah!" she ejaculated, turning suddenly on the countess as if stung by a viper, "that reminds me; 'sdeath and furies! this, then, is the fair damsel of Brockton, whom Leicester hath kept so near the court, and hath consorted with so much. Ha, ha! my lord; ha, ha!" she continued, the sounds coming hoarse and hollow from her heaving chest, "thou shalt answer for this with thy head."
               "Nay, madam, report saith the maiden is betrothed to the youth."
               "Betrothed? Pugh! what cares he for betrothal? a poor safeguard, indeed, against his advances. Marry, to see her face once is enough for him to draw consequences. O, misery, misery! that I could thus fall so low—so low as to be cast aside for the first pretty face. But be she saint or devil, I swear by my hopes of salvation," she again muttered through her teeth, raising her right hand, and clinching it in a paroxysm of rage, "an I but live to see two suns go down, they both shall sleep in the Tower, and stone walls, six feet thick between, or they shall be so separated as never more to meet in this world."
               "O my liege, to banish the noble lord from your grace's presence, for having walked with a lady by moonlight; what will the busy tongues at court say? Nay, your majesty cannot mean it."
               "Mean it! ay, so help me vengeance!" she cried, stamping on the ground. "I'll crush him as I would the worm under my feet."
               "And yet," submitted the countess, "the earl may be innocent."
               "Innocent! he innocent? thou'rt a fool, woman; innocent, and in the company of such a maiden as that? Listen to me, Harrington; thou knowest I loved him."
               "Ay, your majesty hath deigned to look kindly on him."
               "Kindly? ha, ha! kindly!"
               "Verily," replied the countess, "that were enough for an emperor."
               "Paugh! minion; peace with such shifts, and palter not with me thus. I am not here on my throne; I am here no longer the queen, but the woman. Listen to me; I loved him dearly, fondly, madly; nay, I loved, adored him more than the God who made me. I bowed myself before him, with my crown on my head, and my sceptre in my hand. I surrendered my whole being to him. I sacrificed what the world calls honor to appease his godship, and which was dear to me as life, because in losing it I knew I should lose his respect, and risk his attachment. And now am I debased and degraded at his feet. I love him still as madly as ever. O, but did I love him a thousand times more, were that possible, I would sheathe my dagger in his heart. Nay, if I had no dagger to plunge, I would tear his false heart out with my nails like a tigress, the moment I discovered he devoted but one thought to another. 'Sdeath! I am no lovesick maiden, to be content with smiles; he must be mine body and soul; he must exist in me and by me, or he or I must cease to live. Countess, if thou hast not hitherto known me, then know me now—know me, as a woman in whose veins no drop of tame blood ever yet ran; whose passions, wild as her father's, have never once been bridled but to deceive those pious fools who surround my throne and call me virgin. Ha, ha! virgin! gramercy, virgin! I laugh at the thought. Nay, I'm a woman, and greedy of men's homage as of their love. I would be their idol, or I would be dead. I would draw all that could minister to my passions around me, nor would I abate a jot of the adulation the least honored of my court could offer. O, let the highest of them betray but a semblance of indifference to my favors, and I cut his head off as I would a poppy's, or send him to feed rats in the Tower dungeons. Such is thy mistress, minion, and such shouldst thou too find her, didst but presume to thwart her in this her deep revenge. Look to it that thou balk me not. Clasp not thy hands thus in supplication; I have sworn to risk power, honor, life, to crush him. Come, then, follow me; there is yet time. I shall beard him at the very gate of the palace. I'll confront him there with his paramour. Come on, and follow me."
               "O, I beseech your majesty," entreated the countess, dropping on her knee, and stretching up her hands in fervent supplication.
               "Obey me, slave; rise and follow me. God's death! if he have slighted me thus, his proud head shall fall. Ay, should no other arm be found in England to strike the blow, mine own shall smite the traitor." And thus saying, she rushed recklessly through the thorny hedge, out on the footpath by which the earl had just passed—her dress torn, her cloak clinging to the prickly branches behind, and her long hair tossed over her shoulders in wild disorder.
               "O Elizabeth of England!" exclaimed the countess, pursuing her through the hedge, and laying hold of the skirt of her dress, "I implore, I entreat thee, in the name of God, and of that young Church of which thou art the head and the heart, not to persist in this wild purpose."
               "Unhand me, minion!"
               "Wilt thus fling thy crown and honor both to destruction?"
               "Unhand me!" she repeated, hardly able to articulate; "I care not for crown or honor? revenge is dearer to me than both together."
               "Patience, patience, gracious madam, and listen to me for an instant. O my God, my God! wilt not hear me for one moment? Hush! they are not yet beyond earshot, and may return to discover all."
               "Loose thy hold," cried Elizabeth, choking with rage, and raising her hand to strike, "or I'll buffet thee on the face; let me go, or I'll fell thee to the earth."
               "Never!" cried the countess.
               "I command thee, minion, slave! let me go."
               "Never! strike, an it please thee. I will die here by thy royal hand ere I suffer thee to rush to shame and ruin." And flinging herself down, she permitted the queen to drag her along the ground.
               "The perjured villain," still ejaculated Elizabeth, trying to break away frorn that portion of her dress which the countess held in her grasp; "he shall die ere an hour has passed, or sleep in the dampest cell of the Tower. Wretch, slave, traitress, let me go."
               "O, the child! think of the child, gracious madam."
               "Child, child! What child? detractor, calumniator, liar—I have no child. Should ten thousand tongues speak that falsehood, I'll cut them out, one by one, and fling them in the streets for dogs to feed on. What! what! I have a child? didst thou say I gave birth to a child? Speak it again, speak it again," she cried, drawing a short poniard from her bosom, and gazing at the countess, whilst her eyes shot forth flames of fire—"speak it again, and the lightning of Heaven shall not annihilate thee sooner than I ——"
               The countess trembled as she looked up and saw, even in that dim light of approaching day, the clinched teeth and fiery orbs of the infuriate queen grinning and glaring down upon her, and reflected that she was the only one whom that terrible being had intrusted with the dangerous secret.
               For a moment the enraged woman seemed to deliberate, holding the dagger, pointed and ready to strike. Each gazed at the other fearfully, without averting a single glance.
               "Strike," said the countess at length, "strike, my queen. If thou fearest me, it's time I should die. Since I have lost thy confidence, I can have nothing more to live for."
               "Could I but bring myself to doubt thee," muttered the queen, still pointing the steel towards her prostrate confidant. "And yet its safer ——"
               "Hold," thundered a deep voice from behind; and as the queen turned to look, the Earl of Murray leaped the hedge at a bound, and stood before her.
               "Gracious Heaven, what means this?" he demanded, somewhat sternly. "Ah, the Countess of Harrington crouching beneath a naked poniard in your majesty's hand!"
               The countess loosed her hold, and Elizabeth withdrew the weapon, gazing silently at the earl, like one awaking from a frightful dream.
               Neither spoke for the space of a minute, but stood facing each other like statues, without life or motion.
               "Hegh, sirs, what a sight!" cried a second voice from behind the hedge. "Ha, ha! the twa bastards hae met again to plot the downfal' o' Rome and Scotland. Ha, ha! the deil himsel neer saw sican a sight!"
               "Perdition seize thee, whoever thou art," cried the earl, springing from the queen's side, and darting away in search of the speaker. But he searched in vain; a faint Ha, ha! from the rocks beyond was all he could detect.
               When he returned, he found the queen holding a kerchief to her eyes, in her left hand, whilst the right rested lovingly on the neck of the Lady Harrington.
               
               "Farewell, my lord," she said in a faltering tone, stretching out her hand as she spoke; "there's no time now for explanation. Keep the secret of our weakness locked up in thy breast; and for the rest, trust to our friendship."
               The earl knelt, and kissing the queen's hand reverently, retired without a word; and then the latter, leaning on the arm of her faithful attendant, hurried through the fields, and soon entered the palace by a secret wicket, unperceived by the sentinels.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLI.
               A WEEK had now elapsed since the burning of Brockton Hall, and the news of the catastrophe had begun to spread through the metropolis, and to be spoken of as something more than usually horrible, even in these internecine times, when the firing of churches, convents, chapels, and private residences of Catholic gentry were of hourly occurrence. Rumor, which always exaggerates, gave its own coloring to the story, namely, that a simple old country gentleman, of ancient and honorable family, and nearly allied to the highest in the land, who had for a long time retired from the world, and devoted himself to prayer, alms-giving, and the study of sacred literature, had been shut up in his mansion in Worcestershire, and together with a faithful domestic, burnt to death for having refused to acknowledge the queen's spiritual supremacy. Whether it was that the circumstances of the case had created an actual feeling of disgust and indignation against the perpetrators of the deed, or that the enemies of Sir Thomas Plimpton seized on it as a pretext to heap shame and infamy on the merciless upstart whom the queen's favor had elevated so much above them, it is hard to say. But certain it is, Sir Thomas was beginning to feel uneasy. In fact, he observed that, for some time past, his friends, who, but a few months before, had surrounded him, on all possible occasions, with the most officious attentions, began to grow cold of late, and many of them even to meet him with averted looks and contemptuous recognitions.
               The Earl of Leicester, too, who had, up to this time, somewhat dissembled his scorn for the son of the Sussex smuggler, lest he should offend the queen, now no longer hesitated to order him out of his way, as he passed to and from the court, and to treat him generally in the most uncourteous and insulting manner. Even the queen herself, who had made him her confidant, (though, in reality, she despised the fellow, using him merely as a tool to work out her designs,) could hardly sustain him much longer against this general and increasing contempt, and probably would have abandoned him altogether, were it not that she feared his resentment. Could she have found another equally serviceable in carrying out her plots and plans, she would probably long ago have banished him her kingdom, or despatched him, or confined him a life prisoner in the Tower, on some specious pretence, and no doubt heartily congratulated herself on the riddance. But to supply his place was difficult, especially at this juncture, and to banish or despatch him was a measure for which she had not yet made the necessary preparations.
               Plimpton, though a greedy, avaricious man, willing to run every risk for the accumulation of wealth, and sometimes reckless and blundering as a clown in its pursuit, was yet exceedingly shrewd and clear-sighted in estimating the precise nature of his position at court, and the characters and dispositions of those with whom his office brought him into contact. He hated Leicester, and he feared him. He hated him because he was supercilious to all, but to him in particular on every occasion when he had an opportunity of being insolent. And he feared him because he was now grown to be even more powerful at court than the queen herself. He longed for the moment when he could effectually ruin him with Elizabeth; but he felt the charge should be no trifling one, and knew, if he failed in the attempt, he must inevitably fall himself. As for the queen, he was satisfied she had no confidence in his honor; and if she trusted him at all, it was because she regarded him as the butcher's dog that protects the shambles for the sake of the garbage. Besides, he observed, of late, she began to look on him with furtive glances, sometimes put him strange questions, that indicated her doubts and fears of his prudence and honesty, and even ventured occasionally to elicit answers intended to implicate him in serious difficulties. Still he felt safe, inasmuch as she did not yet suspect him of having discovered more secrets than she thought proper to confide directly to his keeping. Had he betrayed the least knowledge of her connection with the burden which the lady under the protection of the Earl of Leicester had secretly conveyed on a certain night from the court, or suspected the use she was about to make of Rizzio's miniature, which he had stolen from Holyrood,—and on the back of which she herself had written the amorous couplet in the unfortunate queen's cipher,—or of any other such hazardous matter, his term of life or liberty had been short indeed. He felt, therefore, that his days of court favor under so capricious a mistress might soon draw to a close, and perhaps terminate fatally and suddenly if he did not take timely precautions. He was placed between two dangers, the avowed enmity of the earl, and the growing distrust of the queen; and, in truth, either of them was peril enough to demand care and circumspection from higher and more important personages than he was ever likely to be about the court. For these reasons it was that, in defiance of every obstacle, he persevered in his determination of seizing on the person of the heiress of Brockton, compelling her, under the queen's sanction, to marry him, and then retiring from public life to enjoy the pleasures which wealth might purchase, far from the dangers and troubles that now beset him. And it was in reality to promote this end he sometimes of late gave the queen cause for certain misgivings about him, which, while they amounted not to a positive suspicion of his knowledge of certain secrets, yet made her begin to feel uneasy under his watchful eye, and desirous of ridding herself of his presence at the first safe or convenient opportunity.
               But now there was another cause for general indignation against him, namely, that he had in a certain measure compromised the queen, by making an indiscriminate onslaught on the Catholics assembled at Whinstone Hollow, and putting to death no less than fifteen, including the priest, under cover of her majesty's warrant. For this the queen should be held responsible to the public, the massacre having been perpetrated in her name, and under sanction of her authority, notwithstanding she intended to grant merely the right of search and capture. So the nobility looked upon the transaction.
               With the people, however, the case was entirely different. Ignorant of his real character, they attributed his persecution of the Catholics to his extraordinary zeal for the extinction of Popery, and the propagation of the true faith. In their estimation, he was a very Gideon; in fact, as great a champion of the church of England as John Knox was of the kirk of Scotland; and hence it was they could easily afford to pardon his excesses. But the people were not those by whose good opinion he should stand or fall; they might crown him with laurels, but they could not save him from the gallows or the block.
               And even his rabble popularity, what was to become of it, when, if matters were strictly investigated, it would be seen that his love of religion was assumed merely to aggrandize himself, and, that, as in this very last instance of his zeal, the possession of a rich and beautiful woman was at the bottom of all his hatred of Popery and love of truth?
               Such were the thoughts that passed through his mind in rapid succession, after awaking from a disturbed sleep late on the morning after the massacre of Whinstone Hollow. Dark and gloomy enough they were for a morning meditation; but still they left him not entirely without a ray of hope to brighten them. For, let the worst come to the worst, the queen had made him an unconditional promise of the hand or the fortune of Alice Wentworth. Either of these let him once gain possession of, and he cared not a jot for friends or enemies.
               As his servant drew back the curtains of the windows, he rose slowly from his couch, where he had thrown himself in his dressing gown, looking haggard and weary.
               "What's the hour?" he demanded.
               "Just twelve, noble sir."
               "Ah, so late? Hath any one called?"
               "Ay, sir, a messenger from court with this paper." And the servant handed him an official looking missive.
               "Humph! as I had expected; a citation before her majesty in council at four of the clock; well, we shall see. Any thing else?"
               "Sergeant Houghton awaits your noble pleasure since the early morning."
               "Ah, he hath come at last, then; send him hither instantly."
               A moment after, Houghton entered his master's bed chamber, covered with sweat and dust, his clothes torn, and his face swollen and dotted with blotches. As he stood there in the centre of the apartment awaiting his employer's pleasure, he looked the very impersonation of ferocity.
               "Well," muttered Sir Thomas, leaning sidewise in his arm chair, and turning up a look at the trooper, "thou hast at length arrived."
               "Ay, sir; I am here."
               "An so hast burnt Brockton Hall and its master; ha, ha!"
               "Nay, I did neither," responded Houghton, drawing down his bushy eyebrows, and apparently disposed to resent by his short and angry reply the ungracious reception he had met with after all his toil and suffering.
               "Neither?"
               "Neither."
               "What! is not the mansion burnt to the ground?"
               "Ay, but not by my hand."
               "Well, thou hast the credit, at least; what of the profit?"
               "The doer of the deed hath the profit; who else could deserve it so well?"
               "Ah! and who may he be?"
               "Sewall, the steward."
               "What! burnt the house, and carried off the gold?"
               "Ay, and the plate also."
               "Confusion! cheated us—fled—gone—left nothing?" demanded Plimpton, turning suddenly in his chair and staring at the trooper. "Death and furies! can he have thus befooled us?"
               "Most truly he hath."
               "And the other servants—Stinson, Riddle, and the rest—what of them?"
               "Fled, with all they could carry off."
               "And thou ——"
               "Outwitted by a dog of an Irishman, who bound me with bowstrings, donned my garments, and then carried off my men at a moment when I fancied every thing within my reach."
               
               "Well, proceed," groaned Plimpton, leaning his cheek on his knuckles, and eying the trooper. "Go on with the tale; hast nothing more? By my halidome, the story's quite refreshing; ha, ha! As to the knight of Brockton, what sayest thou? consumed in the flames?"
               "Ay, we left him in the library when the fire broke out, and have not seen him since."
               "Eh? what? not sure he's dead?"
               "He could not escape but by the windows, and the fall had killed him."
               "Ah! so then he died by the fall or the flames?"
               The trooper nodded assent.
               "Gramercy, I wonder thou hadst not saved him, that he might be a further stumbling block in my way. Marry, 'twould have only been of a piece with the rest of thy bungling. And the oath— hast thou tendered it?"
               "Ay did I; and right scornfully he treated the same."
               "Again?"
               "Yea, and called her majesty most villanous ill names—a royal bastard, strumpet, Jezebel——"
               "Hush! hold thee there; thou must not repeat such blasphemies."
               "Blasphemies! marry, if to speak evil of the queen be blasphemy, why, then the old recusant deserved the flames; the which, if every blasphemer of her majesty's divinity suffered, by my certies, she would soon have but few subjects."
               "And the witnesses to the tender—thou hast not forgotten them."
               "Truly, nay; I remembered thy instructions thereon. And here be the names written at the bottom," he said, drawing a bundle from his pocket, and taking from it the copy of the oath; "William Waglippet, to wit, and his cowherd, Andrew Jobson. And this" he added, placing a square parcel in his employer's hands after the latter had examined the signatures, "this I found concealed amongst the knight's books, and have carried hither for thy inspection."
               "Ah, a gold shoe buckle," muttered Plimpton, having broken the cord and opened the box which the reader will remember the trooper to have secreted so carefully under his wrapper, or inner jerkin. "A gold shoe buckle; ay, and by all the gods and devils, one of King Henry VIII.'s. Nay, I'll be bound, the very one the queen hath rated my Lord Leicester so roundly for losing. Ay, marry, H. R., with a crown between. Humph! how found this its way to Brockton? Mayhap a keepsake from the earl to Mistress Alice, when he first met her during her majesty's progress in Worcestershire. Report saith she then found much favor in his sight. Ah, my good lord, we must let thy loving queen see this trinket; doubtless she may know it again, and, moreover, put thee some puzzling questions concerning it. And the parchment—what may this mean? hah! Verily, a Baptisterium." And Sir Thomas read it carefully over and over again, and then, replacing it in the box, committted it to the drawer of the table near which he sat.
               "I fancied it might be of some value in thy hands," said Houghton, carelessly, "and therefore have I preserved it."
               "Well, of this anon; for the present, keep thy counsel, and eschew the ale barrel."
               "Humph! one may easily do that when he hath not sixpence in his purse to buy a draught of small beer."
               "Thy purse shall be filled, and thy garments mended, to befit thee again for thy calling. But hark thee; dost know aught of this Jeannie Southron, whilom of Evesham, spoken of in this parchment?"
               "Nay, but I've seen one Robert Southron; mayhap her brother or cousin; he liveth at Evesham, and is keeper of Ashby Park."
               "And Oliver Goodniff—thinkest thou this be honest Oliver, of the Whitehorse of Wimbleton?"
               "Doubtless the same, being born in those parts."
               "Ah, good; then shall I intrust thee with a matter of some moment. Thou'lt change thy garments, crop thy beard, and fill thy purse, (albeit gold is somewhat scarce now,) and forthwith hie thee to the Whitehorse, and ferret from the cautious Oliver what he knoweth appertaining to this Whitret Macbairn; whether he be still living, and where he may be found; for I would fain know something more respecting his birth and lineage. Haste thee, then, and hie thee to Wimbleton; the time passes, and I must prepare to meet the council respecting this ugly brawl. And hark thee, once more; look to it that thou dally not by the road, nor sit long by the beer can or wine cup."
               Houghton left the room as he entered it, without showing the slightest mark of respect for his employer, either by word or nod, and prepared to start on his mission to the Whitehorse of Wimbleton.
               Plimpton, also, having dressed and breakfasted, issued forth and passed through the village on his way to court, somewhat apprehensive of the result of the investigation, but fully satisfied it would terminate his fears and anxieties, at least, respecting the estates of Brockton.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLII.
               WHEN Plimpton had reached the palace, he found the massacre of the preceding night had created an unusual sensation among the courtiers. In the different rooms, and seated on the benches along the corridors, as he passed, several groups were engaged warmly discussing the subject. Some were for arraigning him for murder, some for demanding his immediate imprisonment, and some for petitioning the queen to expel him from court, as one who brought disgrace both on her majesty and the church. Indeed, the conduct of Plimpton appeared so disgusting and inhuman to all those who could look dispassionately on the matter, that it was generally felt he should be called to account; and not alone for the butchery in Whinstone Hollow, but also for the murder of Sir Geoffrey Wentworth, and the destruction of Brockton Hall. As he wended his way, therefore, through the rooms and passages of the court, he heard his name frequently pronounced, and various opprobrious epithets levelled at him from all sides; so that the farther he went, the stronger was his conviction that his pretended zeal for religion could no longer be made a cover for his crimes, and that even at the court of Elizabeth, it was not always an easy matter to play the accomplished villain with impunity.
               Being one of the queen's messengers, and having easy access to her majesty at all times, he now resolved to see her before the trial took place, and thus ascertain what course it might be best for him to pursue on the occasion. Pushing open the door, therefore, of the antechamber, he boldly entered, and requested Bouyer, the usher, who stood there converging with other gentlemen of the court, to inform her majesty that he craved an interview of a few moments on business of special importance.
               The assurance with which Plimpton entered the antechamber and addressed the usher induced the latter to suspect his business might be some political affair requiring immediate attention, and, therefore, bowing coldly to the royal messenger, retired to present his request.
               The door had been closed somewhat longer than usual on such occasions; but it opened at last, and Bouyer appeared, motioning Plimpton to enter.
               As the latter disappeared, the usher announced to the gentlemen in waiting, that her majesty was graciously pleased to dispense with their services for the present, and that the trial, or investigation into the Whinstone Hollow affair, would take place in open court, at four o'clock on the morrow, the queen herself presiding in person. "In the mean time," added Bouyer, "her majesty hath seen fit to send thee good greeting, Sir Edward Turnbul," addressing that functionary, "as seneschal of the Court of High Commission, and commanding thee, by these presents, forthwith to take into thy custody the bodies of one Alice Wentworth and one Rodger O'Brien, both at present sojourning in the palace of Hampton Court, and both safely keep in separate rooms, and from speech of all men, until the queen shall order their production for trial; and furthermore, you are commanded by her majesty to proclaim by sound of trumpet, of crier and herald, that her liege subjects are invited to witness the proceedings thereunto appertaining, so that all may see with their own eyes, and hear with their own ears, how a sovereign should act who hath respect for the law, and love for her subjects."
               As Plimpton entered the privy chamber, the queen had been walking up and down the apartment, apparently agitated; for her step was bolder and more hurried than usual, and she kept tapping her palm quickly and sharply with her fan.
               "Come hither, sir," she said, halting on her step, and scanning his dark countenance for a moment, as if she expected to realize in it something she had been just thinking of him. "Come hither, Sir Thomas, and acquaint us with thy good pleasure."
               "Please your most gracious majesty," he replied, kneeling, and taking an end of the queen's scarf to kiss, in sign of his humble gratitude—"please your most gracious majesty ——"
               "Hold, sir," interrupted Elizabeth, suddenly drawing back, and snatching her scarf from his hand; "thou must not presume even thus far, whilst in disgrace with thy sovereign. But touching that charge, we shall investigate it on the morrow. For the present, what wouldst thou with us?" And sitting down, she crossed her arms, and waited for Plimpton to begin.
               "It's but a trifle, my liege," said he, conceiving it safer to defer speaking of himself till after he had conciliated her in some measure by the communications he had to make. "It's in itself a mere trifle; and yet, in good truth, it somewhat concerns your majesty."
               "Humph! mayhap it's on that account but a trifle," said the queen, bitterly; "our peace and happiness being of small moment to our courtiers of late."
               "To me, your humble and dutiful slave and servant, your majesty's peace and happiness must be ever dearer than life."
               "Paugh! we understand this fanfaronade but too well; what is thy business?"
               "Please your grace," he replied, drawing from his breast the little iron box which Houghton had given him but a few minutes before, "I have brought this for your majesty's inspection;" and unfolding the parchment, he respectfully handed it to her.
               "Humph! what may this be?" she demanded, without deigning to look at it; "eh? or dost presume so far as to expect we should examine every paltry, filthy thing thou'rt pleased to hand us?"
               "Under your majesty's favor," replied Plimpton, bowing humbly, "it purports to be a baptisterium, or baptismal registry of a royal infant."
               "A royal infant!" ejaculated the queen, instantly turning white as paper, and staring at Plimpton, whilst the parchment in her hand trembled like an autumn leaf.
               The latter, affrighted at so startling a change in her majesty's countenance and manner, drew back in terror; and then instantly recollecting the midnight scene at the court-yard gate, and the subsequent conversation in that very room between her majesty and the countess regarding the babe, he shrunk back still more, and gazed down on the floor horror-stricken at his indiscretion, and unable to speak a word.
               In this manner, both for a time remained silent— the one in speechless agony from the conviction that her guilt was discovered, and the other from dread of immediate imprisonment or death.
               "A royal infant!" repeated Elizabeth; "what meaneth this, sir?" and as she spoke the blood rushed back again to her face, and then, starting on her feet, she glared at Plimpton's bent form as a panther does when preparing to spring on a bear, and Plimpton quailed and cowered before her like a heron under the wings of an eagle.
               "Speak, dog, what meaneth this—this royal infant? hah! who dare ——"
               "Nay, nay, your majesty," faltered out the terrified courtier, dropping on his knees, and losing all self-possession in the fear of utter annihilation, "it's not of that—it's not of that—look to the date."
               "Of that! of that! 'sdeath! of what, sir? slave —dog—wretch—answner me; darest thou venture thus to malign ——"
               "Mercy, mercy!" cried Plimpton; "spare me, gracious madam, spare me, and vouchsafe to listen for one instant. I meant not that—it's not— nay, it's a royal infant baptized some twenty years ago."
               "Twenty years ago?" repeated Elizabeth; "then it's not—hem! eh, sir? twenty years?"
               "Even so, please your majesty."
               "Ah, marry; twenty years ago; didst say twenty years ago? art sure thou saidst not lately—within a month, or a year, or ——" and whilst endeavoring to restrain herself, she was trying to hit on some pretext by which she might naturally account for her precipitancy.
               "Please your grace, the child was born long ago, as your majesty will see by the registry, and far from hence."
               "Gramercy for the brat! what doth it concern us, man?" she muttered, drawing back, confused and excited. "But, God's death! we have so many calumniators about the court, that we know not what evil things may be said of us, and therefore thy words sounded somewhat equivocal in our ears."
               "Your majesty will pardon my rude speech, when your grace remembers that it was only when greatly encouraged by your royal favor, I first ventured to enter your majesty's presence; and that now, after spending so many years at court, I'am still confused when your highness condescendeth to speak."
               "Nevertheless, thou hast not spent thy time fruitlessly, I trow; and if thou hadst learnt nothing else, thou hast learnt at least to play the eavesdropper whilst acting the waiting gentleman."
               "I have the misfortune not to understand your grace's allusion," returned Plimpton.
               "Humph! we merely said thou'st learnt as many court secrets as thy place gave thee opportunities."
               "Nay, please thee, gracious madam, I have learnt none but those intrusted to me by your royal self, the which are locked within my breast, where no key can enter, save the master key of your majesty's will."
               "And yet," muttered the queen, still eying him doubtfully, "we fancied, but a moment gone, when speaking of this royal infant baptized some twenty years ago, thou wert somewhat more confused by our foolish mistake than the simple fact could well account for."
               "I saw your majesty was displeased," replied Plimpton, "and not being conscious of any offence, I was troubled lest your grace might harbor some suspicion, against which, not knowing it, I could ill defend myself."
               "Enough," said the queen; "thy wits have come back again, and thou hast ensconced thy secrets behind thy wonted prudence and discretion once more; so it would be useless to question thee further on the matter; but let us examine this baptisterium. Humph! 'To Sir Geoffrey Wentworth, our good friend and loving brother, greeting:' ay, a royal babe; ha, ha! in Evesham. Godparents, Oliver Goodniff and Eleanor Gower; the mother, Jane or Jeannie Southron. Humph! 'Teach thy child, the daughter of Annie Howard, her faith, for the preserving of which her uncle now resigns his fortune and his name.' 'Sdeath! here's the wanton again; this is thine own fair lady, eh? is she not?" inquired Elizabeth, looking up at Plimpton. "This daughter of Annie Howard; and who may her uncle be? H.H.—Henry Howard, mayhap. Ah, marry, this is doubtless Lord Henry Howard, who hath been so long missing from England, and supposed to have taken orders in Italy or Spain. Dost know aught of this Henry Howard?" she demanded, folding the parchment and laying it on the table.
               "Nought, save that he wandereth about somewhere in Scotland. John Knox hath seen him in Edinburgh of late."
               "John Knox?"
               "Ay, please your majesty."
               "Hast spoken with Knox?"
               "Nay, but Davidson, my servant, hath. He saw him with the Abbot of Killwilling, soon after the arrival of my Lord Murray. Knox chargeth this Howard with making much mischief among the Catholic adherents of the queen of Scots, and of greatly injuring your majesty's reputation with the lords of the Congregation, by the calumnies he hath circulated."
               "And of this royal babe knowest thou aught? The letter attached to the registry here is in the handwriting of the late Duke of Richmond, (whom our royal father foolishly raised to that title,) and moreover doth truly acknowledge the paternity of the babe in due form of such presents. Thinkest thou the child yet liveth?"
               "I know not, your grace; but I could find out something concerning it from Nell Gower, or Oliver Goodniff."
               "And this same Oliver Goodniff—what is he?"
               "Keeper of a hostlerie called the Whitehorse, of Wimbleton, within a league or two of the city. I can have speech of him within the hour."
               
               "Nay, we will not double thee now; 'tis but a matter of little moment at best."
               "And yet, please your grace, if this child liveth, it might breed disquiet, especially in these days of disputed successions. How know we but France or Spain may some day claim royal rights for this grandson of Henry VIII.?"
               "We shall ourself provide against that," said Elizabeth, decisively, waving her hand to preclude further conversation on the point.
               Plimpton, seeing there was no likelihood of his being confidentially employed in this affair, on the credit of which he had prided himself much, was now apparently about to take leave of her majesty, and had made a motion to that effect, when something fell from his breast.
               "Ah! what is that, pray?" exclaimed Elizabeth, whose quick eye caught the glittering object in its fall.
               "Verily, it's but a shoe buckle, pleass your majesty," replied Plimpton, stooping to pick it up.
               "It's of large size," said the queen, fixing her eyes intently on it. "Eh! let us examine it more closely. Eh! what! how's this?" she exclaimed "'sdeath, sir, how came this in thy possession?"
               "It came from Brockton, please your majesty."
               "From Brockton, eh? From this Sir Geoffrey Wentworth's?"
               "Even so, your grace; seeing the initials of his sovereign majesty engraved thereon, I carefully preserved it; and yet, verily, had it not fallen, I might have left without showing it to your grace."
               "How came it there?"
               "Nay, I know not; but a troop sergeant of my company found it in a room of that house."
               "A room of that house," repeated the queen, endeavoring to repress her ire, and to speak collectedly.
               "Ay, amongst some ribbons and brooches in the drawer of a lady's dressing table."
               "Ah, amongst ribbons and brooches; humph! didst question this man further as to the quality of these brooches, and other such trinkets as he saw there?"
               "Nay, your majesty; but I shall if it so please thee." And Plimpton, though he looked not in her face, was conscious the while that a fire raged deep in her heart, which, if well fed, might yet grow strong enough to consume the supercilious and haughty Leicester.
               "We have lost or mislaid, or—given away a trinket to some one," said Elizabeth, "and cannot well recollect; 'twas a ring, with a large ruby—hem —thou'st heard nought of it?"
               "Nought, please your majesty."
               "Ah, well, let it pass. Touching this buckle, however, we must endeavor to ascertain how it came to travel so far away as Worcestershire."
               "Stolen, mayhap," observed Plimpton, carelessly.
               "Ay, doubtless; or dropped in the streets. Well, sir, hast aught further with us?" she suddenly demanded, beginning to grow impatient of his presence the moment he had no further secret information to communicate.
               
               "Save this broil at Whinstone Hollow, please your grace."
               "Nay, sir; depend not on us for thy clearance. If thou hast exceeded thy authority, thou alone must answer for it; for by our royal soul, we defend thee not."
               "Please your majesty ——"
               "Away sir! we have spoken. What, 'sdeath! wouldst palter with us?" And stamping on the floor she vented on her unfortunate confidant the rage that had been so long silently devouring her. "Away, fellow, away! quit the room, we command thee; and learn to chasten thy presumption. God's mercy and patience! we shall soon be but a very puppet in our palace."
               "Gracious mistress, I have but executed the warrant, and ——"
               "Begone!" she said, pointing to the door; "begone, and leave us."
               Plimpton fell on his knees before her, and raised his hands in supplication.
               "By our hopes of mercy—slave, dog, villain! if thou rise not instantly, we send thee to the Tower."
               Seeing there was no hope of assuaging her anger, he rose up at length, and bowing low, retreated to the door, not venturing to utter a word.
               The queen followed him step by step, as if she could have buffeted him on the face.
               For an instant he paused at the door with his hand upon the handle. He felt that if he left her in this rage, he might never again have an opportunity to retrieve his blunder about the royal infant.
               "What, sir, dost still refuse to leave?"
               "If your majesty thus cast me off, I am undone. Nay, I may be tempted ——"
               "Tempted! what? to reveal state secrets. Hoa, there, Bouyer! come hither."
               "Not so, not so, gracious madam; I meant not that, but ——"
               "Hoa! there, Bouyer!" she continued, not deigning to hear a word in explanation of what, in the madness of the moment, she took for a threat. "Hoa, there, Bouyer!" she cried, as the usher hurriedly entered; "convey this fellow to prison; and let this be your warrant," she added, taking a paper from her bosom and handing it to the officer. "Hah! we have not left ourself entirely unprepared for this treacherous hind. Away with him to prison, and let him there learn respect for his sovereign, till the hour of trial come to-morrow; and see to it—for we charge thee on the peril of thy life—that he have speech of no one."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               ON Plimpton's exit from the privy chamber, Elizabeth retired to her boudoir, and, flinging herself on her fauteuil, began to reflect, as dispassionately as she could under such exciting circumstances, on the dangers to which she was now, on all sides, exposed. Long and sadly did she ponder over the events of the last few days; and many a secret scheme did she devise for offsetting the evil consequences which might result therefrom.
               In the council room, she failed not to observe what little value the French and Spanish ambassadors set upon her integrity, during the examination of the Earl of Murray, and how readily Melville detected collusion between her and the arch rebel. She was too shrewd a woman not to see, in their conduct and bearing on that occasion, a clear evidence of the opinions entertained of her by their respective sovereigns. So far, then, she had completely failed in blinding these two great powers to her infamous complicity. Nay, more, she had overreached herself. When De Foys and Quadra's reports of that day's proceedings should come to the ears of Charles and Philip, her faithlessness and duplicity would be exhibited in a clearer light than ever, and these jealous neighbors begin to watch more narrowly in future all her movements, both at home and abroad, —Philip, her correspondence with the Low Countries, and Charles, her intrigues with the disaffected nobles of Scotland. And yet she dare not abandon the Netherlands. Such a step would ruin her forever with her Protestant subjects, to the most influential of whom she had already given a solemn promise of sending money and ammunition to the insurgents. Neither could she relinquish her designs on Mary Stuart, lest she might disappoint the hopes of the Calvinists, suffer the old French influence to revive, and thus, perhaps finally endanger her own throne.
               On the other hand, what would become of her if her Protestant subjects at length discovered, that instead of a virgin queen, in whom they had hitherto felt so much pride, they had, in reality, but a lewd and corrupt woman—a worthy daughter of the most infamous of sires. What if the child yet came to light, furnished with undeniable proofs of its royal parentage? in a word, what if she who had so often whined and wept before her council and her people, over the weakness and frailty of her royal cousin, was found herself to be no better than the paramour of the most licentious noble of her realm?
               Again, as to the Catholics, what would they say of the reformed church, whose director vowed her virginity to God, in order, as she declared, the more uninterruptedly to watch over both the eternal and temporal interests of her people? nay, had even gone so far as to pronounce the marriage of the clergy incompatible with the faithful discharge of their duties, whilst, at that very time, she was leading the life of a mistress of the most dissolute and abandoned of men?
               
               There was, therefore, but one course open to her— the old one—namely, to conciliate France and Spain as far as might comport with her sovereignty, and thus endeavor to gain time to work out her designs in Scotland, hoping that when she had effectually crushed the Queen of Scots, her own thriving power might then be great enough to cope with her more distant and dangerous neighbors.
               But yet, how could she venture to carry out this intricate and dangerous policy, while the fear of exposure was ever acting as a drag on her energy and a weight upon her heart? Were she certain of the death of the child, or even of the earl's safe disposal of it, she might courageously go to work; but, alas! she knew the child was living, and would still live as long as Leicester could preserve it.
               Last of all, there was Plimpton. What was to be done with him? It was evident from his shuffling and blundering answers respecting the young Richmond, he had come to the knowledge of the secret, and perhaps, if permitted to remain longer at court, might become extremely troublesome.
               Having long and seriously pondered over these matters, each in its turn, and in the order of its importance, she then slowly raised her head from her hand, and looked about her as one awakening from a midday slumber. The shoe buckle was still in her hand, but she had not felt it till now, so absorbed was she in her reflections.
               "As to that," she muttered, looking at it, "it gives me little uneasiness, for I have resolved to despatch the wanton if she marry not Plimpton. For myself, would to Heaven I could hate him, and have some fair pretext for sending him to the headsman."
               At this moment, the Countess of Harrington entered, and approaching her majesty, kissed her hand as usual.
               "We have just been thinking, Harrington," said Elizabeth, "of ridding us of this Plimpton fellow."
               "Hath he begun to grow troublesome to your majesty?" inquired the countess.
               "Ay, he linoweth now somewhat too much for a court messenger."
               "And yet," replied the countess, "he had been crafty enough, methought, to dissemble his knowledge of state secrets."
               "Marry, even in that he's but a poor blunderer. 'Tis hardly half an hour gone since he betrayed his knowledge of the—of that—the child," she faltered out with painful hesitation.
               "What! good Heavens! your majesty doth not mean ——"
               "Ay, he knoweth every thing concerning it."
               "Did he presume to ——?"
               "Nay; but he let the secret slip his tongue in his confusion of the moment."
               "And doth your majesty fear him?"
               "We fear every one," she replied quickly.
               The countess looked up in her face. "Even your majesty's old and faithful servants?" she murmured.
               "Marry, an they be faithful, we need fear them not. Nay, nay, be of good cheer, countess, and look not so downcast; thou art safe while thy prudence and caution last; when they forsake thee, then thou mayst dread the block."
               "Ah, then I shall dread nothing," responded the countess with a smile.
               "Dread nothing!"
               "Verily, nay, for then I shall be dead, and the axe can no longer harm me."
               "Well, well, be it so. Hast seen the girl?" she inquired, suddenly, changing her tone, and again looking at the buckle, while her lips twitched and her cheek grew paler.
               "I have, your majesty; the earl hath confided her to the safe keeping of his Cousin, Madam Anne Dudley."
               "Is she very handsome?"
               "Truly, she is somewhat good looking; but a mere toy withal."
               "Of bold bearing?"
               "Nay, bashful as a Yorkshire peasant."
               "Of stately presence?"
               "Indifferently well."
               "Humph! she's but a bawble, then, to break with the toying."
               "Yea, truly, something of that kind, your majesty."
               "Thou'st seen Mary Stuart; how compares she with her?"
               "Greatly alike, please your grace, save that the maiden hath not so commanding a figure nor so fair a skin."
               "Commanding figure and fair skin," repeated the queen, snappishly. "'Sdeath, I know not how every eye seeth beauties in that lovesick woman."
               "The Queen of Scots?"
               "Ay, for she's but a painted puppet, after all."
               "Truly, a very effigy."
               "Without courage to kill a spider," said the queen contemptuously.
               "Or a soul above a worm."
               "Or a thought beyond her needle. And men speak of her as of an angel. By our royal honor, it would seem she can bewitch them all, even her worst enemies."
               "Nay, nay, she bewitcheth but boys and pages, who follow butterfies for their pretty wings."
               "Wouldst thou be loved for thy face, Harrington?" said the queen, smiling faintly.
               "Paugh!" ejaculated the countess, turning up her little nose.
               "And for what then?"
               "For those noble qualities of mind and heart, which exact at once both admiration and love; for these virtues, my peerless sovereign, for which thou art loved and honored by thy friends, and feared and hated by thine enemies."
               "Hush! Peace, thou foolish one," said the vain woman, slapping the countess lightly on the cheek; "thou'rt flattering ever thus."
               "I love my sovereign too well to flatter her," replied the countess gravely.
               "Marry, then, thine eyes detect more perfection in thy queen than others, mayhap, as highly favored."
               "Ah, but they had not the good fortune to be so honored with her confidence, and to live so much in the light of her presence."
               
               "Ay, truly, the man on whose foot I stooped six months ago to place this buckle," she said, endeavoring to control her emotion, and holding up the precious trinket before the countess, "was as highly favored by his sovereign as the Lady Harrington."
               "My Lord of Leicester?"
               "And yet he soon forgot the noble qualities thou speakest of, if, indeed, he ever saw them."
               "Impossible, my liege."
               "Ha, ha!" ejaculated Elizabeth, her voice again betraying the passion she labored so much to suppress—"ha, ha! my dear countess, he hath given this buckle—once my royal father's,—as a token of his love to this very recusant damsel."
               "It's false," cried the countess boldly; "he never gave it;" and she spoke with a decision of tone and manner she had hardly ventured to risk under other circumstances.
               "Thou silly wench, what knowest thou of the matter?"
               "That he's too noble and honorable a gentleman, please your majesty, to play so poor a part."
               "God's grace and mercy, woman!" replied the queen, evidently pleased with the countess's defence of her favorite, notwithstanding she believed him false at the moment, "it was found in her dressing room at Brockton Hall."
               "Nay, there must needs be some mistake: who hath informed your majesty of this fact?"
               "Sir Thomas Plimpton, whose sergeant found it there, and conveyed it to him."
               "Plimpton is a very villain, and I'll believe it not," exclaimed the countess passionately. "Right gladly would he hang the noble earl on the highest gallows in England, had he but the power."
               "Ah! true, he is his enemy; yet methinks Plimpton knoweth Elizabeth Tudor too well to trifle with her in this matter; moreover, how came he to know this buckle belonged to the Earl of Leicester?"
               "Did he say 'twas his?"
               "Nay, but I read the knowledge in his face."
               "Mayhap as he camre to know of the other secret. Marry, its hard to tell; but an I be not greatly mistaken, he knoweth more than he obtaineth credit for."
               "He shall know less before the week pass," said Elizabeth significantly.
               "Doth your majesty mean to—to—remove him?" inquired the countess, casting her eyes down, and looking at the point of her shoe.
               "Ay, if this errant damsel refuse to wive with him."
               "The which she will surely do, your grace."
               "Good! hath she told thee so?"
               "Truly she hath; and yet but yesterday and she had pledged him her hand right joyfully."
               "Ah! how cometh the change so suddenly?"
               "Yesterday she had wed him to save her father; to-day she hath no father to save, and prefers death to such a union."
               "Her father was lost in the burning of Brockton,— is it not so?"
               "Ay, so report hath it."
               "And pray, how might her marriage with Plimpton save her father from the penalty of recusancy?"
               "Sir Thomas pledged himself to intercede with your majesty in his behalf," replied the countess jeeringly.
               "God's mercy, then," cried Elizabeth, stung to the quick, "this wanton lacketh not advocates about our court. But we must see whether our mighty Lord of Leicester, or our gallant Sir Thomas Plimpton, shall interpose with impunity, and at their own good pleasures, between us and the exercise of our authority. As for this smooth-faced and fair-skinned damsel, we shall send her to the Tower to learn a lesson of submission to the laws of her sovereign; and then see what upstart courtier of them all dares to stop the way. God's death, woman, we shall not suffer the highest and best in the land to wink, and shake his head, and tell his strumpet he can manage Elizabeth."
               "Sir Thomas Plimpton, my liege, deserveth not the prison alone, but the bastinado, and that right roundly, for taking such unwarrantable liberties with thy sacred name; but, as regards my Lord Leicester, he's of noble birth and high office."
               "We care not what be his birth or rank," cried Elizabeth, now pacing the room with hurried step and quivering lip; "and, furthermore, we swear by Heaven, he shall not arrest our arm when it rises to strike. Ha, ha! my good lord, even thou, mayhap, shall yet learn that thy couch had proved safer than Whinstone Hollow last night, where thou'st carried thine archers to protect a mistress and annul a queen's warrant."
               "It was a shameful massacre, my liege, and one which even the royal warrant could hardly justify. Had not his lordship come to the rescue, every Catholic in the cavern had perished."
               "And yet we see not how the earl can account for his presence at Whinstone Hollow, at so late an hour."
               "Mayhap he had gone thither to see the spaewife respecting the charge he had given her."
               "Ay, ay, woman, I know that. But the damsel, how came she there? How knowest thou this charge was aught but a pretext for his visits to the wench. It looketh suspicious that he could have chosen this famous hag, of all others, to be the babe's nurse, she being, at the same time, the very protectress or keeper of this girl."
               "I must confess the affair looks somewhat strange," replied the countess, "and yet, as for the girl, she speaketh of the noble earl more as a friend than as a lover. And I'll be bound, were the truth known, he hath never thought of the maiden but as a protector."
               "Be she innocent or guilty," said Elizabeth, "she's at least a recusant, and shall, with God's good help, sleep in the Tower before to-morrow's sun goes down. Away, and tell the Earl of Leicester we would have him acknowledge his errors, and sue for pardon ere the trial come on. And now leave me; it's the hour for Cecil's coming, and I would fain have a moment's reflection before he enters."
               There was little time, however, for preparation; for hardly had the countess left, when Bouyer entered, and announced Sir William Cecil.
               "Thou'rt punctual, Sir William," observed Elizabeth, listlessly entering the privy chamber, and stretching out her hand to the secretary. "And now we must to business without further delay; for we feel somewhat weary, and would retire to rest for an hour. So, what of France?"
               "Please your majesty," slowly began Cecil, "Sir Francis Walsingham, by despatch of this morning, informs us that the queen mother either discredits or affects to discredit the rumor of your majesty's secret overtures to the Earl of Murray, and others of the disaffected Scotch nobles in April last."
               "Ha, ha! good," replied the queen.
               "And furthermore, she avers to have received private letters from a well-tried and trusty correspondent, residing in the close vicinity of her majesty of England, who exonerates her majesty from all questionable interference with Scottish affairs, and speaks in right laudable and respectful manner of her private life and character."
               "Ah, truly," replied Elizabeth, "we are much indebted to our good friend; pray, who may he be, Sir William?"
               "Nay, I know not, please your majesty. Your grace hath so many friends and admirers, foreign and subject, about the court, that it were right difficult to tell. And yet we must see that such good offices be not suffered to pass unrewarded."
               Elizabeth thought of the burial scene of the previous night, or rather of that morning, and glanced at Cecil, to see if by chance that iron countenance betrayed any knowledge of her guilt. But there was no sign of suspicion there.
               "Some poor Frenchman, mayhap, to whom we have shown kindness, and who now, in his gratitude, overrates our poor deserts. But of Catharine's marriage scheme—what sayeth Walsingham?"
               "That it hath stood your majesty in good defence, against the open hostility of France, and that if your grace suddenly repelled the duke's advances, such a step would involve your majesty's kingdom in a most deplorable and destructive war."
               "Verily," replied the royal tactician, "Walsingham speaks wisely in this matter; and much as we are disposed to live a single life, we care not, by a prompt refusal, to involve our loving subjects in trouble and expense; the more in especial, at this time, when foreign expeditions and Flemish loans have well nigh exhausted our already impoverished treasury."
               "So that your majesty thinks it better not to terminate hastily these matrimonial negotiations."
               "Ay, truly; ungracious measures should be deferred to the last moment."
               "There can be little doubt, your grace, such a step would precipitate a war."
               "Yea, and mayhap bring this conspiracy of the Catholic powers to a speedy ripening, of which France formeth but a part."
               "Marry," said Cecil, looking pleasantly at the queen, "I find your majesty's thoughts outrun ours in these difficult and delicate matters, as they do in all others, insomuch that verily we begin to think your majesty must regard us as exceeding slow and tardy councillors."
               "Nay, as for that," she replied, elated as usual by this fulsome flattery, and laughing as she spoke, "we once learnt to read the stars. Dost not remember, Sir William, how well we studied the occult sciences together in the days of our retirement? So we must be indebted to the heavenly bodies for our prescience in these matters."
               "Ay," said Cecil, "I always thought your grace's inspiration must have come from above."
               "Paugh, gramercy, man, it requireth little inspiration, withal, to foresee war proclaimed against England, if Catharine de Medicis once relinquishes the hope of a union of the crowns."
               "And with the jealous and crafty French woman the powerful and wealthy Spaniard, and the dark-plotting Austrian, England could have little chance in the battle field," added Cecil gravely.
               "Little for the present; but a time may come, Sir William, when, with God's good help, we may cope with them all."
               "If needs be," replied the cautious statesman; "but peace with such powers as France, Spain, and Austria, were the best policy England could pursue for half a century to come."
               "Well and truly said," replied the queen; "and yet we can foresee a religious war raging in half that time, against the which we would fain have our exchequer well stored, and our troops well disciplined."
               "Ah! let your majesty wed Anjou," submitted Cecil, again returning to his favorite subject, "and the Catholic powers should have long arms to reach your majesty over such broad shoulders as France could interpose in the quarrel."
               "True; but Anjou might reconcile us with the pope, and then send us on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land in penance for our apostasy: ha, ha! what sayest thou to that, Sir William?"
               "Rather that your majesty might convert him to the church, and thus obtain a stronger foothold for Protestantism in France."
               "And with such a husband at our elbow, were he even a Protestant, how could we prosecute our designs in Scotland?" demanded Elizabeth. "Hah! by our honor, man, thou'rt short-sighted this morning. Marry, thy arguments for the marriage are still as lame as ever, and thy repetition thereof beginning to be somewhat tiresome of late."
               "It's a vital question, please your majesty," persisted Cecil, "and must soon be settled. Catharine presses for a definite answer, and I need not tell your majesty she is not a woman to be trifled with, when the interests of her house are concerns."
               "Humph!" said Elizabeth, glancing cunningly at Cecil; "we have decoyed fish into the shallows as crafty as France can boast of; and yet our lure is as safe and tempting as ever."
               The statesman laughed.
               "Ay," pursued Elizabeth, "we love to angle, but we fear to spoil our fly in the catching; ha, ha!"
               "And yet your majesty hath fooled so many, these six years gone, that I fear me the fish begin to suspect the decoy."
               "Ha, ha!" she playfully cried; "fear not for that, man, fear not for that; the colors are bright and taking; let us only draw it dexterously by the nose of this young trout of France, and we may fool him yet for years to come."
               "Then your grace would instruct Walsingham merely to crave time for reflection, with the continued assurance of your majesty's most favorable intentions."
               "Nay, man, that dose might not be strong enough. Let him make something as near a promise as may be without compromising our honor."
               "Ah, would to God," said Cecil gravely, "your majesty saw the advantages of this union as clearly as I see them; then your royal promise would be given from the heart, and without reserve; ay, even in the face of this selfish and unjust vow."
               "What, our vow of virginity?"
               "Ay?"
               "And how call you it selfish and unjust?"
               "Inasmuch as your majesty hath consulted your grace's natural inclination to a single life more than the interests of the realm, and the wishes of the people. Moreover, how knoweth your grace but this strange vow may be in direct opposition to the will of Heaven?"
               "Our conscience hath assured us of that," replied the queen promptly; "and being of God, it cannot err. Ah, Sir William, no monarch ever yet loved her subjects so well. Nay, we could cheerfully sacrifice our life to make them happy; but wed—wed we cannot. Heaven hath clearly revealed to us its holy will on that score, and we must humbly bow to the decree." And sighing heavily, she sank her head on her breast, and then added, "We grieve in truth that we cannot gratify our subjects; yet we also should rejoice in the sacred conviction that in this matter we have acted under the sanction of Him who orders all things for the best."
               "Did I but see the object Heaven had in view, in thus inspiring your majesty," observed Cecil, "I could feel more resigned."
               "The object?" repeated the queen; "and canst thou not perceive it yet, with all thy penetration? Dost not see that our enemies have ever pretended to recognize in us the frailties of our royal father? nay, have not hesitated to charge us with crimes which the modesty of our sex will not permit us even to mention?" and casting her eyes down, she began to twist the end of her kerchief round her finger with all the apparent innocence and simplicity of a peasant girl before her judge.
               "Alas! it is but too true," replied Cecil; "we live in evil times."
               "In times of detraction, and calumnies, and dark suspicions," added the queen; "and therefore ought we, who are the head of Christ's church, to avoid aught that could in the remotest degree afford a pretext for scandal; yea, not only so, but endeavor to attain so high a position that the shafts of our enemies could reach us not. Ah, Sir William, in days so depraved and licentious as ours, the spiritual head of the church should be a pure and shining light to all beholders."
               "And yet, under your majesty's favor, I see not how the light might not burn as brightly in the married as in the single state," returned Cecil.
               
               "Thou speakest right truly," responded Elizabeth; "and so might it be with us, had not a cloud somewhat dimmed it in our youth. In another queen, such a vow of virginity, as thou hast already well said, were, mayhap, an injustice done to the state and to the people; but for us, the daughter of Henry VIII., or, as some say, the issue of an incestuous marriage, the royal bastard of England, and the reputed paramour of Seymour, nought can redeem us from the past, nor protect us in the future, but the consecration of our body, as of our soul, to the God of all purity and sanctity."
               Cecil now saw it was vain to press the point further, for she had fallen back behind the impregnable bulwarks of expediency, and the divine will, from which he always found it impossible to dislodge her; and assuring her majesty that her wishes in reference to the protracting of the marriage negotiations should be secretly and dexterously carried out, he had risen to take his leave, when the queen exclaimed, as if suddenly recollecting something,—
               "Ah! but of this errant damsel—how shall we dispose of her and her Irish gallant?"
               "Your majesty hath been already pleased to order a public trial of the case before the High Commission Court."
               "And at which we purpose being present ourself, the Lord willing, in order that strict justice be done to all parties, and our subjects may see how solicitous we are to have the laws faithfully administered. One of our court officers, we have learnt, stands charged with a grievous crime committed last night at a place called Whinstone Hollow."
               "Sir Thomas Plimpton. Ay, so report saith, your majesty."
               "And that the Earl of Leicester hath, in defiance of our royal warrant for the capture of recusants, not only prevented the execution of the same, (the which would seem to be a direct contravening of our authority, albeit he may endeavor to justify it,) but, moreover, hath rescued this damsel and her associate from the hands of their legal captor, and given them free shelter and protection in our very palace. This must be strictly seen to, Sir William; for by our royal honor, the highest subject in our realm shall not be suffered to violate the law with impunity."
               "The case shall be well and strictly investigated," replied the secretary, inwardly exulting at the prospect of Leicester's disgrace.
               "As for the girl, we shall resume judgment in that affair to ourself."
               "And this troublesome Irishman—he is accredited from the Queen of Scotland, and hardly cometh within the reach of the statute."
               "Let him be arraigned for resisting our royal authority by force of arms; that, at least, may be done without violating the privilege of his office. In the mean time, thou'lt issue a warrant for the seizure of one Henry Howard, whilom Lord Henry Howard, a disguised mass priest, who hath been lately frequenting the neighborhood, and is doubtless now somewhere about this place called Whinstone Hollow."
               "Ha! Lord Henry Howard," he ejaculated; "he who hath been so long missing from England, and supposed to have taken orders in Italy or France."
               
               "The same. Shouldst thou find him, send him instantly to the Tower, and suffer him to have speech with no one."
               "And, please your majesty, with regard to this deputation from the Prince of Conde, the two gentlemen mentioned in the late despatches have arrived last night in a fishing smack from Dieppe."
               "Ah, good; we trust they have not ventured out since their arrival, for France hath many a spy upon us."
               "So far, please your majesty, they have acted most cautiously, and remained concealed in the disguise of Dutch fishermen, in a poor hovel a few miles down the river. May it please your majesty to name a time and place for their hearing?"
               "Humph!" said the queen, thoughtfully; "we fain would have the interview a secret. Marry, were it known to France, I fear me Calais were lost to us forever, especially should the league fail in the dangerous enterprise we have promised; and yet we fear that, in justice to our subjects, we cannot at this juncture comply with the demands of the prince. Natheless, we must first see with what proposals come these deputies, and in the mean time, ourself glance at the state of our treasury. Eh, what thinkest thou of taking the barge to-night, about the hour of ten, and quietly falling down to thy summer lodge near the bridge? We could meet them there with safety. As for the court here, with this cunning De Foys, and the watchful Melville, and the hundred other French and Scotch spies, we dread to run the risk of detection. Moreover, we have been often on the river by moonlight of late, and need fear no suspicion of our purpose."
               Cecil bowed, and made a suitable acknowledgment for the honor of the royal visit.
               "Let these Frenchmen meet us then at ten o'clock, and acquaint the captain of the royal barge with our pleasure." And waving her hand to Cecil, she retired again to her boudoir.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               THE reader will remember the directions given by our old acquaintance, Nell Gower, to her worthy kinsman, Oliver Goodniff, in relation to the child she had intrusted to the keeping of Master Robert Southron, of Evesham, by advice and council of the Earl of Leicester.
               Accordingly, when the doughty innkeeper reached the Whitehorse, in company of the aforesaid Southron, he was by no means surprised to see a crowd of ill-dressed, merry-looking fellows, in the kitchen and tap, drinking his ale with as good a grace as if they had money enough to pay for a whole regiment. Nevertheless, great was the astonishment and indignation manifested by the ill-used landlord, when he found their purses empty, and nothing to console him for the hollow sound his barrels emitted, as he tapped them with his knuckles in passing round the counter of the bar. But the roisterers seemed to care little for their host's displeasure.
               Southron, having deposited the babe on a settle near the kitchen fire, threw off his doublet and jack boots, and then, rubbing his hands pleasantly together, advanced to the tap, and demanded to be served with a pint of canary, to refresh him after his ride.
               "Musha, then, bad luck to me, if that's not the height of ondacency, whoiver ye are," said a stout, curly-heady fellow, who stood leaning against a pillar, holding a beer pot in his hand.
               Southron turned, and contemptuously eying the stranger, inquired, in a supercilious tone, what he meant, or if he alluded to him.
               "Faith, an iv coorse I do that same," replied the man, giving his nether garments a hitch after finishing his draught; "here's six dacent gentlemen, and foreigners too, into the bargain, that ye pass by an niver ax if they have as much as a mouth on them. By the powers iv patience! if ye were an Irishman and do that, I'd be ashamed to be seen walking on the same side i' the road with ye. But as yer only a Sassenagh, I suppose we must pardon ye this time."
               "Pardon me," repeated Southron, hardly knowing whether he should feel amused or angry at the fellow's effrontery.
               "Ay, hopin' ye'll mend yer manners, an do the dacent thing like a Christian."
               "Ha, ha! by my certies," cried Southron, laughing, as he turned to the counter to drink his wine, "thou'rt a most impudent and saucy varlet."
               "Arrah, niver mind the big budach; what else cud ye expect of him?" said another of the ragged party; "sure the devil a hapurth else he's after all but a dry nurse; don't ye see the baby he left in the settle beyant?"
               "Aisy, aisy," said the curly-headed fellow, stepping over to the counter, and laying his brawny hand on Southron's arm, just as the latter had raised the flagon to his lips; "ye'll drink our healths av ye plaze; that's the laste ye can do."
               "What? zounds, fellow! wouldst tempt me to slice thy scurvy ears off?" growled the disappointed and irritated Southron, dropping the flagon and drawing his sword.
               "Don't be in a passion," said the Irishman, leering up at the angry man in most comical fashion, "but take my advice quate an aisy; put back yer sword, then take up yer flagon, an drink to our better acquaintance. It's a mighty great shame, I tell ye,— an it's atween ourselves I say it,—for a dacent-looking man iv your kind to come to this time a day, and not know how to conduct himself in strange company."
               "Begone!" cried Southron, thrusting back the fellow with his left hand, whilst he raised the sword in his right, "or by the powers of darkness, I'll disembowel thee on the spot. Zounds! thou'rt the coolest and most insulting villain in Middlesex."
               "Peace, peace, masters," entreated Oliver, at length quitting his station behind the counter, and interposing his round, fat body and extended arms between the disputanits. "Grace and patience! I must not suffer ye to quarrel in my hostelrie. As for Sir Bluecoat, here, let him bridle his saucy tongue, or it may cost him his lugs."
               Oliver's conciliatory words and kindly manipulations, performed in the most fatherly manner, seemed considerably to assuage the anger of his late companion, who again, after a few hems and hahs of indignant surprise, turned to renew his attentions to the flagon. Hardly had he taken it up, however, as before, muttering the while some heavy curse on mass-mongering Irish cutthroats and traitors, when the provoking Irishman laid his hand a second time on his arm, and whispered in his ear,—
               "Be my conscience, ye've fixed yerself now, any way, so ye have; I might forgive ye for what ye said to myself, but when ye spake uncivil iv the ould religion, and the ould country, it id be a sin on my soul to let ye go."
               "A sin to let me go," repeated the astonished Southron, gazing at the Irishman as if he doubted whether he was fool or knave. "By my certie, I know not what thou meanest."
               "Hould yer tongue now, and go on yer knees; O, ye needn't look so frightened, for I'll be as aisy as I can with ye, seein' yer the kind ye ir; and you, Misther Goodenough, draw us a flagon apiece; this gentleman's goin' to beg our pardon, and afther that to drink success to the pope, Mary, Queen of Scots, and the divil take the reformers."
               Southron, no longer able to restrain his rage, especially when he saw the wine cup twice snatched from his lips, now made a blow of his sword in good earnest at his pertinacious tormentor, intending, no doubt, to do him serious bodily harm; when the latter, who foresaw the danger, and stood well prepared to meet it, suddenly drew his hard knotted cudgel from under his arm, and striking his assailant above the elbow, (whether by accident or otherwise it would be hard to tell,) caused him to drop the sword instantaneously, and himself to stand aghast and confounded at the suddenness of the act, writhing with pain, and incapable of moving a muscle in his defence.
               "Down on yer knees with ye, I say, and don't be obstinate," cried the Irishman.
               "Hold ye there," interposed Oliver, again waddling in between the hostile parties, and affecting to be greatly concerned for the reputation of his house; "grace and patience! bless my soul, masters, how's this? what! I'll send for her majesty's constables, and have ye both to the Tholsel for disturbing my quiet and respectable hostelrie."
               "Here, here, out av the way," muttered the imperturbable Celt, punching the fat innkeeper slightly on the belly with the end of his stick, and sending him bowling across the room, where he finally settled down on a bench, exclaiming in most wrathy indignation against such outrageous treatment.
               "Will ye throuble yerself to kneel down, Misther Englishman," repeated the persevering and mischievous fellow; "do, av ye plaze, and don't keep us dying here with the druth all mornin'."
               "Dost think I'm a fool?" demanded Southron, somewhat recovered from the blow, and endeavoring to keep down his ire.
               "O, not in the laste," returned the Irishman; "for I know ye'll take advice like a sensible man, and do what yer bid; so kneel down, and waste no more of our precious time."
               "Hell and furies! thou'rt the most provoking scoundrel"——And not waiting to finish the sentence, he stooped, and made a snatch at the sword.
               "Don't trouble yourself," muttered his tormentor dexterously sliding the weapon from the top of his boot across the floor, "but kneel down quately, andl beg pardon; do, take a friend's advice for onct in yer life."
               "Friend! out on ye, dog!" shouted Southron, making a desperate rush to escape by the door; and in fact so sudden and unexpected was the movement, that he had well nigh effected his purpose, when, alas! his unwearied tormentor caught him once more by the neck, and drawing him leisurely back, repeated his request as coolly as ever.
               "Botheration t'ye, down on yer knees, man, an don't be onrasonable."
               "Unreasonable?"
               "Ay, shure, it's not such a mighty wonderful thing to be axed to go on yer knees. But begorra, may be ye don't know what I mane; tell me, honest man, did ye iver venthur to say yer prayers?"
               "Hand me the wine, Goodniff!" cried the infuriate Southron, now turning to the counter again, and laying hold of a pewter flagon; "the first of these scurvy hinds who dares lay a hand on me, by all the devils in hell! I'll scatter his brains on the floor; hand me the wine, thou lard tub—thou capon-fed glutton! thou hast no more courage in thee than a bullfrog."
               "Grace and patience—dear me—God bless my soul," replied Oliver, "I cannot defend thee against six such tigers as these."
               "Upon my conscience, boys," ejaculated the Irishman, addressing his companions, who had hitherto stood silently enjoying the scene; "may be he's only a Turk, or a haythen, and was niver given to kneel. See here," he added, laying his hand for the third time on Southron's arm just as the latter had brought the vessel to his lips, and was about to swallow the delicious draught—"if yer a Turk, or a haythen, jist say so, and——"
               "Perdition seize thee, hellhound!" bellowed Southron, dashing the wine cup in his tormentor's face, and raising the pewter quart pot to fell him. But the Celt was too quick for the phlegmatic Englishman; and striking the weapon from his hand by another dexterous blow of his trusty cudgel, he sprang on him, and with the help of his willing associates, soon forced him on his knees.
               "Villains! unhand me!" shouted Southron, choking with rage; "what have I done to deserve this brutal and unmanly usage?"
               "Why, then, devil a much, barin' yer bad manners," replied the curly-headed fellow, taking a full tankard in his hand, and presenting himself before his victim.
               "What, for refusing to pay scot for thee and thy murderous companions?"
               "Well, no; in troth we'd forgive ye that, though I may tell ye atween ourselves, it was mighty undacent thratement, an a thing they'd niver forget to ye in Ireland, if ye lived to the age of Methusalem. There's the Shivlahans iv Ballemagahay, and may I niver see pace if one i' thim dar show his face in fair or market, wake or weddin', these hundher years and more, since their great grandfather, Ned Roe, left out a boy i' the Whoriskey's one day when callin' for a thrate at Gortnamonagh market. But as I was sayin' before, we'd easy forgive ye all that, seein' it wasn't yer fault, may be, niver bein' used to much dacency in these parts; an ye know the ould sayin' —we needn't expect beefsteaks off a windle-straw, nor wool off a snowball. An more by the same token, Misther Englishman, it's a poor dhirty way ye's have in regard iv dhrinkin'—powerin' ale into yer bellies, just for all the world as if ye were so many bottomless beer barrels, niver full or niver empty; and then, when ye do get enough, it's down ye lie, with divil a bit fun in ye, more than so many suckin' pigs afther their male's mate. Ha! an that brings another thing to my mind; look here, masther— I want to tell ye a secret consarnin' this same kind i' dhrinkin'."
               Southron, finding himself held down by half a dozen stout muscular fellows, and seeing no prospect of escape, had already, during the delivery of the above address, made two or three efforts to control his passion, resolving to bear the infliction with as good grace as possible under the circumstances; but the cool prolixity of his tormentor, and the tantalizing manner in which he held the wine cup right before his lips, drove him at last to desperation; struggling like a lion in the toils, he now threw himself on the ground, and attempted to kick out with his heavy riding-boots, shouting in the mean time to his quondam friend Oliver, to call the servants and save him from his merciless enemies.
               "So, as I was sayin'," resumed the Celt, after Southron had become completely exhausted by the struggle, "in regard to this dhrinkin', it's that same that's makin' bastes and bulldogs iv ye. It's that an the like iv it brings them big cheeks on ye, and them black, bushy eyebrows, and that condemned treacherous look—the picther i' the heart within ye. An more than that, by my conscience an sowl, it's my own opinion that yev lost yer religion on account of it. Ay, faith, no better could happen ye, afther turning yer backs on the good kindly drop that warms the heart, and melts the soul to all kinds i' goodness; that nivir id let ye rest aisy while ye'd a penny to lend, a beggar to feed, or a friend to fight for. Och hone, jewel dear, an shure it's not on daggers, and dirks, and swords, and pitchforks, it sets us a thinkin'; no, in troth; but just iv a dacent, harmless kippeen, like this, to lend a neighbor a polthouge or two at a pattern, or fair, expectin' to be paid back again at his earliest convaynience. No, no, there's no murdher in the pure water o' life, in the ould usquebaugh that our ancestors used to dhrink long ago, when they were all scholars and saints. O, hierna; but as for yee's, poor ignorant crathurs, it was livin' on the dhirty pot ale and grains so long, that reduced yes to what ye are; ay, begorra, till ye haven't one dacent feelin' left in ye; carin' more for yer bellies than yer sowls, and willin' to live like bastes, an die like bastes, if ye only get the mate and the dhrink. An then, besides all that, the sin iv gettin' dhrunk, an loosin' yer five blessed senses on such dishwater 'ithout the laste taste i' temptation in it in the world. Why, now, if it riz yer heart itself, if it even made ye laugh, or sing, or dance at a weddin', or trail a coat at a fair, or spit on yer stick and screech at a ruction, or pit any other dacent, pious Christian feelin' in ye at all at all, it might be some excuse; but——"
               "Stop, stop, stop," screamed Southron at the highest pitch of his voice; "in the name of all the furies, tell me, what wouldst thou of me?"
               "Well, now, that's what I call a sensible question. I see yer coming to yer raison at last. So when ye ask a civil question, ye'll get a civil answer."
               "Zounds! out with it, then," roared Southron, impatient of the delay. "Dost think I can kneel here all morning?"
               "Av coorse not; and that's by raisin iv yer niver larnin' yer prayers. Bedad, they say its mighty onpleasant for them that's not used to it, but as for us Papists, it's quite nathural an easy. When I was a bit of a garsoon, jist about the height iv that," said he, showing the length of his cudgel, "my granmother, God rest her soul, (more betoken she was one iv the Houlihans i' the Claddagh, the greatest clan i' Voteens in the seven parishes,) well, she give myself a most terrible bastin' one night for that very selfsame thing you complain iv, good man. And, lo and behould ye, here's the way it happened. Ould Shamashin come in on his rounds one evenin'. This Shamashin', I must tell ye, was the most famish hand at the padreen that iver handled a bades in Tyrconnell."
               "Hoa, dog, devil, demon, stop this infernal jargon, and tell me what thou'd have me do."
               "Have ye do, is it? Well, then, be patient an listen; I'll tell ye in a jiffy. When ye sent the pope and the Papishes, an Mary Stuart to hell, here a minit ago, (and begorra, there's such crowds iv yer own people gone down there av late, that I can't see how ye cud take it on yer conscience to hamper yer ould friend with so many strangers,) but, as I was sayin', when ye sent them to hell a while ago, there was jist but one thing in the world that saved ye, and that was yer comnin' here alone. For to draw a lone man's blood, with six at my back, is what I niver cud do with a clane conscience. So, as luck id have it, yer safe for this time; and now I suppose ye'll have no objection, afther the marcy I showed ye, to dhrink success to the pope and confusion to his enemies."
               "Never," cried Southron. "Let it be man against man, and compel me if thou canst."
               "Och! then, by the holy poker, here's at ye with a cead mille failthe," cried the Celt, spitting on his cudgel, and flourishing it above his head; "give him back his sword, boys, and clear the room; we'll have some fun for't yet; blackthorn agin steel any day. And you, Misther Greasy Paunch," he continued, turning to Oliver, "boult the door, and let no one in to spoil the sport. What's the bargain, masther? first down thrates the company, and dhrinks the pope's health or the queen's, jist as it happens. Divil a betther, hirrah for ould Ireland! But I say, Misther Englishman, let us have a fair undherstanin', and begin like Christians. Boys, if I'm kilt, ye know where to bury me. And you, masther, may be ye'd have some word to send yer wife and childher, or some ordhers about yer grave, or some dyin' declarashin regardin' the nathur iv yer death. So spake in time iv ye've any thing to say, and don't be tellin' yer friends afther that I killed ye onprepared."
               Southron, who had risen and taken his sword, now stood, staring at the Irishman, cutting capers with his cudgel, in mute astonishment.
               "Are ye ready?" shouted the Celt, dealing the counter a blow, and sending the goblets and tankards spinning to the ceiling.
               "What, man, wouldst have me encounter such a weapon as that with a rapier," he replied, the pain of his arm still reminding him of its weight. "Nay, nay, I'm not a savage, I trow."
               "Ho, ho, is that the way of it? Well, boys, hand him one iv yer shillelahs—the best in the room, since he's too proud to take the odds."
               "Zounds man," roared Southron, "I know not the use of the weapon."
               "And what the devil d'ye want, then? Bad win' to ye! d'ye mane to give us no satisfaction at all at all? Is it out ye expect to be let, afther cursin' the pope 'ithout the laste taste iv apology in the world? Well, now, upon my conscience, to be a dacent-looking man, ye have the most onraisonable ways with ye iver I seen since I was christened. Come, come, if ye won't fight, down with ye, and no more palaverin' about it." Then, turning to one of his companions, he tooks him aside, and having asked a question or two, to which the fellow seemed to reply in the affirmative, again repeated his command.
               But Southron no longer deigned to answer, looking fierce as a bull in the ring, his left hand groping his breast for his dagger from mere force of habit, whilst his right kept continually jerking his sword, as if impatient, yet afraid to strike.
               "So ye can't find yer dhirk, can't ye? eh?"
               No answer.
               "Wud ye know it again?" provokingly inquired the Irishman, drawing a dagger from under his blouse, and holding it up for inspection.
               "Da——tion!" growled Southron, surprised at length out of his dogged silence on recognizing the weapon; "how camest thou by that?"
               "I'll tell ye. Ye came in last night to the Paycock, with a child in yer arms, and afther givin' it to Oliver Goodenough here to hould for a minit, ye went up to the tap and called for a stoup iv wine. It happened that an innocent-looking, gray-headed ould gentleman was inquirin' of the landlord for a place called Whinstone Hollow, and of one Nell Gower that lived there, jist as you came up to the counter. Well, ye tuck the ould man by the collar, and dragged him back, tellin' him to wait till his betthers was served. Then, seein' a cross peepin' out from the foulds iv his jarkin as he turned round, ye struck him a heavy blow on the face with the back iv yer hand, and tould him to go to hell for a damned ould cross-worshipper. The poor ould gentleman riz his cane to strike back, when ye hit him a second time with yer clinched fist, and felled him on the flure, like the poor, mane, dhirty, cowardly blackguard that ye are. Well, two or three iv the bystandhers, who had some pity in their hearts, (and God knows it's raisin' they'd have for more iv that same, if they knew all the poor innocent ould crathur suffered from you and the likes iv ye,)—two or three iv the bystanders then got a hoult iv ye, to purvent any further harm, whin, cowardly to the last, ye drew this dagger on them. It happened that I had returned from Whinstone Hollow afther findin' the woman the ould gentleman came in search of, jist in time to wrench the dhirk from your hand, an only for the mercy iv God an the interference of the people, I'd have buried it to the hilt in yer dhirty heart's blood. Knowin' the business ye were on, and where ye were goin', I left ye to dhrink yer wine, an trustin' the ould man to the care iv God and the landlady, I set out before ye; and so here I am. Now, scoundrel, on yer knees with ye this minit, an ask God's pardon an the ould gentleman's, or may I niver see the light again," he continued, growing excited at the thoughts of the ruffian's inhuman conduct, and twirling the cudgel over his head, "but I'll brak every bone in yer body."
               "I acknowledge I have done wrong," replied Southron, at last, drawing back from reach of the frightful weapon; "natheless, being vexed and disappointed when I entered the Peacock ——"
               "Down, dog, and beg pardon," interrupted the angry Celt, no longer able to control his rage— "down, or I'll tear ye in dhuggins. Coward, if it was only myself ye struck, I could forgive it; but a dhrop from that ould man's little finger is dearer to me than my life's blood. Here, take that," he added, striking the brawny Englishman on the face with the back of his hand; "may be that id provoke ye, as it did my ould masther."
               
               "Ha, dastardly caitiff! assault an unprotected stranger with six strong men at thy back!" sneered Southron.
               "Sassenagh churl, renumber the blow at the Paycock. But I'll lave ye no raison to complain iv foul play; so move on there, boys—whip the sword from him, and here's good-by to the blackthorn;" and so saying, he flung it across the counter, striking Oliver such a blow on the paunch as made him roar like an ox. "Now, come on, ye big, false, lubberly dog," he continued, squaring at him with his fists, "and never have it to say that a Tyrconnell boy tuck a dhirty advantage."
               Southron moved not an inch.
               "Bad luck to ye, ye mane blackguard; won't ye fight at all?"
               "With the sword blade," growled Southron; "nought else."
               "Heavens an earth! what's this for?" cried Reddy, scratching his head, and completely nonplussed. "Oliver, have ye iver an ould sword in the house, or a scythe, or rapin' hook, or any thing i' the kind?"
               The innkeeper replied in the negative, assuring him that, even if he had, he should hesitate to produce it to the endangering of human life.
               "Then take a hoult of him, boys, since he won't fight, and on his knees with him again. I darn't strike a man that hasn't pluck enough to fight, but it's clane again my conscience to let him go scot free without an apology."
               Southron was now seized and placed kneeling on the floor, and the Irishman, whom the reader will long ago have recognized as Reddy Connor, advanced with a wine cup in his hand, and ordered him peremptorily to drink the toast.
               Southron was again silent.
               Then cried Reddy, "Here's success to the Pope i' Rome and confusion to his enemies;" and having swallowed about half the contents of the vessel, he handed it to one of his associates, and directed him how to administer the draught; then, stepping behind Southron, he seized him by the chin with the one hand and by the nose with the other, and gave both such a wrench as opened his jaws wider than they had ever before opened for the wine cup or beer can.
               "Hoagh!" groaned the wretch, looking entreatingly up in Reddy's face.
               "Will ye dhrink the toast?" demanded the latter, loosening his hold.
               "Ay, ay, any thing to save me from choking. Zounds, thou'rt a most incarnate devil."
               "Here, then, take the cup, and pronounce the words, 'God bless the pope.'"
               "God bless the pope," repeated Southron, half uttering the words, and bending his head like a bull in the ring held by the nose from butting with his horns.
               "And confusion to his enemies."
               "And confusion to his enemies." Then raising the vessel to his lips, he drained it of its contents.
               "I swore last night you'd pay dearly for yer ruffianly assault on my heart-broken ould masther," said Reddy; "but as fate id have it, yer cowardice saved ye, as it saves many a blusterin' red-faced turkey cock, like ye, when he happens to fall into a dacent mans hands. But away now, ye mane-spirited hound, and take this with ye," he added, snapping the blade of his sword across his knee, and pitching the fragments at his feet, "for yer only worth to carry a butcher's knife at yer belt."
               "We shall meet again," muttered Southron between his teeth, as he quitted the tap amid the jeers of the bystanders.
               "God forbid," replied Reddy, with inexpressible scorn on his fine manly face—"God forbid that you and I should iver meet alone; for my hands are yet unstained by human gore, and id fain have them rest clane in my father's grave, unpolluted by the swinish blood of a beggarly Sassenagh."
               Having called for a round, the jolly blue coats now drank each a hearty draught to their further acquaintance with Misther Redmond O'Connor, and requesting Oliver to chalk it to the account of a certain old lady, whose name it was then unnecessary to mention, left the Whitehorse of Wimbleton, in the gray light of the morning, to retrace their steps, each by a different route, to the good city of London, there to execute the further orders of the spaewife in reference to the child.
               As the last of the merry party passed the threshold of the tavern, he stooped for a moment to tie up his hose, and was heard muttering, faintly in the distance, "May the divil be from me, Barney, if that Connor disn't bate walloppin' Ned out and out."
               "O, then, the sorra whip the tongue out iv him," returned Barney; "isn't he the nate speaker?"
               "Faith, and that's a purty bit iv blackthorn he carries—eh?"
               "Ay, begorra, an himself's the boy can handle it, I'll go bail for ye; upon my troth it did my heart good to see the touch he gave that big-headed budach on the arm."
               "And did ye see how quately he gave us the password? I'll warrant Nell an him's ould cronies; bedad, he's no goslin', any way, that's one thing."
               Here the sounds of the voices began to grow indistinct, and at length entirely died away in the distance.
               When Southron left the tap, his first look was at the settle in the kitchen, where he had deposited the child; but the settle was empty, and the child was gone. He then searched in the bed chamber adjoining the kitchen, thinking some of the servants might have snatched it up when the quarrel commenced, and carried it there from reach of danger; but he could see neither servant nor babe. He then began to suspect, for the first time, that the Irishman's object in protracting the dispute was nothing more than to keep him engaged till some one, whom they had been waiting for, should come to take the infant; and remembering also that his assailant had beckoned one of his associates aside, and whispered something in his ear in the very heat of the discussion, he concluded all was a plot from the beginning, and that Oliver Goodniff and the Irishman were both implicated in it under the direction of Nell Gower.
               
               Returning again to the tap, he found Reddy Connor and Oliver whispering to each other, apparently in great confidence, across the counter.
               "The child is gone!" cried Southron, in a voice intended to be calm, but which trembled with passion.
               "Gone!" repeated Oliver, raising his hands in feigned astonishment; "bless my soul! that cannot be."
               "Ay, stolen!" said Southron, in the same harsh, unsteady voice; "and thou, Oliver Goodniff, art privy to the theft."
               "I privy to the theft? grace and patience! thou'rt short o' thy wits this morning. Gadzooks! man, thinkest thou I have nought better on hand than plots and schemes for stealing infants?" And growling out his indignant resentment at the vile charge, he hurried through the tap, and affected to busy himself searching every room and passage, hole and corner, for the missing babe. But "alas!" as he said himself, "to no purpose." At length, he sat down exhausted, and began to wipe the perspiration from his broad, red face, with the napkin he ever kept hanging from the button hole of his jerkin, exclaiming between each breath, "Odds, barrels and bodkins; this savors most damnably."
               "As thy carcass shall, when it hangeth a week before Tyburn," returned Southron; "so if thou'd save thy fat sides from the kites and jackdaws, thou'lt take measures incontinently to have the child forthcoming."
               "Marry come up with thee, Robert Southron; speak me not thus of feeding kites and crows, for no legal and chargeable cause; but rather bethink o' thyself, whom my natural hatred of sudden deaths hath saved from the gallows these twenty years gone."
               "Ha, ha!" laughed Southron, with a fiendish expression of countenance, as he shot a glance across the counter at his quondam school-fellow; "less of the past and more of the present, an thou pleasest. The child—the child! I shall have the child, or thou diest."
               "Grace and patience! and what wouldst with the child, Master Southron, eh? Murder it as thou once tried to murder thine own flesh and blood? Nay, thou needest not try to bully me with thy dark brows, Master Keeper; an thou'd find the child, go elsewhere an seek it; and look ye here, Sir Bravo, an I but hear of thee coupling my name with this foundling, by my certies! I'll have thee houselled where thou'lt soon be taught to mend thy manners."
               Again Southron laughed, as in defiance of the threat; but the look which accompanied it was this time less undaunted than before.
               "More of this anon, Master Oliver; but now would I learn from thee something of the child. Shouldst thou refuse to declare whether it hath been carried off, or give clew to its discovery, I'll have thee taken before the lord justice ere thou'rt a day older. As for this fellow, he said," turning to speak to Reddy——But Reddy was gone. And so we must take breath for a moment, and have a fair start with him in the next chapter.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLV.
               WE have had occasion once, we believe, in the course of this story, to say something of a certain Sam Wabble, nephew of old Wattie, of Brockton, the licensed beggar of that district, and apprentice to one Peter Towravel, an honest cordwainer of the city of London. This young lad, as appears from Wattie's conversation with Sewall the steward, was sent on a certain day with a special message to that worthy man's wife, and while awaiting the good lady's pleasure, felt somewhat surprised at seeing her brother, Luke Davidson, enter the house disguised as a Catholic priest, and accompanied by a courtly-dressed gentleman of rank, who addressed him as Master Millar, and conversed with him in very familiar terms on various subjects relating to Brockton Hall, but particularly of Mistress Alice, the great heiress, and of the riches her father had been so carefully hoarding up against her marriage day. Sam, who sat in a remote corner of the room, and overheard the conversation unnoticed, or perhaps disregarded, suspected there was something in the close companionship of the distinguished-looking courtier and the discarded servant of Sir Geoffrey Wentworth that boded no good to Brockton Hall or its inmates; and hence he communicated his doubts about the matters the next convenient opportunity, to some friends who happened to come on business to the city, and they doubtless, on their return, repeated the story to old Wattie.
               Reddy paid little attention, at the time, to the angry dispute he chanced to overhear between the mendicant and the steward, and most likely never would have thought of it again had affairs gone on as usual at the Hall; but now that he found himself an outcast on the world, a good hundred miles from home, with scarce a penny in his purse, his master confined to his lodgings by illness resulting from old age, fatigue, and a breaking heart, his young mistress carried off to the royal palace, from which she might never return, and even Nell Gower, from whom he expected some help in his distress, left without a spot to shelter herself, much less a friend,—with all these reflections crowding in upon his mind, no wonder, we say, he tried to brush the cobwebs off his memory, and to think of some one who might lend him a helping hand in his forlorn condition. Of all the inhabitants of London, the reader may readily believe Sam Wabble was not the last he chanced to remember; now, particularly, since Sam had given the first clew to the detection of the plot.
               Being, however, an entire stranger in the great metropolis, he might have searched through it for a whole year, and inquired of half its population, ere he had discovered the whereabouts of so obscure an individual as Sam Wabble, the cordwainer's apprentice; but honest Reddy had not been five years from Tyrconnell for nothing; he had learned something of the ways of the world, and therefore it was that, when he set out from the Whitehorse of Wimbleton, after his altercation with Southron, he had already provided himself with some information respecting Sam's place of residence. Nell Gower, in fact, during the short interview she had with him at the cavern on the preceding night, had told him all she knew concerning Sam; and Oliver had added a few particulars on his own account during the confidential whispering across the counter, in which Southron had detected them on his return from his fruitless search.
               Buttoning his doublet over his broad chest to keep out the cold air of the morning, and spitting gayly on his stick, Reddy turned his face to London, resolving to do the best he could, and leave the rest to Providence. With such a supple pair of legs, and such a stout heart to drive them, as Reddy Connor had at his service, there call be little doubt be soon accomplished his journey, and after the necessary inquiries as to streets, lanes, &c., at length discovered the humble abode of Peter Towravel.
               On entering the long, narrow, ill-lighted cellar, in which the worthy tradesman and his apprentice were busy at work after their early meal, Reddy turned up his cudgel under his arm, and passing the proprietor by with a nod, walked straight up to his quondam friend, and dealing him a smart blow with the heel of his fist between the shoulders, (Irish fashion,) snatched his brawny hand and gave it so warm and loving a squeeze, that, to judge from the expression of Sam's face he would willingly have all right with so sensible a proof of his affection.
               "Zounds!" cried the astonished apprentice, "what doth this mean?"
               "Bad scran to ye! how is every bone in yer body, man?" cried Reddy. "Eh, by the powers i' patience! ye've grown a brave, thumpin', rattlin' fellow, so ye have; an how diz the world use ye, man, since ye left us?"
               The apprentice thanked him kindly for his good will, and then, leaning back against a bench, folded his bare, dusty arms, and began to make the ordinary inquiries about his friends and acquaintances in Worcestershire.
               Reddy shook his head, signifying he had a long, sad story to tell, and begged his friend would come with him to some alehouse hard by, where they might drink a stoup together for old acquaintance' sake, and talk over matters more at their leisure.
               Honest Sam, but too glad to meet one whom he had always ranked among his best friends, when he used long ago to water the plants and weed the beds in Mistress Alice's flower garden, readily consented; and having obtained leave of absence from his master, accompanied Reddy to a tavern, where they soon found themselves comfortably seated in a snug room, behind the bar, with a well-furnished table before them, on which lay sundry cold meats, and a can of foaming ale occupying the centre. Reddy now informed his young acquaintance of the various occurrences that took place in his absence but especially of the fatal catastrophe which left him without a home.
               "Zooks! man, I knew it," exclaimed Sam. "I knew something should come of it."
               
               "Of what?"
               "Why, marry, of his secret communings and plots with Davidson, his knavish brother-in-law. Ah, gad's me, since I saw the false varlet in company a' the great courtier, whom I afterwards found to be Sir Thomas Plimpton, I did well wot there was foul play in the game."
               "Ah, thin, bad luck to the black villain; d'ye happen to know where he lives, Sam?" inquired Reddy, filling his companion's pint pot again, and shoving it across the table with an accompanying nod of invitation; "but it's myself id like to see the house, if it was only just to stand before it night an day, an wait for him to come out, that I might make mince mate iv him, the etarnal scoundrel. They say it's in a place called Blinder Lane he lives; but shure, myself knows no more iv where Blinder Lane is than the man in the moon."
               "Blinder Lane is but two streets below," replied Sam, after swallowing the ale. "I can bring thee thither in the twisting of a whipcord."
               "Bedad, then it's myself that'll be behouldin to ye, Sam; and, in troth, if ye only knew how the desavin' thief threated your poor old dacint uncle, Wattie Wabble, ye wouldn't think much throuble i' that same. But shure, it's little we cud expect of the likes iv him, the infernal hypocrite—God forgive me for sayin' it; and as for poor Wattie, the crathur, when I heard the black-hearted robber ordher him to be gone, jist as he wud a dog, from the place where he had the warm welcome from the full hand, and the pleasant countenance, these twenty years and more, I thought I cud have melted him on the spot."
               "Did he lay hands on the old man?" inquired Sam, biting his lip and sinking the point of the knife he held deep into the deal table before him.
               "Well," replied Reddy, glancing at the expression of his companion's face, "as for what happened before he dragged him to the door, I can't tell, standin' as I was on the stairs, with the wall iv the room atween us."
               "Dragged to the door!" repeated Sam, coughing up the phlegm which his rising anger had accumulated; "ah, and then ——"
               "Why, all I cud see, when I stooped and looked into the hall, was Sewall, takin' the ould man by the back i' the neck, and pitchin' him down the steps with a shove that might have driven an ox, and cursin' him to be gone for an ould scurvy-tongued imposthur."
               "Wattie Wabble was a kind uncle to me," said the phlegmatic Sam, now somewhat flushed and excited by the relation, "and I swear by St. Dunstan, I'll see Sewall's outrage to the helpless old man repaid."
               "He's all inhuman haste," continued Reddy, still adding fuel to the tardy flame, "that id go to brak the neck iv a poor, distressed cripple like that— an ould crathur that never hurted a fly in his life, either by 'thought, word, deed, or omission.' An as to yer ould masther, Sir Geoffrey, that used to tache ye the prayers sittin' on his knee under the sundial, on the green plot, who fed ye and cled ye till ye were able to do for yerself; why, if I was only to tell ye the half i' what he did to that blissed ould man, ye'd think it was out iv all manner of mains for any mortal to be guilty of it. Bad cess to th'asmuch as one sixpence he left him to cross anither with; nor even his purty wee goold whistle he used to call ye on, or even a goblet to dhrink his wine out iv, (that's set in case he had it, but the devil a tint he had to wet his lips;) and then, afther all, to burn the house over his head, that the blackguard iv hell might conshume every proof iv his damnable robbery— och, och, Sam, dear, it makes the blood boil in my veins to think of it."
               "Zounds! an I but caught him," muttered Sam, clinching his teeth, "methinks I could tear the heart from the wretch's body."
               "Bedad, thin, if it's an earnest yer in, we might catch him yet."
               "Ah, marry, how may that be?" earnestly demanded Sam; "hath he not escaped?"
               "Av coorse; but he didn't get home yet."
               "How long since he left?"
               "Just five days the night."
               "Nay, he must have travelled fast to outrun pursuit," observed Sam, shaking his head doubtfully.
               "He's too knowing for that," said Reddy. "Sewall's not the man to venture his goold bags on a crupper sitch times as these, when one is not sure i' the buttons on his jerkin; O, sorra fear of him; he'll take some safer way to secure his plundher; but never mind, Sam; I've a notion we can reach him afther all, and save somethin' too out i' the plunder for the ould masther, if ye'll only stick by me."
               "Right faithfully," cried Sam; "ay, marry shall I; and as for Peter Towravel, zounds! let him bring me to the leet court, an he likes it; I care not a barley-corn."
               "Then empty yer ale can, an let's be movin', for there's no time to lose."
               Having cheerfully paid the reckoning with the last piece of coin in his purse, Reddy again turned up his cudgel under his arm, and set out to accompany his conductor to Blinder Lane.
               On arriving in front of the small but comfortable-looking house occupied by the worthy Mistress Sewall, Reddy directed his companion to remain in the immediate vicinity till his return, cautioning him at the same time, if he happened to see Davidson coming about the house, to keep him engaged; and then, walking up to the door which opened into a narrow alley, he lifted the latch unhesitatingly, and stepping in, inquired for Mrs. Sewall.
               "An what may thy business be with her, good man," said a smart, buxom-looking woman, about forty years of age, rising from her seat, and meeting Reddy at the room door, as if she supposed it was some passing inquiry he wished to make; or perhaps thought his rough appearance hardly entitled him to a more respectful reception. "What may thy business be?"
               "Why then, bedad, yer ladyship," replied Reddy, looking furtively round to see if there was any one within hearing, and speaking in a low, confidential tone—"bedad, yer ladyship, id like to have a word with ye in private, if ye've no objections."
               "With me, man, and in private?" repeated the good woman, eying the stranger doubtfully.
               "Whisht, whisht!" ejaculated the grimacing Reddy; "don't spake so loud."
               "What dost mean, fellow?" she demanded, attributing to Reddy's words and gestures a very different meaning from that they were intended to convey; "eh? dost come here to insult me?"
               "Aisy, aisy, mistress, for Heaven's sake," he entreated, attempting to stop her mouth with the crown of his hat in very familiar fashion; "aisy, or ye'll spoil all."
               "Hoa, there, Gilbert! Gilbert! Andrews!" cried the now indignant woman, opening an inner door and calling help from the lower story of the building; "haste thee up here! haste thee up, and bring the arquebuse with thee to expel this impudent varlet."
               In a moment, a tall strapping fellow made his appearance with the aforesaid instrument in his hand, and ordered Reddy, on pain of instant annihilation, to quit the house.
               "Faith, then, an welcome," responded Reddy, putting on his hat and turning away; "begorra, it's all one to me. I was ordered to carry ye a message, and shure, if ye don't like to resave it, it's not my fault. By the powers! it's what I call the height of ondacent thratement to be turned out av a woman's house," he continued, leisurely walking along the passage and stepping into the street, "afther comin' a journey of a hundher miles an more with a token from her husband."
               "From my husband?"
               "O, ye heard that, did ye?"
               "Come back honest man; mayhap I've mistaken thy words," cried the good woman, stretching her head out of the door.
               "O, then, bad luck to the message ye'll get from me, till ye larn better manners, Mistress Sewall," muttered Reddy, affecting to be greatly offended at the reception he met with. "To the divil I pitch sitch a country as this, where a man can't open his lips but he'll be shot, may be, afore he can close them."
               "Nay, I beg thee return, good man, and deliver thy message; right sorry I am for having mistaken the purport of thy speech; come back, I entreat thee."
               "Well," responded Reddy, "it's hard to refuse a lady when she enthrates ye; but, upon my conscience, it id anger any body, mam, to be sarved this way afther sitch a journey."
               "And now to the message," said Mrs. Sewall, motioning Reddy to a seat.
               "It's a bad business, yer ladyship—a mighty bad business, I'm afeard; but shure all's not lost that's in danger. Ye've heard from the masther iv late?"
               "Not very lately—that is," she added, hesitatingly, "not within a few days; dost know aught of him?"
               "Is it me? O, but I beg yer pardon, yer ladyship; shure ye niver saw me afore, an av coorse ye cudn't know me. Bedad, I was almost forgettin' myself from the flusther ye put me in. So ye didn't hear from him. Well, now, that's quare, for he tould me he'd write and let ye know the way he'd come, so as to be prepared."
               "And is he coming home soon?" carelessly inquired Mrs. Sewall.
               "Comin' home?" repeated Reddy, with a well-feigned astonishment; "orra, then may be yet not the lady I was sent to at all at all."
               "I am Master Sewall's wife."
               "An thunder an turf, what diz yer ladyship mane by strivin' to conceal it from me?"
               "Conceal what?"
               "Why, yer resavin' a letter sayin' what day he'd be home, and how he'd come. But shure that's none i' my business, and so I needn't trouble my head about it."
               "Gramercy, man, thou'rt a strange-spoken messenger to send hither."
               "Well," cried Reddy, rising and taking up his hat and cudgel preparing to leave, "all I have to say is that the whole place was in blazes afore I left, and that Masther Sewall had secured the money and plate, and sent me here to tell ye, that if there's any danger to send him word, that he may keep out i' the way."
               "An what proof have I that my husband sent thee hither, good man?"
               "Proof!" repeated Reddv, scratching his head under his hat, and looking inquisitively at the cautious woman.
               "Ay, marry, how know I thour't not a spy come hither to mislead us?"
               "A spy! to mislade ye!" again repeated Reddy; "is it, to inthrap ye, ye mane?"
               "Truly, yes, such things have happened."
               "Begorra, then, yer ladyship," he responded, turning on his heel, "if them's the thoughts ye have, yer safest way's not to thrust me. I delivered my message, any way; so the top i' the mornin' to ye, Mistress Sewall. And divil whip the legs from undher me if iver I come on sitch a message again."
               "Stay, good man; I meant no offence. In such times as these, thou shouldst wonder not we use caution; and albeit thou wearest an honest face, yet we have seen rogues whose faces were as honest looking as thine."
               "Keep on the safe side, mam; it's the wisest way," muttered Reddy, moving off.
               "Hold, good fellow—stay—I would speak further with thee."
               "Ye'll be plazed to tell the masther," he continued unconcernedly, "that Tim was here and delivered the message, for I'd niver draw an aisy breath, if he thought I'd desave him in the amplush he's in. An ye may tell him too that Houghton's in purshuit of him, Waglippet's kilt dead, and that afther he give me the message to yer ladyship, I had to turn back to the stable, and by the time I got the horse out the whole house was in flames. So the ould man and that divil of a sarvant av his, Reddy Connor, will niver give him any throuble again, barrin it's their ghosts. So fair drames to ye, mam."
               "Stay a moment—come back, Tim, come hither," she cried, now completely deceived by the fellow's careless indifference to her good or bad opinion, no less than by the accurate accounts he seemed to give of the occurrences at Brockton. But this time Reddy would not return so readily; in fact, he at first absolutely refused, alleging as a reason the want of time, having some important business to transact in the city, and besides, the possibility of his again being insulted by her doubts and misgivings. But the good woman's apologies and entreaties at length prevailed, and leading Reddy back by the hand, she begged him to take some refreshment after his long journey, and accordingly placed before him a flask of wine and an untouched pasty, the former of which Reddy at once recognized as an ancient occupant of the old cellar at Brockton.
               "I darn't touch it, yer ladyship," said he, modestly, refusing the cup which his entertainer filled from the flask and handed him. "I promised the masther I wudn't let sitch a thing cross my lips till id lave the city."
               "Nay, it will refresh thee; do, Tim, take the wine."
               "O, begrorra, I cudn't, mam; I must keep my promise to the masther; but sure am as much obliged to yer ladyship as if I did."
               "Well, well, Tim, I may not insist further, since thou'rt not so inclined," observed Mrs. Sewall, laying down the cup, seemingly well pleased with the messenger's faithful observance of his promise. "And so the old place is burnt."
               "Ivery chip av it," replied he, still looking cautiously around from time to time, as if laboring under a terrible apprehension of being defected.
               "And the gold and silver plate ——"
               "Saved," responded Reddy, winking significantly.
               "Much?"
               "O, a power; but as the masther was jist makin' his escape with a bag undher his arm, whin I met him, he hadn't a minit to spake a word barrin' the message to yer ladyship; only for that I cud tell ye more i' the particulars."
               "And where now lieth the danger, thinkest thou?"
               "In conveying the plate," he promptly answered; "for it must be carried on a wagon, an that'll take so much time that Houghton can easily scour the country with his troopers, an, may be, ketch him on the road."
               "Have not his men deserted him for some cause?"
               Reddy saw in the question a clear evidence of her having received some secret and hasty communication from her husband on the very day of the fire, otherwise she could not so soon have heard of his trick on the trooper, there being none to carry the news save the soldiers, and they, in all likelihood, were still at Hoxley, patiently awaiting the arrival of their superior officer. He therefore replied, that Houghton himself had probably reached London last night, after travelling night and day from Worcestershire, and on making an oath before a magistrate, obtained a reënforcement and warrant for the arrest of Master Sewall on charge of robbery, and was then very likely on his way back to assassinate him, on the road.
               "True," replied Mistress Sewall, "but thou'lt remember there be many ways he can reach Blinden Lane without passing through Charing Cross."
               
               "Divil a doubt o' that, yer ladyship; but the throuble is, Houghton won't wait till the masther gets near the city; he'll scatter his men along the roads, may be twenty miles out, where there's a betther chance iv takin' him."
               "Marry, I had not thought of that," muttered the good lady with increasing anxiety, "and I fear me it may now be too late to warn him of the danger."
               "Betther late than niver, mam."
               "And yet in such disguise he could hardly be recognized, methinks."
               "Bedad, yer ladyship, Southron 'ill find him out if he's to be had in the three kingdoms, for I heard him myself swearin' a most tarrible oath he'd have him swing at Tyburn for the murdher of the ould knight if he'd lose his life for it."
               "Good Heavens! and dost thou truly think he hath already gone to guard the road?"
               "Av coorse he has," responded Reddy. "Bedad, it's taken he may be by this time; and begorra, if Houghton once gets him in his clutches, with the rage he's in, after his disappintment, he'll not wait for judge or jury, but shoot him on the spot. So, as I was sayin', yer ladyship, the sooner ye send some one to put him on his guard the betther." And again rising, he made a low bow to the worthy dame, and was turning to leave, when she hinted something about sending himself.
               "O, bedad, it's myself id do it, an a hundred times more, for my kind protecthur an friend," replied Reddy; "an shure it's well he desarves it from me, and ill it id be my common to refuse him in this amplush he's in; but in troth, mam, it's out iv my power entirely by raisin iv an aunt's son i' mine that's a buryin' the day, an they'll be expectin' me to the funeral."
               "Nay, thou'lt excuse thyself to thy friends," pleaded Mrs. Sewall, the more urgently as Reddy began to appear reluctant.
               "O, may I niver do harm, mam, but its clane out iv all manner iv raisin."
               "I shall reward thee right bountifully."
               "O, begorra, I darn't, mam; it id go clane agin' my conscience to desart my own flesh an blood, that way, in a strange country. Why, if it was any thing in raisin, ye know ——"
               "But I have none I can trust, my good friend, it being a most delicate and dangerous matter; and since thou'rt privy to the affair from the beginning——"
               "Shure haven't ye Masther Davidson?" interrupted Reddy.
               "Nay, nay," she responded, "Davidson is more in Sir Thomas Plimpton's especial confidence of late than bodes us much security."
               "Well, there's a fine strappin' fellow that run up stairs to shoot me, a while ago. Can't ye send him?"
               "Pshaugh, he's but a blundering bumpkin, and would spoil the game. Here, take this," she continued, drawing a well-filled purse from her bosom, and pressing it in Reddy's reluctant hand—"take this—it will hire thee a horse, an thou'lt need one ——"
               
               "O, murdher, murdher, mam, jewel, an what'll my friends say whin they miss me at the funeral?" muttered Reddy, looking like a thief just sentenced to the gallows.
               "Gramercy for thy friends," she replied. "Marry, friends indeed! better serve the living than the dead."
               She then directed him to proceed immediately to a fisherman's cabin, some three miles down the river, below the last bridge on the Southwark side, and distant but two or three hundred paces from the house, occupied, as a summer lodge, by Sir William Cecil, her majesty's chief secretary. She informed him her husband had that morning sent her intelligence by a friend, that he intended carrying the specie to the hut that very night, (having sent the greater part of the plate thither two days before,) and would remain there until he heard from her again; and furthermore, if he had good reason to believe Houghton, or his subordinates, had already reached London, and were in close pursuit, he should take passage in the first fishing smack for Holland, and remain there till the storm had spent itself. "And now," concluded the good wife, "since thou'rt so prudent and trusty a friend, hie thee instantly to the hut; and shouldst hear no tidings of him there, get thee a horse, and proceed on by the Luxton road, till thou'st found him in the disguise of a Jew packman, and then advise him as may best suit the present aspect of the case. And as thou carriest thyself in this affair, shall it hereafter be rewarded unto thee. And now speed thee on the road, for each moment's delay carrieth danger with it."
               "Bedad, may be the fisherman won't acknowledge me as a friend, 'ithout a token," observed Reddy.
               "Ah, verily I had forgotten that," replied Mrs. Sewall. "And truly, Tom Cutwater is a most shrewd and cunning knave, and might show thee little grace an thou ventured to meddle in this affair without a token for thine honesty. So here, take this ring; it will win thee fair speeches from the old fisherman. And now, once more, away, and tarry not by the road."
               Reddy, after the most solemn assurances of his determination not to rest till he saw the good lady's husband, and apprised him of his danger, took his final leave of the worthy dame, and stepping from the hall door for the last time, with a knowing wink and a peculiar motion of his forefinger, to indicate the necessity of silence and caution, at length sallied out to rejoin his friend Sam Wabble.
               Having related to the honest apprentice what passed during the long interview, much to the latter's amusement and satisfaction, Reddy acquainted him with his intention of securing whatever plunder Sewall had already deposited at Tom Cutwater's, and then make all haste to meet the steward as far from the city as possible—for both which purposes he requested his friend's company and assistance. Sam having readily consented, they set about making the necessary preparations. In this employment we must now leave them, and beg the reader to accompany us a few miles down the river, to witness scenes of an entirely different description.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVI.
               WHEN her majesty, the queen, had reached Tinton, Sir William Cecil's retreat on the left bank of the Thames, accompanied by Lady Harrington, her constant and faithful companion, her vice chamberlain, two or three gentlemen of the stole and bed chamber, and Sir Nicholas Bacon, whose philosophy had not hitherto been able to preserve him from the corruption of the court, the secretary met the cortege at the stairs, and reverently kissing her majesty's hand as she stepped on the silken carpet from the state barge, conducted her to his residence amid a profusion of lights, crowds of musicians, smiling faces, and loyal welcomes. It was remarked by some of the bystanders, as the procession entered the lodge and disappeared from public view, that her majesty's suite was unusually small on this occasion, and consisted only of those employed immediately about her person,—none of the foreign ambassadors being present, a thing quite unusual on such excursions,— and what was still more strange, even the Earl of Leicester himself was absent.
               "O, there be reason for that," said one of the crowd; "his lordship being wounded at the broil in Whinstone Hollow, hath not yet quitted his bed."
               "Gramercy for thy news," said another; "wounded, forsooth; the noble earl is right hearty. I saw him not two hours gone speaking with my Lord Montague, at the Tower steps.
               "Marry, then," put in a third, "there's but little love between the pair, the earl being a most stanch hater of all Papists and Papistry, and my Lord Montague a right obstinate fautor of the same. And did they draw down their brows at each other, Master Randel, or challenge to mortal combat, as they were like to do in the Parliament House last week?"
               "As for that, I know not," replied the other; "I but heard the Lord Montague say, as he passed the earl, that the lady should not want a defender, nor come to injury, whilst he could stand up in her cause; and the earl smiled thereat, and bowed most approvingly; so they be somewhat more friendly, I trow."
               "Ay, he speaketh bold enough for a Papist."
               "Bold—humph! I'd have him look to it, neighbor; for by my good certies, an the queen disliketh his intermeddling in this matter of her religion, as report goeth, all the Spanish Catholicity he learnt from King Philip will hardly save him."
               Whilst such conversation was passing in the crowd gathered on the steps leading to the secretary's residence, two men were observed to steal by, and without the least hesitation, enter the house as if they had been invited, or were members of the secretary's household. These men were evidently strangers, nevertheless, as appeared by their dress and deportment. Both wore long, black cloaks, muffling their faces, and broad-brimmed hats of a different fashion from those worn in England at the time.
               
               "Those foreigners would pass unknown," said a sailor-looking fellow, leaning against the handrail of the steps, "as if they feared to look upon honest men's faces; and yet, by my ceirties, an they be knaves, they be lucky ones, for they come hither in as tight built a wherry, and as trim, as any I've seen on these waters for a twelvemonth gone."
               "Foreigners?" inquired a tall, dark-faced man at his side.
               "Ay, be they, I'll warrant; for I saw them leave that French craft anchored there beyond the royal barge yester eve, and land at Tom Cutwater's in a punt, where they hid themselves since like a pair of owls, never once showing their faces till sundown."
               "Tom Cutwater, didst thou say? ha! lives he in this neighborhood?"
               "Within a cable's length of the steps," answered the sailor, "and hith lived there for five and twenty years; and folks say his father, old Abel Cutwater, for as many. Tom hath seen as much sea life, I trow, and weathered as many storms, as any between here and Havre. But now he hath hauled up, and lives at home to sing his old sea songs, and quaff his pot o' ale o' nights with his neighbors."
               "He hath conveyed many a yard o' Flemish lace, and dozens o' French hose, from the other side in his time, if report belie him not," observed the tall man.
               "Ay, marry hath he," responded the sailor; "and many a fair dame of our good city hath emptied her purse in Tom's horny palm, in exchange for his rich wares. There's my wife's sister, the buxom Mistress Sewall, of Blinder Lane, who trips it to church on Sunday with as gay head-gear as any in the bailiwick; she could tell, I'll warrant thee, how Tom drives a bargain for his foreign wares. Ah, marry, well may he quaff his ale, and sing his song o' nights; there be few tars anchored at port with fuller pouch than Tom Cutwater."
               "And this Mrs. Sewall," pursued the strainer, inquisitively, "is passing rich?"
               "Ay, indifferently well for her time, and the small wages of her husband."
               "Humph! is her good man at service?"
               "Ay, is he, these five years and more down in Worcestershire, with an old Papist as rich as my Lord Leicester, from whom he expecteth good store of gold at his death."
               "Hast not heard he left Worcestershire?" inquired the stranger.
               "Not I; what! with all his expectancies? Gadzooks! but now that I remember on't, there came various boxes and packages last night to Tom Cutwater's charge, the which the cautious old seaman cared not to babble of, he said, being the goods of a friend flying the country for debt, and awaiting a cast over to Dieppe."
               When the speaker had finished the sentence, he turned round, probably to make some inquiry into Sewall's unexpected departure from Worcestershire; but the stranger was gone: and as it is with the latter particularly our business is at present, we must follow him without further delay.
               
               Rapidly descending the steps, he turned to the left, and making his way through boats, chains, coils of rope, barrels, and anchors, came at length in front of a fisherman's hut, or cabin, before which lay sundry spars and sails, as if the owner had been making preparations for a cruise. The habitation, though low and thatched, was of considerable length, and more comfortable in appearance than most of those in the vicinity.
               Raising the latch, the stranger entered without the least ceremony, and seating himself unbidden on a bench near the fire, at which the proprietor himself was engaged discussing the merits of a foaming tankard, begged to know if Master Sewall was there of late.
               "And what be thy business of him?" demanded Tom, laying down his flagon on the table, and throwing one leg across the other in a very social and seamanlike manner.
               "Why, I've heard of his quitting Brockton, Master Cutwater," replied the stranger, "and being an old acquaintance, would like to see him."
               "Humph!" ejaculated Tom, eying the tall man knowingly, "thou'rt most likely to find him at his wife's, I trow."
               "Nay, I inquired of the good dame some two hours gone, and she directed me hither, saying her worthy husband had sent various packages and boxes to thy charge from Worcestershire."
               "By my troth, it's som'at strange," observed Tom, with an incredulous smile, "that the good dame should acquaint so many with her husband's private doings. It's but the matter of an hour, or thereby, since she sent a burly, blundering, half-witted Irishman here with a wagon for the packages; and were't not for the token he had to vouch for his honesty, I know not but the boat-hook and his cranium had made their acquaintance, in requital for his sauciness."
               "An Irishman, didst thou say?"
               "Ay, marry; and a sly, witty knave, withal."
               "A tall, curly-headed, stalwart-looking churl, was he not? eh?"
               "O, a most sturdy varlet; and by my sooth, the cudgel he carried might well have frightened a whole ship's crew."
               "D——n!" muttered the stranger, "it must be that infernal Connor; and so thou'st given him the packages."
               "Most truly I have," replied Tom; "and the more readily," he added, coolly taking up his tankard and leering at the stranger, "since Sewall was afraid of a certain Master Houghton coming this way with no friendly intentions towards himself, though with most loving regards for his packages. And so being gossip of the honest steward and his right well-wishing dame, I cared not to refuse her messenger, especially with such a token."
               "And so—and so, being a friend," repeated Houghton, jeeringly,—for the stranger was no other,— "thou'st delivered the plate to Reddy Connor, the old recusant's serving man, who, we thought, had been consumed in the flames together with his master."
               "What! he whom Sewall feared so much?" cried the astonished Tom, beginning to suspect a trick.
               
               "The same; he hath doubtless discovered the steward's residence in Blinder Lane, and hoodwinked his wife."
               "Impossible, man; nay, nay, he must be a more cunning knave than I take him for, to deceive the cautious Mrs. Sewall."
               "Ha, ha! gramercy, man, he could deceive the devil himself, and laugh at him to boot. O, he's a most unconscionable villain."
               "Art sure he escaped from the fire?" inquired Tom Cutwater, feeling more and more uneasy as he now reflected on Reddy's peculiarity of conduct and manner when demanding the packages.
               "Alive or dead," responded Houghton, rising and preparing to leave, "none could play that trick but the devil or Reddy Connor. Zounds, man, I could tell thee how he maltreated myself; but time presses, and I must leave. O, the mild-faced, cozening wretch!"
               "The villain!" ejaculated Tom; "the sly, simple-looking, damnable villain! He told me as how Sewall had sent him with a message to his wife, to wit, that Connor and his master were burnt, and there was none to fear now but the avaricious and bloodthirsty Houghton, who, doubtless, would keep on the watch, and seize him on his entrance into the city; and what made the matter more truth-like," added Tom Cutwater, "Sewall himself hath sent me a similar message."
               "Harkee, Master Cutwater," said the trooper, buttoning his doublet about him; "being a friend of Master Sewall's, thou'lt be hardly one o' mine, I know, since doubtless he hath told thee how matters stood between us at Brockton. But I see not, natheless, why this Irish Papist boor should carry off property to which neither religion nor the law of the land entitles him; and therefore I would advise that Sewall and ourselves both forget what hath passed, and set out in pursuit of this fellow, in order to recover the plate for our mutual advantage; eh? What sayest thou to that?"
               "Why, man, I know not whither he hath carried the booty," gruffly responded Tom, now angry with himself for having permitted so silly a looking churl as Reddy Connor to impose on him, "Odds, tars and tow ropes! did I but know where he steered for, I should willingly get my old gear in order, and give him chase right willingly; not that I care much for grappling with him on thy account, but so damnable a trick as this hath not been practised on Tom Cutwater since he first handled a handspike."
               "Moreover," added Houghton, "being a beggarly foreigner, and a cutthroat Romanist, he deserveth the gallows."
               "Humph! as for that," muttered Tom, "it's but little concern to me; for Tom Cutwater cares not a bodle whether the queen or the pope hath the weather-gauge; an old sailor hath little business to meddle with strange gear o' that kind, I trow; but I tell thee what, Master Houghton, it takes an old seaman short aback when he hath spent well nigh forty years driving an honest trade with all kinds o' land sharks and water dogs from Marseilles to Havre, not to speak of a cast among the Dutchman's puddles once a year or so, and no lubberly foreigner o' them all ever yet able to take the wind o' my sails; now, I say, to find myself laid on my beam ends by this half-tamed Irishman—Psaugh! it maketh me doubt whether I be old Tom Cutwater still, or some poor devil cast ashore on a false reckoning."
               "Hearken, then, Master Cutwater," repeated the trooper, impatient of Tom's loquacity; "we have little time to spare in useless speeches; get thee ready instantly, and let us in pursuit of this fellow, or at least give me some clew to his whereabouts."
               "And what advantage might that be, an thou find not the plate?" demanded Tom.
               "Nay, a pistol at his ear will soon find the plate, I'll warrant it."
               "Ha, ha!" laughed the old sailor; "an I accompanied thee, I fear me much a pistol bullet would be my share o' the prize also; so I'll even stay at home, Master Houghton, leaving thyself and the Irishman to fight for the silver an ye like. Natheless, since the villain hath so befooled me, I would fain see him punished, and therefore, I may tell thee Master Sewall is expected to come by the Luxton road, and doubtless thou'lt find the Irishman somewhere in that direction, waiting to ease the honest steward of his money bags."
               "Ah, the Luxton road; doth it not run by Wimbleton?"
               "Truly doth it; so haste thee, thou'lt find him there; for few travellers pass that way without alighting to quaff a stoup with Oliver Goodniff, the fat host of the Whitehorse of Wimbleton. Away! hie thee on, good sir, and watch the varlet well," concluded Tom, turning to resume his flagon, and then mumbling in an under tone, "The more each other's blood ye spill, the better for Master Sewall."
               Tom Cutwater's countenance wore an expression of disappointment and chagrin as he sat down again on the bench, after Houoghton had closed the door behind him. He paused for a moment to reflect, with the flagon resting on his knee. "Odds, tars and tow ropes," he muttered to himself, "this is sum'at beyond my calculation. I had hoped to make something o' this business, and here now have I suffered a clown to whip it out o' ny hands like a running foresheet in a gale o' wind. Well, well, there's a chance for Sewall still; while the dogs worry each other, the cur often escapes. But hark, what's all this sudden clamor?" he cried, starting up and spilling the ale over the hearth in the flurry of his excitement; "mayhap these French spies, attacked by the mob," he continued, mistaking the cause of the uproar. "Ha, ha! I thought their black cloaks and slouched hats should win them little favor hereaways."
               The noise now increased every moment, and amongst the rattling of arms, which met the old sailor's ear as he opened the door, he could clearly distinguish the tiny cry of an infant, and the voice of some one shouting to secure it at all risks. The crowd had gathered within a few paces of the secretary's steps, and the flambeaux, which at that moment were lighting the royal train on its return to the barge, threw their red glare full on the faces of the rioters. The cry of the infant was now repeated again and again from the centre of the group, and was heard distinctly, notwithstanding the rattling of oaken staves against the pike heads and halberts of Cecil's retainers, who happened to be on guard at the time for the queen's protection. A few steps farther down, with her sharp bows touching the dry sand, was a small skiff, and two stout sailors standing in it with oars in their hands, ready to shove off at a moment's warning.
               "Secure the child!" again shouted the same stern voice, in tones that told above the din like a trumpet in a storm. "Secure it at all risks—throttle the witch—pike the hag through the gullet!"
               "Hugh! hell-pet, I'm no gaun to thraw its wizen fort, an then fling it amang the tumstanes," cried Nell Gower; "na, na, Robert Southron, I'm na murderer, I ween. Come, my bonnie lads," she continued, turning to her trusty followers, "mak way, mak way to the boat, for I hae sworn by the cross and the mass to save the bairn gin I swing for't."
               "The spaewife—the spaewife!" exclaimed a pikeman, recognizing her voice; "stab the old she devil!" and making a plunge of his wpapon over the shoulders of the rioters, fairly ran it through Nell's hood, and tearing it off her head, exposed to the gaze of the multitude her fiery countenance, and long gray locks tossed over her shoulders in wild disorder.
               "Ha, ha!" laughed the dauntless old woman in a scornful tone, as she glanced round the fearful circle of pikes and halberts now gleaming in the torchlight: "ha, ha! puir daft silly sauls, ye canna harm me— my hour is na come yet; God has gien me a promise o' years, and he'll no fail to bide it. Noo then, my douce callants," she continued, in a voice clearly audible above the shouts and curses, the ringing of staves against the steel weapons of her assailants, and the cry of voices from the royal barge, whose occupants began to feel interested also in the fate of the infant; "noo then, my bonnie lads, gie't them wi' the pith o' yer stout airms; gie't the dogs wi' a sougch; yai, yai! that's it, lads; that sound gaes to my heart; O! it's music to my auld ears. Weel done, Ned, my bonnie man! doon wi' the cowards—drive ower the necks of the beagles— think o' the massacre o' Whinstone Hollow, an the martyred priest; O, think o't, think o't, and strike wi' the pith and grit o' yer Irish thews, till they snap in the stretchin'. Guid God, guid God!" she ejaculated, looking up in earliest supplication to heaven, "gie them strength to win through wi't, for the fate o' twa the purest and bonniest in a' the land depend on the life o' the bastard bairn."
               The royal barge, now freed from her moorings, fell down the stream a few fathoms, ere her long oars could be got in the rowlocks, and the boatmen ready for rowing, and thus happened to glide stern on to the punt that lay waiting to carry off the child."
               The queen, who sat immediately before the captain, surrounded by her courtiers, now found herself within ten yards of the combatants, and happening to hear the name of the "spaewife" distinctly pronounced by different voices in the crowd in connection with an abducted infant, suddenly became so troubled and excited, that the captain, attributing her alarm to the fear of personal injury, shouted to the boatmen to stretch to their oars and pull away from shore.
               By this time the fight grew desperate, and assumned quite a serious character, some twenty men being engaged on either side—the blue blowzes with their heavy oaken staves, and their antagonists with pikes, petronels, the latter of which, however, were entirely harmless, it being impossible to use them in the dense crush of the fray. Clear above all the din was Nell's voice still heard haranguing her followers to drive on and save the bairn.
               "Down wi' the cutthroat dogs!" she vociferated, her voice coming out shrill from the hoarse roar of the mêlée; "down wi' them!" shouted the fearless old woman; "God's on yer side, an ye need na fear; out wi' yer dhirks now, and rive ilka hound's heart o' them; awa' wi' yer cudgels, ye canna use them mare; awa' wi' them, an grip the beagles by the throat; on, on wi' ye! drive on—drive on in God's name, my douce callants; drive on for the guid queen ye ken o', an the bonnie lass o' Brockton."
               "Shoot down the spaewife!" suddenly screamed Elizabeth, no longer able to restrain herself; "shoot her down!" she cried, springing on the gunwale, and balancing by the hold of Sir Nicholas Bacon's collar, which she had grasped in the flurry of excitement. "Shoot her down—the beldam! she deserveth well to die; shoot her down, and put an end to this murderous fray."
               "My liege, my liege," entreated the courtier, taking the queen gently by the arm to draw her back, "this is somewhat unseemly; I implore your majesty not to expose your sacred person thus."
               "What, man!" ejaculated Elizabeth, turning a wild and almost savage scowl upon her councillor; "better she were killed, and stop this fearful carnage; die she must, sooner or later."
               "Stretch to yer oars, men!" thundered the captain, impatient of the delay; "pull with a will; hoa! there, bow oar, shove her off—shove her off!"
               "Drive off the two boatmen, there, continued the queen, trembling lest the child should escape, and almost reckless of exciting suspicion by her extraordinary interest in the scene. But while she was speaking, the boatmen shoved off the punt about the length of an oar from the sand; for the rioters had now reached the water's edge, and it was no longer safe, either for themselves or the frail eggshell they managed, to remain there longer.
               Southron had by this time fought his way through the crowd, dagger in hand, within arm's length of Nell Gower, and twice tried to stab her by plunging his weapon over the shoulders of her defenders; both times, however, the blade passed harmlessly through her cloak.
               Still he pushed forward to execute his murderous intent; but the spaewife, regardless of the proximity of his weapon, stepped upon the lifeless body of one of her assailants, and harangued her followers in words that carried fire to their hearts and strength to their arms. She looked so wild and unearthly up there on the breast of the corpse—her long, wiry gray locks streaming behind her, her right arm raised in furious gesticulation, whilst the light of the torches irradiated her fiery countenance, that Southron himself, villain and murderer as he was, stood amazed and appalled.
               But he soon recovered his self-possession, and again aiming a blow, missed the body as before. This time, however, in drawing back the dagger, he tore off the gray cloak, and Nell stood before him in her blue bodice, unhampered and erect—the infant was gone.
               A cry then broke from the crowd that the child was killed; and as the words met the queen's ear, a smile brightened on her face like that on a reprieved criminal's when the jailer announces to him the glad tidings. But her pleasure was of short duration; for hardly had the first cry died away, when a dwarf, with the babe in its arms, was observed to creep out through the legs of the combatants, and plunging into the water, make its way to the boat.
               Now again was the shout raised from barge and shore, to rescue the child; and Southron, who was first to detect the dwarf crushing through the throng, made a desperate spring after him, and had actually laid hold of Whitret Macbairn, doubtless with the intention of drowning or strangling him, when, fortunately for the creature, a stout arm came at that moment to his assistance.
               Reddy Connor, who had just then returned from the Whitehorse of Wimbleton, after depositing his master's plate in the cellar, and delivering the money bags he had recovered from Sewall to the charge of honest Oliver, now came thundering along on horseback through barrels and anchors, ropes and spars, reckless of life and limb, to the scene of conflict. Nell's watchful eye saw him as he appeared in sight waving his knotted cudgel above his head, and shouting back to Sam Wabble, his faithful associate, to come on.
               "Drive ower them, the dogs!" cried the spaewife; "spare no a bane in their thewless bodies; on wi' ye, my faithfu' callant, and save the bairn at a' risks;" and as she spoke she pointed to the water, and then waved her bare, thin arm, as if to give more speed to his effort.
               Reddy perceived in an instant how matters stood, and rushing his horse at the crowd, drove through it like a whirlwind through a field of wheat, and opened a passage to the shore over prostrate bodies and broken bones. But the fiery animal, happening to miss his step among the rough stones, fell forward, and threw Reddy into the water close by the very spot where Southron was struggling with the dwarf.
               On recovering his feet, the stout Celt sprung on the burly Saxon, and twisting his fingers in his cravat, swung him round till he brought him face to face.
               "Look at me, base, cowardly Sassenagh!" he cried; "remember the blow at the Paycock; unhand the dwarf, and defend yerself."
               Southron, on recognizing the voice and face of his old tormentor, let go his mortal grasp of Whitret's throat, and drew his dagger. "Now, then," he cried, grinding his teeth, "we have met again; and I swear by all the furies of hell thou'lt never part me living."
               
               Reddy stepped back to evade the blow, as Southron made a thrust with his weapon. Both now stood within a few feet of the royal barge, which had been all this time held fast by some loose cordage that trailed from her stern, and got foul of a sunk anchor, despite all the efforts of the oarsmen to free her.
               "There!" cried the queen, "look—look—the child's in the skiff! sink it, sink it!" she ejaculated, earnestly calling to those around her as if her very existence depended on its destruction.
               "Most gracious madam," said a half dozen courtiers in a breath, "this would be murder, and for no reason that we wot of."
               "Reason! what reason? nay, nay, my good sirs," she exclaimed, frightened at length at her own indiscretion, and checking herself in a moment, "what cause could we have? cause! we have no special cause; we thought—that is—O, it matters not," she muttered, sinking back again in her cushioned seat, confused and disappointed.
               Whilst this little scene was passing, Reddy and Southron had been engaged in mortal combat, as we have already observed, within a few feet of the royal barge. Southron had now driven back his antagonist up to his knees in the water, and again made a desperate attempt to reach him with his dagger. Reddy suffered his infuriate enemy to make the thrust this time without offering the slightest resistance, but springing aside as Southron drove on, dealt him such a blow on the skull with his knotty blackthorn as might be distinctly heard amid all the confusion that prevailed, and felled him as a butcher would an ox.
               "Hech!" cried the Celt, as his antagonist went down under the terrible crash; "remember the Paycock."
               "May the guid God bless ye for that, my bonnie man," shouted Nell; "an lang may he gae pith to yer airn, and courage to yer heart, for yer the bravest chiel I clasped een on sin I left the Hielands."
               Whitret Macbairn at this moment was returning from the punt—his head barely visible above the water. He had just reached Reddy's side as Southron fell; and whether from the spur of the moment, or owing to some vague suspicion he had that Southron once attempted his life when very young, and left him thus a hideous spectacle to the world, it is difficult to say; but certain it is, that, seeing the end of a rope trailing from the royal barge, he knotted it round the neck of the insensible and already half-drowned Southron, and next moment saw him towed after the boat as rapidly as twelve stout men could impel her through the water.
               "Hough, hough!" ejaculated the dumb creature, grinning up at the Irishman, and rubbing his hands in great glee, as the boat shot off with the struggling man.
               "Good God!" exclaimed Reddy, who fancied the dwarf was all the while endeavoring to rescue Southron from drowning, now seeing him chucked beyond his reach in an instant, "this is tarrible."
               "Come awa', come awa'!" cried Nell; "there's na use glowerin' after him there sic fashion; it's nathin' but his fate, an we a' maun bide wir fate, an meet it. But guid be about an aboon us," she went on, clapping her hands, and speaking in a lower tone to herself; "wha could hae thought 'twould een be through his ain victim's hands she'd reward him wi' the collar o' hemp or gold? ow, wow, sirs, but the decrees o' Heaven are wondrous awfu'."
               As the tumult had already in a great measure subsided when the combatants found the infant was carried off, and the crowd began to disperse on the departure of the royal cortege and the lights that accompanied it, Reddy took Whitret by the hand, and conducted him ashore.
               "By all that's bad," said he, coming up to Nell, "the devil himself must be in this crathur; for iv all the murdherin' thricks I iver heard tell iv, that thrick bates them hollo'. So here he's t'ye; here, take him, for, upon my conscience, I don't think there's much luck or grace in his company."
               "Hout, dinna fash yersel about that, man; gin ye kenned a' I ken, ye'd na wonder so muckle; so gang awa', my lads," she added, turning to the blue blowzes now gathering around her; "gang awa' hame, for ye hae done a guid night's wark, an I canna say but am a bit thankfu' for't mare nor common; troth am I, lads; an here, Wallopin Ned, tak this spleuchan, an try if ye canna fumel a wheen siller pieces out o'ts faulds to mak merry aboot the chimney neuk in Fenchurch Street. For this braw lad here, an his frien' the apprentice, I hae ither work on hands."
               And so saying, Nell waved her hand to her trusty followers and left the scene of tumult, accompanied by Reddy Connor and Sam Wabble,—Whitret Macbairn bringing up the rear at his usual jog-trot gait.
               As the little party passed Tom Cutwater's cabin, the old sailor was standing on the threshold, his broad-brimmed hat on his head, and his hands stuck in the pockets of his sea jacket, nodding occasionally to his acquaintance as they wended their way home.
               "Hilloa, there! avast heaving," he suddenly cried, as Reddy appeared in sight, with his cudgel under his arm; "hilloa, there, Irishman; back water a bit, an let's have the news; what became of Sewall?"
               "Shot through the head, as ye ought to be yerself, ye ould varmint," replied Reddy, coolly walking on.
               "Odds, tars and tow ropes, man; and who shot him?" inquired the sailor.
               "His friend, one Mr. Houghton, at yer sarvice."
               "Ay, faith, I suspected as much; and where may Houghton be himself? eh? escaped with the money bags?"
               "No, then," responded Reddy, "not entirely; he happened to fall when runnin' off with it."
               "Well, what then?" inquired Tom Cutwater, raising his voice as Reddy continued to walk on.
               "That's all I can tell ye about him; only they say it was a paralatic stroke he got," replied the merry wag, raising his hand to the side of his mouth, and shouting back to his questioner.
               "Ay, marry, from thy cudgel, I warrant," muttered Tom, closing the door; "for such a murderous weapon might well paralyze a ship's crew."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVII.
               THE room in which Alice at length found herself a prisoner, was situate in the northern wing of the palace, the passage to it leading through that portion of the building appropriated to the use of the servants. It was a long, narrow, ill-lighted apartment, called the "strong room," where court officials of rank were sometimes confined at the will and pleasure of the sovereign, generally for trifling offences against the rules or etiquette of the court, but which, in Elizabeth's time, had been used as a place of detention for more grievous offenders, until the usual forms of law were completed (if indeed she could prevail on her patience to wait so long) for sending them to Newgate or the Tower.
               Below this room and the one adjoining (probably that in which Rodger O'Brien was confined) were a number of smaller prisons, where menials and others of low rank were thrown, and where, in the broil and bustle of court life, their very existence was sometimes forgotten for years, except by the turnkeys or deputy keepers to whose care they might chance to be confided.
               As Alice entered the gloomy apartment, conducted by the deputy usher, and leaning on the arm of the Lady Dudley, whose kind attentions had been unremitting since her arrival at the palace, she hesitated for a moment on the threshold, and closely pressed the arm of her friend, as the dismal look of the place struck her heart with the chill of despair. No wonder: the walls on two sides of the room were mildewed, and streaming with damp, and the flagged floor slippery with its thick, clammy moisture, even at that warm season of the year. The windows, opposite the cumbrous door through which they now passed, were narrow, even for a prison, and almost completely darkened by the heavy, rusted iron bars that protected them on the outside. Between these windows, or rather apertures, was placed a rough deal bedstead, with coarse scanty covering, and a chair of the same material beside it. These were the only articles of furniture in the room, if we except, indeed, a volume of the Sacred Scriptures, which lay on the granite mantel, bearing on the fly-page, in the queen's own handwriting, the following sentence: "Repent, sinner, and be forgiven.—E. R."
               After much affectionate leave-taking on the part of the Lady Dudley, and divers unsolicited promises, on the part of the usher, that every comfort should be afforded consistent with the prisoner's rank and the rules of the prison, the heavy iron-bound door at length closed, the massive key turned in the lock, the bolt shot, and Alice was alone.
               For a moment she stood gazing round the room, endeavoring to realize her situation, turning now to looked at the window and now at the bed. In truth, she found it difficult to reconcile herself to the fact that she was a prisoner at all, especially in the very palace to which she had fled for succor, Alas! poor thing; little she thought that in a few years more, Mary Stuart, flying from Lochlevin, should meet a worse fate—flung back from the arms of a royal sister into those of a jailer, and the hands stretched out for help repulsed and manacled. Indeed, the events of the last few days had succeeded each other with such terrible rapidity, that Alice could yet hardly tell whether they were real or illusory. But her doubts were of short duration; the solemn, death-like stillness that followed the dying sound of the departing footfalls, and the damp, chilly atmosphere of the apartment, soon dispelled them.
               As the sad conviction of the truth fell heavy on her heart, she slowly sank down on the damp, slippery flags, and with uplifted hands and streaming eyes, addressed herself to God, the source of all hope and consolation.
               "Father in heaven," she exclaimed, "I am now alone with thee; all my earthly friends are gone; not one is left to succor me in this hour of trial; but thou, Lord, art ever ready with thy hand to lead into the path of safety the wandering and forsaken who trust in thee. I now prostrate me here before thee, and humbly beg thy protection. I am, at last, a poor, friendless orphan; the old man who once so fondly loved me, who guarded me with such parental tenderness, is no more. I am adrift like a solitary mariner on a tempestuous sea, and no light to guide me, or port to steer for, but thee, O guiding star of mercy and haven of salvation. Turn not away thy pity; amid the storms that gather around, grant me light to see, and courage to meet the danger. Stay with me, and guide me, for if I lose thee I am lost. I ask thee not for life, for that, indeed, were now a poor boon to crave; but I implore thee by the piety of my mother, by the faith of my father, and by the soul of the martyr who died last night in mine arms, that on the morrow I may stand unshaken before the judgment seat, and that neither threats, nor torture, nor the gibbet, nor the block, may wrench from me the faith bequeathed on Calvary, and transmitted to me through a stainless ancestry. Grant me this one blessing, Lord; I ask no more in this world— if it be not, indeed," she added, hesitating and blushing as she spoke, "that the generous youth who hath perilled his life to protect mine may not be forgotten. On the morrow must I stand alone before the great ones of the world,—ay, even before her whose very frown is death,—to answer for my faith; and behold, I have none to plead my cause. But thou, my God, art the light of confessors and the strength of martyrs. Alas! they have shut me in here from all intercourse with human kind, that none might counsel or prepare me for the coming danger. But they knew not, Lord, that the rays of thy wisdom can penetrate the deepest dungeon, to illumine the soul of her who trusteth in thee. 'Incline unto mine aid, then, O Lord; O Lord, make haste to help me. In thee I have hoped; let me never be put to confusion.' Deliver me in thy justice, and rescue me. For by thee have I been confirmed from the womb— from my mother's womb thou hast been my protector." Then offering a short prayer to the Virgin mother of God, the comforter of the afflicted, she rose up, and taking the sacred volume from the mantel, sat down composedly to seek strength and consolation in its divine lessons. The first passage that met her sight, as she opened the book, was the thirty-second verse of the tenth chapter of St. Matthew the evangelist: "Every one, therefore, who confesses me before men, I will confess before my Father who is in heaven. But he that shall deny me before men, I shall deny him before my Father who is in heaven."
               "What a terrible threat," thought Alice, "against those who would abandon their faith to gain the wealth and pleasures of the world; who, to obtain the favor of the great, renounce the dearest and grandest of earthly blessings—their membership in the church of God!" These thoughts naturally led her into long and bitter reflections on the nature of that society into which fate had thrown her, the corrupting influences of the court upon the people, the effects produced on weak minds by the examples of statesmen so renowned for their wisdom, and so licentious in their morals, and the temptations which, in such a general decay of virtue, must beset the ignorant and unwary. "O spirit of my father," she murmured, clasping her hands and raising her eyes up in a meek and humble appeal, "look down on thy forsaken and suffering child. O, it was hard, hard to separate thus two hearts so fondly entwined— so linked together as ours; but better, mayhap, better it should be so; better to be up there in the bright heavens, praying to the Father of love and mercy for thy little Alice, than here, to bear the insults and scorns of the world in thy old age. But alas, alas! they have not been content with taking thy life; nay, they have consumed thy body—burnt it to a very cinder, that none might distinguish it from the blackened cinders of the wreck; they have made thy dust commingle with the ashes of those old books thou'st loved so well: those old, iron-clasped volumes that were thy companions in life, are now also thy companions in death. My God, my God!" she cried, covering her face with her hands, "that kindly countenance, that love-beaming eye, those old gray locks I so often stroked and plaited when I sat a child upon his knee, are now undistinguishable amid the ruins. Never will that mild old face smile on me again; never those affectionate arms press me in their fond embrace; never those lips pronounce the nightly blessing. Never shall I steal behind his chair, and slip the newly-made pen behind his ear; never more shall we sit together on the greensward, 'neath the old sundial, nor pray together at my mother's grave." Whilst absorbed in these sad reflections, the book lying open on her knees, and the tears streaming down her cheeks unfelt and unchecked, she was suddenly disturbed by a whining noise at the door, as of some animal earnestly imploring admission. Alice closed the book, and advanced to ascertain the cause: hardly had she approached, however, within five or six feet of the door, when Peto, (for it was no other,) after a long search, and many a blow at the hands of the servants, as he passed them, snuffing and scenting along the passages, having at length discovered ered her retreat, now set up a howl of recognition that resounded along the echoing corridors, and soon brought up a number of the royal domestics to inquire the reason for so unusual a clamor. Alice tried all she could to pacify the affectionate fellow, but her entreaties and threats were alike fruitless; the more she spoke, the more uproarious grew his joy, now barking loud and long, and now pushing his nose under the door and whining in a most piteous manner for admission. The servants endeavored to drive him off, but in vain: they raised their weapons to menace him; but Peto, having found his mistress, was firmly resolved to stay by her side despite all their threats or inducements. One of the men at last pointed a carabine at his head; but Peto only barked defiance, and told him, as plainly as he could speak, that neither fire nor sword should drive him from his post. Finally the usher made his appearance, attracted by the uproar, and seeing a large staghound guarding the door of the "strong room," and keeping three or four men at bay, snatched a carabine to shoot him without further hesitation, when, fortunately, Alice's voice was heard faintly through the thick door, beseeching them to spare her faithful follower, and to let him have one sight of his mistress. The usher, being rather a humane man for his place, as the times went, was at length, after various entreaties, induced to comply with her urgent request. When the door opened, and Peto rushed in and saw his mistress face to face, his joy was unbounded, almost throwing her down in the excesses of his raptures. He leaped upon her, kissed her cheeks, and then her hands, and when at length she scolded him for his boldness, and ordered him to lie down, he crouched at her feet, and looked up in her face, as if his very life depended on his gazing in her eyes. When the exuberance of his joy had, however, somewhat moderated, and the usher proceeded to eject him from the room, he again grew literally furious with rage and would have sprung upon his assailant, had not Alice herself caught him by the silver collar, and held him back.
               "Canst not let him remain with me?" said Alice; "he loves to be near me, poor fellow."
               "Nay, nay, madam," replied the usher, "it may not comport with the rules of the prison."
               "Here then," she said, promptly submitting to the necessity of the case, "lay hold of him, and tie him up somewhere in the house, that he may at least have the consolation of knowing he is in the same building. "Ho, good Peto," she added, patting him on the head, "go away, now, and keep quiet for my sake."
               The servants having dragged the noble animal from the room by main strength, the usher turned to bid Alice fair thoughts and a speedy release, assuring her, at the same time, that nothing should be overlooked that might contribute to her comfort.
               "Dost think, good man," innocently inquired Alice, "there's much danger to be feared?"
               But the usher only shook his head, and retired to the door.
               "Verily," she continued, "I know of no crime, save to worship at the holy mass."
               
               "Nay, I fear me," replied the officer, "the queen hath not sent thee hither on so slight a charge; marry, if thou couldst but spoil thy beauty, methinks thy imprisonment might come sooner to an end;" and again closing the ponderous door with a loud crash, he disappeared. Alice now sought her hard, coarse bed, and laid herself down to rest for a few moments, after the excitement of the day.
               Time wore away slowly and sadly for the youthful prisoner. One while she would rise up and read from the inspired page, and then again kneel down by her bedside, and pray for patience under her present afflictions, and courage to meet the coming danger. Often did she wish father Peter, her old and faithful director, at her side; but alas! father Peter was a corpse in Whinstone Hollow. Often did she long to see Nell Gower again, her old and devoted protectress; but poor Nell was now waking the dead in her lonely and desolate cavern. And there was another whose image also crossed her mind, ay, even when rapt in her holiest contemplations, whom she fain would speaks to once more. Often did she unconsciously murmur his name, and often did she chide herself for the act, fearing it inconsistent with the solemnity of the time and place, and incompatible with the sorrow she ought to feel for her murdered father. Sometimes she would check herself when indulging in the remembrance of his chivalrous conduct on midsummer eve, and his gallant defence in the cavern. She even begged of God to banish the image from her mind, if it were a sin to harbor it, and the spirit of her father to pardon her if she seemed ungrateful to his memory, in thus suffering the idea of another to approach her in the midst of her grief.
               Thus wore away the time slowly, but steadily. At last the declining sun flung a stray beam of his glorious light through the bars of the prison, that illumined her whole person, making her face glow and brighten up like a seraph's. The blessed light, though of short duration, cheered her drooping spirits; for it seemed a heavenly messenger sent to convey hope and trust to her sinking heart.
               And now the sun went down, and night came on; and then the usual meal was laid before her; but all the kind entreaties of the attendant could not prevail upon her to touch it. Then the lamp was removed; and once more alone in the deep darkness, she recommended herself to the care of Heaven, and retired, to forget her miseries, for a time, in the balmy influence of blessed sleep.
               O child of God, sleep on; sleep on, thou pure and beautiful; for thy guardian angel is now hovering above thy bed, and maketh a curtain of his wings to shield thy spirit from the evil influences that surround thee; sleep on, thou spotless child of grace, for He who marketh the sparrow's fall hath not forgotten thee—the chaste image of himself. Sleep on; the odor of thy virtues will embalm thy heart, and hallow thy dreams; sleep on, sleep on; many an aching heart beats to-night under the same roof with thee; many a troubled conscience wakes the slumberer from dreams of horror; many a demon of jealousy hath found his way into the gilded chambers to tempt the sleepless wretches, and prick them on to madness of revenge. But thy heart is calm, and thy conscience untroubled, for thy sleep is in God, and thy dreams are of heaven.
               And now time has taken another stride onwards, and the hum of busy life is no longer heard in Hampton Court. It is past the second hour after midnight, and no living thing seems awake, save the bats that fly about the windows, and the owls that leave their resting-places in the old ivy walls of the ruined convent below, to screech round the gables of the palace, and affright the fearful listeners within. But hark! a stealthy step approaches the prison door; the key enters the lock, the bolt is slowly moved back. Hah! two females, deeply masked, now appear on the threshold; one of them holds a lamp, whose dim, shaded light hardly suffices to reveal her sex. Hush! they listen for a moment, thinking, perhaps, the noise of the rusty lock hath awaked the slumberer. But no; she is innocent and spotless as an angel, and therefore her sleep is sound. Taking the lamp, the taller of the two females enters on tiptoe, and advances noiselessly to the bed, whilst the other remains to watch at the door. And now she holds the lamp over the face of the prisoner. Never did the eyes which now looked out from behind that mask gaze on so lovely a face. The maiden's hands were joined in the attitude of prayer, and a smile played upon her lips, as if her guardian angel were conversing with her in her sleep. Hers was not the beauty that awakes the passions; O, no; it was that which the pure soul within, breaking through and irradiating its fleshly tabernacle, lends to the loveliness of nature's forming. It was that which should appall the heart of the libertine, and scare him from its presence by the spirituality of its look. But she who now stood over the sleeper was one whose heart was never yet appalled.
               Laying down the lamp on the floor, the masked visitor knelt beside the bed, and leaning over, whispered something in the sleeper's ear, which seemed to disturb, though it did not awaken her. Again she repeated the whisper in a somewhat louder tone.
               "Dost know the Earl of Leicester?" she said, speaking slow and distinctly.
               "A little," answered the sleeper.
               "And Rodger O'Brien?"
               "Ay."
               "Which lovest thou most?"
               "Which?"
               "Well, truly, I know not who thou art, and therefore I shall not answer thee; for an thou be a good spirit, thou mightest tell my father, mayhap, that his child spake of love, whilst his body yet lay unburied; and if thou'rt a bad, I must not commune with thee further," murmuring forth the words slowly, and at intervals.
               "Nay, I am a good spirit; answer me, therefore, dost love the Earl of Leicester?"
               "Ah, methinks thou speakest not with the voice of a good spirit, such as now stood by my side, nor doth thy breath smell sweet; and therefore I will not reply. But I fear thee not, for the holy virgin hath her arms around my neck. So go, go, in God's holy name, and trouble me not; go, for I must meet the queen on the morrow, and I would fain seek repose."
               "Did the earl not give thee a buckle, once?"
               "A buckle?"
               "Ay, a shoe buckle."
               "Nay, I wot not of it."
               "'Twas found in thy dressing room, at Brockton."
               "Ah, Brockton! Brockton and its old master are no more," she murmured, catching at the idea; "didst know old Sir Geoffrey Wentworth?—he was my father, and the best father in the whole wide world. But alas! they buried him in the flames—burnt him to a cinder. O dear, O dear!" she slowly ejaculated, whilst the tears trickled down her cheeks, what shall I do now?"
               "Hush!" said the stranger; "speak not of that; but tell me what brought the earl to Whinstone Hollow on the night of the massacre?"
               "To speak to Nell Gower of the child, I trow."
               "Whose child?"
               "Ah, nay, I must not tell thee."
               "I am a pure spirit, and I command thee—whose child? speak!"
               "If thou be a pure spirit, thou knowest already."
               "Doth it belong to the earl?"
               "Thou must ask Nell Gower; there she sits behind the altar—look there—with the dead priest's head on her knee. Go speak to her, and let me rest."
               Seeing no likelihood of her answering this question, the mask now repeated the first inquiry.
               "Dost love the Earl of Leicester?"
               "Nay, I love him not."
               "Doth he love thee?"
               "I cannot tell."
               "Hath he ever caressed thee?"
               "Caressed me—what doth that mean?"
               "Embraced thee—spoke love to thee."
               "I cannot well comprehend thy meaning."
               The stranger now leaned over till her lips almost touched the ear of the sleeper, and whispered something in the lowest possible breath; but hardly had she done so, when Alice screamed out as if some one had stabbed her, and starting up in the bed, looked wildly about.
               "Down, down!" cried the woman in the mask; "down, and be silent, or I'll strangle thee;" and seizing Alice by the neck, she forced her head back on the pillow.
               "O my God!" cried Alice, now fully awake, "save me, save me, or I perish."
               "Hush! speak not above thy breath, or I'll instantly plunge this steel in thy heart," hissed the mask, drawing a poniard from her bosom, and holding it up before the affrighted and trembling girl.
               "O, for Christ's dear sake, murder me not, good stranger; I am yet unanointed."
               "'Sdeath!" cried the mask, again hissing the words through her teeth, "speak low, and answer."
               "Any thing thou'rt pleased to ask; but harm me not thus in the dark."
               "Where hath the spaewife sent the child?"
               "I know not."
               
               "Tell me, or thou diest!"
               "As the Lord liveth, I know not."
               "Ah! thou wouldst save Leicester; minion, wanton, bawd, thou'rt his paramour!" cried the mask, raising the dagger in her right hand, and forcing the terrified girl down on the pillow with her left.
               "O my God, my God!" murmured the half-suffocated and prostrate Alice; "save me—save me from this woman; mother of God, help me, or I perish."
               "Strumpet-devil! acknowledge thy guilt, or I stab thee."
               "Mercy, mercy!" pleaded the other female, who had remained until this moment a patient and watchful sentinel at the door, now flying across the room and arresting the murderous arm as it poised the weapon to strike; "mercy, mercy! madam—she may be innocent."
               "Begone, minion!" screamed the furious mask, now reckless of all consequences, and speaking without fear or restraint; "begone, and leave me!"
               "Nay, thou shalt not commit murder to imbitter thy whole life,—I shall not suffer thee."
               "What! thou base slave—imp of hell—begone when I speak. God's death!" she ejaculated, making a back blow of the weapon at her companion, and loosing her hold of Alice in the effort, "obey me, or die thyself, presumptuous meddler."
               The instant Alice felt herself free of the mask's grasp, she instinctively exerted all the strength left her, and springing off the bed, attempted to fly from the room; but the mask held on by her dress, and tried to drag her within reach of the dagger: the other female had fallen in the mean time, and lay insensible on the floor from a blow of the weapon, the handle of which had struck her on the breast.
               "Confess thy guilt!" persisted the mask, her bosom heaving with the throes of furious passion, and her eyes shooting fire on her victim, "confess thy guilt!—confess, wanton paramour, confess thy guilt!" and still she kept dragging her nearer and nearer.
               "I declare before the angels of heaven I am innocent," replied Alice, hardly able to articulate, her head thrown back from the blow, and her arms extended.
               "H-ll and furies!" screamed the mask, "thou liest in thy throat. I saw thee leaning on his arm, and his lips touching thy cleek; ha, ha, ha!" she cried; "I'll have my revenge—first on thee, base bawd, and then on him;" and making a desperate exertion, she aimed a blow at the girl, throwing her whole force into the effort. But Alice's angel guardian had not abandoned her, for her assailant's foot slipped on the damp, clammy floor, throwing the mask flat on her face, the steel ringing on the flags as it dropped from her hand. Unfortunately, Alice also fell, owing to the mask losing her hold so suddenly; and now both lay there for a moment, the mask gazing, as she waited to take breath, at the prostrate maiden with a look that seemed to fascinate and rivet her to the spot. But this was of short duration; the furious woman again grasped the dagger, and sprang to her feet; and now Alice felt all hope was gone, for she had no power to move a finger in her defence; she lay as helpless as an infant, fearfully looking up at the glittering weapon.
               "Mother of God, save me," she murmured once more; "I am thy child; save me from the hands of this wicked one." Suddenly a noise was heard as of irons rattling on the stone stairs leading to the prison door, and the next instant Peto rushed into the room, with the chains he had broken hanging from his neck, and sprang furiously at the assailant of his mistress. Had he arrived but one second later, the deed had been accomplished; for the mask had just then sunk on her knee, and raised the steel to plunge it. A flash of lightning could hardly have prostrated the mask quicker than Peto; and then, seizing her by the scarf that covered her throat, he shook her like a lapdog in the fangs of a mastiff.
               The affrighted prisoner, seeing the faithful animal coming to her assistance, immediately recovered her self-possession and her energy together, and starting from her prostrate position, laid hold of Peto's collar, and counmanded him to desist.
               "Good Heavens!" cried the second mask, now recovering her feet; "this is terrible, terrible;" and she snatched the dagger to kill the dog. But Alice kept her off by her prayers and entreaties, and at length succeeded in liberating her fallen enemy.
               "Quit the room!" commanded the maiden, "for I have not strength to hold back the dog."
               The mask hesitated, as if summoning courage for another attempt, and glared at the lovely face of her fancied rival, whilst her fingers worried with an eager desire to tear its beauty in pieces with her nails.
               "Down, Peto! quiet, good dog," entreated Alice, endeavoring to pacify the infuriate animal, whose fiery eyes never turned one instant from the face of his mistress's enemy. "Ho, good Peto, silence— keep thee quiet, man; and thou, wretch, quit the room, and on thy knees ask God's pardon, for already thou hast mine."
               "Wretch! what! darest thou call her wretch?" ejaculated the second mask.
               "Away, away!" repeated Alice; "ye are demons both, nor shall I longer save ye from a just punishment."
               Hearing the shooting of a bolt echoing along the passage without, both masks now retreated suddenly to the door, and as it closed, Alice caught a glance of that terrible eye from behind the deep disguise, casting back on her a look of unsatiable malice.
               Hardly had the pair retreated a dozen steps from the door, when the still trembling maiden heard a man's heavy tread rapidly approaching from an opposite direction; and then the key turning quickly in the lock, the usher appeared on the threshold, and demanded the reason of the unusual noise.
               Alice related to him in a few words what had happened; but the story was so wild and improbable, that at first the officer seemed to doubt her veracity; perceiving, however, a silver lamp lying on the floor, which had not been there when he left the previous evening, and seeing the chain broken which he himself had fastened on the dog's neck, his doubts were soon removed. Then picking up the lamp, he examined it minutely for the space of a minute or two. "Humph!" said he, at length, "this is strange —passing strange; wouldst recognize the assailant, thinkest thou?" he added, turning to Alice.
               "Nay, she wore a mask."
               "Hah! and her companion?"
               "A mask also."
               "Didst suspect aught of her?"
               "Nought, save that she was of rank and consequence, and spoke like one accustomed to command."
               The usher shook his head, and looked pityingly at his fair charge. "Poor girl," said he, "I fear me thy beauty hath made thee a terrible enemy at Hampton Court; but keep a good heart, and look thee well to't that no word of this night's mishaps escape thy lips whilst thou'rt within a score of miles of the royal residence. And now get thee to bed again, and sleep securely; for thy friend here," pointing to Peto, "may lie at thy feet." And thus saying, the usher bade her good night, and securing the door, returned to his chamber.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVIII.
               THE penal enactments against Catholics, in the first year of Elizabeth's reign, were seldom enforced to their utmost rigor. They appear, indeed, to have been passed more with a view of proclaiming the sovereign's determination to establish the reformed religion, than from a desire to persecute the Catholic church. It was necessary she should adopt some measure of the kind in the beginning, in order to allay the doubts and misgivings of her subjects on the score of her religious belief. And whether she would have gone even so far as this, did her right to the throne and the allegiance of the people remain unquestioned by the Catholic party, it is difficult to determine. Her conduct, in fact, throughout the first three years of her reign, while it shows a fiery determination to avenge herself on the head of the Catholic church, yet betrays a secret desire to do so with as little expense to its adherents as might comport with the efficient assertion of her authority. Had she ascended the throne without the stain of illegitimacy, and been suffered to adopt her own religion without murmur or complaint, we can have little doubt her choice had been Catholicism. And after all, this choice would have been the result of tendencies and prepossessions, rather than of conviction; for in whatever light we view her conduct, there is nothing to indoice us to believe she ever acted a conscientious part, either as the establisher of the one religion, or the persecutor of the other; nay, could she have gratified her deep revenue against the pope and his party by any means, short of the total abolition of his authority, we question much if ever she had merited half the infamy with which her memory is now associated. But, unhappily, she had set the wheel in motion, and either could not or would not stop it ever after. One enactment begot another, as the contempt of authority arouses the determination to enforce it, till at last, driven to madness by plots and conspiracies on the one hand, and continual violations of her laws on the other, she became entirely reckless of human life.
               Thus, in addition to the two acts passed in the first year of her rein, prohibiting all ecclesiastical officers, ministers and others, lay and clerical, who refused to take the oath of supremacy, from holding office, and subjecting all without distinction, who denied the supremacy, for the first offence to the forfeiture of goods and chattels, for the second to præmunire, and for the third to the penalty of high treason, she had passed another in her fifth year, by which all who maintained the authority of the pope, or the Roman see, as also all who said or heard mass, were subjected to the same penalties.
               It may well be believed, that with such a prompter at her side as Cecil, the cool but relentless energy of the Catholic church, and such weapons as the above ready made to her hands, Elizabeth was not tardy in the assertion of her supreme power, now that five long years of religious jars and acerbities had thoroughly aroused in her the spirit of retaliation. And yet, those acts of themselves had been harmless, compared with the clauses afterwards inserted, giving the queen, personally, unlimited power in their execution. According to one of these clauses, she could appoint a special court of commission, over which she might herself preside as judge and directress. This court, already the type of that terrible one, over which the ferocious Whitgift afterwards presided, extended its jurisdiction to the undefinable charges of heresies, schisms, violations of laws made for the enforcement of religious uniformity; and while it had the appearance of a court of justice, was little more than a place where the queen sometimes chose to show her subjects that her sovereign will was paramount to all law. Add to this the power she conferred on the executive, giving to her privy councillors authority to grant warrants at any time against all classes of persons, to be imprisoned in any jail, and for any length of time they should please to determine. Thus it frequently happened that individuals were committed to jail for the most trifling causes, often to gratify private pique, or appease the resentmtent of particular friends, and suffered to remain there for whole years, till they had quite been forgotten, or died amongst the vermin of the prisons.
               Alice Wentworth, however, was not destined, apparently, to be of this number. Fortunately, her beauty, and the kindness shown her by the Earl of Leicester, had excited in the heart of Elizabeth such a feeling of hatred as her imprisonment in a damp cell could but little soften. Had her offence been less personal, she had probably been visited with a tardier punishment; but the fire of jealousy was seldom allowed to smoulder in Elizabeth's heart, when she had the means of revenge at hand.
               Having already resolved, prior to the occurrences related in the last two chapters, to bring Alice to trial on the charge of hearing mass, and otherwise consorting with mass-mongers and priests, contrary to the statute, and judging, from what she had already learnt, that the prisoner would neither deny the accusation nor renounce her faith, Elizabeth predetermined to send her to the Tower or the block, and thus gratify her revenge under cover of zeal for religion. It was to effect this object with the greater certainty that she issued her orders to have the commissioners court open on the following day, and Rodger O'Brien and Alice Wentworth brought before it to answer the charges preferred against them by Sir Thomas Plimpton.
               For some days past, the queen had been in a state of terrible trepidation concerning the fate of the child. She had tried every possible means, short of exposure, to reach it, but invariably failed. Nell Gower, already aware of her designs, took precautions against surprise, and had, at length, as we have seen, safely conveyed it aboard a small vessel bound for Madrid.
               This latter fact was, however, entirely unknown and unsuspected by the queen. She supposed the spaewife, on the previous night, had, by the orders of the Earl of Leicester, simply committed the child to the care of some seafaring men of her acquaintance, to be conveyed to a remote district of the country, from beyond the reach of danger; and it was in order to inquire further into the truth of these surmises, that early on the morning of the trial she had twice commanded the attendance of the noble earl, and was twice informed his lordship could not be found. In fact, Leicester, the moment he heard of the child's abduction, had started in quest of Southron, in order to advise with him respecting its recovery. After a fruitless search, however, he returned to the palace, and endeavored to gain admission to Alice, thinking he might ascertain from her something of the whereabouts of Nell Gower. But finding all entreaties fruitless, (the keeper stoutly refusing to allow speech with the prisoner in contravention of the royal orders,) he finally hurried off to Whinstone Hollow, and entering the cavern, found, to his disappointment, but a few poor people praying beside the dead body of the priest, and no one to give him the least tidings of the spaewife. These different journeys had consumed the greater part of the day; and it was only when the queen had entered the council chamber, and opened the Court of Commission, that the earl returned to hear of the royal orders for his attendance. Now, however, it was too late; the queen had already taken her seat, fully satisfied that the earl had been made aware of her desire to see him, and contemptuously refused to gratify it, from a consciousness of having her still in his power. And well it was that Elizabeth thought so; for had she the least reason to suspect pect the child had been carried off without his knowledge, things might have gone worse, both for him and Alice, as we shall see before the end of the chapter.
               When the queen, accompanied by her offcers of state, entered the council chamber, the assembly rose and received her in profound silence, it being in the solemn capacity of judge she came, to decide on grave matters of religion, affecting perhaps the life of the accused. The scene presented a grand but solemn appearance; outside the door of entrance might be seen the royal halberdiers, standing tall and erect, with the blades of their weapons bristling over their shoulders; and inside the royal archers, in their light uniforms, ranged in files, guarding the passages to the body of the hall. Back, along the walls, were the retainers of the court, and many of the respectable merchants and commoners of the city and neighboring villages, seated on benches raised somewhat higher than those in the centre of the apartment. Below, and nearer her majesty, were the officials; and still nearer, the noblemen, ambassadors, members of Parliament, and others of that rank, who came to witness the proceedings.
               On a platform, nearly on a level with her majesty's chair of state, were seated five commissioners, dressed in their robes of offce.
               On the queen's right appeared Matthew Parker, Archbishop of Canterbury, wearing a surplice, and a black scarf loosely thrown over his neck, and folded across his breast. He wore neither wig nor scalp-cover, and his large, bald head shone as glossy as polished marble—not a hair to be seen, except a little tuft over each ear. He was now very fat, and looked like a good-natured old man, who felt entirely out of place, and had much preferred his easy, leathern chair, at his own fireside, to all this solemn parade.
               Next the archbishop sat the Lord Admiral Clinton, whorn we have had occasion once before to mention, and after him, Sir William Cecil, secretary and master of the Court of Wards, in his ordinary long robe, and high, narrow ruff.
               On the left of the queen appeared William Paulet, Marquis of Winchester, the lord treasurer, a man of unblemished morals, though he lived for thirty years about the English court, then, perhaps, the most corrupt in Europe. He was now very old, but still fresh, fair, and pleasant looking; he held his staff of office in his hand, and wore a ribbon and St. George; his beard was scanty, not spread on his breast, as was then fashionable for men stricken in years, but combed to a point, and falling over his small, low ruff, giving him the appearance of a modest old country gentleman. Next to him sat Sir Nicholas Bacon, his compressed lips and keen eye at once revealing his intriguing disposition and bold character.
               After the usual forms had been gone through, and the queen had intimated her readiness to proceed with the trial, the crier of the court called upon the sheriff to produce the body of Alice Wentworth. Every eye now turned to the door. The commissioners began to arrange their papers before them, in order to take notes of the proceedings, occasionally casting a glance at the passage without, in expectation of the prisoner's appearance, and those who sat in the rear of the hall stood up to have a better view of the young recusant as she passed. Soon the measured tread of the royal guards was heard along the stone passages, and then a low hum of voices succeeded, as if each was whispering to his neighbor what he thought of the youthful culprit. At length Alice appeared, slowly entering the council room between two guards, followed by the sheriff. She was dressed in white, and wore a veil of the same color, descending almost to her feet; her bodice, or jacket, was closely buttoned up to her throat, and a small crucifix kept gracefully undulating on her bosom, as she timidly advanced to the bar. The prisoner now stood alone; there was no one within ten feet of her, and she felt that every eye in the assembly was fixed on her person. For a minute or so, a profound silence prevailed, all awaiting the queen's pleasure. The young culprit kept her eyes cast down modestly on the table before her, and her right hand upon the little gold crucifix that glittered under her thin veil.
               At a sign from the queen, the attorney general rose, and having read the indictment, demanded to know if the prisoner had counsel.
               There was no reply.
               "'Tis needless," said the queen, calmly; "we ourselves shall see that no injustice be done to the maiden."
               "Prisoner, what is thy name?" demanded the attorney general.
               "Alice Wentworth, may it please thee, sir."
               "Speak louder, that her majesty and lords commissioners missioners may hear the answers distinctly; whence comest thou?"
               "From Brockton Hall, in Worcestershire."
               "By what name is thy father called?"
               "Geoffrey Wentworth, baronet."
               "Is he still living there?"
               "Nay, report saith he died lately."
               "Since thou hast quitted his house?"
               "Ay, he was burnt to death in the fire."
               "Was Brockton Hall consumed by fire?"
               "Such a rumor hath reached me."
               "Is thy mother living?"
               "Nay, she died a few hours after giving me birth."
               "Hast brothers and sisters."
               "None," replied Alice; "I have no relations in the world save an uncle who hath been longs absent,—I know not where."
               "And now," said the attorney general, having gone through the usual preliminary examination of the prisoner, "thou wilt inform her majesty, the queen, and lords commissioners, whither thou wert bound, when Sir Thomas Plimpton came up with thee near the hostel called the White Hart."
               "To London," replied the prisoner, with some hesitation.
               "And what object hadst thou in journeying thither?"
               Alice was silent.
               "May it please your majesty," said Lord Montague, who had entered the hall during the previous examination, and taken his seat near the prisoner, "the attorney general's questions seem intended more to confuse the maiden than to elicit the truth. I object, on the part of the accused, to the last question, as being impertinent to the issue."
               "And so, my lord, thou hast not yet forgotten thy Spanish gallantry, and would come, like a good knight errant of yore, to the rescue of this errant damsel," said the queen with a smile, in which raillery and bitterness were equally blended; "marry, my good lord, we may not inhibit thy defence of the prisoner, but we must tell thee that in this matter thy Spanish casuistry will be little needed, seeing we have ourselves resolved that no injustice be done the culprit. So let the maiden say, first, whether she hath objection to answer the question of the accusing officer."
               Alice shuddered as she heard the last words. They seemed to come from a voice entirely different from that in which the queen had hitherto spoken, and fell upon her ears in the same tones she heard in her sleep, but a few hours before. The agitated girl raised her eyes one instant to the face of her judge, and seeing that countenance composed and serene as a summer sky, was just trying to check the fearful suspicion that kept fast gaining hold of her heart, when the queen was again heard, demanding to know if the prisoner refused to answer.
               "Nay, my liege," hurriedly replied Alice, afraid that further delay might provoke the irascible queen.
               "Remove that veil," said Elizabeth, "for thy words seem smothered in its folds."
               At the royal command, Alice slowly lifted the veil from her face, and stood uncovered before the assembly, her left hand hanging by her side, and her right still clinging to the crucifix, as if there was some secret charm in its touch that supported and strengthened her.
               The instant that fair face was seen, a low, suppressed murmur of admiration and pity broke from the crowd; but the queen soon rebuked it with a frown, of which the spectators well understood the meaning.
               "Please your majesty," said Alice, her eyes still cast down on the table before her, "my intent on quitting home was to journey hither, and beg my father's pardon at your majesty's feet."
               "And pray, what crime hath thy father committed, that he needeth so powerful an intercessor?"
               "He was a Catholic, please your grace; ah! but alas!" she said, checking herself—"alas! he is dead now, and needeth no intercessor in the courts of this world."
               "And why didst hesitate so much to declare this to have been thine object in coming hither," demanded the queen, "seeing it speaketh so strongly in thy favor?"
               "Nay, please your grace, I was then very ignorant of the world, and the habits of the great; and, like a child, I thought in my heart as my queen was of mine own sex, and right merciful, she would listen to my poor prayer for the old man's life; but alas! ——" She stopped suddenly.
               "Proceed," said the queen—"dost not think so still?"
               "I have been very bold, and foolish, methinks, in coming hither on such an errand; and I do beseech your majesty not to think ill of me for the indiscretion."
               "Answer me, maiden, and fear not; hast still confidence in the mercy of the queen?"
               "My sovereign liege, tongues speak evil things of this place," replied Alice, "and have made me so despair of his pardon, that now methinks it better he is dead."
               Elizabeth contracted her brows an instant on receiving this significant reply, and seeing no advantage of further questions, demanded to know how she had come to be acquainted with Nell Gower, and assisting at the mass in the cavern on the night of the riot.
               Alice in at few words told the story of the rescue, with which the reader is already acquainted.
               "May it please your majesty and the lords commissioners," said Montague, rising and addressing the bench, "the prisoner, being charged in the indictment, first, with contempt of the queen's authority, and secondly, with having heard mass contrary to the statute, wishes her accusers to appear and prove the same; and further, prisoner desireth to have the trial proceed with as little delay as possible, being disposed to give true, plain, and honest answers to all questions that may be demanded of her."
               The queen graciously bowed her concurrence, and turned as bland a look on the youthful prisoner as if she were just about to pronounce her acquittal. Then, addressing the Marquis of Winchester and Sir Nicholas Bacon, on her left, she requested to know if they had aught further to ask the prisoner before the witnesses were called.
               "Under favor of your most gracious majesty," replied Bacon, "I would fain hear something further touching the maiden's object in journeying thus unprotected to London."
               "Hast not sojourned for a time in Paris, fair lady?" he inquired.
               "I have, when very young," responded Alice.
               "And thou wert intimate then with the present queen of Scotland?"
               "She honored me for a short time with her notice," replied Alice, "for the which I can never be sufficiently grateful."
               "And hath she not since corresponded with thee by letter?"
               "Twice she hath deigned to write me, since her return to Scotland."
               "By whom were these letters conveyed?"
               The prisoner declined to answer.
               "Were they conveyed to thee by the woman called Nell Gower, the spaewife?"
               "I fear it would be wrong to answer that question," she replied, after some hesitation.
               The Marquis of Winchester bowed to her in acquiescence.
               "When didst thou see Rodger O'Brien for the first time?"
               "On the morning of my arrest."
               "Hast never seen him before that day?"
               "Never."
               "Did he not then carry a letter to thee from the Queen of Scotland?"
               
               "He did."
               "And two thou hadst already acknowledged maketh three. This smacketh somewhat of contradiction, fair damsel," he said, looking round the bench, and smiling significantly at the judges.
               "Please you, my lord," innocently observed Alice, "I thought but little of that letter, not having read it, in the confusion of the moment."
               "Well, well," returned his lordship, waving his hand, "the court will best judge of thy mistake, as thou'rt pleased to call it. And yet it so happened, this Rodger O'Brien had, at the said time, another letter in his possession addressed to certain eminent personages now in the presence," (turning a look on De Foys and Quadra, who sat under the bench on the right of the chair of state,) "written by the Queen of Scotland's own hand, begging of the said distinguished personages to act as spies for her at the English court; and there was, moreover, an old woman, then also in thy company, of bad repute, and known to be deeply devoted to the queen of Scotland. Now, hath it ever crossed thy mind that, being found in such consortance, thou mightst also be suspected of having other objects in this journey than simply the sueing of thy father's pardon?"
               Alice was completely confounded by this insinuation, and knew not what to reply. In truth, the matter was now placed before her in a very different light from that in which she had hitherto viewed it. During her short residence at Whinstone Hollow, no doubt she heard much of the intrigues of the court, especially of the plots and schernes, set on foot by Elizabeth and her spies, for the ruin of Mary Stuart; but she never dreamt that her flight from Brockton could have been made appear as part of a preconcerted plan between Nell Gower, Rodger O'Brien, and herself, as the language and tone of the commissioner seemed to indicate. The thought of such an accusation startled and confused her. At length, looking up at the queen, she said in a low, faltering voice,—
               "Most gracious madam, I do declare in very deed, that, in quitting home, I had no object save to plead for my father. As to the right worshipful gentleman's questions, I know not how to answer them."
               "Neither do they merit answering," observed Lord Montague, interposing. "Sir Nicholas Bacon hath learnt, of late, to detect plots and schemes in the simplest acts of the friends of Mary Stuart. 'Tis but three weeks gone since the right loyal and devoted gentleman had a poor, silly Scotchman, called 'Bob of the Henroost,' committed to prison for practising on an alder-barrelled pistol, alleging that the creature was employed to take the life of her most gracious majesty, the queen of England. And here, now, his keen eye detecteth a wily conspirator in this simple country maiden, whom love for a venerable and affectionate parent hath prompted to quit her home, that she might supplicate for his pardon at the feet of her sovereign. I beseech your majesty," he continued, "not to suffer this mockery to proceed further, lest your majesty's right-loving and faithful subjects be tempted to say hereafter, that this trial was got up on a fabricated charge, whereby to inculpate pate the Queen of Scots, through this poor innocent maiden. As for the spy letter, of which Sir Nicholas speaketh so confidently, let him produce it, an your majesty willeth, before the court, and prove its authenticity, if so be he can, against the testimony of the Scotch ambassador here in the presence. He may tell us it was found on the high road near the White Hart Tavern, where it dropped from the Queen of Scotland's messenger—this same master Rodger O'Brien; but we live in times when forgeries are but too common, as the court may learn, somewhat to its surprise, ere this trial terminates, and your gracious majesty will best decide whether this man at arms, this trooper of Sir Thomas Plimpton, be credited before the honorable bearer of her majesty of Scotland's despatches, together with his excellency, her grace's ambassador, both of whom are ready to make oath that the letter in question hath never been written by the Queen of Scotland. I pray your majesty, therefore, to direct the court to omit all such superfluous questions, and to proceed with the charges contained in the indictment, namely, contempt of the queen's warrant, and violation of the penal statute; or, if not, to order the letters in question to be produced forthwith in open court."
               On Lord Montague resuming his seat, Sir Nicholas Bacon observed, that the noble and right worthy gentleman's speech was to him entirely unintelligible, he (Sir Nicholas) not being the public accuser.
               Montague replied that, Sir Nicholas having acted the part of a public accuser in his endeavors to criminate the prisoner, even before a single charge had been proved against her, he hoped her majesty and lords commissioners would see nought unintelligible or impertinent in his remarks.
               At this stage of the proceedings, Melville, who sat next De Foys, wrote something hurriedly on a piece of paper, and sent it across the table to Montague. As soon as the latter ran his eye over the contents, he turned, and was again about to address the bench, when the queen interrupted him.
               "What may these notes be, my good lord?" she demanded, somewhat sharply; "are they instructions from thy client?"
               "Nay, please your majesty," replied Montague, with studied respect, and yet with marked decision of tone and manner, "my client is like the affrighted fawn, thinking more of hiding than of defending herself against the hounds; nay, nay, this instruction cometh from Sir James Melville, who, since the matter hath been touched in open court, wisheth to join me in praying the bench to order the production of this much disputed letter. His excellence, the French ambassador, admitteth he received letters from her majesty of Scotland at sundry times, praying him to be a good friend at a court where she hath so many enemies, but firmly believeth this one is not written by or with the consent of her majesty; and Sir James Melville is ready also to make positive oath that the Queen of Scotland never penned this epistle. We pray you, therefore, gracious madam, that this matter be tested now to the utmost, and the Queen of Scotland at once found guilty or acquitted of the charge."
               
               But Elizabeth, who saw in the confident tone of the speaker a consciousness of his ability to prove the letter a forgery, and thus perhaps throw suspicion on herself, declined giving the order, while, at the same time, she tried both by look and insinuation to confirm the impression of her royal rival's guilt in the minds of her hearers.
               "Nay, my good lord," she said, "we may not expose this matter further. It grieveth us sorely to think it ever hath been exposed; for albeit our good cousin hath dealt hardly with us, we would not do the like unto her,—ever remembering as we do the Christian precept of forgiveness. If our dear cousin hath written this wicked letter, we must pray Heaven to forgive her, rather than seek to revenge the insult it conveyeth; nay, nay, my lords, we must never forget that, while we are a sovereign, the virtues which most befit us are the queenly ones of mercy and charity; so, in charity's name then, let the matter rest."
               "Ah, but please your grace," responded Montague, "this is a most delicate ——"
               "Hush, hush! my lord—say no more, no more; we forgive her from the depths of our heart. So proceed with the trial; call Sir Thomas Plimpton to prove his charges."
               Accompanied by the officers of the court, soon appeared the tall, ungainly form of the fallen courtier, approaching the witness stand before the council table. His dress was like that he generally wore on public occasions, but now put on with a negligence that bespoke neither respect for himself nor the august presence in which he stood. His countenance, also,—never prepossessing at the best, —was on this occasion more morose and repulsive looking than ever. He took his place before the bench, and stood, with his great, cropped head bent forward, more like a condemned criminal than a crown witness. Whether this look of abject despair was purposely assumed by the disgraced and fallen confidant with a view to excite the queen's pity, or was the natural effect produced on the nerveless and cowardly heart of the man by the loss of the royal favor, it would be difficult to tell; certain it is, however, his lugubrious visage excited but little compassion in the heart of Elizabeth. When the usual technicalities had again been gone through, and the attorney general concluded the preparatory examination usual in the Court of Commission, the queen demanded to know from the witness by whose authority he proceeded to search Whinstone Hollow on the night of the riot.
               "By the authority of the queen's warrant, my liege," he replied, in a hoarse, tremulous voice.
               "Did the prisoner resist the execution of the warrant?"
               "She did, please your gracious majesty."
               "In what wise?"
               "By refusing to surrender herself to my custody."
               "Did she openly avow her contempt for the royal instrument?"
               "She did."
               "Did she offer passive or active resistance?"
               "Nay, please your grace, she threatened to stab me with her poniard, if I but dared to lay a finger on her person."
               On receiving this answer, the queen shook her head, and covered her face for a moment with her hands, as if in despair of being able to save the prisoner after such positive testimony.
               "May it please your grace," said Alice, looking up timidly at her judge, "not to bring this witness against me. I will answer right freely and truly without his confronting."
               "Dost thou acknowledge, then, the truth of the testimony?" inquired Elizabeth.
               "Nay, most gracious madam; for verily I refused not to obey the royal warrant."
               "Nor threaten to stab the witness if he but laid a finger on thee?"
               "On the sacred vessel, please your grace; the witness mistaketh."
               "The sacred vessel?—what may that be?"
               "The consecrated cup in which lay the body of the Savior."
               "Ah! wouldst thou have killed him in its defence?"
               "I am a Catholic," replied Alice, "and that blessed cup was dearer to me than my life."
               "Wouldst have sacrificed thy life to save it?"
               "Ay, ay, verily, a thousand lives to shield it from such pollution. O my liege, blame me not for my bold words—blame me not if I dared so to speak to this bad man. For he who had loved me from mine earliest years, and filled my soul with the light of faith, was then lying a corpse at my feet; and the witness, here, stood before me ready to grasp the sacred treasure with blood-stained hands: my liege, my liege, do not blame me if at such a time I spoke in language unbecoming my sex, for my heart was filled with indignation against this wicked man."
               "Why call ye him wicked?" inquired the queen, willing now to make her disgraced minion as odious as possible to the bench and the spectators, as a prelude to his approaching incarceration.
               "I may not speak my reasons in this public place," murmured Alice in an under tone.
               "Ah, well," muttered the queen, "his conduct, doubtless, might do but little credit to his place. Witness, hast seen this maiden worshipping at the mass?" she continued, again addressing Plimpton.
               "Most gracious madam," interrupted Alice, "it is needless to interrogate this man; I have——"
               "Hold thy peace, woman; thou lackest not boldness, nor presumption either, to interrupt us thus," exclaimed Elizabeth.
               "Please your grace, I mean not to be bold; I only wish to terminate this trial as soon as may comport with justice and the due course of law; I confess, before God and the world, I am a Catholic, and have worshipped at the mass in Whinstone Hollow; so far am I amenable to punishment, and willing to undergo it; but I pray your majesty to spare me this man's testimony, for his sight appalleth me."
               "So thou makest boast of thy religion in our very presence," said the queen; "hah! marry, my good lords, this maiden beareth not herself so like the terrified fawn that trieth to fly from the pursuing hounds, ha, ha! eh—what thinkest thou, my Lord Montague?"
               "The gentlest fawn will butt, my liege, when she is hard pressed, and cannot escape," replied Montague.
               "And so thou'rt willing to suffer the penalty, my good damsel," resumed the queen; "knowest thou what that is?"
               "They tell me it is forfeiture of lands, and even death, if the queen so willeth it."
               "And dost not fear to die?"
               "Not when I die for my faith, please your grace."
               "Doth that faith teach thee to resist lawful authority?"
               "Nay, my liege, but to obey it, as coming from God."
               "Why, therefore, dost not obey the authority of the queen, prohibiting the hearing of the mass?"
               "Because the queen possesses not such authority."
               "What! wouldst dispute our power to make laws?"
               "Truly, most gracious madam, I see not how God could confer power to make human laws subversive of the divine."
               "Humph!" ejaculated Elizabeth, biting her lip and tearing a piece of paper she held in her fingers.
               "Dost refuse to acknowledge the queen's supremacy?"
               "In what, please your majesty?"
               "In church and state."
               "If your majesty meaneth the reformed church, I may readily acknowledge it, for it concerneth me not; but if thou meanest the Catholic, I must withhold my consent to such a doctrine, insomuch that I recognize no authority therein but the Pope of Rome, the vicar of Christ on earth, and those holding office through him;" and as the prisoner spoke, her cheeks flushed, and the tones of her voice grew strong, as if a secret voice within her breast encouraged her to speak boldly and fear not.
               "Dost thou acknowledge the queen's temporal supremacy over these realms?" demanded Elizabeth, slowly but sternly pronouncing the words.
               There was a pause of nearly a minute, during which a profound silence reigned throughout the hall, and every eye was fixed on the youthful confessor.
               "I am commanded," replied Alice, at length, after some deliberation, "to declare whether I acknowledge the queen's temporal supremacy in these realms; and I hereby declare that I do, and shall ever acknowledge it, so long as the church doth."
               "Ah, and were the pope to order thee to-morrow to deny our authority as that of a usurper, wouldst thou obey it?"
               "If he did so as head of the church, with the advice of the council, and acting in the capacity of the vicar of Christ, I would instantly," replied Alice.
               "Mark that, my lords," said Elizabeth, smiling at the commissioners.
               "Wouldst thou renounce thy allegiance to the Queen of England," she again demanded, "at the bidding of the pope, acting in such capacity?"
               "Truly I would," promptly replied the girl, in a firm, unhesitating tone.
               "O, thank God for that," cried a feeble but excited voice at the door of the council room.
               The prisoner started slightly as the words fell upon her ear, and she had half turned to look in the direction whence they came, when the thought of the queen's presence recalled her.
               "Maiden," said the queen, "thou art bold to offer us insult in our own palace. Who hath prompted thee to this? for it seemeth hard to believe one so young could speak such language of her free accord."
               "My liege, I meant not to be bold; I am here before thee with all the reverence and humility of a true and faithful subject; I honor thee as the queen of these realms, and I fear thee as the supreme power in the state; but I must not forget, nevertheless, that God is still the eternal and almighty Sovereign, and queens but instruments in his hands."
               Elizabeth again shook her head, and leaned back in her chair, as if all was now over. "Alas!" she muttered, as if to herself, but intended for the bench and the nobles around her, "it's hard to save one bent so much on her own destruction."
               "Dost thou believe," inquired the archbishop, in the slow, solemn manner peculiar to him when before the people,—"dost thou believe, young woman, that the pope hath power to absolve from their allegiance her majesty's subjects in these realms?"
               "I do," replied Alice; "for as vicar of Christ on earth, he hath power to rule over men's consciences as his Lord and Master ruleth over men's hearts; and therefore when he, as vicar of Christ, declareth me absolved from allegiance to any secular power, I do firmly believe that I am thereby absolved."
               "Therefore thou maintainest the pope's temporal and spiritual power in these realms."
               "In every realm, my lord, I hold he can exercise temporal power when such becomes necessary for the enforcement of his spiritual supremacy."
               "And that it matters not, in such circumstances, whether question cometh of Catholic or Protestant sovereigns?"
               "Not a jot," said Alice firmly; "the high priest on earth hath been given a sovereignty above them all, and in its exercise should have regard not to the false religious opinions of particular realms, but to the salvation of the great human family."
               "May the God of heaven bless thee, Alice," cried the same feeble, faltering voice, in the direction of the door.
               "Silence in the court!" commanded the tipstaff, rising and looking towards the guard.
               Alice again started at the sound of that voice, and facing round to Lord Montague, gazed at him for an instant in silence, her eyes fixed, and her face growing pale as marble.
               "My lord, my lord," she said at length, "what voice is that? O, tell me—tell me truly, is he yet living? if he be, that——"
               "Unhand me! let me go!" cried the voice again; "let me embrace her before I die—she's my child, she's my child—Alice, Alice! I'm living still!"
               "Guards," shouted the usher, "arrest that man for disturbing the court! Ho! there, halberdiers, why stand ye staring thus? away with him!"
               "It's my Lord of Leicester," replied one of the guard.
               "What! what! my Lord of Leicester?" ejaculated the queen, starting up from her chair of state— "how cometh this?"
               The earl who had just then reached the door of the council room, replied that an old man, claiming to be the father of the prisoner, begged for admittance, and leave to embrace his child before he died. "He seemeth weak and feeble, please your majesty," added the earl, "and the guards here are treating him somewhat roughly."
               The whole bench had now risen, on seeing her majesty starting so suddenly from her seat, and looked earnestly towards the door.
               "My lord, my lord!" repeated Alice, clinging to Montague, "he lives! he lives!—bring me to him —bring me to him! O my God, my kind and good God, I thank thee for this mercy to me—from my whole soul I thank thee." And the fair girl raised her clasped hands and tearful eyes to Him who is the comforter of the afflicted, and the source of all consolation.
               "Admit the old man!" said the queen again, resuming her seat; "admit him, that we may see the root from which springeth this cross-grained scion."
               "Make way there!" cried the guards; "make way, and let the sick man pass."
               "Make way!" repeated the tipstaff; "fall ye back, lieges, and open way."
               "Silence in the court!" vociferated the crier.
               The crowd now fell back before the pikes and swords of the guards, opening a passage from the door to the bar of the council board, and then, assisted by the Earl of Leicester on the one side and Reddy Connor on the other, came the Knight of Brockton, staggering up the aisle. The old man's appearance had much chanced since we saw him last; his thread-bare, ink-stained doublet was now torn, nay, almost ragged; his long, white hair lay back, tossed on his shoulders, his eye sunken, and his once ruddy cheeks pale from grief, age, and sickness.
               "Who art thou?" demanded Elizabeth, as the knight thus approached the bar.
               There was no reply; Sir Geoffrey heard her not; he had his eyes fixed on the form of Alice, and his sense of sight seemed to absorb all his other faculties. He heard nothing and saw nothincg in all that assembly but his child; nay, he should not have heard the thunder nor seen the lightning, had they roared and flashed around him; his soul was in his Alice. O, little recked he then of kings or queens; had all the sovereigns of Europe been assembled on the bench, he had spared them not a glance to save his life. On he came, staggering, and supported like a drunken man.
               Alice, whose view of the open passage had been hitherto intercepted by the crowd, now caught sight of her father holding his arms stretched out to embrace her, and springing instantly from the side of her advocate and defender, she flung herself on the old man's breast, and hung there sobbing out her heart in a speechless agony of love.
               "My darling," said the knight, looking down on the beautiful face of his child, after the first burst of joy was over—"my darling, I am with thee once again."
               Alice could not reply in words. She only raised her delicate white hands, and strolling down his gray locks, looked into his eyes.
               Every voice in that crowd seemed hushed, and every eye full save Elizabeth Tudor's and Sir Nicholas Bacon's.
               "Father, dear father, we heard thou hadst left us," said the gentle girl, speaking in a whisper, as she always loved to speak to the old man when he appeared troubled in mind. Her words, though intended for his ear alone, were pronounced in a manner as earnest and unaffected as if she had been sitting under the old sundial at Brockton, apparently unconscious of the presence of any other living thing.
               "O, no," replied Sir Geoffrey, pressing her to his heart, "I was always sure God would preserve me till I had seen thee once more; verily, Alice, I was right sorely perplexed about Goodman Witherstone, the amanuensis. I was wrong to say that—I acknowledge I was very wrong; for truly, I never thought of employing him at all."
               Alice smiled up in the face of the simple old man, and blessed him in her heart for his tender affection.
               "Poor Reddy," said the knight, looking round— "he staid with me when all the rest had fled."
               Alice turned and beheld the faithful servant standing behind awaiting her notice. She stretched out her hand to him, and smiled her gratitude through her tears. The honest Celt kissed his young mistress's hand over and over again; then, looking wistfully at his master, he turned his head aside to avoid the gaze of the crowd,—for there was a tear gathering in his eye,—and, touching Alice on the arm, whispered in her ear,—
               "Am afeerd he'll niver get over this; see, he's sinkin' faster and faster every minit; but sure he cudn't die aisy any way till he'd see you; poor ould crathur —Sam Wabble and myself had to carry him from the Paycock, afther yer uncle give him the last sacraments."
               "Enough of this; we have had tears and embracings enough, and to spare, I trow," said Elizabeth, at length becoming impatient of the delay, though she hesitated to interrupt the scene, on account of the general sympathy manifested by the spectators; "let the prisoner again be placed at the bar, to hear the sentence of the court."
               Alice was now gently forced from the arms of her father, conducted back to the stand, and Sir Geoffrey given in charge to Reddy.
               "Prisoner," said Bacon, addressing the young girl on a sign from the queen, "thou hast confessed thyself a violator of the law, as well by hearing mass contrary to the statute, as by refusing to acknowledge the queen's supremacy; knowest thou aught of reason why the court should not pronounce sentence against thee accordingly?"
               "I have none to offer," replied the prisoner, "save that it's a most unjust law, and should not be enforced."
               "And thou, my Lord Montague," said the queen, "hast aught further to plead in the maiden's defence?"
               "I have, please your majesty," promptly responded Montague.
               "Proceed then, without further delay, for this case hath already cost us time overmuch."
               "Crier," said Montague, "call the right honorable Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicesiter, to appear in evidence on this trial, with her majesty's permission."
               The queen bowed her assent.
               Leicester, who had taken his seat under the bench, now came forward and took his stand.
               "Most gracious sovereign, and lords commissioners of this court," said Montague, "I shall be able to prove by the aid of this most noble gentleman's testimony that neither the prisoner nor those who were present at the mass in Whinstone Hollow, on the night of the massacre, were guilty of a violation of the statute, the cell or cavern of the said Whinstone Hollow being a privileged place, sanctuary rights having been granted to it by license of her most gracious majesty, the queen, our beloved and illustrious sovereign, now presiding on the bench."
               The commissioners drew themselves up, astonished ished at this bold and unexpected declaration, and looked at each other, and then at the queen for an explanation.
               Leicester, on the other hand, stood confounded and surprised. He now saw, when it was, perhaps, too late, that he had run his head into a noose from which he might find it troublesome to extricate it. He knew the queen was incensed against him, both on account of the child, and his friendship for the prisoner, and feared, if the forged license were produced in open court, she might make it a cause for impeachment.
               "What may this mean, my Lord Montague," said Elizabeth, seeing Leicester turning pale and crestfallen; "it is surely for the first time we've heard of such license."
               "The noble earl, my liege, will doubtless afford your gracious majesty satisfactory information," replied Montague, whilst a smile played about the edges of his mouth, that spoke far more than he dared to utter in words.
               "Humph! this is passing strange," muttered Elizabeth, detecting a secret in Montague's countenance; "but proceed—proceed with the trial."
               "Mayhap it were better, my liege," responded the advocate, "that your majesty and the earl had some private understanding anent this matter ere it cometh before the court."
               The blood mounted instantly to the queen's face.
               "What! my lord," she demanded, "wouldst have the condemnation or acquittal of the prisoner depend on the private instructions of my Lord Leicester?"
               
               "Nay, but please your grace, if this license, granted to Nell Gower in requital of certain secret services, be not in your majesty's handwriting, then it must be a——" He stopped.
               "A forgery, my lord! eh?"
               "Pardon, my liege—the matter rests thus: A woman, whose name is Nell Gower, but who is better known as the 'spaewife,' hath now in her possession a license, purporting to be in the handwriting and under the seal of her majesty, the queen, granting sanctuary privileges to a place called Whinstone Hollow, in the neighborhood of Hampton Palace, the same in which Sir Thomas Plimpton hath murdered, or caused to be murdered, fifteen persons, including the priest, whilst engaged at solemn worship. Doubtless this license hath been granted to the woman for some special and important services to be explained hereafter in course of trial. Now, please your majesty, and my lords commissioners, the case is exceeding simple. If this license be of her majesty's granting, albeit her grace may not remember it amongst so many state papers, then the prisoner stands acquitted of the charges in the indictment; but if, on the other hand, it be not of her majesty's granting, it will be incumbent on us to summon the 'spaewife,' and oblige her to account for the manner in which it came into her possession."
               "Please your gracious majesty," observed Cecil, "this is a grave and somewhat delicate point, and needeth good care in the handling, or trouble may come of it."
               "May we see this license, my lord?" inquired Elizabeth.
               "Nay, under your grace's favor, the instrument is in possession of the spaewife," returned Montague, "and she is not in court."
               "Hast examined it?"
               "Truly, I have, please your grace; and it seemeth much like a royal document."
               "And the handwriting?"
               "Nay, it doth not become me to speak on that, my liege, without a positive command from your majesty, and as formal witness against the delinquent."
               Elizabeth now saw plainly how the case stood. Pale, and agitated from fear of exposure, she paused a moment to reflect on the course she ought to pursue. There was little doubt in her mind, now, that the license was written and the royal seal attached by Leicester himself. It was consequently a forgery, and if proved, subjected the grantor to the penalty of high treason; should the spaewife, therefore, be summoned, her testimony, together with the well-known handwriting of the earl, might possibly convict him, and thus, happily for Elizabeth, rescue her at once from the galling power of her haughty paramour. But, on the other hand, if Leicester should think fit to repudiate all connection with the document, and fall back on his dignity and character to sustain him against an allegation, put forth by such a person as Nell Gower, the bench would probably acquit him, and thus Nell Gower herself be instantly arraigned for forgery. Now, this might prove a very disastrous consequence; for the spaewife, once found guilty, would be likely to make few scruples about divulging her secrets. All this passed through Elizabeth's mind in a second, and seeing there was no possibility of safely gratifying her insatiable desire for Alice's death and the earl's ruin at the same time, she resolved to defer hearing the charge of forgery for the present, and proceed at once to pass sentence on the young recusant, trusting to the morrow for the conviction of the earl.
               "My Lord Montague," said the queen, affecting a composure she by no means felt, "this charge of forgery might too much embarrass the present case, and we therefore must put off its hearing until the morrow, when thou mayst produce the spaewife, an it be needful."
               "Then it's your majesty's pleasure to adjourn this court," observed Montague.
               "Nay, nay, my lord, hath not the charge been proved against the prisoner?"
               "Not so, under your grace's favor; the prisoner standeth acquitted of the charge, if the cavern of Whinstone Hollow enjoyed the sanctuary privilege."
               "That remaineth yet to be seen," replied Elizabeth. "The court shall now pass sentence, reserving its execution, however, till such time as this forgery, affair may be investigated. Prisoner, stand forth and answer for the last time,—dost thou, or dost thou not, acknowledge the queen's supremacy?"
               At this moment, Sir Greoffrey made some exclamation which disturbed the court.
               "Who speaks?" demanded Elizabeth.
               "May it please your grace," feebly muttered the knight, attempting to rise.
               "Bring him forward then," said the queen, nodding her assent, to the officers, "that the court may judge of the young recusant by the old."
               The knight of Brockton was now helped forward on the stand beside his daughter, by two of the deputy ushers. His face was white as marble; his hands trembled, and his limbs shook as with a palsy. When he had staggered up to where Alice stood, he threw his left arm over her neck, and balanced himself in that position with the aid of a cane some one handed him from the crowd. "Leave me," said he, turning his head half round to the ushers—"leave me; my child will now support me."
               "Dear father," whispered Alice, "take thee care thou offendest not the queen."
               "Is she straight before me, Alice?"
               "Ay, dost not see her there on the bench?"
               "Nay, my sight hath grown weak of late."
               "What wouldst thou of the court?" demanded Elizabeth.
               "I would ask thee to spare this little girl's life, for thy royal father's sake," responded Sir Geoffrey, "seeing she hath never injured thee in word or deed."
               "Our royal father—what knowest thou of our father?"
               "Little for a good score years—little since he rebelled against the church; but when he was yet young and happy, I was his companion in arms, in many a wild fray. Twice he owed me his life, and now I come here to claim a little mercy from his daughter for the sake of the olden time."
               
               As the knight spoke, his head fell forward on his breast, and his limbs tottered under him.
               "And what mercy canst thou expect from the daughter, when thou cursest the father's memory?"
               "I curse not at all," slowly replied the knight; "God hath not given us tongues to curse, but to bless; and I will bless and pray even for those who have driven me from my home and my books out here on the world's charity, an thou but sparest my child. For sixteen years these old eyes have seldom looked on woman's face, save this," patting his daughter's cheek with the hand he had thrown round her neck, "and therefore little versed am I in the ways of the court, and little know I how to excite woman's pity; but if thou only lookest in this child's face, your grace will see she deserveth not death; O my lords, my lords, she is as innocent as the new-born babe."
               "Ay, marry—innocent, forsooth; she hath violated the law, and refused to acknowledge our supremacy; call ye this innocence?" demanded the queen, endeavoring to implicate the knight, as an offset to the sympathy manifested by the bench and the spectators.
               "Under your gracious majesty's favor," said Montague, rising, "I must caution the knight of Brockton against answering that question."
               "'Sdeath!" cried Elizabeth, turning sharply on the advocate, "art thou censor of the court? marry, we knew not the bench had such a supervisor."
               "With your grace's permission," observed the Marquis of Winchester," the knight might be seated; he is feeble and tottering, and seemeth in ill health."
               "Let him stand," replied Elizabeth; "we shall not detain him long."
               "Lean on me, father," whispered Alice; "I am strong, and can support thee."
               "Darling," muttered the knight, "living and dying thou art a staff of strength to me."
               "Speak not of dying, dear father."
               "Alas! Alice, the sand is nearly run; my old associations interrupted, my library burnt, and my daughter fled, I have felt my heartstrings snapping, one by one, day by day, till now, dear child, there is none left but thee."
               "Sir Geoffrey Wentworth," said Elizabeth, "we are disposed to be merciful to thy daughter, the prisoner, in consideration of her youth, and even to pardon thee thy past contumacious and most disloyal behavior, if thou but express sorrow for the same, and promise submission to the laws in future; and yet, my lords," she added, turning to the commissioners, "I fear this exercise of the royal clemency may work us much mischief in the end;" and she spoke as if all was now over, and no hesitancy to be anticipated on the part of the accused.
               "Art willing to sue for pardon, Sir Geoffrey Wentworth, on these terms?" repeated the queen.
               "Please your grace, my memory groweth somewhat remiss of late; I remember not the conditions."
               "They are easy of compliance," observed Elizabeth, "namely, that thou avow sorrow for the past, and promise submission for the future, both for thyself and daughter."
               "God bless me!" ejaculated the knight, "are these the only terms?"
               
               "What! the only terms—do they not satisfy thee?"
               The knight shook his head, and remained silent for a moment.
               "Speak!" commanded the queen.
               "Darling, my heart is breaking," murmured the old man, softly whispering the words over his daughter's shoulder.
               "Wilt not answer?" again demanded the queen.
               "Is there no way I can save my child's life but by apostasy?" said the knight, turning his eyes in the direction of the bench—"no other way?"
               "Thou'rt a most perverse wretch," exclaimed the queen, "and deservest no mercy."
               "He hath reviled your majesty in most blasphemous manner," observed Plimpton. "Nay, when tendered the oath of supremacy, he denied even your majesty's right to the throne, and called thee a usurper."
               "Who speaks?" inquired the knight.
               "Sir Thomas Plimpton."
               "Ah! my God!" exclaimed the old man, shrinking back in terror, "hath he pursued us hither, even into the presence of the queen? methought after banishing us from home, and compelling us to crave the world's cold charity, he might have been satisfied. Eh, but I had almost forgotten," continued the knight,—"he would marry thee, Alice—he would marry thee, child. O daughter of my heart," he murmured, drawing her head over on his breast, "thou must never marry that man, even to save thy life."
               
                  
                     "Is there no way I can save my child's life but by apostasy?" said the Knight, turning his eyes in the direction of the bench—"no other way?"—PAGE 718
                  
               
               
               "Prisoner, did he ask thee in marriage?" inquired Montague, addressing Alice.
               "He did."
               "When, and where?"
               "During the journey to London. He averred, also, that her majesty had promised to give me to him in marriage."
               "Sir Thoms Plimpton, advance to the bar in obedience to the royal summons," cried the tipstaff, at a signal from the attorney general.
               The tall, gaunt form of the discarded courtier then slowly ascended the few steps that led to the council table, and took the stand beside Sir Geoffrey and his daughter. The knight, hearing the name of the witness called, and feeling him now at his side, turned to look at the man who had caused him so much misery, fixing his eyes close upon him, for, alas! they were now almost sightless. "What!" said he, after gazing at him for a time in apparent astonishment— "what! the queen to promise thee my little Alice in marriage! surely, man, thou must belie thy mistress, for verily it would be a most damnable sacrilege to wed this angel to a monster like thee. O dear me! thou hast a visage hateful as thy heart." And the old man shook his trembling hand at the sinister looking witness, and turned away.
               "Hold thy peace, Sir Geoffrey Wentworth," commanded Elizabeth, striking the desk with a book she held in her hand to enforce silence—"hold thy peace, grumbler, and disrespect not the presence; 'sdeath! my lords, each one here thinks he hath right to use his tongue without stint or reverence. So, there, Sir Thomas Plimpton," she continued, "hold up thy cropped head, that the court may see thy comely countenance, and answer to the bench."
               "My honored liege," submitted the venerable Marquis of Winchester, himself a Catholic, though never a stanch one in the presence of royalty, "may it please your grace to dispetise with the etiquette of the court, and order the old man a chair, for he seemeth no longer able to stand."
               The queen made a signal to the usher, who instantly placed a chair upon the table, on which the knight slowly seated himself, holding Alice firmly by the hand, as if he dreaded some one might snatch her away.
               "And so, Sir Thomas Plimpton," resumed Elizabeth, "the prisoner averreth thou hast solicited her, when yet in thy custody, to wed thee; and, furthermore, avouched our royal promise to enforce thy suit—what sayest thou?"
               "An it please your gracious majesty, I may not contradict the maiden," responded Plimpton, resolved to make a last effort to secure the wealthy heiress, even at the risk of offending the queen by the avowal. Indeed, it was the only hope now left him, for he saw clearly, if the queen banished him not to Brockton a married man, she would send him to the Tower, and thence to the block, and bury his secrets and himself together in the same grave.
               "What! man; dost swear that we verily and indeed made thee such promise?"
               "Ay, most truly hath your majesty."
               "In good faith, and in very deed? eh?"
               "Nay, I can remind your grace of the occasion; it was when last I carried despatches to Scotland, to the Earl ——"
               "Hold! sir—enough! we care not to divulge our state secrets to so many greedy ears," exclaimed Elizabeth, interrupting her quondam confidant, lest he might say too much. "We wish thee to answer our question simply, yea or nay."
               "Then do I most solemnly swear that your majesty hath promised me the hand of this maiden in requital of certain services."
               "My lords," observed the royal tactician, smiling round at the commissioners, "queens should be careful whom they deign to trifle with. Here's a fortune-seeking, sour-visaged gentleman, who thinks, doubtless, the mirth we once indulged at his expense may now be turned to account. Ye see, my lords, he hath resolved to hold us to our foolish promise; hah! marry, he hath caught us. What think ye, then, if still, in consideration of the prisoner's youth, and her father's great age and apparent infirmity, we pardon both, on condition that the damsel wed this man, and thus in time abandon her errors; for truly, we see not how we can elsewise redeem our foolish promise."
               The commissioners at once expressed their cordial assent, and the queen proceeded.
               "Prisoner, art willing to take this man for thy husband?" she demanded; "if so, we are disposed to pardon thee and thy father for what hath passed, in the hope that ye may both soon repent under the ghostly counsel of this most pious and God-fearing Christian, Sir Thomas Plimpton."
               Alice replied not, but, bending down, whispered something in her father's ear.
               The knight drew back and stared at her in surprise. "Never!" he exclaimed, pushing her from him gently, and looking up reproachfully in her face; "never, never! were it to save my life a thousand times: dear child, thou wouldst not kill thy father, wouldst thou? Ah, Alice, I must soon die; indeed, indeed, I feel the death-beat at my heart; but God forbid it should be hastened by word or act of thine."
               "Maiden!" cried Elizabeth, angrily striking the bench a second time, "we would have thee look up and answer us. 'Sdeath, wench, thou seemest to make but small account of our sovereign will and pleasure; give answer—wilt consent to marry this man to save thine own and thy father's life?"
               "Not I!" replied the noble-minded girl, in a clear, firm voice, though the tears were still glistening on her cheeks. "But a short week gone, and I had consented to become his wife to save my father from the penalty of recusancy; now, there's no further need, for the broken-hearted old man is fast nearing those confines where your majesty's sceptre can no longer reach him, nor the sacrifice of his child add another hour to his life. So far, thy power hath prevailed," continued Alice, warming as she proceeded. "Ay, thou hast hunted him from his peaceful homestead, burnt to ashes every object of his innocent attachment, wrenched asunder all those fond associations that entwined with the fibres of his heart, to nurse it in its decay, sent him out at length a beggar on the world; and now, to crown all, thou wouldst have him apostatize, to save a few hours of his life; ay, when his foot is on the very threshold of eternity, thou wouldst drag him back from the light of hope to the darkness of despair. And to me, thou wouldst offer marriage with this vile man, as the only condition of reprieve. O my lords, my lords, pardon me if I appear bold in this august presence; think not ill of me if I can no longer restrain my indignation on seeing my fond old father here dying at my feet; O, did ye but know how good he was, how big a heart ——"
               "God's death!" interrupted Elizabeth, standing up and stamping on the floor, "are we to be insulted and defied in our very palace? Away with her! away with her to the Tower; by our royal honor, mercy to such a wretch were a crying sin; away with the traitorous wench—we shall see that justice be satisfied."
               "Hold, hold!" ejaculated Sir Geoffrey, endeavoring to rise by the help of his daughter's arm—"hold! if a life be needed to satisfy what your grace calleth justice, let it be mine, I pray thee. O, if thou wouldst punish the guilty," he continued, staggering forward and raising his bent form to address the bench, "let the punishment fall on me. If thou must have revenge on the scorner of thy religion, and the scoffer of thy supremacy,—here, here, pass sentence on me; but spare, spare my innocent child."
               "Hush, hush! father dear," entreated Alice; "the queen may yet relent."
               
               "Renounce thy false faith, or prevail on thy daughter to marry that man," cried Elizabeth, pointing to Plimpton, whilst the muscles of her face quivered with passion; "do this, or we swear by our royal soul ye both shall die before to-morrow's sun goes down, license or no license."
               "Renounce my faith!" repeated Sir Geoffrey, his pale face reddening with shame and indignation at the base proposal—"humph!" said he, "that may do for the soulless minions who surround thy throne, Elizabeth Tudor, but not for me; my faith, woman, is dearer to me than ten thousand lives. Take my poor miserable life, an it please thee; what signifieth it to me if I die a few hours before my time? Ha, ha! renounce my faith!—nay, nay, my lords; I am a beggar, an outcast, but still a Catholic—ay, ay, I am still a Catholic; ye have robbed me of all save that, but that to me is still dearer than the wealth of worlds. O dear, O dear, that I should have lived to hear such a proposal from the lips of young Harry's daughter."
               "Guards, advance and remove the prisoner," commanded the queen.
               The knight flung his arms round his daughter's neck and kissed her forehead. Then, holding her at arms' length, he looked in her face for the space of a minute, during which every breath in the court was hushed; even the queen herself shrunk back appalled at the agony of the old man's gaze. "Daughter," said he, "the queen hath sentenced thee to death—wilt die a Catholic?"
               "O, why ask me this, father, dear?" replied the heroic maiden; "well thou knowest I would not surrender a jot of my grand old faith for the wealth of dynasties;" and she caught her father's hand as she spoke, and covered it with her kissess and her tears.
               "Here, then, Annie Howard," exclaimed the knight, looking up to heaven like a Jephthah, and holding his daughter by the two hands—"here, I give thee back thy little Alice as pure and innocent as when, seventeen years ago, thou confidest her to my charge. And thou, my child, may the good God reward thee well for all the love with which thou hast ever surrounded thy doting old father; and if thou reachest there before me, tell the blessed Annie that old Brockton Hall is no more—the little library burnt—the insects and the instruments buried in the wreck; and for myself, tell her there's no change, save in the body; that the heart, the old Catholic heart, is still the same; go, then, darling, and when thou diest, remember it is for the faith of the old fathers; remember St. Thomas, St. Bernard, and the rest. Go, child of my heart, and show this proud woman, and those renegade nobles, what a pure and generous heart can suffer for its religion and its God." And thus speaking, he again embraced his daughter, and whispered something in her ear, but so low and softly that no one could hear it. Then his head dropped heavily on her breast, his knees went under him, and he had well nigh dragged Alice with him to the ground, when Plimpton, who was standing near, made an attempt to support him, and had actually caught his arm with the intention, when Reddy Connor nor, who still kept his eye upon him, sprung on his feet, and, unmindful of queen or noble, seized the enemy of his master by the gorge, and exerting all his strength in the effort, flung him back prostrate on the floor, his head crashing on the pavement.
               "Hech, dog!" he cried, "take that; ye base villain, if I thought ye touched his body with yer fingers, I'd cut the piece out."
               The nobles and gentlemen of the court, who sat round the green table, instantly jumped up to render assistance; the crowd without, excited by the unusual disturbance within, broke through the passages, despite the resistance of the guards; the royal archers closed round the bench to protect the queen, and thus the whole place became in one moment a scene of indescribable confusion.
               When Plimpton recovered his senses after the stunning fall, it was only to find himself under the heavy restless feet of the crowd, literally kneading him, as if he were but a lump of clay, toughening for the mould. In vain did he cry for mercy, and implore the guards to rescue him; his prayers and lamentations were disregarded, and the people continued to tramp and tread on in reckless indifference.
               But the confusion could not last long. The military, being in attendance in large numbers on account of her majesty's presence, soon succeeded in driving back the intruders, and finally restored something like order in the assembly. When the court nobles and officials had therefore quitted the table and retired to their seats, a little group was still seen to remain there, apparently heedless of the usher's orders. In the midst of this group, and stretched at full length on the table, was the knight of Brockton, unable to speak, but still retaining the hand of his daughter in both his own, and looking alternately up at the bright sky through the dome of the edifice, and in his child's face, as if to encourage her to meet death as became the daughter of Annie Howard. Next the knight, and seated close by his side, was Reddy Connor, his back turned to the bench, his knotty cudgel lying on the table, and his face bowed down and covered with his open hands to conceal it from the gaze of the multitude. Rodger O'Brien was the only one of the little party who remained standing. He had broken from the guards in whose custody he had been kept waiting outside, and rushed in with the crowd to take his place once more by the side of Alice. Now he appeared, however, without cap or sword; his long, wavy hair lay back over the collar of his green velvet doublet, and his broken arm still hung suspended in the black silk scarf. For a moment he stood gazing down at the dying man without word or motion, and the queen as silently fixed her eyes on him, scanning his form and face with an increasing expression of pleasure and wonder. She knew by the broken arm, and the interest he seemed to take in the scene, that he could be no other than Rodger O'Brien, the dare-devil of midsummer eve. Reader, Elizabeth cast that same look on Sir Christopher Hatton, when first he was presented at an entertainment given her majesty by the inns of court, and at the unfortunate Sir Walter Raleigh, when he so gallantly distinguished himself in the celebrated affair of the cloak. There was favor in that look, ay, and pardons for the asking; and many a titled courtier there had cheerfully given thousands for a glance of half its length, or half its intensity, and think the favor cheaply bought. But we must not indulge in this delicate theme, gentle reader, nor toy with the lightning which, extinguished though it be, once scorched so many noble and generous hearts. Even now that centuries have passed away since that unholy fire flashed round the throne of the Tudors, there is danger yet in the very retrospect of its power; and virtue still shudders and blushes at the thought, that there ever raged in the female bosom so gross and fierce an element. At length O'Brien looked up at the queen, and, painting to the prisoner kneeling beside her dying father, demanded to know "what was her crime, and who her accuser."
               "By our royal honor, a most sturdy gallant," exclaimed Elizabeth; "marry, thy boldness pleaseth us much; but whence comest thou, good sir? and how happeneth it thou'rt so sparing of thy respect for the queen's majesty?"
               "I come from Holyrood," replied Rodger, "an accredited messenger from the Queen of Scotland to this old gentleman and his daughter; as for the rest, sovereign lady, I have been so long accustomed to respect only mercy and gentleness at the Scotch court, that I know not well how to demean myself in this."
               "By my certies, then," said Sir Nicholas Bacon, anticipating Elizabeth, "thou speakest like a most presumptuous and ill-mannered knave, and if thou'rt a specimen of Mary Stuart's special servants, the good lady hath little to boast of, I trow, in the selection."
               "Thou wouldst hardly call me knave an I met thee beyond the protection of the bench, methinks," returned O'Brien. "Ay, and by my halidome, I promised Dame Justice, should I cross thee but half bowshot from the shadow of these walls, to whip thee right roundly for thy foul speeches touching the Queen of Scotland, for the which thou hast become somewhat notorious of late."
               "And who art thou, sir?" demanded the queen, now cut to the quick by the young man's undisguised contempt both for her person and authority. "Who art thou, Sir Saucebox, who dares speak so boldly in our presence?"
               "Dare!" repeated O'Brien; "ah, marry, royal lady, I dare but little; I am one, in truth, who never yet dared to play the pander, nor bow the knee before throne or sceptre, where the one is usurped and the other polluted. I am, moreover, henchman and sworn servant to Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland; and to her enemy and persecutor, Elizabeth Tudor, Queen of England, I need hardly say, I owe neither love nor allegiance."
               "Thou'rt a bold man to speak us thus within call of the headsman," said Elizabeth, a cloud of passion overspreading her countenance.
               "Not so bold as Randolph, your majesty's ambassador at the Scottish court," replied O'Brien; "for he carrieth himself unabashed before the very impersonation of virtue and honor."
               
               "Ah! and thou ——"
               "Fearless and unawed before —— her majesty of England."
               "Mine honored liege and royal mistress," exclaimed Bacon, "can your majesty thus patiently suffer this insolent braggart?" And the commissioner rose as he spoke, his face flushed with anger, and ordered the sheriff to remove the prisoner ere he had offered further insult to the sovereign.
               "Hold!" said Elizabeth, motioning back the sheriff; "hold! the young springald hath learnt this insolence from the lips of one whose name we may not utter in this public assembly. Therefore blame him not, Sir Nicholas; nay, in truth, we know not but we should pardon him, were he ——"
               O'Brien interrupted her. The bitter allusion to his beloved mistress stung the young courtier to the quick, and he resented it instantly.
               "Set the base minions," he exclaimed, "who surround thy throne, sue for pardon when they need it; but for me, with such a picture as that before mine eyes," pointing to the group beside him, "thy vengeance were more acceptable than thy mercy. If thou art born of woman, and can find it in thy heart to send that innocent maiden to the dungeon or the block, from the arms of a dying parent, then better we forswear humanity, and turn for mercy to the fiends of ——"
               "Silence!" thundered the tipstaff, springing on the table at a signal from the queen, and laying hold of O'Brien's collar; "silence, villain, and insult not her sacred majesty."
               "Away with him!" commanded Elizabeth, no longer able to indulge her morbid predilection with any show of self-respect—"away with him, away with him to the Tower; we had thoughts of sending him back to his mistress, to show her how readily we could forgive his insults for her sake; but now, —God's death!—seeing the knave hath not only outraged ourself, but spurned our authority, and denied our very queenship before the eyes of our subjects, we shall send but his head, to teach her that if Elizabeth hath a kind heart for her friends, she hath also a strong arm for her enemies."
               As the officer laid his hand on the young Irishman's collar, the latter turned suddenly and fiercely upon him, and seizing his wrist, twisted it till he almost wrenched the bone from the socket, causing the sufferer to yell out with pain, and then flung him back against the witness stand, making the boards crack with the violence of the blow. "Back, thou scurvy minion!" he cried, "and lay not thy foul hands on me. What! art afraid I shall escape from these guards, in guise like this?"
               "Ha! the young braggart fears to have his gentle Celtic blood tainted by the officer's touch," said Elizabeth, smiling round at the archbishop.
               O'Brien, hearing the taunt, quickly turned upon the speaker, and drawing himself up to his full height, darted at her a look of indignant scorn.
               "Ay, woman," he cried, "it may well be gentle, for it comes to me untainted by blot or stain for well nigh four hundred years; and proudly may it bound here this day in presence of the dishonored and polluted blood of the Tudors."
               Elizabeth started to her feet. "To the block with him!" she cried; "God's death! ye cowardly varlets, away with him."
               "Hear me!" exclaimed O'Brien, again driving back his assailants. "I know full well I have spoken that which Elizabeth Tudor can never forgive; from the moment I entered this palace, I was prepared for death. I crave no mercy now, I beg no pardon; but I ask some honest gentleman here to do me the poor service to tell Mary Stuart, my beloved queen, that I die in her service; that my only regret is, I cannot shed my blood for her majesty in fair and honorable fight. And now," added he, "one word more to this maiden;" and kneeling down, he took the fair girl's hand and kissed it. "Farewell, Alice," he said; "I once foolishly thought I might one day call thee by a dearer name; but——"
               "Hush, hush, dear Rodger," murmured Alice, interrupting him; "hush, my father speaks to thee; see, his lips move, and his eyes are fixed on thine."
               The young Irishman bent his head till his ear touched the lips of the dying recusant.
               At that moment the tipstaff again rushed forward, accompanied by two or three of the guards, and attempted to seize his prisoner; but quick as thought Reddy Connor sprang up, fired with anger, and snatching his trusty blackthorn, dealt the officer such a blow on the sconce as laid him at his full length on the table. "Come on, ye dogs!" he cried;— "come on, come on! with God's help I can defend my masther yet again a score av sich cowardly Sassenaghs. Come on!" he vociferated, firmly planting himself before the prostrate body of the knight; "come on—I'll die fightin' for my ould church and my ould masther; come on, come on an kill me! if they're all to die, Reddy Connor'll die along with them."
               Whilst the trusty fellow thus spoke, waving his cudgel before him, and stamping furiously on the table, Sir Geoffrey whispered something to O'Brien, and then, taking the young man's hand, placed it in that of Alice, looking at each alternately—his eyes speaking the dying benediction which his lips failed to express. At this juncture her majesty's physician arrived, and seeing Sir Thomas lying stretched on a bench near the council table, hurried to offer him assistance; but the queen pointed to Sir Geoffrey, exclaiming as she did, "there lies your patient, doctor; see to him; as for Plimpton, let the jailer carry him back to prison; there let him rot in his bruises in requital for his butchery at Whinstone Hollow."
               The physician administered to the dying man some drops from a vial, and replied, in answer to her majesty, that the patient could live but a few minutes longer.
               "Remove him, then," said the queen; "marry wouldst have him die here in our very presence?"
               The medicine somewhat revived the knight from the lethargy into which he had sunk immediately after joining the hands of the young couple; and opening his eyes, he saw the queen standing on the bench before him. "Raise me a little higher," he muttered, speaking to Alice, whose right arm lay pillowing his head, whilst her left hand kept gently stroking back his white locks; "a little higher, my child; ah, I see her there; my sight hath come again—I see her."
               "Silence!" commanded the queen; "doth the dying man speak?"
               "Ay," replied the knight,—"one word before I die; pardon my little Alice—for the sake of—young Prince Henry, and—and—and—the olden time."
               The queen shook her head, and drawing down her brows in a scowl, turned away her eyes from the suppliant.
               "Then God pardon thee, Elizabeth, as I do; it's hard to forgive thee, but I do it for Christ's sake. And now hear me, all ye people;" and for a second his voice seemed to grow stronger. "I am sorry for my sins—in especial for spending my time so much with foolish insects—and—and useless instruments, and—and—not giving it all to God—and the holy fathers; but particularly to St. Bernard and St. Thomas. For the rest, I hate heresy—I do—deny the queen's supremacy, and—and by the grace of God, I die a Catholic." As the knight uttered these words, his eyes turned once to Alice, then up to heaven, and back he sank lifeless on his daughter's arm.
               "Dead?" inquired Elizabeth.
               "Dead, your majesty," responded the physician.
               "Then, guards, remove the body to the hospital, and the prisoner to the Tower," she said, rising and preparing to quit the court.
               "Plaze yer ladyship," said Reddy, who now appeared in irons at the front of the bar, guarded by two pikemen, "if ye'll only let me wake the ould masther, an see him dacently buried, am willin' to die any time in the same company."
               But Elizabeth turned away, and motioned towards the door.
               Reddy stared at her for a moment—"O, then, bad luck to her," he muttered to himself at length; "isn't she the very divil entirely, out and out? Well, upon my conscience ——"
               "Hold thy peace, fellow!" said one of the sentinels, "and march away to prison."
               "Silence, silence, lieges, ye all!" cried the usher of the court; "the queen speaks."
               "My liege and loving subjects," said Elizabeth, addressing the spectators now ready to disperse, "we have appointed this special commission, and presided thereat our royal self in person, that ye might see how well we mix clemency with justice in the administration of the laws. And we do trust that the example we have herein set the judges and magistrates of the land may not be lost upon them; and that the ambassadors and all other honorable gentlemen, here present from the courts of our royal friends and good neighbors, may report favorably of our doings to their respective sovereigns. And now, I bid ye farewell, my faithful lieges and loving subjects, and pray God to keep ye ever in his good grace and guidance. Fare ye well."
               "Bide awee, bide awee!" cried a strong, clear voice from the crowd, just as the queen turned to leave the hall, and the next moment Nell Gower jumped on the table as nimbly as a girl of fifteen, and held up a roll of parchment in her hand. "Bide awee; haud ye back, haud ye back, Elizabeth Tudor, an clap yer twa een on this bit license."
               "Great God!" exclaimed the queen, staggering over and sinking in her chair, "what wouldst thou have, woman?"
               "The spaewife, the spaewife!" now resounded through the hall, amid cries of "Drag her out! bring out the witch—bring out the child-murderer!" "Fire the fagot for the beldam on Tower Hill!"
               "Ha! child-murderer!" repeated Nell, "eh? spier ye wha's bairn they mean, Elizabeth Tudor?"
               "Devil's mother!" cried a pikeman, laying hold of Nell's hood, and dragging it from off her gray locks; "I'll throttle thee on the instant."
               But Nell drew her poniard, and forced him to loose his hold, resolved, apparently, to keep off her assailants till the queen had read the document.
               "Stab her! shoot her down!—away with her to Tower Hill!" again shouted a hundred voices from all parts of the hall.
               "Fire awa'!" exclaimed the dauntless old woman, poising the dagger to plunge it in the first who dared lay hand on her person; "fire awa', hell hounds, fire awa'; ye canna harm me; ough, sirs, the steel's na tempered, nor the bullet maulded, yet, call dhirl on a bane o' Nell Gower's."
               The queen now motioned the guards to fall back, and then, in faltering accents, and with a face as pale as very marble, she addressed the spaewife.
               "Who art thou, woman? and what wouldst thou of us?"
               "I'm the auld Scotch spaewife, o' Whinstane Hollow," responded Nell, replacing the dagger in her bosom, and staring the queen boldly in the face; "and for servuce rendered, I demand the pardon o' the prisoners, an the body o' Sir Geoffrey Wentworth."
               "Demand, woman—we may not——"
               "Ay, demand!" repeated Nell; "will ye grant it, or no?"
               "Hold, hold," gasped the queen, the fear of instant exposure rendering her almost speechless.
               Every eye in the court now turned on Elizabeth, in wonder at the change the words of the spaewife had so suddenly produced.
               "Yer but ane o' the judges, Elizabeth Tudor," pursued Nell; "sae hand ye roun the parchment to the lave, and if they canna tell the writin', there's ane here wha can at the first blink o' his black ee;" and she turned her glance full on the Earl of Leicester.
               Cecil's keen eye followed that glance, and seeing terror depicted in the countenance of the haughty courtier, felt assured he was the counterfeiter of the license. Right gladly would he then have impeached the earl for the treason, but fear of implicating her majesty restrained him.
               "Woman," said the queen, endeavoring to speak with some composure, "this parchment affordeth no grounds for pardon, seeing it cometh not from us."
               "I received it in guid faith," responded Nell, "and I'll hand him wha gied it to his bargain, or hang him for treason. But dinna think, Elizabeth Tudor, that am sae blate as to clap my dependence on a wee bit sheepskin, wi' a lump o' wax on the tail o't," continued Nell, fixing her eyes keenly on the queen's pale face; "ou, ou, wonan, I hae a letter in my spleuchan written in guid braw Italian, cud win me mair favor for the prisoners than a' the parchment frae here to the borders; ou, ay, mony a plea cud I mak wus I weel minded; een frae the tombstanes, and frae the hedges, cud I mak a voice ring wad mak ye jump to free the prisoners."
               Elizabeth started as Nell thus revealed her intimate knowledge of scenes and secrets which she thought were hidden from all the world, save her two confidants. "Hold," she ejaculated, "hold! we shall speak further of these matters, but not here—not in this place; in the mean time we stay the sentence of the court, and, mayhap, may rescind it yet, in consideration of thy good faith respecting the license."
               Nell instantly saw that the queen's object in the delay was merely to gain time, in order to mature some plan for securing herself against exposure, and then send the prisoners to execution. "Na, na, Elizabeth Tudor," she cried, "ken ye weel; no ae minit can I wait, nor ae finger's length can I trust ye frae my sight; set the bairns free noo or never."
               "Most gracious sovereign," entreated Leicester, at length venturing to plead in behalf of the prisoners, "I beseech thee pardon this maiden, seeing she hath not wittingly violated the law; and moreover, it seemeth hard to send her thus to prison, whilst her father's corpse is not yet cold."
               Elizabeth, at any other time or place, would have peremptorily ordered the earl from her presence; but such a step now suited not her purpose. In truth she wished to be entreated, nay, compelled to pardon, that she might with the greater show of credit recall the orders she had just issued. Hence it was, that she bowed condescendingly to the earl, though she averted her eyes from his face, as if to honor and insult him at the same moment.
               "And for my part, most gracious madam," added Cecil, coming to his queen's rescue with that blunt adroitness for which he was so celebrated, "I see not well how your majesty could justify the infliction of the usual penalty in this case, where none seems guilty save the forger of the royal license."
               Cecil's example was then followed by the remaining commissioners, except, indeed, Sir Nicholas Bacon, who maintained a dogged silence, and kept biting his nails as he eyed Melville, and the French and Spanish ambassadors tauntingly smiling at him from their places under the bench.
               "In compliance," said Elizabeth, at last, the words almost choking her as she uttered them—"in compliance with the urgent solicitations and judicial opinions of the bench, and moreover being moved thereto by our own natural leaning to the side of mercy, we pardon the prisoners on condition that they, together with the woman called Nell Gower, now in the presence, instantly quit the kingdom, and return not to the same during the period of our natural life. Guards, set the prisoners free, and see them forthwith beyond the palace walls."
               
               "Aweel, aweel," said Nell; "an what's to become o' Brockton?"
               "It still belongeth to the family," replied Elizabeth, too happy to extricate herself from the difficulty on such easy terms. Thus saying, she rose abruptly, and talking Cecil's arm, quitted the council room, and then hastened to unbosom her fears, her sorrows, and her hopes once more to her faithful countess, who stood anxiously awaiting her return at the door of the royal boudoir.
               Nell Gower paused for a moment to look at the retreating form of Elizabeth, and then, drawing the hood of her old cloak close round her head, muttered to herself, as she descended from the table, "Dinna fret, Elizabeth, dinna fret, woman; we'll no bide lang, I ween, undher the same rooftree wi sican a kittlesome lass. But dinna think am done wi' ye, natheless; ou, wough! woman, no, I hae a tight grip o' ye yet, and, guid faith, I'll haud it weel, I'll haud it weel; sae tak tent to't ye hairm not the Queen o' Scots, na betray her to the black Murray; for gin ye di, by my saul all gie ye a squeeze ill mak ye skirl mair nor ye een did sin yer nursery days."
               O'Brien and Alice now approached Nell. "God bless thee, Nell," said the young Irishman, taking the old woman's hand in his, and gratefully pressing it in both his own; "this is the second time thou'st saved my life, and yet I thank thee more for this dear maiden's ——"
               "Hout! awa' wi' ye, ye daft silly carl; this is na time for thanks and love speeches, she replied, drawing ing away her hand; hugh! diel be frae me if ye'd think o' a hate else but claverin an fightin' gin ye wur gaun to the gallis afore sundown."
               "Dear Nell, dear Nell," sobbed Alice, throwing her arms round her old protector's neck, "how shall we ever love thee, and thank thee enough for this watchful and tender affection?"
               "Weel, weel, now, guid be aboot us—heard ye ever the like o' this?" exclaimed the kind-hearted old creature, wiping the tears from the fair face of her protégée; "saints preserve us, lassie; canna a body di a guid turn, but ye maun grat yer bonnie een out sic fashion? Whist, whist! and come awa', bairns, come awa'," she cried; "we maunna bide here, gin we'd cheat the hangman, or flee the dirk, for right weel I ken there's danger still within bow shot o' Hampton." And thus saying, the old woman led the way through the crowd, followed by Rodger and Alice.
               Just as the little party was disappearing through the great entrance door, the spaewife turned suddenly round, and looking about her for an instant, exclaimed, "Good gracious! whare's Reddy Connor?"
               "There," said one of the soldiers, "there he goes, following his master's corpse to the hospital, with his cudgel under his arm."
               
               Here, gentle reader, ends the story of the spaewife. She leaves us for the present, to accompany her two young friends to Edinburgh. Should you wish, however, to renew your acquaintance with the old woman, come with me next year; I'll borrow a pillion, give you a merry ride across the "borders," and present you to her again in the walls of Holyrood.
            
         
      
   
