
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). Tom Blinn's Temperance Society, and Other Tales .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5652 wright2-0133
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  "STEADY THERE! STEADY I SAY!"
               
            
         
         
            
               TOM BLINN'S TEMPERANCE SOCIETY, AND OTHER TALES.
            
            BY T. S. ARTHUR, AUTHOR OF "TEN NIGHTS IN A BAR-ROOM."
            
               NEW YORK:
               NATIONAL TEMPERANCE SOCIETY AND PUBLICATION HOUSE, 172 WILLIAM STREET,
            
            1870.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by J. N. STEARNS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New York.
               Rockwell & Churchill, Printers and Stereotypers,
               122 Washington Street, Boston.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               I. Tom Blinn's Temperance Society, 5
               
               II. The Unsteady Hand, 40
               
               III. One Fearful Night, 73
               
               IV. The Son of my Friend; an O'er-true Tale, 97
               
               V. What one Man may Do, 130
               
               VI. What Might Have Been, 172
               
               
               VII. Not Myself, 223
               
               VIII. One Glass of Wine, 238
               
               IX. Two Lives Wrecked, 276
               
               X. After Many Days, 290
               
               XI. In League with Satan, 307
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Tom Blinn's Temperance Society, and other tales
            
               I. TOM BLINN'S TEMPERANCE SOCIETY.
               "I WANT ten dollars from you."
               The speaker, a small, nervous-looking man, with quick, restless movements, stood at the bar of a handsomely furnished drinking-saloon. A glass, just emptied of its enticing contents, was still in his hand.
               "Ten dollars!" answered the proprietor of this thrifty establishment, in manifest surprise. "On what account am I your debtor, friend Peterkin?"
               "Not my debtor on any account. But, you see, I am getting up a subscription to buy a sewing-machine for Grace Myers, and you must head the list with ten dollars."
               The pleasant face of Tom Blinn, made up to welcome his customers, changed instantly. His eyes grew cold, and his lips hard.
               
               "Don't see it," was the curt answer. There was a shade of something offensive in his manner that stung Peterkin, whose feelings lay close to the surface.
               "You don't!" There was a flash in Peterkin's eye.
               "No, sir! I don't see it!" And Tom Blinn drew his well-fed, well-kept body up to its full six feet of altitude, and looked down upon the rather shabby little man, who stood with just a counter's breadth between them,—ah, it was the business at that counter which made the difference in their appearance and condition!—eying him with a frown.
               "If there is a man in this town who ought to see it, you are that man, sir!" cried out Peterkin, in a passion he could not restrain.
               The half-dozen bar-loungers, smoking and dreaming over their papers, startled at this sudden explosion, came crowding to the bar.
               "What's up?" asked one. "And what's to pay?" queried another.
               "There'll be the devil to pay, if you don't  look to your manners!" said the saloon-keeper, with a rising anger he did not try to repress.
               The little man, all nervous and excited a moment before, grew calm at this threat; not from fear, but under a sense of indignation. He looked taller, as he stood with defiant air and face, giving back scowl for scowl.
               "What's to pay?" The question was repeated by several voices.
               "Just this; no more and no less," answered Peterkin. "I'm trying to raise sixty dollars to buy a sewing-machine for poor Grace Myers; and I asked Tom Blinn to head the subscription with ten dollars; but he can't see it!" in a tone of mocking contempt. "As if a thousand dollars and more of her father's money hadn't gone into his till."
               "I'll not stand your impudence, Sam Peterkin!" exclaimed the now furious saloon-keeper, springing over the bar at a single bound, and grappling at the little man's throat. But Peterkin, all on the alert,  darted aside, and before Blinn could turn upon him, a vice-like grip was laid on the assailant's arm.
               "Steady, there! Steady, I say!" The voice was deep and rough.
               "Hands off, Joe Thompson! Hands off, I say!" cried Blinn, his fury increasing.
               "Steady, there! Steady, I say!" And the iron grip tightened. "Tongues get oiled here,"—there was a quality of humor in the gruff, even voice,—"and you are the last man to take offence if they wag too fast sometimes, seeing that you are well paid for the oil."
               A loud laugh from two or three of the company greeted this sally. A foiled look came into the face of Blinn, who saw that the odds were against him. His fury died down under the whispers of self-interest, counselling prudence. Sullenly he retired behind his bar.
               A look of triumph sat on the countenance of shabby little Peterkin,—Peterkin the irrepressible. Public sentiment was now on his  side. He felt the rising wave of popular favor, and it was not in him to despise opportunity.
               "I'll tell you what, friends and neighbors,"—he spoke out clear and strong, his very confidence of manner ensuring him an audience,—"this thing has kind of made me put on my studying-cap. Now just look at it. Why does poor Grace Myers want a sewing-machine? Shall I tell you? No; for that would be Piper's news. I know, Tom Blinn knows, you all know, and everybody in town knows. Poor Grace! Don't you remember her ten years ago? Of course you do! There wasn't a sweeter, prettier, happier girl in ten miles round. And now she wants a sewing-machine with which to keep the wolf from her door! Don't that tell a story to make the heart ache? There's something wrong. What's gone with her father's money? Where is it? Who has it? What's gone with my money, and my good clothes? Look at me! I used to be dressed like a  gentleman. But I won't talk about myself; for that would be talking of a fool."
               The little man choked slightly, coughed, and then went on with recovered voice:—
               "Somebody's got her father's money. You all remember—of course you do—when Tom Blinn was Mr. Myers' coachman. 'Tisn't very long ago."
               "I won't take this from any man!" shouted the saloon-keeper, again leaping over his bar; but the iron grip, and the "Steady there! Steady, I say!" arrested him as before.
               "You furnished the oil, and the tongues must go," said Thompson, restraining Blinn without an apparent effort. "Go on, Peterkin! Have it all out. Free speech is the order of the day."
               "'Tisn't very long ago," Peterkin went on, as if there had been no interruption. "Tom wore the corduroys then, and Myers the broadcloth. But I needn't tell any of you where the old man's money went, nor who's got it."
               And Peterkin looked towards the infuriated Blinn, who would have murdered him on the spot if unrestrained by force or fear. A growl like that of a wild beast was his only response, as he again withdrew to his place behind the bar.
               "Oh, no!" went on Peterkin; "that would be Piper's news."
               Just then an old man, white-haired and stooping, pushed open the outer door, and stood for a moment or so, irresolute whether to come forward or go back. Ah! what a wreck was there! The broad forehead, the strong gray eyes, the finely cut mouth and chin, told you of a once vigorous intellect and manly strength, now eclipsed and broken.
               A dead silence followed, as every eye turned to him. He was annoyed at this observation, and frowned a little. No one spoke to him. Crossing the room with an unsteady, shuffling gait, he stood at the bar, not speaking, but indicating, with a quick, nervous motion of one hand, the liquor  he wanted. Blinn silently placed before him a decanter of whiskey, from which he poured half a tumblerful, added a little water, and drank the fiery draught without once taking the glass from his lips. Then he laid ten cents on the counter, and, turning away, shuffled across the room and went out.
               "That's the way it's done!" said Peterkin, breaking the silence. "If you stay here for an hour, you'll see it over again; and over again for as many hours as you choose to remain."
               "It's a lie!" shouted Blinn from behind the bar.
               "He's a civil gentleman, now, isn't he?" said Peterkin, with contempt. "A nice fellow to set above us all, as we are doing, by lining his carcass with our money, and pinching our wives and children!"
               No one responded to this. A strange, dead silence fell upon the room. The group of bar-loungers looked at each other with eyes shadowed as by sudden fear or shame.
               "Ten cents, ten times a day," resumed the  little man, breaking in upon this silence. "That's a dollar a day, or thirty dollars a month. In two months enough goes into Blinn's till to buy the old man's daughter a sewing-machine. Just think of that! And when I ask him for a ten-dollar subscription, he flings himself into a passion, and talks about there being the devil to pay."
               By this time two or three more of Blinn's customers had come in; but there was no drinking, and would be none until the little feud with the saloon-keeper was settled; for Peterkin, when his blood was up, was irrepressible.
               "Let us count heads," he cried; "one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Yes, there are just eight of us; and here come two more; these make ten. See here, gentlemen!—you that have just come in, and all the rest. I'm going to make a proposition. It's no use to tell you that I'm a pretty hard case,—in the drinking line, I mean,—though maybe not the hardest case here"—and he glanced half quizzically around  the room—"but I've kept a tender spot here through it all,"—and he laid one hand over his heart, his voice breaking a little,—"and that spot is troubling me to-night. I guess you've all a few tender spots left. Now, see here! You know Grace Myers. Her father spends every dollar he can get in whiskey, and the poor girl wants a sewing-machine, with which to keep off starvation. Now, here are ten of us. How much do we spend a day in liquor? I'll tell for myself. Just sixty cents on an average, week in and week out. Joe Thompson, what say you?"
               The great, rough fellow thus called on coughed and cleared his throat two or three times, and then blurted out: "Hang it, Sam Peterkin, if I like that sort of prying into a fellow's doin's. What's it your business?"
               "It's none of his business, of course," said Blinn; "and I'd shut him up with his impudence in double-quick time."
               "Maybe you would, and maybe you wouldn't," retorted Peterkin. "But no one  asked for your opinion. How much is it, Joe? Don't be afraid; an honest confession, you know, is good for the soul. How much? Half a dollar a day?"
               "Yes. Put it down at half a dollar."
               "Very well; half a dollar it is. And what say you, Barclay? Half a dollar more? Ay? Yes, ay it is. I thought so. Here's a dollar and sixty cents a day from three of us, and we've ten good drinkers in the room. Say it's five dollars we spend for liquor every day. Are you any better for it, Joe?"
               Joe Thompson shook his head in a slow, solemn way.
               "And you, Barker?"
               "No." The response was strongly uttered.
               "And you, Bill Lyon,—what say you? Are you any the better for tippling at Tom Blinn's bar?"
               "Can't say I am," replied Lyon, looking rather sheepish under the confession.
               "Of course you're not. Nor am I, nor any one here, but a plagued sight worse off!  He's getting fat on our substance, day by day, while we are growing leaner and leaner. He dresses up in fine toggery, and has his diamond breastpin, while we go threadbare and shabby! Did you ever think of this? Now, aren't we a precious set of fools? Come, now. I've got a proposal to make. Grace Myers wants a sewing-machine. Our rum money, saved up for two weeks, will buy her a Willcox & Gibbs machine from the agent over in High Street. He's got a splendid one there for fifty-six dollars; I was looking at it to-day. Just think what a joyful surprise it would be! How happy it would make the poor girl!"
               "Capital idea, that!" responded Joe Thompson. "I'll swear off for two weeks if the rest will."
               "Here's my hand to it!" And little Peterkin struck his open palm into that of the last speaker.
               The feeling thus evolved was contagious.
               "Let us come to order," cried a threadbare lawyer, who had a larger practice at  Blinn's bar than in the court-house. "I move that Peterkin take the chair."
               "Second the motion."
               "All in favor of Peterkin taking the chair will say Ay."
               "Ay!—Ay!—Ay!" ran through the room.
               "Peterkin will take the chair;" and the little man was conducted to a seat at one of the bar-room tables.
               A secretary was next chosen, who called on Blinn for ink and paper; but the saloon-keeper refused with an oath.
               "No matter," said the secretary. "I have a pencil and an old pass-book in my pocket, and can make out."
               The lawyer was now in his element, entering into the affair with spirit, and making a telling speech in favor of Grace Myers and the sewing-machine.
               By this time the company had increased to fifteen or sixteen. Each new-comer, surprised at first by the novel state of affairs in the bar-room, quickly caught the prevailing  idea, and entered warmly into its spirit. It was voted unanimously—First, "That we swear off for two weeks." Some of the "Ayes" were rather faint. Second, "That we appoint Henry W—, the sewing-machine agent, our treasurer." Third, "That each one voting 'Ay' to these resolutions shall deposit with the treasurer, each day, the amount usually spent in drinks." Fourth, "That when the sums thus deposited with the treasurer amount to fifty-six dollars, a sewing-machine shall be sent by the treasurer to Grace Myers." Fifth, "That we pledge ourselves not to visit the saloon of Tom Blinn, or any other rumseller, until enough money to buy a sewing-machine shall be in the hands of the treasurer."
               Some of the "ayes" to this last resolution were a little mournful and hesitating.
               After the resolutions were carefully written out by the lawyer, he proposed that each one should sign them. Some made objection to this; but Peterkin led off with his sign manual, the lawyer and Joe Thompson following,  and soon the name of every voter was recorded.
               "I move," said the lawyer, when this was done, "that we now adjourn, each man going to his home; and that we meet again at seven o'clock to-morrow evening, in the Town Hall."
               The motion was carried by acclamation, and all arose, moving towards the door.
               "Good-by, friend Thomas!" said Peterkin, looking at the saloon-keeper with a grin of triumph. "Good-by for a fortnight! Rather a losing business, ha? Saved at the spicket and let out at the bunghole. Something of a mistake, I should say, when you refused to head that subscription list with ten dollars. Better have given the sixty! Good-by! Maybe I shan't see you again." And the excited little man fairly danced from the saloon.
               Not another customer entered the deserted bar-room that evening. A committee of two, appointed by the retiring company, after reaching the street, was stationed near the saloon to give information of what had occurred curred to every person about to enter, and they were able to persuade each one to keep away, at least for that night.
               Tom Blinn, annoyed, irritated, and not a little troubled at all this, for his craft was in danger, sat moodily behind his bar until past eleven o'clock, and then ordered the door and shutters closed. He lay awake for most of the night, working with his heavy brain at the new impediment thrown suddenly in his way. At last he settled the question.
               "Two can play at this game!" he said to himself, exultingly; "and I rather guess the odds are on my side—just the odds between one full purse and a dozen empty ones. Two weeks to buy a sewing-machine! Ha! ha! And a dozen men at the work!" He laughed a low, derisive laugh. "I'll take the wind out of their sail. Grace shall have the machine before ten o'clock to-morrow; and then what will become of all their fine talk, and voting, and penny subscriptions? Bah!"
               "Good-day, Mr. W—," said Blinn, at an early hour on the next morning, as he  entered the store of the sewing-machine agent.
               "Good-morning, Mr. Blinn," was the affable reply. "Can I do anything for you?"
               "Perhaps. What is the price of a good sewing-machine?"
               "Plain table, fifty-six dollars."
               "Nothing less?"
               "No, sir. The prices are fixed by the manufacturers."
               "Well, I want one."
               "For your own use?"
               "Not exactly." And Blinn gave his face a half-comical, half-humorous contortion.
               "Where will you have it sent?"
               "It is for Grace Myers."
               "Oh!" The ejaculation considerably prolonged; for Mr. W—had already been informed of last night's proceedings.
               "I owe the girl some good will," said Blinn, with a swaggering air, meant for patronizing coolness. "She was kind to me when our relation to each other was very  different from what it is to-day. Now she is poor, and dependent on her needle for a support, and I am glad of an opportunity to help her a little."
               "Very generous in you, sir," replied Mr. W—; "very generous indeed."
               "Will you send it round this morning?" asked Blinn, as he drew out his pocket-book.
               "It shall be delivered within an hour."
               "Thank you, sir! Make out a bill and receipt."
               The money was paid, and Tom Blinn went away chuckling at what he had done, and in full faith that it would break up a movement which threatened a new order of things greatly adverse to his interests.
               True to their pledges, not a single one of those who had signed the resolutions entered Blinn's saloon during the whole day; and in the evening seven o'clock saw every man in the Town Hall. The meeting was organized by calling Peterkin to the chair. There was an unusual gravity of tone about the little  man, and a marked difference in his personal appearance. He looked, in some way, more respectable. And this might have been said of nearly all present. The shabby disregard of dress appertaining to the bar-room was not apparent in the Town Hall. Each man had been toned up to a higher self-respect.
               "The meeting will come to order," said Peterkin, rapping on the table. All was silence and attention. "This is an adjourned meeting, and the Secretary will read the proceedings of that previously held."
               After the minutes had been read and approved, a man arose and said: "Mr. President! I have just been informed that, like Othello, our occupation's gone. Blinn has got ahead of us, and already sent a sewing-machine to Grace Myers."
               "Good!" "Good!" "Three cheers for Tom Blinn!" and other cries, ran through the room.
               "Order!" called the President, and struck the table with a loud rap. "Order!" he repeated; and there was silence in the room.
               
               "Gentlemen," said Peterkin, rising, "the information just given is correct. Early today, Tom Blinn bought a sewing-machine, and sent it to Grace Myers. Last night he met my request for a ten-dollar subscription with insult. Guess there is something behind all this! The two things don't hang together. As to our occupation being gone, that doesn't follow by any means. Our occupation has only begun; and, if we are true to ourselves, to our wives, our children, and the community in which we live, we will find our hands full of work. What did we discover last night? A fact that has been going round and round in my brain ever since, surprising, confounding, rebuking me! What did we discover? Why, that every ten of us spend money enough for liquor in a fortnight to buy a sewing-machine! Just think of that! And I'm not afraid of contradiction, when I assert that not a man here has a sewing-machine in his house."
               "Beg pardon!" broke out a thin, rattling voice. "There's one in my house."
               "How did it come there?" promptly queried the President.
               There was no reply.
               "Oh! I can tell you," said Peterkin. "Your wife got it as a premium for subscribers sent to 'THE HOME MAGAZINE.' It didn't cost you a dollar!"
               A murmur ran round the hall.
               "Not a dollar!" repeated the chairman. "Not a dollar! Now, what I want to say is this: Tom Blinn has bought one machine with our money—one machine for the price of a hundred or more that we have paid him. Let us be thankful for the small favor, but resolve for the future to do business on our own account. Every one of our wives wants a sewing-machine. There are twenty present to-night. We have averaged at least fifty cents a day in drinks; or three dollars a week, taking the six working-days. If we counted Sundays, I'm afraid it would tell a worse story for some of us. But no matter; we will throw out the Sundays. Multiply three by twenty, and we have sixty  dollars a week. Just think of it! Sixty dollars spent by us for rum every week of our lives! Isn't it a shame? I'm mad with myself!"
               "Now, friends," continued the little man, warming with his theme, "I have this to propose. Let us make a permanent organization, and call it, say, 'THE FAIRVILLE SEWING-MACHINE TEMPERANCE SOCIETY;' each member to pay into the treasury three dollars a week, and pledge himself not to drink a drop of liquor while he belongs to the Association. Every week we will be in funds to buy a sewing-machine, and in twenty weeks every man's wife, or daughter, or sister, will be in possession of a machine."
               "Good!" "Good!" "I'll go in for that!" "Capital!" "Just the thing!" and like exclamations rang through the room.
               "Now, gentlemen," added the President, before taking his seat, "the matter is in your hands, and I trust you will act with a will. Strike while the iron is hot. Let me give you just a thought more. If we make good  use of the time some of us have idled at Tom Blinn's, or lost through half-fuddled brains, we can each of us earn three dollars a week more than usual, and so be six dollars a week better off than before, to say nothing of the gain in self-respect, sobriety, and manhood."
               The tide had fairly turned, and was setting strongly in this right direction. Only the feeblest objections were made to Peterkin's plan, and these were quickly set aside. After an hour's talking, a committee of organization, with the lawyer as chairman, was appointed, and the meeting adjourned until the next night, when a constitution would be presented.
               Tom Blinn did not show himself at this meeting; but he had a friend there, who brought him a full report of the proceedings. Their rehearsal fell on his spirits like a wet blanket. Not half-a-dozen customers had been in since nightfall, and if this movement proved successful it looked as if his were  the sails out of which the wind was to be taken.
               "I thought you were too fast," said the friend, looking into the heavy, disquieted face of Blinn. "If you'd kept out of the muss, and saved your money, the thing would have died out at the end of a week or so. But now, there's no telling what's going to come of it. Instead of ten men saving up their grog money for two weeks to buy one sewing-machine, here are twenty of your best customers actually banding together to buy twenty machines, and give you the go-by for twenty weeks. Think of that! And, what's worse, everybody in town will know before to-morrow night all about this 'Fairville Sewing-Machine Temperance Society,' and instead of twenty men at the Town Hall, there will be fifty or a hundred! I'm afraid, Tom Blinn, that it's all up with you. What a blind fool you were not to give Peterkin the ten dollars he asked for!"
               "It's easy enough to talk now," answered Blinn, impatiently. "You'd have seen him  in the lower regions first, if you'd been in my place."
               "Maybe I would. But that doesn't help your case any."
               "What's to be done?" asked Blinn, in a helpless sort of way; for he was a man easily scared. "If they get up a temperance society of that kind, every toper in town will be whipped in, as like as not."
               "Its novelty will make it town talk," 
                     anwered
                     answered
                   the friend. "All our temperance people will rush in to help it along, and, unless they run it off the track, good-by to your prosperity."
               "They'll do that, sure," said Tom, catching at the suggestion, and brightening a little.
               "I wouldn't like to bet on it," was the friend's cold comfort. "It's a good hit! I didn't think Peterkin had so much in him."
               "Curse him!" growled Blinn, as savage as a wild beast.
               "A splendid good hit!" went on his friend, "and bound to succeed. The price  of a sewing-machine a week saved, by twenty men, from their tipple! When all Fairville, drunk or sober, looks that in the face, the jig's up with Tom Blinn, and no mistake! There'll be only one thing for him to do."
               "What?" queried Tom.
               "Pull up stakes."
               "Easy said."
               "It will have to be done, my friend. When that new machine gets into running order, there'll be no place on this track for you. So, take my advice, and get off of it as early as you can, or you'll be knocked off—in other words, sold out by the sheriff—before next Christmas."
               "See here," growled Blinn; "if you don't stop this, I shall be tempted to throw you into the street."
               There was just a shade too much of angry earnestness in Blinn's voice to please his friend, who quickly retorted: "A thing you would scarcely try a second time."
               "Try what a second time?" Tom's eyes flashed.
               "To throw me into the street."
               The two men eyed each other with quickly rising passion.
               "I'll do it in no time, if you don't take care!" said Blinn, losing command of himself.
               "You miserable hound!" cried the other, fiercely clinching his fists. "Talk of throwing me into the street! Now's your chance! Try it—try it!—will you?"
               All of Tom Blinn's bad blood went seething to his brain, blinding and maddening him. He threw out his hands with a sudden eagerness, grappling at the throat of his companion; but ere the intended grip was made, he reeled back among his decanters, striking them with a crash.
               "You'd better not try that little experiment again," was the coolly spoken sentence that came to his ears, as he recovered his suddenly lost equilibrium. "I'm a fast friend, but a bitter enemy."
               Blinn answered with a fearful oath, cursing him and his friendship, and made a  second attempt to seize him by the throat. A second time the blow of a trained pugilist dashed him against the wall. This time it was given full in the face, which in a moment was covered with blood.
               Two men entered the saloon at this instant, and, seeing the state of affairs, ran out for the town constable, and with his assistance arrested the belligerents, whom they found in fierce conflict, fighting desperately like dogs. Both were locked up for the night.
               In the morning, Tom Blinn, when brought before the justice of the peace, presented a most sorry and crestfallen appearance. His face was cut, bruised, and swollen, and his clothes torn and dirty. His friend—friend no longer, as any one could see—did not show a scratch or bruise. There was quite a crowd at the magistrate's office when they were brought in by the constable, for the news of their arrest had spread all over Fairville. Among these were the twenty men who had taken steps, on the night before, to organize  the new Temperance Society on the sewing-machine basis.
               "What have you to say about this?" asked the justice, addressing Blinn, after the constable and other witnesses had testified to the fact that the two men were found in the bar-room fighting savagely.
               "Nothing," answered Blinn, in a dogged way.
               "Did this man strike you?" inquired the justice.
               "I have nothing to say," replied the saloon-keeper.
               "And what have you to say?" asked the justice, turning to the other prisoner.
               A slight shade of humor, touched with malignancy, flitted across his bad face.
               "I'll tell you the whole story, if you care to listen," he answered, with cool assurance.
               "Very well, sir; let us have the whole story," said the justice, with all the official gravity he could assume.
               "Well, sir, you see, I was 'round at the City Hall last night. Tom wanted me to go  and report. When I got back, I didn't find him in a very gay humor, for business had been shockingly dull; and the story I had to tell didn't go to improve his temper. I told him it was all up with him in Fairville, and that he'd better pull stakes and set himself down in some other spot, where they hadn't found out that twenty men, by saving their grog money, could buy a sewing-machine every week; that if he didn't do it, he'd be sold out by the sheriff before next Christmas. This made him mad, and he began to talk saucy; and of course I talked back, for I won't stand sauce from any man. Then he was fool enough to pitch into me, when I punished him, as you see. That's the story in a nut-shell, your honor. All the trouble came of this new society they're getting up, to buy sewing-machines for lazy women, as Tom Blinn says, and ruin an honest man's business."
               "It's a lie!" roared out Blinn, at this point. "I never said a word like that."
               "Silence!" cried the justice, "or I'll commit you for contempt."
               "Just his words, y'r honor," said the other. "But of course it goes hard with a man when his bread and butter are in danger, and we mustn't be surprised if he says things he'd better keep to himself; and would, if not off his guard."
               The two men were very bitter against each other, so the justice bound them over to keep the peace. In less than an hour, every man, woman, and child in town knew all about this affair; and especially its relation to the sewing-machine movement. The friends of temperance at once bestirred themselves, and did all in their power to give public sentiment the right direction. There was not a shop, a store, or an office in Fairville, in which the surprising fact that twenty men, by saving their grog money, could buy a sewing-machine a week, was not discussed.
               "I never looked at it in that light before."  "What a shameless and cruel waste of money!" "No wonder Tom Blinn is scared!" And so, in a hundred different forms, the people expressed themselves, each helping to strengthen public sentiment in favor of the new movement.
               That night the Town Hall was crowded, and Blinn's saloon empty. The committee to draft a constitution for "The Fairville Sewing-Machine Temperance Society" brought in their plan of organization, which was discussed, article by article, and fully adopted. Thirty names were signed to the constitution,—thirty names of men who, on their own confession, did not spend less than fifty cents a day in drink.
               The constitution was short and explicit. We give it entire, for the benefit of other towns where the money that should buy sewing-machines for the poor, overworked women, goes to the enrichment of lazy saloon-keepers:—
               ARTICLE I. This society shall be called  "THE FAIRVILLE SEWING-MACHINE TEMPERANCE SOCIETY."
               ART. II. Every member shall pay into the hands of the treasurer three dollars weekly, until it amounts to the price of a sewing-machine, and pledge himself not to drink any intoxicating liquor for the space of one year.
               ART. III. Whenever there shall be money enough in the treasury to pay for a sewing-machine, the right to draw a machine shall be decided by lot; and the person to whom the lot falls must, before receiving the machine, give good security for his weekly payment of three dollars, until the sums so paid amount to the price of the machine. This casting of the lot must be repeated each time there is sufficient money in the treasury to buy a sewing-machine, until every member of the society shall have received a machine.
               ART IV. The society, during its existence, shall meet in the Town Hall, weekly, for social intercourse and mutual help and improvement.
               
               A movement so earnest, so sensible, so well guarded and based as this, could not possibly fail. We have no room to follow the particular doings of the society, nor would the narrative be of sufficient interest to claim the reader's attention. But the result is so full of hopeful significance, so suggestive of the good that may be done in hundreds, nay, thousands of neighborhoods in the land, that we give the brief and cheering record.
               In just twenty weeks from the day Peterkin rallied the hard-drinkers of Fairville to make a stand against the common enemy, the pleasant music of twenty-five sewing-machines was heard in twenty-five dwellings, where the silence of hopeless toil, or patient endurance, had too often only been broken by bitter reproaches or angry abuse. Words are too feeble to paint what all this involves—all of comfort and hope, of peace, and rest, and joy in life.
               We have only a sentence for Tom Blinn. He took his friend's advice, after sitting for  a week or two like a spider in his web, waiting for flies that were too wise to get their wings tangled in his net, and, "pulling up stakes," went off to try his luck in some faraway place, where he trusted no one would ever hear of a "Sewing-Machine Temperance Society."
               May we be forgiven for wishing him the ill-luck to be mistaken in his confidence; and, to help our wishes, we send after him this story of what was done in Fairville, and may be done in thousands of other places.
               Who next will move in the formation of a Sewing-Machine Temperance Society? It needs but an earnest pioneer in almost any town to insure success.
            
            
               
               II. THE UNSTEADY HAND.
               "THERE is a greater curse than drunkenness," said Dr. Grantley.
               "It may be so," I answered; "but it so happens that I am not aware of its name or existence."
               "Moderate drinking," said the doctor, with an emphasis of tone and manner that showed him to be very much in earnest.
               Dr. Grantley was somewhat of an enthusiast on the subject of temperance; yet a clear, strong thinker. I did not expect from him any special pleading or begging of the question.
               "I would like to hear you make good the assertion," I replied.
               "Nothing is easier. The fact is so plain,  that I am surprised it is not seen by every one."
               "I am all attention. Make it plain to me," said I.
               "You do not trust a drunkard in any responsible position," he replied. "You would not, if he were a lawyer, give an important cause into his hands; nor if he were a surgeon, risk with him a delicate operation. Known drunkards are not put in command of ships, nor in charge of steam engines, nor assigned to places where life, property, or important interests are at stake. Once class a man with drunkards, and you narrow his influence, both for good or evil, to a small circle. You rule him out of the great world of action, and render him comparatively harmless. He is his own worst enemy—disgusting to all around him; but of this much use, that he is a living expounder of the evils of intemperance, teaching by example their saddest and most humiliating lesson.
               "But your respectable, virtuous, high-minded minded moderate drinkers," the doctor continued, "hold to society a very different relation. They command your ships and armies; they are your lawyers, your surgeons, your engineers, your merchants and manufacturers, with whom you risk your goods and money. You trust them with your highest and best worldly interests. And it never seems to occur to you that they who drink sometimes tarry long at the wine; and may, in some fatal moment, when a clear head or steady hand is the only guaranty of success or safety, hurt you, through a slight and temporary incapacity, beyond repair."
               I drew a long, deep breath, as the magnitude of a danger I had not thought of loomed up before me with an almost appalling distinctness.
               "While we count the drunkards who are not trusted, by tens," said the doctor, "we may count this other class, who hold our lives and property in their hands, by thousands."
               I observed that Dr. Grantley's voice had in it a low thrill, and that he was unusually disturbed. "You feel strongly on this subject," said I.
               "There is cause," he answered, dropping his tones and bending his head forward, as though a weight had fallen on it suddenly. He was silent for an unusually long time.
               "I will give you," he said at length, "an illustration of what I mean. Are you at leisure for half an hour?"
               "Entirely at your service."
               "I drink nothing stronger than tea or coffee, as you are aware. Once I took my glass of wine at dinner and in social circles. It was genteel; had in it a smack of good breeding, and familiarity with society. I cultivated the little vanities of connoisseurship, and talked in the usual self-satisfied way of brands, vintages, flavors, and the like, as fluently as any one. I had, so to speak, all the wine-lingos at my finger-ends, and was not a little proud of the accomplishment.
               "My special work, as you know, is surgery ry,—a work that, of all others, requires the clear head and steady hand. There are occasions when, if the knife passes by a hundredth part of an inch from the right direction, a fatal result is inevitable. We cut down into the quivering flesh, and grope about darkly amid sensitive nerves and life-flooded arteries, with death waiting eagerly for some fatal breach in the delicate organism.
               "We hear frequent allusion made to steadying the nerves with wine or brandy. I was sufficiently well acquainted with the action of this class of stimulants on myself, to ignore them altogether for at least twenty-four hours prior to the performance of even the lightest surgical operation. I would have regarded it as criminal to take a glass of wine just before using the scalpel, because its effect would have been to disturb the free and rapid directions of my will to the cutting hand, hindering, confusing, and it might be rendering death certain where I was trying to save life.
               "I know that it is the custom with some surgeons to steady their nerves with wine or brandy before going to the operating table; but I think it will be found in nearly all of these cases that the habitual use of these articles has substituted an artificial for a normal steadiness of nerve, and that the stimulant has become a necessity through abuse. It is said of professional gamblers that many of them rigidly abstain from drink in order to secure clear heads and steady hands for their infamous work. The surgeon, of all other men, should profit by their example."
               "Did it not occur to you," I said, "that in your own social use of wines, you were gradually substituting this general artificial steadiness of nerve for the natural and healthy, and that, in time, your abstinence, preliminary to using the knife, might defeat the end in view? That nature might not rally her forces quickly enough, after the withdrawal of substitutes?"
               "Yes; this very thought that you suggest  did often present itself; but I pushed it aside. It was not agreeable; and I would not look it calmly in the face. I had come to like the taste of wine, and to enjoy a social glass with my friends.
               "Surgery was my first love, and I pursued its study and practice with an interest and ardor that never abated. My opportunities were good, and I made the best of them. After acting as assistant in a large hospital for two years, I went to Paris and Vienna, spending two years in the admirably conducted hospitals of those cities, under circumstances of special advantage. Returning, I entered, at the age of twenty-six, on the practice of my profession. In five years I had established a reputation as wide as the country. Many of my operations, some of them almost unheard of in the profession, were reported in our own, and transferred to foreign medical journals. I had more than the fame I coveted.
               "There was a period in my professional life, when scarcely a day passed without  some call on me for the skill that lay in my practised hand; and scarcely a week without some prolonged and difficult or dangerous operation. The strain on my nerves was very great; the amount depending very much on the character and condition of my patients, and the degree of risk involved.
               "It was about this time, when reports of my brilliant operations were spoken of as a perpetual surprise, that the event occurred which I am about to relate.
               "I had a friend, older by several years, with whom I had long been intimate. He had watched my professional début and career with an interest as deep as he could have felt in a brother; and he was very proud of my success. One day he came to my office, and, after a word or two, said, a look of concern settling over his face, 'I wish you would call in and examine a lump on Miriam's neck.'
               "He spoke of his wife.
               "'What kind of a lump?' I asked.
               
               "'It is about the size of a walnut, and is increasing in size, I think, quite rapidly.'
               "'It may be only the temporary swelling of a gland,' I remarked, with assumed indifference. 'Is it sore to the touch?'
               "'Not in the least; but Miriam begins to complain of a sense of obstruction, as if there were pressure on a blood-vessel. I've wished to speak to you about it for some time, but she would not consent.'
               "'Only about the size of a walnut,' I inquired.
               "'Maybe a little larger, though not much.'
               "'I will call round this afternoon and look at it,' said I. 'Tell Mrs. Baldwin to expect me about four o'clock. You will be at home?'
               "'Oh, yes,' he replied, and turned to go. But there were questions in his mind that he could not leave without asking. 'Doctor,' he said, coming back, and sitting down, 'this may seem a very small matter in your eyes, but I am seriously troubled. It is no swelling ing of the gland, but a tumor. Of that I am satisfied.'
               "He looked searchingly into my face.
               "'What is the exact location?' I asked.
               "'On a line with the ear, and just above the collar-bone.'
               "We were both silent for a time.
               "'As I said, doctor,' my friend resumed, 'this thing has troubled me from the beginning. It rests like a heavy weight on my spirits. It shadows me with a strange foreboding. I am foolish, perhaps.'
               "'Over-sensitive about anything that touches one so dear as your wife,' I answered, with a smile. 'It is natural. But don't give yourself needless anxiety. Tumors in the neck are usually benignant, as we say, and surgical skill ensures their safe removal.'
               "'Can they not be extirpated without using the knife?' he asked,—'reabsorbed by a restored healthy action of the parts?'
               "'In rare instances this has occurred. But there is no established treatment on which we can rely. In my own practice, I  have not met with a single case where a well-developed tumor was reabsorbed by a normal action of the parts.'
               "'Do not the homœopathists profess to restore, by their remedies, this very normal action?' inquired my friend.
               "I felt a throb of impatience at this reference to a school of practitioners for which I felt contempt. I have since been compelled, by evidence that only the blindest prejudice would disregard, to hold them in different estimation.
               "'If,' I replied, keeping out of my voice all signs of feeling, 'empirics made good their promises, disease would quickly vanish from the earth.'
               "'At four o'clock this afternoon, doctor?' Mr. Baldwin arose.
               "'At four, promptly,' I answered. And he went away.
               "Mrs. Baldwin received me with a quiet cheerfulness of manner, saying, 'My husband is apt to worry himself about little things, as you are aware.'
               "Her composure was only assumed; I felt that as her hand lay in mine. My first diagnosis was not satisfactory, and I found great difficulty in concealing the doubts that troubled me. The swelling was clearly outlined, but not so sharply protuberant as I had been led to suppose by the likeness to a walnut which my friend had suggested. I feared, from its shape and presentation at the surface, and also from the fact that the patient complained of a sense of pressure on the vessels of the neck, that the tumor was deeply seated, and much larger than my friend had suspected. But I was most concerned as to its character. Being hard and perceptibly nodulated, there was in my mind an apprehension that it might prove malignant in character, and the apprehension was made stronger by the fact that my patient had a scrofulous diathesis.
               "There was no congestion of the veins, nor discoloration of the skin around the hard protuberance; no pulsation, elasticity, fluctuation, or soreness. Only a solid lump that  I recognized as the small section or lobule of a deeply seated tumor, already beginning to press upon and obstruct the blood-vessels. It might be fibrous or albuminous—benignant or malignant; which, in this my first diagnosis, I was not able to determine. But for the constitutional habits of the patient, I would have concluded favorably.
               "It was not easy to veil my concern from Mr. Baldwin, who followed me downstairs, after I had finished the examination, and plied me with eager questions.
               "'Deal plainly with me, doctor,' he said. 'I wish to know exactly what you think. Don't conceal anything.'
               "His blanching lips, and voice pitched to a low key that its tremor might be hidden, told plainly enough that I must conceal every apprehension that troubled me.
               "'It presents all the indications of what we call a fibrous tumor,' said I.
               "'Are they of a malignant type?" he asked, with suspended breath.
               "'No; they are entirely harmless but for  their mechanical pressure on surrounding vessels, tissues, and organs.'
               "He caught his breath with a deep sigh of relief; then asked:—
               "'Is there any danger in their removal?'
               "'None,' I replied.
               "'Have you ever taken a tumor from the neck?' he asked.
               "'More than a dozen.'
               "'Were you always successful?'
               "'Always.'
               "His breath came more freely. Then, after a little pause, he said:—
               "'There will have to be an operation in this case?' I saw his lips grow white again.
               "'I fear that it cannot be avoided.'
               "'There is one comfort,' Mr. Baldwin remarked, his voice rallying to an almost cheerful tone, 'the tumor is small, and evidently superficial in its character. The knife will not have to go very deep among the arteries, veins, and nerves so thickly gathered about the neck.'
               
               "I did not correct his error.
               "'How long will it take?' he next queried.
               "'Not very long,' I answered, evasively.
               "'Ten minutes?'
               "'Yes; perhaps a little longer.'
               "'She will not be conscious of pain?'
               "'No; no more conscious than if she were a sweetly sleeping infant.'
               "Mr. Baldwin walked nervously the whole length of the parlor twice; then stood still in front of me.
               "'Doctor,' he said, solemnly, 'I place her in your hands. She will consent to anything I may conclude it best to do. We have entire confidence in your judgment and skill.'
               "He stopped short, and turned partly away to hide excess of feeling. Rallying after a moment, he continued, with a forced smile on his lips:—
               "'To your professional eyes I show unmanly weakness. But you must bear in mind how very dear she is, doctor! It makes me shiver in every nerve to think  of the knife going down into her tender flesh. You might cut me to pieces if that would save her.'
               "'Your fears exaggerate the reality, Mr. Baldwin,' I replied. 'She will go into a deep sleep, and while she dreams pleasant dreams, we will simply dissect out the tumor, with all its foreign accumulations, and leave the healthy organs to continue their action under the old laws of unobstructed life.'
               "'I am weak and foolish, I know,' he answered; 'but I can't help it. The whole thing touches too nearly home.'
               "As I was leaving, he said, 'Doctor, how soon ought it to be done?'
               "'The sooner the better,' I returned. 'After the hot weather is over. Say in October. In the mean time I will carefully watch its growth and condition.'
               "My next examination of the tumor, made in about a fortnight, satisfied me that it was deeply seated, and probably as large as a small orange. The protruding portion was only a small lobe of the foreign body. A  substance so large, and of so hard a texture, must necessarily cause serious displacement of the blood-vessels, nerves, glands, and muscles of the neck, and render an early extirpation necessary to save life. In the two weeks there had been perceptible growth.
               "During the next two months I saw Mrs. Baldwin frequently, and noticed with concern increasing signs of pressure on the carotids, indicated by a slight suffusion of the face. The middle of October was set down as the time when the operation should be made. As the period approached, I felt a nervous dread about the case. I had consulted the most distinguished surgeon in the city, my senior by over fifteen years. His diagnosis agreed in every particular with my own. We were satisfied that it was a fibrous tumor, non-malignant, but so deeply cast among the great vessels, and probably so attached to their sheaths, as to render extirpation a difficult, and without great caution a dangerous operation.
               "This was the only case, in all my practice, where I felt like transferring the responsibility to another. Not because of the difficulty,—that would only have quickened my ardor,—but because Mrs. Baldwin was the tenderly beloved wife of the oldest, warmest, and truest friend I possessed; and I knew that personal feeling would come in, and might disturb the cool equilibrium of mind so essential to skill and steadiness of hand.
               "As the time approached, my concern increased. So oppressive did this become, that at last I sent for Mr. Baldwin, and seriously proposed that Dr. B—, the eminent surgeon to whom I have just referred, should be called on to perform the operation.
               "'He is older, and has a larger experience,' I said. 'All the profession award to him the first place in our city, if not in the country.'
               "'I have no doubt of his skill,' replied my friend, speaking in a firm, decided way; 'but his skill is not supplemented with sobriety. You know that as well as I do.  His habit of drinking too freely has become a thing of common notoriety, and is gradually destroying public confidence. Oh, no, doctor! The hand that cuts down into her dear flesh must be steadied by healthy nerves, and not by wine or brandy! I will not hear to it. The man is a drunkard,—I call his habitual and excessive use of strong drinks by its right name,—and so I set him aside. I will not run any risks with a drunkard. He hangs out a sign on which is written, Beware! I read it, and pass over to the other side, getting out of the way of danger.'
               "I felt strongly the force of all this, and said no more about Dr. B—. The day came at last. Ten o'clock was the hour at which the operation was to be performed. For two whole days I had strictly abstained from even a glass of wine, giving my nervous system that long period in which to recover the natural steadiness which might have been weakened through overaction occasioned by stimulants.
               "Mr. Baldwin called on me as early as  eight o'clock. He was very nervous, and oppressed by evil forebodings. The number and variety of the questions he had to ask annoyed me; for I could not answer them truthfully, without adding to his overwrought fears. Not that I apprehended danger, for I was master of my profession, and knew the exact location of every artery, vein, nerve, gland, and muscle among which I had to pass the scalpel. Nay, in order to make assurance doubly sure, I had spent an hour in the dissecting-room on the day before, giving to the anatomical organism of the neck a new and close examination. I had but to extirpate a tumor,—badly located, it is true,—and this any skilful surgeon might safely accomplish. A steady and confident hand, and favoring circumstances were all that he required.
               "I carefully concealed my annoyance under a light, almost playful exterior, and rallied him for his unmanly weakness; called the operation one of minor importance, involving little risk. I could not reassure him, however ever. A shadow of coming evil rested darkly on his spirit.
               "At ten o'clock, accompanied by three assistants, one of them a surgeon of tried skill, I repaired to the house of my friend. The white face and scared look of the servant who admitted us, and asked us to go up to the front chamber in the second story, were something familiar to my professional eyes, and did not in the least disturb the equipoise of mind essential to my work. In the hall above, Mr. Baldwin's trembling hand grasped mine with a silent pressure. I smiled as I said, 'Good-morning!' in an unconcerned voice, and passed into the room where the operation was to be made. The table I had selected was there. Quickly and silently, acting from previous concert, we placed this table in the best relation to the light, arranged instruments, bandages, and all things necessary to the work in hand, and then, after giving to this preparation all the temporary concealment in our power, announced our readiness.
               "In a moment after, Mrs. Baldwin entered from the adjoining chamber. She was a beautiful woman, in the prime of life. Never had she looked more beautiful than now. Her strong will had mastered fear; and strength, courage, and resignation looked out from her clear eyes, and rested on her firm lips.
               "She smiled, but did not speak. I took her by the hand, and led her to the table on which she was to lie during the operation, saying, as I did so, 'It will all be over in a few minutes, and you won't feel it as much as a pin-scratch.'
               "As soon as she was in position, an assistant, according to arrangement, presented the sponge saturated with ether, and in two minutes complete anæsthesia was produced. On the instant I made an incision, and cut quickly down to the tumor. It was a hard, fibrous substance; and a few carefully made efforts to dissect it away from the surrounding parts confirmed my previous opinion that it was large and deeply seated. But I  understood my business, and was now so entirely interested in what I was doing, that I forgot my patient's identity, and so pursued the work in hand with a concentration of thought and purpose that gave science and skill their best result. It took full twenty-five minutes to separate the tumor from all the blood-vessels, nerves, and muscles it had involved. At the end of thirty minutes, we bore our patient, still insensible, to her bed in the adjoining chamber, and laid her down gently, as one in quiet sleep—the ordeal safely over.
               "I shall never forget the look of sweet thankfulness that came into her eyes, as, not long after, I told her that the operation so long dreaded had been safely performed.
               "'And I knew nothing of it,' she whispered; then added, shutting her eyes, and speaking to herself, 'It is wonderful! Thank God for this, among other manifold blessings!'
               As for my friend, he wrung my hands, and cried for excess of joy with unmanly weakness ness. A surgeon sees much of human nature on this side. My hand was in a tremor now, and my nerves ajar. I went back to my office, and took a glass of wine to steady them. Two hours afterward I called on my patient, and found her sleeping; and at four o'clock I called again. At five I was engaged to dine at the house of a professional friend, and meet some gentlemen from a neighboring city. Everything was, apparently, in a safe condition, and I went to my dinner engagement with a mind altogether at ease.
               "Dr.—, at whose house I dined that day, was what we call a good liver, and dainty in wines. He liked to talk of his well-filled cellar, and of the brands and vintages from which it was stocked; and he usually succeeded in transferring to his guests a measure of his own weakness. Contagion works easily in this direction.
               There were, on this occasion, four or five different kinds of wine on the table, and our host seemed to feel that in no better way  could he manifest hospitality than in pressing us often to drink. The abstinence I had practised for a couple of days, and the relief of mind felt in consequence of the successful result of an operation I had almost dreaded to perform, naturally led me to a freer use of the tempting liquors that were set before us. As bottle after bottle was opened, and the vintage announced, we filled our glasses, sipped, praised, and drank, greatly to the satisfaction of our host, who flattered himself that we were connoisseurs and full of admiration for his exquisite taste in selection.
               "I was just lifting my fifth glass, when a servant, stooping to my ear, said, 'Doctor, you are called for in haste.'
               "Rising, I asked to be excused for a moment, and went downstairs. One of my students was in the hall.
               "'What is it, Harding?' I asked.
               "'An artery in Mrs. Baldwin's neck has commenced bleeding, and they have sent for you to come as quickly as possible.'
               "'Have you my instrument case?' I inquired.
               "'Yes, sir.'
               "'And the carriage?'
               "'Yes, sir.'
               "'Ether?'
               "'Everything that can be needed,' he answered.
               "'Thank you, Harding! Thank you! Your thoughtful promptness has saved much time.' I hurried into the carriage with my student, and drove rapidly to the house of Mr. Baldwin.
               "If I could have forgotten the fact of having taken so freely of wine, the stimulant of the occasion might have overridden the excess, and given me the steady hand and clear mental poise so much needed now. But, so far from forgetting, the fact threw itself with a shock into my consciousness; and with almost a shiver of alarm, I noted a mental confusion and want of physical command, that unfitted me for any use of the surgeon's knife. But the exigency was pressing.  I could not tell, until I saw my patient, how copious the hemorrhage might be, nor how immediate the danger.
               "Mr. Baldwin met me on my entrance, looking greatly alarmed.
               "'O doctor! I am so glad you have come! I was afraid she might bleed to death.'
               "'No danger of that,' I answered, with feigned unconcern. 'Some small artery, not well ligated, has given way, and will have to be tied again.'
               "Ah, if he could have seen the low shiver running along my nerves, as the closing words of the sentence struck my own ears! Not that the re-ligation of an artery under the circumstances was a very difficult or serious affair. It was my condition that made the case one of extreme peril.
               "Don't think," said the doctor, "that I was what is called 'the worse for wine.' Under almost any other circumstances, except those thrust upon me so unexpectedly, I  would hardly have noticed a difference of sensation or condition."
               He paused, wiping the sweat from his forehead. Then resumed:—
               "I found, on reaching my patient, that one of the largest of the small arteries I had deemed it necessary to cut in separating the tumor from surrounding tissues, was bleeding freely. Half-a-dozen handkerchiefs and napkins had already been saturated with blood. The case demanded prompt treatment. I must open the wound, find the artery, and tie it again.
               "Ether was promptly given, and as soon as the patient was fairly under its influence, I removed the dressings, and cut the few sutures with which I had drawn the wound together. The cavity left by the tumor was full of blood. After removing this with sponges, I could see, at the extreme lower end of the orifice, a free jet of blood, and knew just the artery that must again be taken up and tied. The surrounding parts had swollen, thus embedding the mouth of the  artery, and I could not recover it without cutting deeper. To this I proceeded, but with a nervous unsteadiness of hand such as I had never experienced in all my professional life; a nervousness increased by a knowledge of the fact, that the internal jugular vein was only a few lines distant from the keen-pointed edge of the bistoury, with which I was cutting down to get at the bleeding artery.
               "There came a single moment in which I lost a clear perception of what I was doing. I seemed smitten, suddenly with both physical and mental blindness; as if some malignant spirit, coming nearer through the disordered condition wrought by unnatural stimulation, took possession of all my powers, and in an instant wrought an evil that no human agency could repair. A sound it had never been my misfortune to hear before,—and I pray God I may never hear again,—startled me to an agonizing sense of what my unnerved hand had done in a fatal moment of oblivion. Too well I knew the  meaning of that loud, hissing, sucking, and gurgling that smote my ear. I had wounded the jugular vein, and air was rushing in!
               "If I had possessed full command of myself, as in the morning, imminent as the danger was, I would have been calm, and I think equal to the emergency. As it was, the new and perilous condition of my patient, that demanded prompt and intelligent action, paralyzed me for several moments, and I only aroused to a full apprehension of the case and its duties, by seeing my patient begin to struggle for breath as she inspired. Her face, which had been slightly flushed, became deadly pale and distressed.
               "To close the wound I had made, and stop the influx of air, must be done immediately, or nothing could save her life. Already sufficient air had entered to alter the condition of the blood in the right cavities of the heart, and prevent its free transmission to the lungs through the pulmonary arteries. Life and death hung on every instant of time. I groped, blindly, for the wound, and  when I found it, failed, in my terrible confusion, in a prompt application of pressure to the exact point.
               "Too late! too late! I cannot dwell on the particulars. By the time I could close the fatal wound, the destroyer's work was done. I opened, in my despair,—clear-headed and firm-handed enough now,—the right jugular, and passing a flexible tube into the auricle, tried by suction to empty the heart of the air and blood which had been churned up there into a spumous mass. But too much time had been lost, and my patient was beyond the reach of human skill. She sank rapidly, and in less than half an hour the last feeble pulses died."
               Dr. Grantley was strongly agitated. "In pity for myself, I drop a veil over what followed," he said, after sitting for a long time like one in a dream. "Out from that agonizing past I have lifted this fearful thing that it may stand as a lesson and a warning. If I had been a drunkard, no such catastrophe could have happened in my practice; for  men will not trust a drunkard in any case where the issue is life or death. But I was a respectable, trusted, moderate drinker, able to take my four or five glasses of wine without betraying the fact to common observation; and so too frequently in a state that unfitted me for the delicate and often dangerous operations I was at any moment liable to be called on to perform.
               "From that day to this, no stimulating draught has passed my lips. If I am fanatical, as some have said, in the matter of temperance, you have the explanation. And now, I re-assert what I said in the beginning, that society is hurt more by moderate drinking than by drunkenness,—yea, a thousand-fold more. Towards the drunkard we are ever on guard; but we take the moderate drinker into our closest confidence, and entrust him with our highest and dearest interests; and all the while, through a weak self-indulgence, he is consorting with an enemy that enters when we open our doors  to welcome him, and, in some unguarded and unsuspecting moment, injures us, it may be, beyond repair!"
            
            
               III. ONE FEARFUL NIGHT.
               WE came down earlier than usual to the "shore" that season, said my friend, and took rooms at a cottage, not liking the bustle of a large hotel. We were to occupy the cottage jointly with another family, consisting of a gentleman, his wife, and little daughter about six years old. Our landlady was a pleasant Quaker, of middle age, and all the appointments of her house were neat and comfortable. We were first on the ground, and would have the nice little home all to ourselves for two weeks, when our fellow-boarders were to arrive.
               "I hope they are pleasant people," said my wife, as we sat at the tea-table on the evening before the day on which Mrs. Rawlings lings expected them. "You said their name was Clare?" turning to our landlady.
               "Yes."
               "Who are they?"
               "People of standing, I believe," was the quiet answer.
               "Were they ever here before?"
               Mrs. Rawlings said "No."
               "I feel a little nervous about our fellow-boarders," said my wife, when we were alone. "If they should prove agreeable, we shall have a very cosey time; but if disagreeable only annoyance. Two families thrown together as closely as ours will be, need, for comfort to themselves, affinity of taste and temperament."
               "We shall have to make the best of what comes," I answered. "No doubt they will prove agreeable enough."
               We were on the porch next day, waiting for the new arrival, when the omnibus from the depot drove up.
               Mr. Clare was a man of about thirty-five. He had one of those fine, but marked faces,  which once seen you never forget. It was frank, but strong in feature—with a grave, sweet mouth, firmly set, for all its sweetness. His eyes were large and gentle, and just a little sad, I thought, as I looked into them for the first time.
               As he lifted his wife from the omnibus—she was small and light—with almost lover-like gentleness, I felt my heart going out towards the man, and drew a deep breath of relief.
               "The right kind of people," said I, as they passed into the cottage, and left me alone with my wife on the porch. "Did you get a good look at Mrs. Clare? I did not."
               "Yes."
               "Well, what did the look tell you?"
               "She's lovely."
               "And Mr. Clare,—what do you think of him?"
               "He's a splendid-looking man," answered my wife, with an emphasis on one word in the sentence that left the impression of a doubt in her mind.
               
               "Did you notice his mouth?"
               "Yes."
               "It was strong, yet sweet, like a woman's."
               A slight veil of thought dropped down over my wife's face. She did not answer for some moments; then said, in a kind of absent way, as if she were turning over some doubt in her mind, "Yes, the mouth was gentle and firm; but has lines of suffering."
               "You think so?"
               "They were very plain to my eyes."
               And now, looking through my wife's eyes, they were plain to me.
               We met Mr. and Mrs. Clare at the dinner-table, and found them all we could desire,—quiet, refined, and just social enough to make intercourse pleasant. The lady was charming, though you could not call her beautiful. She was petite in figure, with a soft oval face, and brown eyes that were lustrous, yet tender. I noticed, as she sat beside her husband at the table, that she leaned a little towards him. Afterwards, I observed the same attitude, always when they were together gether, sitting or standing. And she had a way of looking into his face that was peculiar,—a sober, loving kind of way—questioning, and I sometimes thought touched with a doubt, or shadowed by some ever-present memory.
               Mr. Clare was very gentle towards his wife, and, it was plain to see, very fond of her. Nay, "fond" is too weak a word. He loved her with a pure and deep affection.
               I had claret on the table, and offered my bottle to our new guests. But they declined, with what seemed to me almost cold politeness.
               "It is cooling to the blood," I remarked, as I lifted a glass of the richly colored wine to my lips.
               "It may cool the blood in some veins, but it burns like fire in others," replied Mr. Clare, after a moment or two of silence.
               I said nothing in answer to this, and the subject was dropped. I found Mr. Clare a man of large culture, simple habits, and fine conversational powers. We were much  together, and mutually enjoyed each other's society.
               A week went by pleasantly enough. Bathing, walking, and driving on the beach, sitting in the fresh sea-breeze, and watching the surf as it came seething in upon the shore, or gazing out upon the great, immeasurable ocean,—so the time passed almost like a dream.
               Every day I took my claret, but Mr. Clare drank only water.
               "I wish you would try a glass of this wine," said I, as we sat at the dinner-table one day, about a week after the arrival of our new friends, and I pushed my bottle towards him.
               "Thank you," Mr. Clare answered gravely and decidedly. "But I am better without wine."
               "Are you quite sure of that?" I queried. "Pure wine gives life to the blood. It is the spurious stuff that sets the veins on fire."
               I noticed that Mrs. Clare leaned just a little closer to her husband, and looked sideways ways up into his face, in that peculiar way I have mentioned.
               A faint but quickly fading smile rested on Mr. Clare's lips as he replied, "There may be idiosyncrasies of blood that will not bear even pure wine. I have heard of such."
               "Have you?" I said, a little curiously.
               "Yes," he answered, after a moment's thought; then added: "About a year ago, I saw a curious statement that impressed me strongly. It was made by a physician of some note, and recorded in a medical journal. It was to the effect, ascertained by dissection, that a too free use of stimulating drinks tended to enlarge the blood globules, as well as those of the brain and other organs, so that they stood open-mouthed, as it were, inflamed, athirst always, and eager to drink. The physician to whom I have referred, after clearly ascertaining the existence of this morbid change, had an opportunity to dissect the brain of a man who, after being a drunkard for many years, reformed, and lived soberly until he died. To his astonishment ishment, he found that the unnaturally enlarged globules of the blood and brain had not shrunk to their proper size. Though they did not exhibit the inflammation of the drunkard's brain, they were enlarged, and ready, it seemed, on the instant, to absorb the fumes of alcohol, and resume their old diseased condition."
               A low, half-stifled sigh touched my ears. I glanced into the face of Mrs. Clare, and saw that her eyes had the set look of one who is gazing intently on some mental picture. It was not a cheerful picture on which her soft eyes were fixed; I needed no words to tell me that.
               "Curious," I remarked, as Mr. Clare ceased speaking.
               "I was struck," he resumed, after a pause, "with the impression made by this discovery on the physician's mind. He thought he saw in this morbid state of the brain the physical part of the reason why a man who has once been a drunkard can never again, as long as he lives, safely take one drop of  alcoholic liquor. He thought he saw why a glass of wine put the man back instantly to where he was when he drank all the time. He saw the citadel free from the enemy, but undefended, incapable of defence, and its doors wide open; so that there was no safety, except in keeping the foe at a distance, away beyond the outermost wall."
               I thought I detected a slight shiver in Clare's voice, as with some warmth of manner he closed the last sentence.
               "I never understood the pathology of this thing before," said I,—"the physical reason why there was safety for the drunkard only in total abstinence. We may have the secret here. But I cannot understand why pure wine should inflame the blood, when every globule is in its normal state."
               "There are such things as hereditary conditions," remarked Mr. Clare. "Is not a drunkard as likely to transmit the enlarged and thirsty blood and brain globules to his children, as a consumptive his tubercular diathesis?"
               
               I was half startled by the conclusive directness of his query.
               "The law of transmission," he went on, "acts in no partial way. Whatever we do of habit, whether physical or mental, goes down potentially to our children. It is an estate of which no one can rob them. We bless or curse them in our daily lives."
               There was a shiver in his voice now. My ear felt it almost painfully.
               "Were you always so abstemious?" I asked, two or three days afterwards, as my glass of claret brought back the wine question.
               "No," he answered, somewhat gravely. "In my younger days I drank occasionally. But wine was always too heating for my blood."
               "Perhaps," said I, "the article was not always pure. It has long been difficult to get the genuine stuff."
               "It was always pure in my father's house," he replied.
               "Then you are familiar with the best brands," I remarked.
               "Entirely."
               "And know the flavor of good wine."
               "Few know it better," he answered quietly.
               I lifted the half-emptied glass of claret that stood near my plate, held it to the light, and then sipped a few drops, saying as I did so, "I think this is all right. It should be, for it came directly from the importer's, and I paid him his own price under the guaranty of genuineness. I am afraid of all doctored stuff. Do me the favor"—and I poured a claret glass half full—"just to let a few drops fall over your tongue, and give me your opinion of its quality."
               How could he refuse so slight a request? For an instant there was hesitation. I looked at him, and saw a quick change in his face. His wife leaned closer, and laid her hand softly on his arm. Then he took the glass I held towards him, raised it to his mouth, and sipped a few drops of the fruity wine. My eyes were on his face, watching  for the connoisseur's look of pleasure. The expression I saw was more than that. It had in it a quick thrill. Removing the glass from his lips, he held it poised for a moment, then lifting it again, he drained the contents at a single draught.
               I shall never forget the sudden pallor and look of despair that struck into Mrs. Clare's face.
               "Pure wine, without question," said Clare, in a low, changed voice, as he kept tasting the flavor on his tongue. "Pure wine, sir! You are fortunate in getting so good an article."
               I noticed that he turned himself a little away from his wife, still holding the glass in his hand, and reaching it, I thought, a little forward, as if inviting me to fill it.
               "Thank you! I am glad to know it," I returned, my voice betraying the change in my feelings.
               Mr. Clare set the glass down quickly, and went on with his dinner, bending low to his plate. The meal was finished in silence and  embarrassment. I ventured to look once or twice at Mrs. Clare, who was only pretending to eat. Her face was pale and anxious. The change in her husband's countenance was as marked as the change in hers. All the old sweetness had faded from his lips, that now touched each other in a harder pressure; and the gentleness had gone out of his eyes.
               He arose without speaking, and left the table, Mrs. Clare following. Our chamber adjoined theirs, and thither, after leaving the dining-room, I went with my wife.
               "Did you see Mrs. Clare's face when her husband drank that glass of wine?" she asked, looking at me very soberly.
               "Yes, and I would give this moment half I am worth to recall the thoughtless act. But it never, for an instant, crossed my mind that he was in danger."
               At this moment we heard, through the partition that separated our chambers, the voice of Mr. Clare pitched to an unusual tone.
               "Come, lie down and get your usual nap," we heard Mrs. Clare say coaxingly.
               
               "I'm going to walk on the beach, I tell you," was roughly answered. "I can't sleep."
               "Then I'll walk with you," was the firm, but kind reply.
               "Not if I wish to go alone, madam! And I do!"
               We heard no more. Everything was silent in the room for some minutes. Then the door opened, and the sound of heavy feet was on the stairs. A low cry, like a despairing wail, thrilled upon the air. Afterwards all was as still as death in the adjoining chamber.
               "You had better go after him," said my wife, turning on me a pale face.
               "It will be of little use, I fear," was my reply, though, acting on her suggestion, I went out quickly.
               I looked up and down the street, as I stepped from the cottage, but Clare was not in sight. At the next corner, going towards the sea, was a drinking-saloon. I went in, but did not find him. Then I hurried down to the beach, thinking he might have gone to walk there as he had said. To my great relief, I saw him sitting alone in one of the rude arbors covered with dead leaves that were scattered along the shore.
               "Ah! Good-afternoon!" I spoke familiarly. "Enjoying this delicious breeze?"
               He looked up at me with a countenance so altered, that I scarcely recognized a feature; stared scowlingly for a little while; then, with a fierce impulse in his voice, flung out the imprecation:—
               "Curse you!"
               I staggered back as though he had struck me. I was not surprised alone—I was appalled.
               "If you had put a pistol to my head, you could not have done me a worse service;" he added, in a voice that was passionate with despair.
               I sat down beside him and took his hand, but he flung mine away, glaring at me with hate and loathing.
               
               "Just leave me!" he cried. "You've done your cursed work. Leave me!"
               All my efforts were in vain; and Heaven knows I tried faithfully to soothe him, and so get down into his confidence that I could help him in his fierce struggle with an awakened appetite.
               Finding that I would not leave him, he arose, and strode rapidly up the beach, I following near enough to keep him in sight; but he turned into one of the streets that came down to the beach, and I lost track of him.
               Nearly an hour afterward I found him at the bar of one of the hotels with a glass in his hand, drinking. I went up to him, and was about to speak, when he bent towards me with so evil a light in his eyes, that I felt for the instant afraid. Lifting a warning finger, he said, in a low, passionate voice, "Keep on your own side, sir! I owe you no good-will—and I'm dangerous! He stood, bending forward, gazing steadily at me, without changing a muscle of his face,  or varying its expression in the smallest degree.
               I turned slowly and went away, my heart like lead in my bosom.
               Mr. Clare was absent at tea-time, and his wife did not come down from her room. I sat out upon the porch until nearly ten o'clock, waiting for his return.
               "Isn't that him?" asked my wife, who, troubled as I was, sat on the porch with me.
               A man, walking unevenly, came into the light of the nearest lamp, took hold of the post and steadied himself for a moment, and then moved on towards the cottage. Yes, it was Clare. He came forward, planting his steps carefully stumbled a little as he ascended the porch, but recovered himself, and, without speaking, came in and went up to his chamber, making but little noise on the way.
               We soon followed, anxious and heavy-hearted, and sat down in our room with no thought of retiring. The sounds that came  from the next room were not intelligible nor satisfactory. Some one was moving about uneasily, and either putting things right, or changing the old order. This went on steadily for perhaps a quarter of an hour, without a voice being heard. Then we were startled by a low, quick cry of fear, and knew the voice to be that of Mrs. Clare. A dead silence followed. We listened in painful suspense.
               "I've a mind to do it," we heard Mr. Clare say, and, following the sentence, came the clear click of a pistol-lock.
               The next few minutes seemed an age, as we waited for the deadly report, afraid to stir or call, lest our interference should work the fatal catastrophe we sought to avert.
               "Shoot if you will!"—it was the clear, steady voice of Mrs. Clare,—"I am ready."
               All was hushed as death again, and we sat, scarcely breathing, in an agony of dread. What would I not have given to know just how it was in that chamber, so that I might determine whether it were safe to interfere.  But the impenetrable walls hid everything, and left us in doubt and irresolution.
               Silence—silence for nearly a quarter of an hour! Then the old sounds began again, and the uneasy movements and disturbance went on.
               "I'll throw you from the window if you do that again!" There was something savage in the voice of Clare as he said this, in a loud, unguarded voice.
               Then we heard a struggle. I could bear it no longer, but ran out into the hall, and tried to enter their room; but the door was fastened. I rattled the lock, and struck the door loudly two or three times.
               "What's wanted?" was growled from within. I would never have recognized the voice as that of Mr. Clare.
               "Open the door," I said.
               A hand was laid upon the lock inside, and the key began turning in the wards.
               "Don't, for Heaven's sake!" I heard, in a low cry of terror, from Mrs. Clare.
               This was answered by a wicked imprecation tion, followed by a struggle, a heavy fall upon the floor, a groan, and a silence deep as death.
               I threw myself against the door; but the lock and hinges were strong, and did not yield. I was about repeating the effort, when I found myself standing face to face with Clare, his eyes wild and fierce, like the eyes of a madman, and his countenance fearfully distorted. He held a pistol in his hand, pointing it directly at my head. He did not speak, but looked the personification of murder. I was paralyzed by this apparition, and we stood like two statues, for I cannot say how long,—a second or a minute,—when Clare seemed to vanish like a spectre, and the shut door was again between us.
               I went back into my own room and sat down, weak and trembling, great beads of sweat rolling from my forehead.
               "Hark!" said my wife, and we both listened anxiously. The noise that came from our neighbors' room was like that of a body dragged across the floor, and then lifted  on the bed. It was the last sound that reached our ears. For over an hour we sat listening with strained senses. Not the slightest movement was apparent.
               "They are asleep," said my wife, in a husky whisper. It was after midnight.
               "The sleep to one of them may have no waking in this world," was my troubled answer.
               My wife shuddered.
               "Cost what it will, I must have the secret of that room!," I exclaimed, starting up under the sudden spur of keen self-accusation. "I am a dastard to sit here and leave a poor weak woman to the mercy of a drunken maniac!"
               I would hear to no remonstrance on the part of my wife, but went out quickly. How was I to enter the room? I stood close to the door, canvassing in thought the ways and means of passing the barrier that intervened, when, to my surprise, I saw that it was slightly ajar, not having been fastened by Clare when he shut it in my face. Softly  I pushed it open, stepping noiselessly into the room. A lamp still burned on the mantel. The sight that met my eyes, so unlooked for and so touching, I shall never forget.
               Mrs. Clare was lying on the bed, her face turned towards the light. She was very pale, her countenance having the marble fixedness of death. But I saw that she was sleeping. Oh! the sadness, the grief, the helpless anguish, that rested on her lips, and moulded the lines about her gentle mouth! I felt the tears creeping into my eyes.
               Sitting in a chair beside the bed was Mr. Clare, also asleep. One arm was drawn under and around the neck of his wife, and her white cheek, pressed closely to his face, that was so much in shadow that I could not get its full expression.
               I stood only for a moment,—just long enough to comprehend the scene,—and then went out noiselessly and shut the door.
               On the next morning Mr. and Mrs. Clare met us at the breakfast-table. Mrs. Clare  had on her travelling-dress. Her face was so changed, I would scarcely have recognized it. I noticed that she leaned towards her husband, as she sat beside him at the table, in the old way, and closer than before. His face was that of a man who had suffered a terrible humiliation. He neither looked at nor spoke to any one. But I noticed, as he drank his coffee, and eat, or pretended to eat, a piece of toast, that his bearing was firm, like that of a man self-possessed and in earnest.
               They went up to the city by the next train. I did not see them when they left the cottage, purposely keeping out of the way.
               Once only since then have I crossed their path, though the thought of them long remained a heavy burden on my heart. It was a year afterwards. I met them in the Park, walking together, she leaning on his arm, the sweetness and love I had once seen, again resting on her countenance, and the manly strength and gentleness of his face as  marked as when I first saw him at the seashore.
               They did not observe me, and I passed on, glad to be unobserved, and with a lighter heart, as I said fervently, "Thank God!"
            
            
               IV. THE SON OF MY FRIEND: AN O'ER-TRUE TALE.
               "I'VE been thinking," said I, speaking to my husband, who stood drawing on his gloves.
               "Have you?" he answered; "then give me the benefit of your thoughts.
               "That we shall have to give a party. You know we have accepted a number of invitations this winter, and it's but right that we should contribute our share of social entertainment."
               "I have thought as much myself," was his reply. "And so far we stand agreed. But, as I am very busy just now, the heaviest part of the burden will fall on you."
               "There is a way of making it light, you know," I returned.
               
               "How?" he queried.
               "By employing a professional caterer. He will supply everything for the table, and furnish waiters. We will have nothing to do but receive our guests."
               My husband shrugged his shoulders and smiled, as he said, "What will it cost?"
               "Almost anything we please. But the size of the company will have the most to do with that."
               "Say we invite one hundred."
               "Then we can make the cost range anywhere between three hundred dollars and a thousand."
               "A large sum to throw away on a single evening's entertainment of our friends. I am very sure I could put it to a better use."
               "Very likely," I answered. "Still, we cannot well help ourselves. Unless we give a party, we shall have to decline invitations in future. But there is no obligation resting on us to make it sensational. Let the Hardings and the Marygolds emulate extravagance in this line; we must be content with  a fair entertainment; and no friend worth the name will have any the less respect for us."
               "All that is a question of money and good fame," said my husband, his voice falling into a more serious tone. "I can make it three, five, or ten hundred dollars, and forget all about the cost in a week. But the wine and the brandy will not set so easily on my conscience."
               A slight but sudden chill went through my nerves.
               "If we could only throw them out."
               "There is no substitute," replied my husband, "that people in our circle would accept. If we serve coffee, tea, and chocolate instead, we would be laughed at."
               "Not by the fathers and mothers, I think. At least not by those who have grown-up sons," I returned. "Only last week I heard Mrs. Gordon say that cards for a party always gave her a fit of low spirits. She has three sons, you know."
               "Rather fast young men, as the phrase is.  I've noticed them in supper-rooms, this winter, several times,—a little too free with the wine."
               We both stood silent for the space of nearly a minute.
               "Well, Agnes," said my husband, breaking the silence, "how are we to decide this matter?"
               "We must give a party, or decline invitations in future," I replied.
               "Which shall it be?" His eyes looked steadily into mine. I saw that the thing troubled him.
               "Turn it in your thought during the day, and we'll talk it over this evening," said I.
               After tea my husband said, laying down the newspaper he had been reading, and looking at me across the centre-table, "What about the party, Agnes?"
               "We shall have to give it, I suppose." We must drop out of the fashionable circle in which I desired to remain, or do our part in it. I had thought it all over,—looking at the dark side, and at the bright side,  —and settled the question. I had my weaknesses as well as others. There was a social éclat in a party, and I wanted my share.
               "Wine, and brandy, and all?" said my husband.
               "We cannot help ourselves. It is the custom of society; and society is responsible, not we."
               "There is such a thing as individual responsibility," returned my husband. "As to social responsibility, it is an intangible thing; very well to talk about, but reached by no law, either of conscience or the statute-book. You and I, and every other living soul, must answer to God for what we do. No custom or law of society will save us from the consequences of our own acts. So far we stand alone."
               "But if society bind us to a certain line of action, what are we to do? Ignore society?"
               "If we must ignore society or conscience, what then?"
               His calm eyes were on my face. "I'm  afraid," said I, "that you are magnifying this thing into an undue importance."
               He sighed heavily, and dropped his eyes away from mine. I watched his countenance, and saw the shadows of uneasy thought gathering about his lips and forehead.
               "It is always best," he remarked, "to consider the probable consequences of what we intend doing. If we give this party, one thing is certain."
               "What?"
               "That boys and young men, some of them already in the ways that lead to drunkenness and ruin, will be enticed to drink. We will put temptation to their lips, and smilingly invite them to taste its dangerous sweets. By our example, we will make drinking respectable. If we serve wine and brandy to our guests, young and old, male and female, what do we less than any dram-seller in the town? Shall we condemn him, and ourselves be blameless? Do we call his trade a social evil of the direst character, and yet ply our  guests with the same tempting stimulants that his wretched customers crowd his bar-room to obtain?"
               I was borne down by the weight of what my husband said. I saw the evil that was involved in this social use of wines and liquors which he so strongly condemned. But alas that I must say it! neither principle nor conscience were strong enough to overcome my weak desire to keep in good standing with my fashionable friends. I wanted to give a party,—I felt that I must give a party. Gladly would I have dispensed with liquor; but I had not the courage to depart from the regular order of things. So I decided to give the party.
               "Very well, Agnes," said my husband, when the final decision was made. "If the thing has to be done, let it be well and liberally done."
               I had a very dear friend,—a Mrs. Martindale. As school-girls, we were warmly attached to each other, and as we grew older our friendship became closer and  tenderer. Marriage, that separates so many, did not separate us. Our lots were cast in the same city, and in the same social circle. She had an only son, a young man of fine intellect and much promise, in whom her life seemed bound up. He went into the army at an early period of the war, and held the rank of second lieutenant, conducting himself bravely. A slight, but disabling wound sent him home a short time previous to the surrender of Lee, and before he was well enough to join his regiment, it was mustered out of service.
               Alfred Martindale left his home, as did thousands of other young men, with his blood untouched by the fire of alcohol, and returned from the war, as thousands of other young men returned, with its subtle poison in all his veins.
               The dread of this very thing had haunted his mother during all the years of his absence in the army.
               "O Agnes," she had often said to me, with eyes full of tears, "it is not the dread of his  death that troubles me most. I have tried to adjust that sad event between myself and God. In our fearful crisis he belongs to his country. I could not withhold him, though my heart seemed breaking when I let him go. I live in the daily anticipation of a telegram announcing death or a terrible wound. Yet that is not the thing of fear I dread; but something worse,—his moral defection. I would rather he fell in battle, than come home to me with manhood wrecked. What I most dread is intemperance. There is so much drinking among officers. It is the curse of our army. I pray that he may escape; yet weep, and tremble, and fear while I pray. O my friend! I think his fall into this terrible vice would kill me."
               Alas for my friend! Her son came home to her with tainted breath and fevered blood. It did not kill her. Love held her above despair, and gave her heart a new vitality. She must be a savior; not a weak mourner over wrecked hopes.
               
               With what a loving care and wise discretion did she set herself to work to withdraw her son from the dangerous path in which his feet were walking; and she would have been successful but for one thing. The customs of society were against her. She could not keep him away from the parties and evening entertainments of her friends; and here all the good resolutions she had led him to make were as flax fibres in the flame of a candle. He had no strength to resist when wine sparkled and flashed all around him, and bright eyes and ruby lips invited him to drink. It takes more than ordinary firmness of principle to abstain in a fashionable company of ladies and gentlemen, where wine and brandy flow as water. In the case of Albert Martindale, two things were against him. He was not strong enough to set himself against any tide of custom, in the first place; and, in the second, he had the allurement of appetite.
               I knew all this, when, with my own hand, I wrote on one of our cards of invitation,  "Mr. and Mrs. Martindale and family;" but did not think of it, until the card was written. As I laid it aside with the rest, the truth flashed on me and sent a thrill of pain along every nerve. My heart grew sick and my head faint, as thoughts of the evil that might come to the son of my friend, in consequence of the temptation I was about to throw in his way, rushed through my mind. My first idea was to recall the card, and I lifted it from the table with half-formed resolution to destroy it. But a moment's reflection changed this purpose. I could not give a large entertainment and leave out my nearest friend and her family.
               The pain and wild agitation of that moment were dreadful. I think all good spirits and angels that could get near my conscious life strove with me, for the sake of a soul in peril, to hold me back from taking another step in the way I was going; for it was not yet too late to abandon the party.
               When, after a long struggle with right convictions, I resumed my work of filling  up the cards of invitation, I had such a blinding headache that I could scarcely see the letters my pen was forming; and when the task was done, I went to bed, unable to bear up against the double burden of intense bodily and mental anguish.
               The cards went out, and the question of the party was settled beyond recall. But that did not soothe the disquietude of my spirit. I felt the perpetual burden of a great and troubling responsibility. Do what I would, there was for me no ease of mind. Waking or sleeping, the thought of Alfred Martindale and his mother haunted me continually.
               At last the evening came, and our guests began to arrive, in party dresses and party faces, richly attired, smiling and gracious. Among the earliest were Mr. and Mrs. Martindale, their son and daughter. The light in my friends' eyes, as we clasped hands and looked into each other's faces, did not conceal the shadows of anxious fear that rested on them. As I held Alfred's  hand, and gazed at him for a moment, a pang shot through my heart. Would he go out as pure and manly as he had come in? Alas, no! for I had made provision for his fall.
               The company was large and fashionable. I shall not attempt a description of the dresses, nor venture an estimate touching the value of diamonds. I have no heart for this. No doubt the guests enjoyed themselves to the degree usual on such occasions. I cannot say as much for at least one of the hosts. In the supper-room stood a table, the sight of which had smitten my eyes with pain. Its image was perpetually before me. All the evening, while my outward eyes looked into happy faces, my inward gaze rested gloomily on decanters of brandy and bottles of wine crowding the supper-table, to which I was soon to invite the young men—mere boys, some of them—and maidens, whose glad voices filled the air of my drawing-rooms.
               I tried to console myself by the argument  that I was only doing as the rest did,—following a social custom; and that society was responsible—not the individual. But this did not lift the weight of concern and self-condemnation that so heavily oppressed me.
               At last word came that all was ready in the supper-room. The hour was eleven. Our guests passed in to where smoking viands, rich confectionery, and exhilarating draughts awaited them. We had prepared a liberal entertainment, a costly feast of all available delicacies. Almost the first sound that greeted my ears after entering the supper-room was the "pop" of a champagne cork. I looked in the direction from whence it came, and saw a bottle in the hands of Albert Martindale. A little back from the young man stood his mother. Our eyes met. Oh, the pain and reproach in the glance of my friend! I could not bear it, but turned my face away.
               I neither ate nor drank anything. The most tempting dish had no allurement for  my palate, and I shivered at the thought of tasting wine. I was strangely and unnaturally disturbed; yet forced to command myself and be affable and smiling to our guests.
               "Observe Mrs. Gordon," I heard a lady near me say in a low voice to her companion.
               "What of her?" was returned.
               "Follow the directions of her eyes."
               I did so, as well as the ladies near me, and saw that Mrs. Gordon was looking anxiously at one of her sons, who was filling his glass for, it might be, the second or third time.
               "It is no place for that young man," one of them remarked. "I pity his mother. Tom is a fine fellow at heart, and has a bright mind; but he is falling into habits that will, I fear, destroy him. I think he has too much self-respect to visit bar-rooms frequently; but an occasion like this gives him a liberty that is freely used to his hurt. It is all very respectable; and the best  people set an example he is too ready to follow."
               I heard no more, but that was quite enough to give my nerves a new shock, and fill my heart with a new disquietude. A few minutes afterwards, I found myself at the side of Mrs. Gordon. To a remark that I made, she answered in an absent kind of way, as though the meaning of what I said did not reach her thought. She looked past me; I followed her eyes with mine, and saw her youngest boy, not yet eighteen, with a glass of champagne to his lips. He was drinking with a too apparent sense of enjoyment. The sigh that passed the mother's lips smote my ears with accusation.
               "Mrs. Carleton!" A frank, cheery voice dropped into my ear. It was that of Albert Martindale, the son of my friend. He was handsome, and had a free, winning manner. I saw by the flush in his cheeks, and the gleam in his eyes, that wine had already quickened the flow of blood in his veins.
               "You are enjoying yourself," I said.
               "Oh, splendidly!" then bending to my ear, he added, "You've given the finest entertainment of the season."
               "Hush!" I whispered, raising my finger; then added, in a warning tone, "Enjoy it in moderation, Albert."
               His brows knit slightly. The crowd parted us, and we did not meet again during the evening.
               By twelve o'clock most of the ladies had withdrawn from the supper-room; but the enticement of wine held too many of the men there—young and old. Bursts of coarse laughter, loud exclamations, and snatches of song rang out from the company in strange confusion. It was difficult to realize that the actors in this scene of revelry were gentlemen, and gentlemen's sons, so called, and not the coarse frequenters of a corner tavern.
               Guests now began to withdraw quietly. It was about half-past twelve when Mrs. Martindale came down from the dressing-room, with her daughter, and joined Mr.  Martindale in the hall, where he had been waiting for them.
               "Where is Albert?" I heard the mother ask.
               "In the supper-room, I presume; I've looked for him in the parlors," Mr. Martindale answered.
               "I will call him for you," I said, coming forward.
               "Oh, do, if you please," my friend replied. There was a husky tremor in her voice.
               I went to the supper-room. All the ladies had retired, and the door was shut. What a scene for a gentleman's house presented itself! Cigars had been lighted, and the air was thick with smoke. As I pushed open the door, my ear was fairly stunned by the confusion of sounds. There was a hush of voices, and I saw bottles from many hands set quickly upon the table, and glasses removed from lips already too deeply stained with wine. With three or four exceptions, all of this company were young  men and boys. Near the door was the person I sought.
               "Albert!" I called; and the young man came forward. His face was darkly flushed, and his eyes red and glittering.
               "Albert, your mother is going," I said.
               "Give her my compliments," he answered, with an air of mock courtesy, "and tell her that she has my gracious permission."
               "Come!" I urged; "she is waiting for you"
               He shook his head resolutely. "I'm not going for an hour, Mrs. Carleton. Tell mother not to trouble herself. I'll be home in good time."
               I urged him, but in vain.
               "Tell him that he must come!" Mrs. Martindale turned on her husband an appealing look of distress, when I gave her Albert's reply.
               But the father did not care to assert an authority which might not be heeded, and answered, "Let him enjoy himself with  the rest. Young blood beats quicker than old."
               The flush of excited feeling went out of Mrs. Martindale's face. I saw it but for an instant after this reply from her husband; but, like a sun-painting, its whole expression was transferred to a leaf of memory, where it is as painfully vivid now as on that never-to-be-forgotten evening. It was pale and convulsed, and the eyes full of despair. A dark presentiment of something terrible had fallen upon her,—the shadow of an approaching woe that was to burden all her life.
               My friend passed out from my door, and left me so wretched that I could with difficulty rally my feelings to give other parting guests a pleasant word. Mrs. Gordon had to leave in her carriage without her sons, who gave no heed to the repeated messages she sent to them.
               At last all the ladies were gone; but there still remained a dozen young men in the supper-room, from whence came to my ears a sickening sound of carousal. I sought  my chamber, and, partly disrobing, threw myself upon a bed. Here I remained in a state of wretchedness impossible to describe, for over an hour, when my husband came in.
               "Are they all gone?" I asked, rising.
               "All, thank God!" he answered, with a sigh of relief. Then, after a moment's pause, he said, "If I live a thousand years, Agnes, the scene of to-night shall never be repeated in my house. I feel not only a sense of disgrace, but worse,—a sense of guilt. What have we been doing? Giving our influence and our money to help in the work of elevating and refining society, or in the work of corrupting and debasing it? Are the young men who left our house, a little while ago, as strong for good as when they came in? Alas, alas, that we must answer No! What if Alfred Martindale were our son?"
               This last sentence pierced me as if it had been a knife.
               "He went out just now," continued Mr.  Carleton, "so much intoxicated that he walked straight only with an effort."
               "Why did you let him go?" I asked, fear laying suddenly its cold hand on my heart. "What if harm should come to him?"
               "The worst harm will be a night at the station house, should he happen to get into a drunken brawl on his way home," my husband replied.
               I shivered as I murmured, "His poor mother!"
               "I thought of her," replied Mr. Carleton, "as I saw him depart just now, and said to myself bitterly, 'To think of sending home from my house to his mother a son in that condition!' And he was not the only one."
               We were silent after that. Our hearts were so heavy that we could not talk. It was near daylight before I slept, and then my dreams were of so wild and strange a character that slumber was brief and unrefreshing.
               The light came dimly in through half-drawn drawn curtains on the next morning, when a servant knocked at my door.
               "What is wanted?" I asked.
               "Did Mr. Alfred Martindale sleep here last night?"
               I sprung from my bed, strangely agitated, and, partly opening the chamber door, said, in a voice whose unsteadiness I could not control, "Why do you ask, Katie? Who wants to know?"
               "Mrs. Martindale has sent to inquire. The girl says he didn't come home last night."
               "Tell her that he left our house about two o'clock," I replied; and, shutting the chamber door, staggered back to the bed and fell across it, all my strength gone for the moment.
               "Send her word to inquire at one of the police stations," said my husband, bitterly.
               I did not answer, but lay in a half stupor, under the influence of benumbing mental pain. After a while I arose, and, looking out, saw everything clothed in a white mantle tle, and the snow falling in large flakes, heavily but silently, through the still air. How the sight chilled me! That the air was piercing cold I knew by the delicate frost-pencillings all over the window-panes.
               After breakfast I sent to Mrs. Martindale a note of inquiry about Alfred. A verbal answer came from the distracted mother, saying that he was still absent, and that inquiry of the police had failed to bring any intelligence in regard to him. It was still hoped that he had gone home with some friend, and would return during the day.
               Steadily the snow continued to fall, and, as the wind had risen since morning, it drifted heavily. By ten o'clock it was many inches deep, and there was no sign of abatement. My suspense and fear were so oppressive that, in spite of the storm, I dressed myself and went out to call on my friend. I found her in her chamber, looking very pale, and calmer than I had hoped to find her. But the calmness I soon saw to be a congelation lation of feeling. Fear of the worst had frozen the wild waves into stillness.
               "God knows best," she said, in a voice so sad that its tones ached through my heart. "We are all in his hands. Pray for me, Agnes, that I may have strength. If he does not give me strength, I shall die."
               I shivered; for both in voice and look were signs of wavering reason. I tried to comfort her with suggestions as to where Alfred might be. "No doubt," I said, "he went home with a friend, and we may look any moment for his return. Why should the absence of a few hours so alarm you?"
               There was a stony glare in her eyes as she shook her head silently. She arose, and, walking to the window, stood for several minutes looking out upon the snow. I watched her closely. She was motionless as marble. After a while I saw a quick shudder run through her frame. Then she turned and came slowly back to the lounge from which she had risen, and lay down quietly, shutting her eyes. Oh, the still  anguish of that pale, pinched face! Shall I ever be able to draw a veil over its image in my mind?
               Suddenly she started up. Her ear had caught the sound of the street bell which had just been rung. She went hurriedly to the chamber-door, opened it, and stood out in the upper hall, listening.
               "Who is it?" she asked, in a hoarse, eager undertone, as a servant came up after answering the bell.
               "Mrs. Gordon's man. He called to ask if we'd heard anything from Mr. Albert yet."
               Mrs. Martindale came back to her chamber with a whiter face and unsteady steps, not replying. The servant stood looking after her with a countenance in which doubt and pity were mingled; then turned and went downstairs.
               I did not go home until evening. All day the snow fell drearily, and the wind sighed and moaned along the streets, or shrieked painfully across sharp angles, or  rattled with wild, impatience the loose shutters that obstructed its way. Every hour had its breathless suspense or nervous excitement. Messengers came and went perpetually. As the news of Albert's prolonged absence spread among his friends, and the friends of the family, the circle of search and inquiry became larger, and the suspense greater. To prevent the almost continual ringing of the bell, it was muffled, and a servant stationed by the door to receive or answer all who came.
               Night dropped down, shutting in with a strange suddenness, as some heavier clouds darkened the west. Up to this period not a single item of intelligence from the absent one had been gained since, as related by one of the young Gordons, he parted from him between two and three o'clock in the morning, and saw him take his way down one of the streets, not far from his home, leading to the river. It was snowing fast at the time, and the ground was already well covered. Closer questioning of the young man  revealed the fact that Albert Martindale was, at the time, so much intoxicated that he could not walk steadily.
               "I looked after him," said Gordon, "as he left me, and saw him stagger from side to side; but in a few moments the snow and darkness hid him from sight. He was not far from home, and would, I had no doubt, find his way there."
               Nothing beyond this was ascertained on the first day of his absence. I went home soon after dark, leaving Mrs. Martindale with other friends. The anguish I was suffering no words can tell. Not such anguish as pierced the mother's heart; but, in one degree sharper, in that guilt and responsibility were on my conscience.
               Three days went by. He had vanished and left no sign! The whole police of the city sought for him, but in vain. Their theory was that he had missed his home, and wandered on towards the docks, where he had been robbed and murdered, and his body cast into the river. He had on his person a  valuable gold watch, and a diamond pin worth over two hundred dollars; sufficient temptation for robbery and murder, if his unsteady feet had chanced to bear him into that part of the city lying near the river.
               All hope of finding Albert alive was abandoned after a week's agonizing suspense, and Mr. Martindale offered a reward of five hundred dollars for the recovery of his son's body. Stimulated by this offer, hundreds of boatmen began the search up and down the rivers, and along the shores of the bay, leaving no point unvisited where the body might have been borne by the tides. But over large portions of this field-ice had formed on the surface, closing up many small bays and indentations of the land. There were hundreds of places, into any one of which the body might have floated, and where it must remain until the warm airs of spring set the water free again. The search was fruitless.
               Mrs. Martindale, meantime, had lapsed into a state of dull indifference to everything  but her great sorrow. That absorbed her whole mental life. It was the house in which her soul dwelt, the chamber of affliction wherein she lived, and moved, and had her being—so darkly draped that no light came in through the windows. Very still and passionless she sat here, refusing to be comforted.
               Forced by duty, yet dreading always to look into her face, that seemed full of accusations, I went often to see my friend. It was very plain that, in her mind, I was an accessary to her son's death. Not after the first few days did I venture to offer a word of comfort; for such words from my lips seemed as mockery. They faltered on my tongue.
               One day I called and the servant took up my name. On returning to the parlor, she said that Mrs. Martindale did not feel very well, and wished to be excused. I had looked for this; yet was not the pang it gave me less acute for the anticipation. Was not I the instrumental cause of a great calamity  that had wrecked her dearest hope in life? And how could she bear to see my face?
               I went home very heavy-hearted. My husband tried to comfort me with words that had no balm for either his troubled heart or mine. The great fact of our having put the cup of confusion to that young man's lips, and sent him forth at midnight in no condition to find his way home, stood out too sharply defined for any self-delusion.
               I did not venture to the house of my friend again. She had dropped a curtain between us, and I said, "It shall be a wall of separation."
               Not until spring opened was the body of Albert Martindale recovered. It was found floating in the dock, at the end of the street down which young Gordon saw him go with unsteady steps in the darkness and storm on that night of sorrow. His watch was in his pocket, the hands pointing to half-past two, the time, in all probability, when he fell into the water. The diamond pin was in his scarf, and his pocket-book in his pocket, unrifled rifled. He had not been robbed and murdered. So much was certain. To all it was plain that the bewildered young man, left to himself, had plunged on blindly through the storm, going he knew not whither, until he reached the wharf. The white sheet of snow lying over everything hid from eyes like his the treacherous margin, and he stepped, unheeding, to his death! It was conjectured that his body had floated, by an incoming tide, under the wharf, and that his clothes had caught in the logs and held it there for so long a time.
               Certainty is always better than doubt. On the Sunday after the saddest funeral it has ever been my lot to attend, Mrs. Martindale appeared for the first time in church. I did not see her face, for she kept her heavy black veil closely drawn. On the following Sunday she was in the family pew again, but still kept her face hidden. From friends who visited her (I did not call again after my first denial) I learned that she had become calm and resigned.
               To one of these friends she said, "It is better that he should have died, than live to be what I too sadly fear our good society would have made him,—a social burden and disgrace. But custom and example were all against him. It was at the house of one of my oldest and dearest friends that wine enticed him. The sister of my heart put madness in his brain, and then sent him forth to meet a death he had no skill left to avoid."
               Oh, how these sentences cut, and bruised, and pained my heart, already too sore to bear my own thoughts without agony!
               What more shall I write? Is not this unadorned story sad enough, and full enough of counsel and warning? Far sooner would I let it sleep, and go farther and farther away into the oblivion of past events; but the times demand a startling cry of warning; and so, out of the dark depths of the saddest experience of my life, I have brought this grief, and shame, and agony to the light, and let it stand shivering in the face of all men.
            
            
               
               V. WHAT ONE MAN MAY DO.
               "AND, Katy dear," said the dying woman, choking and catching her breath, "be careful of your poor father. Try and keep him home o'nights. Maybe, when I'm gone, he'll change his ways. There isn't a kinder-hearted man alive; but, oh, dear!—the drink! the drink!"
               "I'll do the best I can, mother," answered the weeping daughter, a pale, slender girl of eighteen.
               "And you won't forget to put a candle in the window on dark nights, if he should happen to be out?"
               "Oh, no, mother! But don't think of that; I'll do everything just as if you were here."
               "I know it, Katy. You've always been a  good girl," said the dying mother, the anxious look going out of her face, and the weary lids falling over her glazing eyes, that never opened again.
               A life of care and self-denial had given strength of will to Katy Marks. She was equal to the new duties laid upon her by this sad bereavement. It needed not the dying mother's injunction to be careful of her poor father, and to put a light in the window to guide him home at night; love, that no pain nor humiliation could dim, would see to all this. The going out of that precious life would make small difference to him; but, oh, how much to Katy and her little sister Jane, not yet six years old!
               The light, thought of even in the hour of death, was burning in the window of Thomas Marks' poor cottage, that stood a quarter of a mile out of the village, and its rays streamed down the road by which he was to come home. Just one week had gone by since death crossed his threshhold. For three or four evenings he had remained at  home with his children; but at last desire for the pleasures of the alehouse became too strong, and he went off to the village as of old. The night was dark, and the time wore on until it was nearly ten o'clock; and, though Katy sat hearkening intently down the road by which her father would come, not a sound broke the painful silence. Every now and then she would open the door, go out into the porch, and stand listening. Anxiety gave place to alarm.
               "What if he has fallen over the bridge!" This thought came with a shock of fear. Going hastily back into the house to see if Jane were still fast asleep, she caught up a shawl, and, drawing it over her head, went out again, and, after silently closing the door, ran swiftly down the road, picking her steps more from memory than sight; for a great bank of impenetrable darkness lay before her. After going for a distance of two or three hundred yards, she stopped to listen, standing still with panting breath. A small stream, not far distant, crossed the road.  This was spanned by a rude bridge, that rose some ten or twelve feet above the water.
               "What if he has fallen over the bridge!" This thought, which had sent her out into the darkness, gave new life to her feet, and she ran forward swifter than before. Her eyes, getting used to the night, were less at fault, and she could see the road in advance of her more plainly.
               As Katy neared the bridge, her heart stopped beating. As she set her foot upon it, she saw a dark object lying at the farther end, and close to the edge. It was her father, who had stumbled over a piece of wood, and, unable from drunkenness to rise again, had fallen asleep. Katy shuddered as she saw how near he was lying to the very brink of the wooden floor, and thought how an unconscious movement might have thrown him on the rocky margin of the stream below.
               It took the unhappy girl a long time to arouse her besotted father and get him home. One thing, then and there, she settled in her mind; it was, that her father should never  again return alone from the village at night. All impediments to this purpose, and they were many, she resolutely set aside. The greatest of all was her little sister Jane. What was to be done with her when she went into the village to bring her father home?—for that duty she had laid upon herself. She could not burden a neighbor with the care of Jane every night; she could not take the child with her; and she shrunk from the thought of leaving her alone.
               "Now don't go out," Katy said in a coaxing way to her father, on the next evening, as he took up his hat after supper. "It's so lonesome here now for me and Jane. We want you to stay with us."
               "I won't be gone but a little while," he answered kindly, and then went out.
               It was late in November, and the dull, short day had given place to twilight, that was fast losing itself in darkness.
               Katy sat very still, like one half dreaming, for a long time after her father left the house. Then she got up, and went about the room  in a slow, absorbed way, putting things in order. After that, she drew a chair to the table, on which she had placed a lamp, and commenced sewing. Jane, who saw by her sister's manner that something unusual was troubling her, said nothing, but sat very quiet, thinking sorrowfully of her dead mother.
               "Jane," said Katy, after a long time had passed.
               The child looked up almost with a start, for there was in the voice of her sister a strange and unusual tone.
               "I haven't told you where I found father last night."
               Jane arose quickly, and stood looking at her sister in a half-alarmed way.
               "He wasn't home at eleven o'clock. I had the light burning in the window, just as mother always kept it there. Then I grew so frightened about him that I started down the road. It was very dark at first, and I could see only a few steps; but my eyes soon got used to it, and then I ran as fast as I  could go. Oh, just think of it, Jane! I found him lying fast asleep on the bridge, close to the edge! He had stumbled over a piece of wood, and only God's mercy saved him from falling upon the rocks below!"
               "O Katy! It's so dreadful!" And the child covered her face with her apron, and cried silently.
               "I can't let him come home alone any more, Jane," said Katy. "It isn't safe. He might be killed any night."
               Jane uncovered her face, and looked at her sister with tear-brimming eyes.
               "I must go for him, Jane."
               The child looked bewildered.
               "Not all alone in the dark?"
               "Yes, dear. There's no one to go with me."
               A frightened expression came into Jane's face.
               "Somebody'll hurt you," she said.
               "No, dear; God will take care of me. I'm not afraid. It's of you I'm thinking."
               "Me! What about me, Katy?"
               "I thought maybe you'd be afraid to stay here alone while I went for father."
               The child's face paled a little, and her eyes dropped to the floor.
               Katy waited a few moments, then said, "I don't think of going further than the bridge. The road is good all the rest of the way. I can see our house from there, and the light in the window. It's for father's sake, you know. God will take care of us both. I'll see you snugly in bed, and asleep, too, I hope, before I run down to the bridge."
               It was plain enough to Katy that a strong conflict between the fear of being left alone and love for her father was going on in the mind of her little sister.
               "I'm not afraid; I'll stay," the child said bravely, even while a tremor ran through her heart.
               "You'll only feel a little bad at first," said Katy. "In a night or two, you won't think anything about it."
               "But you're not going every night?" said Jane.
               
               "Yes, dear. That is, every night father goes out. We must do our best to keep him home. You know he stayed in for two whole evenings after mother died."
               The voice of Katy choked at the word "mother."
               "How soon are you going?" asked Jane.
               "Oh, not for a good while yet. He always comes home about nine o'clock. I'll go down to the bridge at half-past eight, so as to be in time, and wait there for him. You'll never be alone for more than half an hour, and I'll be in sight of the house."
               An hour afterwards found the little sister fast asleep, and Katy at her work-table sewing, and waiting for the time when she must go out in the cold and darkness to meet her father coming home from the village tavern.
               At half-past eight the young girl, after putting a candle in the window and wrapping herself up as warmly as she could, started on her errand of love. It had grown very much colder since nightfall, and Katy felt a penetrating chill as she went forth into the darkness ness, that sent a dull, aching pain through her chest.
               The bridge lay in a deep hollow, with woods on either side of the road,—a dark and lonely place at night. A hurried walk of a few minutes brought her to this spot, where she paused, straining her eyes along the road beyond, in hope of seeing her father. How very still and gloomy it was! Vague fears crept into her mind. She held her breath, listening and oppressed. Then the sound of a horse's feet in the distance struck on the air, and came rapidly nearer. A feeling of insecurity came over the lonely girl. To avoid observation, she crept down the bank, close to the bridge, and crouched against the stone abutment until the horseman passed over. Then she came back and stood anxiously gazing along the road leading to the village; but no living object was visible. The chill that struck so deeply at first did not pass off, for the air was very cold. The pain this chill had awakened in her breast ached on steadily with a dull,  gnawing hunger. As she stood there, straining her eyes down the road, a sudden shiver ran through her body, and she drew her thin shawl closer over her head and around her chest; but the shiver repeated itself. The air was colder and damper down in that hollow than on the higher grounds.
               "It is so cold," she said, speaking aloud, and then starting at the sound of her voice breaking on the oppressive silence.
               It was about this time that Thomas Marks, remembering his motherless children, and the promise he had made them not to be long away, left the village tavern and started for home. He was not very warmly clad, and the sharp air striking on his face sent some cooling influences to his brain. As he walked along, soon passing clear of the village, and at length beyond the last house and its lighted windows, a strange, superstitious fear began creeping into his mind. Objects seen in the poor, uncertain light had a 
                     wierd
                     weird
                   and living aspect. Something white in the road made him stop and shiver. In vain he  tried to make it out; now it looked like a woman, and now the form seemed to change into a monstrous shape. He thought of his dead wife. Had she come back to rebuke and warn him? The cold shiver went deeper; his knees trembled. Then rallying himself, Marks started forward, determined to meet and brave this mystery. But as he advanced, the weird object seemed to recede, or fade, he could not tell which, and when he reached the spot where it had been,—his feet plashing in a pool of water,—nothing was visible.
               Cold drops gathered on the man's forehead. He stood for a moment or two, looking this way and that, almost suffocated by the wild beating of his heart; then started forward, walking more rapidly than before.
               The hollow by the bridge was only a little way in advance, and Marks, quite sobered now, began to feel uncomfortable as he thought of its deeper darkness and loneliness. His nerves had received a shock from which they did not easily recover. Having passed  that way hundreds of times, his eyes had grown familiar with everything, and they were quick to perceive, even while at a considerable distance from the bridge, something unusual. On the side nearest to him, and in the centre of the road, was a dark object, that, strain his vision as he would, he was not able to make out. Now it seemed to shrink almost even with the ground, now to rise up tall and giant-like, and now to move from side to side. The nearer he came to it, the more undefinable its shape and strange its motions, until, all at once, a veil seemed to drop down, and there stood only a few feet distant from him the form of his dead wife, so clearly outlined that he felt there could be no mistake.
               "Mary!" he cried, with a sudden impulse of terror.
               "O father! is it you? I am so glad!" answered Katy, springing forward and grasping his arm. Both stood trembling for some moments.
               "Why, Katy, child! what are you doing  here?" exclaimed Marks, as soon as he had recovered his senses.
               "I am waiting for you;" and she coughed hoarsely as she spoke.
               "Waiting for me!"
               The man's voice expressed his astonishment.
               "It's dark down here," said Katy, "and your eyes are not as good as they were. You came near falling over the bridge last night."
               "I came near falling over the bridge!" They were walking now briskly homeward. "What are you talking about, child?"
               "It's so, father, though you didn't know it," answered Katy, the hoarse cough breaking into her words.
               "I came down here after ten o'clock last night, and found you lying just on the edge of the bridge fast asleep. You had struck your foot against something, and only God's mercy saved you from falling over on to the rocks below."
               Thomas Marks answered not a word. He  was sober enough to comprehend it all. Katy coughed incessantly on the way back; and when, on reaching the cottage, her father looked into her glittering eyes and flushed face, a new fear struck down into his heart.
               In the morning Katy was unable to rise. She had a high fever, accompanied by a dry, exhausting cough and violent headache. Her father, in much alarm, went for the doctor, who, on seeing his patient, looked serious, and said that she must on no account leave her bed, or risk the slightest exposure to cold.
               "What ails her, doctor?" asked Marks, anxiously intercepting the physician as he was leaving the cottage. Thomas Marks, in spite of his intemperate habits, was a man of strong affections, and loved his children.
               "Pneumonia," answered the doctor, knitting his brows in a forbidding sort of way that he had when a case troubled him.
               "What?"
               "Acute pneumonia. How did she take  cold? There must have been some unusual exposure to bring on so violent an attack."
               A groan that he could not repress came from Thomas Marks.
               "You don't think her dangerous?" he said, following the doctor as far as the gate leading into the road.
               "There is no use in concealing it, Marks," answered the doctor rather sternly,—he knew the man's habits but too well, and purposely alarmed him that he might secure for Katy her father's utmost care,—"your daughter is dangerously ill, and it will require all of your attention, added to my skill, to save her. I will return in a couple of hours. In the mean time, I warn you not to leave her."
               "Don't be afraid, doctor; I shall not stir a step from the house until you come back," answered Marks, looking frightened.
               The doctor hurried off without a reply. In two hours he came back. Marks watched him eagerly as he entered Katy's room and went to the bedside. As far as he could see, Katy was a great deal worse, and he dreaded  a confirmation of his fears. Ah, it came too soon! The change that passed instantly over the doctor's face as he bent above Katy sent a shock of grief and pain to the father's heart.
               It can avail nothing to dwell on the sad history of the next three or four days. At their close, another life had gone out, another poor body been laid to rest forever; and Thomas Marks sat alone with his motherless child, and great pain aching, aching at his heart.
               Oh, it was so lonely and desolate in that poor cottage, all its life and light dead! lonely for the stricken, remorseful man, lonely for the stunned and grieving child. There was a tender love between these two, and that was all, though much. Mutual service they had not learned, for both man and child had been receivers, not givers.
               It was touching to see them on the first evening they were alone, after their dead had been buried out of sight, each trying to help and serve the other. The little, unskilled hands and the great, awkward ones met,  and touched, and groped uncertainly in the work of getting their evening meal, and in washing up and putting away things after it was over.
               The death of Katy was a terrible shock to Marks. He alone knew the cause, and the miserable secret rested upon him like a suffocating nightmare. To save him she had sacrificed herself. Since that fatal night he had not once been to the alehouse, though the old, alluring desire had many times been so strong that resistance seemed impossible. There was a supplement to his good resolutions, by which desire was resisted, in the fact that his work did not lie in the village, but away from it, near his home, and drink could not be obtained outside of the town. The habit of the man had been to work all day at a rolling-mill, and tipple through the evening at the village alehouse, then stagger home in a besotted state, and sleep himself sober by morning.
               Two things—grief and shame—had broken temporarily this order of life, taken up  again in the old way in less than a week after Mrs. Marks, faithful to her love for him even in the hour of death, had said to Katy, "Be careful of your poor father..... And you won't forget to put a candle in the window on dark nights, if he should happen to be out."
               And now it was broken again. The second evening after the burial of Katy found Marks at home. Shocked, grief-stricken, and still bewildered, in the mind of the unhappy man no great revulsion had taken place. He saw and felt the wrong of his previous life, and the misery to which it was surely leading, and made some feeble resolutions of reform; but desire only awaited opportunity.
               Jane, though only six years old, with the help of a kind neighbor who ran in two or three times a day, kept the little home tidy, and managed to have her father's dinner and supper ready when he came in from work. In the morning he shared with her the office of getting breakfast.
               Now had come a great crisis in this poor man's life. If saved, what was to save him? Love is strong. It will deny itself, peril itself, suffer and endure, for the sake of blessing its object. But, alas, how weak is even love in the presence of intemperance!
               On this second evening, Thomas Marks began to feel the old longing for drink, and the old desire to go into the village. But how could he leave Jane? He looked into her sober little face as she moved about the room, clearing off the supper-table and putting things in order, and felt that it would be cruel to leave her alone. The tired child, after her work was done, crept upon his knees, and, laying her head against his breast, was soon fast asleep.
               How still it seemed to grow all at once, as the child's deeper breathing told her father that she slept! Strange impressions touched him. A feeling of awe crept into his mind. He listened, as if for unearthly sounds; glanced wearily about, then caught his breath, and, shutting his eyes, bent his face until his  cheek touched that of the sleeper in his arms.
               "My poor, poor baby!" he said mournfully, after a while, and, rising, carried her to the next room and laid her in bed,—first removing her shoes and stockings and outer garments. He stood over her for some time, the lonely feeling coming back, then took the light and went out.
               All alone! Every object around him brought back to Marks the memory of his wife and Katy; but he was alone with all these familiar things, and they had left him never to return again. He sat down with a dull aching at his heart, keeping so still for a long time, that one looking on would have thought him sleeping. Then he got up and walked about restlessly,—went to the door, and stood looking into the chilly night,—came back, and taking up the candle, went into the little bedroom where Jane was sleeping, and stood looking at her for several moments. He stooped to kiss her under a sudden feeling of tenderness, but held back  his lips when a few inches from hers, and stood up straight again.
               Why was the kiss withheld? It might waken her. That was the thought that kept the loving sign away. Why in fear of that? Ah, do you not see? The village alehouse, and the longed-for, satisfying draught, these were the controlling powers now. They filled his imagination and occupied his thoughts, pushing all else aside.
               Marks stood up, with his eyes still on the sleeper's face, that seemed to hold him almost spellbound.
               "Poor baby!" he murmured. The sound of his own voice broke this spell. He turned quickly and left the room, silently closing the door. For several minutes he moved restlessly and aimlessly about. At last, taking up his cap, Marks left the cottage and stood in the darkness outside, looking away towards the village. Lights gleamed here and there; and one stronger than the rest showed him where the tavern stood.
               "I'll be back in half an hour, and she'll  never know it." He started forward in a kind of desperate manner as he said this, like one breaking away from restraining hands, and went hastily down the road.
               The silence, the darkness, the loneliness, all acting on his disturbed mind, soon caused him to slacken his speed, and at length to make him stand still in the road. He had not yet reached the bridge. Entirely free from the stupefying effects of drink, and with every mental perception quickened by late events, the influence of the hour, and the memory of Katy's death, were too strong to be set aside. How could he pass that bridge, where, not a week before, Katy had waited for him in the cold and darkness? There was an element of superstition in his nature that held him back. Fancy pictured the dead girl as still waiting for him in that lonely place. He shivered with more than mortal dread as this thought grew distinct, and, turning back, came trembling and panting home, hurrying as if pursued, and springing in through the door of his cottage as it  opened to his eager grasp, as though weird hands were clutching after him.
               "Papa! papa! Is that you?" cried a faint voice from the next room, as Marks bolted the door behind him.
               "Yes, dear," he answered, and went in to the child, who was sitting up in bed, with a wild look in her face.
               "O papa!" she said, "I called, and called, and you didn't answer me. What was it? I thought Katy was here."
               "No, no, Jane. You were only dreaming," replied her father, a huskiness in his voice, and a sudden, strange oppression on his chest.
               "I don't know, papa. It wasn't like a dream," answered the bewildered child. "Katy stood just where you are now,"—the father moved aside, and glanced half fearfully around,—"and she said, 'Where's father?' And then I called, and called; and she went into the other room to look for you, I thought, and didn't come back."
               "It was nothing but a dream, child," said  Marks, recovering his firmness of tone. "Nothing at all but a dream. Lie down and go to sleep."
               "You won't go out, papa?" Jane spoke in a pleading voice.
               "No, no. I'm not going out. Don't be afraid of that. Lie down and go to sleep."
               Thus assured, Jane laid herself down, and in a little while was in the world of dreams again.
               On the next evening, the old, restless desire for the alehouse and its pleasures came back upon Thomas Marks stronger than ever; but when the darkness fell, and his thought went down the road to the gloomy hollow and the bridge, courage went out of him. He dared not pass that way in the night alone.
               No neighbor came in to help him through the dull hours, and he droned about restlessly, or sat smoking in a kind of stupid endurance, after Jane was asleep, until his own bedtime came.
               As we have said, a great crisis had come  in this man's life. What was to save him? He had no helpful companions; no love of reading; no moral resources. It had not always been so. There was a time when Thomas Marks bid fair to make a useful and intelligent man; but the sensual element had gained, through long indulgence, so great a power over him, that he seemed bound hand and foot. If you looked into his face, you saw old signs of manliness, strength, capacity. It was drink that had marred his life. Above all things, now, he wanted a kind, wise, patient, persistent friend, who not only understood his peculiar needs, but, in the hope of saving him, would faithfully minister to them. Ah, such friends are rare! But He whose love fails not, who cares alike for the high and the low, for the evil and the good, and is ever seeking to save that which is lost, put it into the heart of a stranger to save, if possible, this poor, unhappy man. He was a day-laborer, like Marks, and, like him, a too frequent visitor at the village tavern. His name was Lloyd.
               
               This man was sitting at a table in the tavern one night, a little over a week after Katy's death, with a glass of ale before him, when some one said to the barkeeper, "What's become of Marks? I've not seen him for ever-so-long a while. Hasn't sworn off?"
               "I hope so," answered one of the company. "It's about time."
               The man just referred to looked up with an expression of interest in his face.
               "If he doesn't reform now, it's all over with him," continued the last speaker. "Poor fellow! there's good in him, but it's buried away down under a terrible load of besotment. He's to be pitied,—wife and daughter gone, and he left alone with almost a baby."
               "Not a baby," spoke up another; "the child is six years old."
               "So much the worse for the child," was answered. "If she were a baby, some motherly woman would take her; but, as it is, she will have to live all alone with a drunken  father. It kind of worries me whenever I think of it; though I don't know why it should, for it's none of my business."
               "Are you quite sure of that?" asked the stranger, a short, hard-faced man of light complexion, with sandy hair and whiskers. He had a heavy, protruding forehead; a firm, but rather fine mouth; and deeply set, restless, piercing gray eyes. He looked marred and scarred in the battle of life, like one who had given and received many blows; but his voice had in it an unexpected softness.
               "Sure of what?" inquired the other.
               "That it is none of your business?"
               "Why should it be?"
               "It is every man's business to see that no harm comes to his neighbor," said the man, speaking more firmly, but still with so musical and flexible a voice that every ear in the bar-room felt the tones as pleasant.
               For some moments there was a dead silence in that company. No one seemed inclined to say nay to a sentiment so unhesitatingly uttered, until the barkeeper, with a derisive  laugh, and an attempt at wit, cried out, "A first-class text, Mr. Parson! Now give us the sermon."
               Quick as a flash, the wiry little man sprang from his seat at the table where he had been drinking, and, facing round, fixed his keen eyes, now all ablaze, on the barkeeper.
               "Very well, my friend," he made ready answer; "you shall have the sermon."
               "Mighty quick on the trigger!" growled back the barkeeper with a look of annoyance. "But you can sit down again, my pious friend. We'll excuse you from holding forth on this interesting occasion."
               "Thank you; I don't ask to be excused," replied the man, a twinkle of humor in his eyes, and a twitch of his flexible mouth that brought the company over to his side.
               "Let's have the play!" cried one.
               "Go on! Give us the sermon!" cried another, who had already forgotten the text.
               "Chair or table?—which will you have? There! Mount, sir, mount!" said two or three others, crowding round the man.
               "Thank you, gentlemen; but I never set myself above other people," he replied. "The floor is high enough. Let me see; what was the text? Oh! 'It is every man's business to see that no harm comes to his neighbor.' I guess that's about right,—text and sermon all in one. Does any man here say nay?"
               "I do," cried the barkeeper.
               "Of course, you do," was quietly answered; "for without harming your neighbor you can't do business for an hour."
               "Hit him there, plump," shouted one of the company.
               "Touched him under the fifth rib," cried another.
               "Do you think so?" asked the speaker, turning round upon his audience.
               "Just as true as preaching," was replied. "He can't mix a toddy, nor draw a cork, nor fill a glass of beer, that he doesn't hurt somebody. I've said it, and I'll stick to it."
               "He's hurt you?"
               "Of course he has."
               
               "Then why do you come here?"
               "Because I can't help it."
               "Pshaw! Don't say that, my man—don't say that! It's a terrible confession!" answered the little man, around whom all had gathered. "I'd rather be dead than say that."
               "Can you help coming?"
               "Of course I can; and, what's more, I'm going to help it; and, what's more still, I'm going to put my text and sermon into practice. Somehow or other, I keep thinking all the while about this poor fellow Marks and his little girl. I can't get them out of my head. The man mustn't come here any more; I shall see to that."
               "Better mind your own business," growled the barkeeper.
               "No doubt you think so; but, as an interested party, your opinion has no weight," curtly answered the man.
               "Hit him again!" laughingly exclaimed one of the company.
               The barkeeper looked very angry, but kept silent.
               "Good-evening, friends. Maybe we'll not meet here again. There's a saving virtue in helping others, you know; and as I'm going into that business, it's more than likely I shall save myself."
               "Bah!" sneered the tavern-keeper's right-hand man.
               "You may bah as much as you please," was the stinging retort, "but it doesn't make you any the less a wolf."
               There was a movement of the barkeeper's hand, as if to throw the glass he was holding; but the impulse was restrained.
               On that very evening the demon of desire, so long held in restraint, had aroused himself, and was striving again for the mastery over a poor human soul. After supper, Thomas Marks, led by this demon, went outside of his cottage and sat down on a bench to smoke, with the village lights in full view, the tavern light showing strongest of all. He had nothing to do, nothing to think about;  no books, no social friend; nothing but his ignorance, his morbid thirst, and restless craving for drink. In fancy, he held a glass of beer to his mouth, and felt the thrill of a satisfying draught,—no, not satisfying, but maddening, like the waters cool and crystal that forever fell away from the hot lips of Tantalus. In a sort of blind desperation he started up, and had taken two or three strides away from the door, when the cry of "Father! father, don't go!" arrested his steps.
               The child's intuition had warned her of danger. She had noticed a change in her father's manner,—an unusual restlessness; and when he went out with his pipe after supper, a fear that he would go off to the village crept into her heart. And so she had been watching him from the window.
               Marks stood still, moody and irritated, but he could not speak angrily to his poor motherless child; his loving, tender, helpful little one,—a babe, yet almost a woman in her care and thought of him.
               "I'm not going away," he answered, walking ing slowly back, and sitting down again on the bench. "I only wanted to look up the road."
               "Don't sit out here, father; it's cold," said Jane, grasping his arm.
               "It isn't cold for me. I'm used to it. You run in, dear."
               But Jane was afraid to leave him there alone. Something told her that he had meant to go off to the tavern in the village.
               Seeing that she would not go in, her father spoke a little sharply. It was the first unkind word he had uttered since they were left all alone with each other.
               "O father!" broke, in a sob of pain, from her lips, and she pressed close up against him, laying her face on his shoulder.
               "There, there, dear! I didn't mean anything. You mustn't be foolish," said Marks, drawing his arm around the child. He got up, and, lifting her in his arms, went into the house.
               Jane wasn't sleepy on that evening. Her usual bedtime was long past, and still she  sat with her father, wide awake. In vain he watched her, looking for signs of weariness; but none appeared. At last he said, "Jane, I must go into the village to-night. I have business there."
               "Oh, no, father! Don't go! I'm afraid to stay here all alone."
               "Then you'll have to go with me." He spoke in earnest, for the old appetite had become so strong that resistance was over. "It isn't far, and we'll come right back home. Get something and put round you."
               Jane made no opposition, but, dumb and helpless, went into the bedroom, and, wrapping an old shawl about her head and shoulders, came out ready to go with him, but looking so changed and sorrowful that a single glance at her face sent a pang of rebuke to the father's heart.
               "I'll carry you," he said, lifting her in his arms, and going out with hurrying feet.
               All was dark, and chilly, and silent. In a desperate sort of way, Marks went plunging down the road, trying to keep free from the  intrusion of weird fancies or haunting memories. But this was not possible. As he drew near the bridge, thoughts of his dead wife and daughter began to fill his mind in spite of every effort to thrust them aside. It was there that Katy met him on that fatal night when death walked with her in the darkness and made her his own. But he paused not, though his heart beat in great, irregular throbs that sent the blood in suffocating waves to his lungs.
               He had passed the bridge, and was hurrying by the very spot, when a figure came suddenly in view only a few rods distant,—a figure to which his excited fancy gave the form of a woman. His feet stood still, his eyes strained fearfully; the cold sweat pricked through the skin and gathered over his face. Then a voice—it was that of a man—broke the deep silence.
               "Hallo there! Why, Marks! what are you doing out here with that child at this time of night?"
               "O Peter Lloyd!" exclaimed Marks, in  a thick, shivering voice. "How you frightened me! But I'm glad it's you."
               "Are you, indeed? That's pleasant, seeing that I'm on the way to make you a visit. I guessed you'd be rather lonesome now, and so thought I'd come up with my backgammon-board and pass an hour."
               "It's kind and clever in you," answered Marks, turning round, and beginning to walk homeward. "It is lonesome."
               His voice was still husky and shaky.
               "I know. It must be," said Lloyd, in a frank, cheery way.
               How tightly the arms of Jane clung about her father's neck! How closely her face lay against his breast! He felt the tears that were slowly and silently stealing from her eyes fall drop by drop on his hands. New floods of tenderness broke over his heart, and he hugged his child with a spasm of passionate love new to his sluggish nature. In that moment he resolved, for her sake, never to enter the village tavern again.
               When the two men and the child reached  the cottage, the latter was fast asleep in her father's arms. After she was in bed, Marks and his companion sat down and played at backgammon for an hour. Then they talked for a while about life as it touched them,—of the good and the evil it brought,—of its pleasures and pains, its hopes and its promises. Lloyd was a man of active mind, gifted with language; and Marks came easily under his influence. There was a kind of magnetism about him that made itself felt with every one. For both of these men, so opposite in their characters, this evening was pleasant beyond that of any passed by either of them for a long time.
               "Don't go out to-morrow evening," said Lloyd, as he parted with Marks; "I'll be round after supper and give you another trial at backgammon. I didn't know you were so fine a player. Never mind the board; I'll leave it."
               On the next evening, Lloyd came in early, and the two men played at backgammon for over two hours, the time passing so  pleasantly to both that its lapse was scarcely perceived.
               "Isn't this better than fuddling our brains down there at the tavern?" said Lloyd, as he shut the board after their last closely contested game.
               "It's better for me," was the frank reply of Marks; "and I'm a thousand times your debtor for coming over. I can't return the compliment, you see, for there's no one to leave with my poor baby, as I call her."
               "Don't say a word about that. Your place is here," replied the friend, "and you must on no account leave that motherless child alone after dark."
               "No, no! I shall not leave her. You may be sure of that," answered Marks, with great earnestness of manner.
               "Suppose," said Lloyd, as if the thought had just struck him, "suppose you and I were to form a teetotal society just for ourselves?"
               "And not let anybody else come in?" queried Marks, with a slightly amused look.
               "No, I wouldn't just say that. If others wanted to come in, I guess we'd better leave the door open. It would do 'em good, you know; and the good we share with others is twice blessed to ourselves. Then, you know, in union there is strength. What's the word? Agreed?"
               "Teetotal, did you say?"
               "Yes,—teetotal."
               "That's swearing off on everything?"
               "On everything but cold water, tea, coffee, and the like."
               "Are you in dead earnest?" asked Marks.
               "Of course I am. Look here." And he drew a paper from his pocket. "I've got it written down here." And he read:—
               "'We, the undersigned, do honorably agree together, and promise, that we will not, from this day, drink any kind of intoxicating liquor, and will do all in our power to discourage the practice in others.'
               "Now, my friend," continued Lloyd, "I will sign this if you will. Do you say agreed?"
               
               The man's influence, so magnetic, as we have said, was not to be resisted, and Marks answered, though not with downright heartiness, Ay; agreed."
               "Give me your hand to that!" And Lloyd grasped the other's hand, shaking it warmly. Then, with a pencil, he signed the pledge, and pushing the paper across the table at which they were sitting, to Marks, watched the slow process of affixing his name, with a peculiar satisfaction beaming from his countenance.
               Another hearty hand-shaking, and the two men parted.
               And what came of all this? Great things, as often come of small beginnings. Lloyd was one of those restless, earnest, untiring men who are ever acting on those around them for good or evil. His success with Marks only stimulated him to broader action in the good work commenced. He showed to others the pledge they had signed; and before night the paper had ten signatures instead of two; and the whole number of those  who signed gave Marks a surprise party in the evening.
               Many months have passed since then; and the Teetotal Society organized in the humble cottage of Thomas Marks, with only two members, little known and of small influence, now claims a membership of over one hundred earnest working men; and their influence on public opinion has been strong enough to prevent the issuing of any more licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor in the township.
            
            
               
               VI. WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
               TWO girls stood at a window looking out upon the western sky, from which the sun had just gone down. The clouds that lay above the horizon had piled themselves into purple mountains; and stretching far and wide at their base were seas of translucent azure and gold, studded with dusky islands, and bordered by airy meadow-reaches, or boldly jutting headlands.
               "How pure and grand!" said one of them, breaking the silence that had fallen on their spirits like a spell.
               "I never look at a beautiful sunset," said the other, whose name was Adaline Penrose, "without a thank-offering in my heart, rising spontaneously; for I see in it a foregleam of heaven. Such calmness and rest,—such  ineffable beauty; and, above all, such purity of tone, and color, and texture, in all the cloudland scenery. Look at that river of light, winding along the base of a mountain, and now cutting through it and stretching far, far away into an opening valley, until its golden line is lost in the shadowy distance! There are no cities, full of sin and suffering, on its banks; no armies pitch their tents along its unsullied margins; nor is the serene air shocked by the noise of battle. O Alice! when I turn from a scene like this to the real world in which we live, and feel the jar, and shock, and shiver of its hardness, its evil, and its disorder, I sometimes wish to die. But that is wrong. There is an inner life to be developed and perfected here; and the preachers say it can only be done through work and suffering."
               "A hard saying," answered Alice May, a tone of rejection in her voice. "But the preachers have a hard way of saying things. It makes me gloomy to go to church."
               "Why, Alice! Gloomy?"
               
               "Yes, dear. I've said the right word. It's death, and the grave, and eternity; or else it's self-denial and sorrow for sin. Oh, dear! Why is religion so dreary?"
               "Not dreary, Alice," replied Adaline, "but cheerful, sweet, pure, loving."
               "Do you call work and suffering by these pleasant names?" asked Alice May.
               A dim shadow veiled the pure face of Adaline Penrose.
               "We never seem to understand each other when talking about religion, Alice," she answered, with a little sadness in her voice.
               "And never will, I think; so let us talk about something else," said Alice.
               A silence of nearly a minute followed. The window at which they were standing—a window in Adaline's home—looked out upon a flower-garden, fenced in with white palings from the village street. There were no houses just opposite that of Dr. Penrose, but an open view over meadows and orchards to a river half a mile away, and beyond for a distance of several miles to a low range of  mountains, along and above whose crests lay the sunset splendors.
               Voices fell on the maidens' ears, and two young men were seen at the garden gate.
               There was a quick mounting of blood to the cheeks and brows of Adaline Penrose, and a sudden brightening of her beautiful eyes.
               "Carl Deering," she said.
               "And Henry Welford," said Alice.
               As the young men passed through the gate, the two girls leaned from the window and greeted them with pleasant words,—Alice with more gayety and freedom than her companion. In a few minutes afterwards they all passed out together upon the village street for an evening stroll, Carl Deering by the side of Adaline, and his friend walking with Alice May.
               The two young men were as strongly contrasted in appearance as in character. The finely moulded figure, so firm and elastic, the cleanly chiselled features, the broad, strong forehead; the dark, clear eyes, and sweet mouth, gave to Carl Deering personal  attractions of a high order. His mental quality was even finer than his physical. Educated to the law, he had been practising for two years, and was recognized by the profession as one of the brightest young men in the country.
               Welford, on the other hand, was a dull-looking person, under the medium height, rather heavily built, and slow in all his movements. The action of his mind was as slow as that of his body; but it had the quality of recording with great distinctness every result. He was plodding, strong, and practical, with not much imagination, but a great deal of common sense. One of your uninteresting, but kind-hearted and safe men, who never disappoint you on acquaintance, but who have few of the superficial attractions that win at first sight.
               It was clear, at a glance, that Carl and Adaline were something more than friends. The way they looked into each other's eyes, as they met in the porch, fragrant with roses and honeysuckles, on that summer evening,  revealed to each the heart-secret not yet uttered in words.
               Towards Adaline, Carl, whose visits were becoming of late more and more frequent, had always shown a certain reserve, amounting sometimes to constraint. His usual manner with ladies was frank and familiar, which made his distant air when in company with Adaline the more noticeable.
               There was a change in Carl Deering, quickly perceived by the young girl, as they passed from the garden gate. The wall of reserve which had stood between them was suddenly broken down. His voice had an easier and more confident tone, and a certain lightness that was new, and did not affect Adaline pleasantly. He spoke of the gorgeous sunset, now fading, yet still retaining exquisite points of beauty. His language was florid, the sentences crowded with extravagant allusions and metaphors. Surprise quickened the ears of Adaline. She scanned the words as they fell from his lips with close attention, and noticed the confusion of ideas and excess  of language. Something more than surprise made her irresponsive. Her silence did not long remain unnoticed.
               "You cannot be insensible to all this glory of nature, that floods my soul!" he said, leaning so closely that his lips nearly touched hers.
               Almost with a start Adaline drew her head back. Her companion noticed the movement, and also the sudden pallor that overspread her face.
               "My dear Miss Penrose!" exclaimed the alarmed young man, "I meant no—" but checked himself under some quick suggestion of prudence, stammered an incoherent word or two; then said, with a tender anxiety that did not fail of its impression on Adaline's heart, "You are not ill, I hope, Miss Penrose?"
               "It will pass off in a few moments," Adaline replied, with a strong effort to rally herself.
               "Had we not better return?" asked Carl.
               "Yes—no." The last word was spoken  in a quicker and firmer tone, and she moved forward, walking in silence.
               Carl kept turning towards her every moment, watching her face, in no concealed anxiety. It did not regain its color, nor its beautiful serenity; nor could the young man by any effort draw the maiden into conversation. In vain he talked of nature, of books, of people,—of any and everything that he thought might interest her. He felt that she listened attentively; hung, almost breathlessly, on his words, no matter what the subject; yet answered she nothing beyond a few brief syllables. And so they walked in the gradually falling twilight, until the veil of evening shadows hid from each the other's countenance.
               Then, taking courage, Carl spoke to Adaline of the love he had long felt for her. He tried to take her hand, but she kept it away from him. He was full of ardor; wild, almost, in his passion,—urging for a response. But Adaline did not speak.
               "Not one word, Adaline!" he said, at last,  his voice husky with suspense. "Oh, if you knew how I loved you!"
               "Let me go home." It was her only reply. They had become separated from Welford and Miss May, and were now at some distance beyond the village. Adaline turned as she spoke, and started homeward, walking rapidly. Carl strode along by her side,—neither speaking until they stood at Dr. Penrose's garden gate, when Adaline said, in a voice the young man would never have recognized as hers, "Good-evening, Mr. Deering!" and springing up the walk, was out of sight in a moment.
               Like one stupefied, Carl Deering stood for several minutes leaning on the gate he had opened for the young girl to enter; then, with a long sigh, drew himself up and walked slowly away.
               Alice May, whose father lived in the village, did not return to the house of her friend Adaline, but went home after her walk with Henry Welford; so Adaline retired immediately to her chamber. It was after midnight,  when, lifting her face from the pillow in which she had buried it, she disrobed herself and went to bed. Her movements were slow and heavy, like one in partial stupor. Her face was colorless and bore signs of strong mental conflict; but the lips had a firm pressure, as if she had reached some clear decision.
               Dr. Penrose was an early riser. "The sun and I begin our work together," he liked to say. "When he is out of bed, you may count on finding my chamber empty." He was a man of character and influence in the village,—a clear thinker and a resolute actor. His wife had none of his strong, decided qualities. She was a mild, gentle, weak woman; a pleasant companion in sunny weather, but hindering and burdensome in times of trouble and danger. Adaline, though taking something from both father and mother, was most like her father, between whom and herself there existed a strong bond of sympathy and affection. She had always been frank and free with him, and reserved towards  her mother, who really knew little of her inner life.
               As Dr. Penrose sat in his porch, drinking in the fine morning air, full of odor and sunshine, and enjoying the calmness and healthy influence of the hour, the noise of a footstep caused him to look round, when he started up, exclaiming in a tone of surprise and concern:—
               "Why, Ada, dear! Are you sick?"
               Her pale, slightly pinched face alarmed him.
               Adaline made an effort to reply, but no sound answered to the movement of her lips.
               "What has happened, dear?" her father asked, in increasing concern.
               "Something about which I want to talk to you," the agitated girl managed to say.
               "Come into the office," said the doctor, as he drew his arm about the waist of Adaline. As soon as they were in the little office, Dr. Penrose seated her in a chair, and taking another directly in front of her, looked for a  few moments, silently and anxiously, into her face.
               "Now, darling,—what is it?" His voice was full of tenderness.
               "Carl Deering—" She stopped without completing the sentence; but grew paler and more disturbed.
               "Has offered himself?" said the doctor.
               "Yes."
               Dr. Penrose studied the face before him intently. He was puzzled.
               "Do you love him?" he asked, abruptly.
               "Yes," the maiden answered frankly.
               "He is a young man of very fine quality," said Dr. Penrose, "and comes of a good stock."
               "I know,—I know," Adaline said quickly, almost impatiently; "but this fine quality and good stock must be counted out sometimes."
               "I don't get your meaning, Ada."
               "I must count them out." Adaline spoke with firmness. She was gradually getting possession of herself.
               
               "You cannot get grapes of thorns nor figs of thistles, my child," said the doctor, with considerable warmth of manner. "It is not safe to count out good qualities in the stock."
               "There may not always be vital force enough in the stock to overcome bad conditions, or vicious influences," returned Adaline.
               "Ha! Do I get your meaning?"
               The doctor started as if touched by the point of a spear.
               "Father," said Adaline, leaning towards Dr. Penrose, and speaking slowly and impressively, "when I was but twelve years of age, I saw a thing that burned itself into my memory, and will be a living picture there so long as I live. I have shivered a hundred times since in presence of that picture." She paused, catching her breath with a half-arrested sob.
               "It was over at Concord," Adaline resumed, quickly regaining her firmness of tone. "I was visiting for a few weeks at Aunt Wilford's. One day Cousin Helen and  I were invited to spend the afternoon and take tea with a lady who had been married a few years, an intimate friend of Helen's. She was lovely, and looked so very young, I thought, to be the mother of two children,—dear little things, who made their way right into your heart.
               "During the early part of the afternoon this lady was bright and cheerful, yet with a certain quietness of manner, falling at times into moments of abstraction, as if there were a weight on her thoughts. These states of abstraction increased, and were of longer continuance, as the afternoon wore away. Something of disquietude and suspense became so apparent, that, child as I was, I could not fail to observe it.
               "Tea was at last ready, but the lady's husband had not returned. 'I don't know what keeps him,' she said, in a worried tone, that had in it more than simple annoyance. 'He ought to have been home half an hour ago.' Even as she spoke, a man's step was heard at the door. As it swung open noisily, I saw  her start and listen with a strange kind of intentness, her face reddening, and then suddenly growing ashy white. 'O papa!' cried one of the children, a curly-headed darling not three years old, running out into the hall to meet her father. A moment after, and a tall, handsome young man, bearing the child in his arms, strode into the room where we were sitting. He stopped, in a confused way, on seeing company, knit his brows, and looked disconcerted. I glanced from him to his wife. Not until my dying day can I forget the mingled shame and agony of her face as she noticed his condition. The man was drunk!
               "He set the child down hastily, and made an effort to be self-possessed. We were presented to him, and he greeted us with a superfluous courtesy that revealed, instead of hiding, his mental bewilderment. O poor wife! The anguish, the shame, the humiliation of that hour! There are few women, I think, who would not rather die than encounter such a life-experience. As for me,  I would not hesitate, on such an election, for a single instant.
               "I will not go over all I saw on that sorrowful evening. Enough that a young man of high moral worth, culture, intelligence, and great promise, acted for us, through two painful hours, the rôle of a silly egotist, varying the character now and then for that of an overbearing tyrant, or a quarrelsome brute. Such pity as I had for his wife has never touched my heart for any human being; and I think never will. The young man came of good stock, father! But what of that?"
               "Carl Deering is no drunkard," said Dr. Penrose.
               "He had been drinking last night," returned Adaline.
               "What evidence had you?"
               "The evidence of breath and unusual mental excitement. I never saw him just as he was last evening, and wondered what it meant until he breathed into my face. Then I had the solution. Memory revived the scene witnessed at Concord nearly ten years  ago, and I was gazing at the sad picture when he began talking to me of love!"
               "And you rejected him on the instant," said the doctor.
               "No."
               "What then?"
               "I was silent."
               "Made no response?"
               "None."
               Dr. Penrose dropped his eyes to the floor, closely contracting his brows. After the lapse of a minute, he said, "There are very few young men in the neighborhood who do not, occasionally, drink wine or beer."
               "I know it," was Adaline's brief response.
               "Not from any love of liquor, but in compliance with a social custom. You were at Judge Wilmot's party?"
               "Yes."
               "There was plenty of wine, and even stronger liquors, there."
               "I know."
               "And few of the guests that did not drink.  And now I remember seeing you and Deering tipping your glasses."
               A hot flush burned in Adaline's face, but died out instantly.
               "I remember it," she answered, her voice choking.
               Neither spoke again for a considerable time.
               "How is it that a glass or two of wine was of no account then, and of so much account now?" said Dr. Penrose, breaking the heavy silence.
               Adaline looked into her father's face keenly, and with some surprise.
               "The relation between you is different," the doctor remarked, answering his own question.
               Again there was silence, both the doctor and Adaline visibly embarrassed. The truth was, Dr. Penrose looked upon Carl Deering as, by all odds, the most promising young man in the neighborhood, and was pleased and flattered at his choice of Adaline. He did not feel the force of his daughter's objection tion, regarding it as a weakness, if not a whim. But he understood enough of her character to know that if he set himself very decidedly in opposition to her present views and state of mind, she would confirm them beyond all hope of change.
               "You must give yourself time to think, Adaline." Dr. Penrose spoke calmly. "The rush of feeling has been too strong."
               He saw her tremble; but it was only for a moment.
               "Time to think!" She almost threw the words back upon her father. "What more can thinking do? My brain is mad with thought now."
               "Unhealthy and misleading thought, as in all such cases. I hardly need tell you that, my child."
               "Misleading, when it ever comes back to one conclusion, restate the case and argue it as I will!"
               He was silent.
               "The bare thought of being a drunkard's wife," Adaline went on, "sends such a shiver  along my blood, that I grow faint with a heart-sickness that seems as if unto death. I never felt this so like a warning and an impediment as now. All night it has wrought in my imagination, creating scenes in the future of a life shared with Carl Deering worse to realize than martyrdom. I accept this dread as prophetic. I will act upon it."
               She lifted her form with a quick, strong movement, like one who takes a sudden resolution, setting her calm, clear eyes steadily into those of her father. He had failed her in counsel; and self-reliant, brave, iron-willed,—yet only a sweet and gentle girl,—she rose to the occasion and stood firm as a pillar of granite.
               Dr. Penrose understood both his daughter and the situation. He was not one of those who, when a human impediment stands in their way, surge blindly against it, giving and receiving useless wounds,—helping naught, only hindering and hurting.
               "It concerns you most, darling," he said,  speaking with a tremor of love in his tones, and drawing her head upon his bosom; "and as you decide the question, so let it stand."
               Instantly she broke down, clinging to him and sobbing wildly. But this was for a moment only. With a strong effort she brought the rein back upon her feelings, and quickly regained control. Laying a kiss on her father's lips, Adaline went out silently, and with swift feet ran up to her chamber, shutting and locking the door. She sat down, as one utterly exhausted, very pale and still.
               The struggle had been long and hard. If Dr. Penrose had taken the side against Carl, the decision might have been in his favor, or at least some time delayed. But, with an instinct of danger, Adaline, on seeing that her father made light of a thing that loomed up to her eyes with such fearful proportions, threw herself at a wild bound far over to the side of safety, where she lay stunned, hurt, and weak; but not for long. She did not know, until then, how, almost unconsciously to herself, her heart had been drifting, drifting ing out of reach, until its destiny was well-nigh beyond her control.
               Back from her decision Adaline did not look for a single instant. The case was not open for review, no argument for an appeal would be admitted. Judgment was final. This was in agreement with her character.
               But trial was not over. Carl pressed his suit, making an offer of marriage in writing. Adaline replied, "There is no man for whom I have a higher regard than yourself. I say this, because it is right that I should do so. But there are reasons why I cannot, dare not, marry you, and so am constrained to decline this offer. My decision is final, and I pray you not to give any fruitless effort towards effecting a change. May God keep you very tenderly!"
               The resolute maiden conferred with no one, not even her father, who never knew just the reply she had sent to Deering. Pride helped the young man to get over his disappointment. It might have been better for him if Adaline had so hinted at the reason why she dared  not marry him, that he would have known what the impediment was. Perhaps a new light would have broken in upon him. Perhaps he would have seen danger in a path where none was suspected. We cannot tell. But it might have been better.
               Very different in its effects is the pain of a wounded spirit. In some it works bitterness, in some depression, and in some the sweetness of religious trust. Sweetly, purely, divinely, it wrought in the spirit of Adaline Penrose. Not long did she sit in the shadow of these veiling clouds which had covered her sky so suddenly. There could be, for a time, no help in herself. She felt this deeply; and so, resolutely laying her hand upon her heart to still its impetuous throbs, she looked upward, asking for strength to bear, and inspiration to good deeds.
               On the Sunday following, Adaline went to church as usual. If she had consulted her feelings, she would have remained at home, for the probabilities were in favor of her meeting Carl Deering, who attended church  regularly. But a sense of religious duty would not let her omit the Sabbath privilege; and, moreover, she felt that she needed just the strength and spiritual comfort to be had in worship.
               At the church door she found herself by the side of Carl, who recognized her with a cold nod and a look of reproach that were very bitter to her heart. She sang the hymns, and said the prayers, and hearkened to the preacher with all the self-forgetfulness in her power to summon,—it was not much,—and went home like one in a dream.
               Such a little thing to stand as an impediment between two souls, nobly endowed, each recognizing in each an inborn fitness for each other! Such a little thing as a social glass of wine! And yet it did stand a wall of separation firm as adamantine. And why not? Habits become second nature, and bear us sometimes, almost helplessly, on their steady currents. It is wise, then, for a maiden to take note of the things her lover does habitually, and see if there be any, which, if confirmed  in after years to a degree that would give them mastery over him, would destroy her peace.
               It needs no argument to show that, of all the habits into which our young men fall, there is none more dangerous than that of social drinking; and none that more gradually, enticingly, and insidiously winds its silken cord, with spider-like skill around free manhood, until every limb and muscle is bound in helpless thraldom.
               When, therefore, as in Adaline's case, a maiden finds the breath of her lover foul with liquor, and his brain unsteady, she may well tremble and start back as from the edge of a frightful chasm. What can she know of his peculiar hereditary tendencies?—of those subtle inner forces that may hold him up or bear him down? Nothing at all! He may be in no real danger of becoming a drunkard, or in imminent peril! How is she to know?
               Who, with such a picture as the memory of Adaline Penrose held, can blame her for turning resolutely away from the only man  who had ever filled her maiden ideal, and refusing to take the risk of sharing with him the good and evil of life?
               Both Carl and Adaline held their secret very closely,—he from pride; she from maiden instinct. But even indifferent observers noticed that they were ill at ease in each other's company.
               Almost from the day Adaline declined his offer of marriage, Deering began to show more friendly attentions to Alice May. There was that in Adaline's reply to his offer which extinguished hope. But his heart did not give her up so easily. A thought of her would send a quicker pulse along his veins,—a meeting disturb the even balance of his mind for hours. His spirit leaned and yearned towards her as to the complement of his life.
               Alice May had not the fine mental and moral qualities of her friend. She failed in religious sentiments almost entirely. What the passing hour gave, if it pleased her fancy, she accepted without too rigid questioning.  For a man of Deering's character she was no fit life-companion. She could never be to him a second self.
               With a half-blind impulse, not unallied to desperation, Deering, all the while conscious of this girl's unfitness to become his wife, pressed nearer and nearer, and within two months of his failure with Adaline bound himself to her in a marriage promise.
               "What have I done?" So he questioned himself, sitting alone in his chamber at midnight. He seemed to awaken as from a dream. "What have I done? Do I really love this girl?"
               It was as the touch of a spear, that question, quickening all things of his soul into the keenest perceptive life. "Do I really love her?" What a query for such a moment! And now, unfolding to his inner sight, there stood before him, like a picture, a clear image of himself as to character, aims, aspirations, and intentions, and at the same time an obscure, yet not to be misapprehended, image of Alice May, as she had so far revealed vealed to him the quality and purposes of her life. The groan that escaped his lips was a sad prophecy of the future.
               An intimate friend, to whom Deering communicated a few days later the fact of his engagement with Alice, said, in the unreflecting surprise of the moment:—
               "Oh, no! You're jesting!"
               "I'm in earnest," was replied.
               "You mean Adaline Penrose. She's the only girl in this neighborhood that you ought to marry."
               The crimsoning face Deering could not conceal, betrayed to his friend the secret he would have hidden from all the world.
               "Are you really engaged to Miss May?" asked the friend, soberly.
               "I am," was as soberly answered.
               The young men looked at each other for some moments in silence.
               "Alice May is a charming girl," said the friend, breaking the unpleasant silence; "though I should never have picked her out for you. But love is a queer thing. I wish  you much happiness, my friend; and you'll have it, I doubt not."
               "Time that proves all things will show," answered Deering, in a tone his friend did not soon forget. He understood its meaning better, when not long afterwards it found its way into village gossip, that Deering had first offered himself to Miss Penrose and been rejected. Everybody was surprised, for everybody had picked these two out for each other, and had been wondering at Deering for his preference of Alice May over Adaline Penrose. Conjecture worried itself, of course, over the maiden's reason for declining the hand of Deering, the "best catch," as some said, in the neighborhood; but none divined the cause.
               Dr. Penrose was seriously disappointed. His daughter's objection seemed to him frivolous—almost whimsical. It would lie against nearly every young man of good position in the neighborhood. He had hoped that the renewed attentions of Deering, and the pleadings of Adaline's own heart, would  sweep away the impediment her fancy had thrown up. But when it became known to him that Deering, instead of renewing his suit, had offered himself to the daughter of his friend, Mr. May, and been accepted, his annoyance and disappointment were too great to be silently borne, and, in the keenness of his chagrin, he said some bitter words to his daughter, that were hard to bear.
               "I have no regrets, father," she said, speaking with forced calmness.
               "The time will come, I fear, when regret will cut as a sword," he answered, "and looking at what 'might have been,' you will curse one day in your life as a day of folly and madness."
               Dr. Penrose was forgetting himself.
               "Was it my father who spoke?" The low voice trembled.
               There was a hush like death in the room. Adaline broke the silence.
               "I believe in God, and in his intimate tender care over us, which we call providence. I believe that if in any great crisis we look  to him he will direct our way. There came to me a great crisis: I looked upwards, and a clear light met my eyes, falling on one path alone, while all the rest were in obscurity or darkness. I took that path, though every step was upon sharp, cutting stones. It led me away from my heart's desire; from the fairest promise of all my life. But I walked in it steadily; and though still footsore and weary in the way, I have in my soul a deep and sustaining assurance that the better angels of my life were with me when my election was made. The burden I bear is heavy enough, father; do not add to its weight."
               Dr. Penrose was rebuked, but not reconciled.
               A year afterwards there was a brilliant wedding at Mr. May's. Alice was the bride, and Carl Deering led her to the altar. How handsome and noble-looking was the bridegroom, as he stood by the fair young girl, and made all the solemn promises to love and cherish her through life. Very lovely was the bride; but many eyes wandered from her face during ing the marriage ceremony to that of Adaline Penrose, and by their looks said, "Better if you were standing at his side."
               So thought Dr. Penrose, who felt a new pang of disappointment, as he heard the irrevocable words that pronounced Carl Deering and Alice May husband and wife.
               To the solemn ceremonial succeeded gay festivity. Mr. May had provided a liberal entertainment, and soon the company gathered about the tables, loaded with tempting viands, and abandoned themselves to enjoyment. Wine was as plenty as water.
               It was nearly an hour after they had entered the supper-room, and a portion of the company had returned to the parlors. Adaline was standing alone by one of the windows, partly concealed by its drapery, her eyes fixed intently on Mr. Deering, who was at the lower end of the apartment in the centre of a group of ladies and gentlemen. He was talking with great animation, and gesticulating freely—evidently in more than wonted exhilaration of spirits. The color faded from  Adaline's cheek as she continued to look at Deering; a shadow of pain settled about her lips and in her eyes. Still she regarded him intently, noting every changing expression and manner.
               There could be no mistake. He had taken too much wine. Suddenly his laugh rang out through the room above the sound of voices, and all eyes went towards him.
               "Tipsy, as I live!" said a young man near where Adaline stood, adding, "Oh! that's disgraceful. I never would have thought it of Deering!"
               Adaline looked at the bride, who was near her husband, and saw that her face had become pale as ashes. A slight confusion was apparent in the group nearest to Deering, and one of the groomsmen tried to quiet him. But this only increased his excitement, causing him to swagger and talk in a louder key.
               It was all over in a moment. The bride sunk fainting in the arms of one of the bridemaids, and the shock of her white face, as  Deering saw the shadow as of death upon it, made him sober in an instant. A scene of painful excitement followed. The insensible bride was carried from the supper-room to a chamber, where she lay for nearly half an hour before conscious life returned.
               "O father!" exclaimed Adaline, catching hold of Dr. Penrose, who had crossed to where she was standing. She was trembling like an aspen-leaf.
               "I'm confounded," said the doctor.
               "And I shiver as I think of what might have been! Poor Alice! To die would be sweet to such a wedding-day experience as this."
               "What might have been!" The doctor repeated these words like one shocked and stunned; then added, in a lower voice, speaking to himself, "What an escape!"
               A quiet, but rapid dispersion of the company followed, each one going away with shaded feelings. As Dr. Penrose and his daughter walked homeward, a neighbor who had been at the wedding joined them, remarking ing, as he did so, "There's trouble ahead for the bride, I fear."
               "I hope not," answered the doctor. "The young man can't bear much, I suppose, and his friends toasted him too often."
               The neighbor shook his head gravely, saying, "It's in the blood, I fear."
               "You're at fault there," replied the doctor. "I knew his father well, and he was strictly temperate. I never saw him touch wine or brandy."
               "And I knew his father's father, who was all his life a hard drinker, dying at last the death of a miserable sot. So, you see, there is a possible taint of blood, which may show itself in the third generation. I am more than content to have him marry friend May's daughter instead of mine. The risk is too great."
               "I hope," said the doctor, "that the mortification which must follow to-day will put him on his guard."
               "It will be of no use to him, unless it lead to strict temperance, and I see no hope of  that, for he does not comprehend his danger."
               "Might not a word of warning be given to him?"
               "No. He inherits a vast deal of pride. You know how sensitive his father was?"
               "Yes, I remember. He held his individuality very sacred."
               "And his son is like him. Any hint that he was in danger of becoming a drunkard would be angrily resented."
               "It is worse than I had feared," said Dr. Penrose, speaking very soberly. "He is certainly the flower of our young men."
               "His promise is good; and so has been the promise of many a cloudless summer day that died in stormy disaster. The little cloud, no bigger than a man's hand, is in his sky already."
               On reaching home, Adaline went to her room, and did not join the family again until the next morning. Her father observed her closely, and saw that she had suffered mental pain. He made no reference to the unhappy  incident at the wedding; but his manner towards her was tenderer than usual.
               "Poor lamb!" There was a pitying tenderness in the voice of Henry Welford, as he sprung towards the bride, trying to catch her as she sunk fainting in the banquet-room on her wedding-day. It was by his strong arms that she was borne to the chamber where she lay for so long a time insensible. There were some present who noticed the look of sad interest that he cast upon her face, as he hung for a moment or two over it ere giving way to her maidens.
               Welford had loved Alice sincerely, and on the very night that Deering pressed his suit with Adaline, had asked her hand in marriage, and received a degree of encouragement that was felt to be complied acceptance. Such pure love as a man like Welford could give, it was not in her worldly, self-seeking heart to comprehend or return. Deering was her beau-ideal; but then Deering was enamored of Adaline—any one could see that. And so she encouraged Welford, whose attentions  grew more and more lover-like every day, until she led him on to the point of declaration. Then she gave herself a little time to consider before giving the affirmation that was on her lips when he spoke. In that time the tempter crossed her way, and lured her too willing heart from the path of safety.
               Alice knew that Deering was the lover of her friend, and that Adaline was deeply attached to him. She knew likewise that a cloud had come between them, and that Adaline was profoundly disturbed in consequence.
               "A lover's quarrel that will soon pass over," she had said to herself, believing as she spoke.
               When, in this crisis of affairs, Deering called to see her, and put on his most pleasing manner, it came into her heart to win him over entirely from Adaline, if possible, and secure him for herself. "Poor Welford!" she said in her thoughts; "it will break his heart. But I can't help that; I'm yet free of all promise to him. Deering's the best catch of the two, and I'll get him if I can."
               
               From that time she was cold to Welford and warm towards Deering; and in two months, as we have seen, elected to cast her lot in life with a man whose heart she verily believed was more than half her friend's. Not until her wedding-day did she feel absolutely sure of him; and then with what pain and bitterness was the possession sealed! With what a shock did she awaken to the dread fear that, in gratifying her ambition, she had made the saddest of all sad mistakes!
               The years went by; but there were few events in the lives of those we are writing about that would interest the reader. Deering rose rapidly in his profession, and at the end of ten years was regarded as the ablest lawyer in the county. About this time, having been drawn into politics, he accepted a party nomination to Congress, and was elected. During the canvass, into which he entered actively, he made speeches all over the county, and, sad to tell, many times debauched himself with liquor,—a fact bruited  to his disgrace by some of the opposition papers.
               Holding one of these papers in her hand, Adaline, sitting serenely in the vine-covered porch of her father's house, near the quiet close of an autumn day, let her thoughts go back to other times, and then come forward again to the present.
               Before her inward eyes a picture grew distinct. It was of a woman sitting alone, as she was sitting, but not serenely,—sitting alone in her chamber, pale anguish on her face, and lips shut rigidly; not in tears, for so many had fallen that the fountain had run dry,—sitting alone, hopeless, helpless, palsied under the shame and sorrow that made desolate her present, and filled her future with dread,—the wife of Deering.
               With a low shiver, as she shut the picture away from sight, the lips of Adaline parted with the sentence, "What might have been!"
               A hand touched lightly her shoulder. She started, and turned to meet the question, "What might have been?"
               
               Strong, manly eyes looked tenderly down into hers. A warmer color came into her quiet face, giving it a new beauty.
               "What might have been, Addie?" A kiss from manly lips lay warmly on her forehead.
               "A different lot from that which is mine, thank God! to-day."
               And she stood up, and laid her head against the breast of Henry Welford, saying, as she did so, "My good and honored husband!"
               They had been married only a few months. It took a long time for the ideal man of Adaline Penrose, as it revealed itself to her in the person of Carl Deering, to lose its influence over her mind. She thought of Welford as dull, heavy, unimpassioned, unsympathetic, uninteresting,—everything that made him indifferent to her, except as a friend; and when he began to show more than friendly interest, a feeling of repulsion awoke in her breast. But the native kindness of her heart held her back from doing or saying anything that might wound him; and so she tolerated his advances, until he came close enough for  her to see something of the inner strength, symmetry, and manly beauty of his character. A little motion of surprise was succeeded by a feeling of respect and deference. She soon found him to be a man of close thought and well-settled principles; of refined tastes and true perceptions; one who never made light of humanity or religion.
               Imperceptibly the feeling of repulsion died away and was gone; and soon it came to be a pleasant thing to Adaline for Welford to call and spend an hour. Always they found themes for conversation that did not flag,—themes that laid open to each the other's peculiar tastes, range of ideas, and ruling purposes in life. Both were affected with pleasure and surprise at these mutual revelations; Adaline far more than her companion, for he knew of the sweetness and beauty of her inner life better than she knew of his.
               After this, the course of things was easy and natural. Respect, deference, admiration, and love,—love resting on a safe foundation. The fruit was ripe when Welford raised  his hand, and it fell into his bosom at a touch.
               The well-springs of Adaline's happiness lay very deep; so deep, that no storm in the upper air could reach or disturb them.
               In the eyes of the world, the daughter of Dr. Penrose had not made a very brilliant alliance. Many did not hesitate to say that Welford was her inferior in almost everything, and that she had thrown herself away upon him. With every natural endowment fitting her to shine in society, she must pass her days as the wife of a plodding country lawyer, in dull obscurity,—so the talk went.
               Deering was elected to Congress for three successive terms of two years each, and the people of his district were proud of his talents. On leading questions he made several brilliant speeches, which were copied in the county papers, and much talked about. Into the circles of fashionable life at the capital, Mrs. Deering threw herself with an abandonment that attracted much observation; and her name was often mentioned, by  letter-writers, in describing the various receptions given by leading office-holders and politicians. There were many in the village who envied her; but Adaline was not of the number; she thought of her with the profoundest pity.
               Time went on. Deering, after his third term in Congress, was thrown out in the party nomination. Six years of political life, nearly one-half of it spent in Washington, had told sadly on his moral health. He was not the high-toned man of honor he had promised to become when he stepped forth with such a firm bearing on the stage of life. Evil communication had corrupted, and sensual habits debased. Everything about him showed deterioration both physical and moral.
               During these six years Welford had been slowly but surely rising in his profession. He was not gifted with language, and this had been at first a serious drawback; but to the preparation of his cases he gave such patient industry, and was always so ready with  precedent and authority when he came into court, that he was rarely defeated when law and justice were on his side. In several cases, involving large amounts of property, with some of the ablest lawyers in the State opposed to him, he had gained for his clients; and he was coming to be regarded as one of the soundest practical men at the bar.
               Thus it stood, when Deering, dropped by his party, fell heavily back into private life, hurt and chagrined by the fall. Soon after occurred a vacancy on the Bench, and some of his political friends determined to run him for the place. Not that he was considered just the man; but as he had lost nearly all his practice since devoting himself to politics, and was falling into pecuniary extremity, these political friends sought thus to pension him off on the people. But some of the people of that region were not so minded. Too many and important interests were at stake. Another name, that of Henry Welford, was submitted, and everywhere received with favor.
               Deering, when it was told him that Welford had also been put in nomination for the judgeship, laughed heartily, regarding it as a good joke.
               "He'll run your ticket very close," was said to him.
               "Welford!" His surprise was genuine.
               "The strongest man that could be put against you in the county."
               "Henry Welford! You're jesting?" Deering had known a great deal more about persons and things in Washington than in his own neighborhood for the past six years.
               "I'm entirely in earnest," was replied, "and you'd better take note of the fact. You'll have to work very hard to carry the election."
               "You ought to know best," said Deering, a troubled look gradually settling over his face; "but I couldn't have believed it. Why, there's nothing in the man to warrant his choice by the people."
               "Much more than you seem to think. Some of our most substantial men do not  hesitate to say that he is the ablest lawyer in the county."
               "Preposterous!"
               "You must accept the case as it stands, Mr. Deering. If you make light of your opponent, you will be beaten. He's the strongest man, as I have just said, that could be put against you."
               "Will he take the stump?" asked Deering.
               "I cannot answer positively; but from what I know of the man I should say not."
               "Then I'll beat him!" A gleam shot over Deering's face.
               The canvass opened. Deering visited all parts of the county, making brilliant speeches in his own behalf, while Welford remained in his office diligently attending to the business of his clients.
               A man who is ready to drink on all occasions will hardly pass through a political contest, especially if he be a candidate for office, without drinking too deeply; or, in plainer phrase, getting intoxicated. Deering  was no exception. Unhappily, his almost daily use of liquor during six years of public life, too often with a freedom that confused his brain, had created a thirst which no single draught could appease. When under any strong mental excitement, this thirst grew intense. Is it any wonder that, long before election day, the charge of drunkenness was brought against him by some of the papers,—times, places, and disgusting particulars being set forth with wretched minuteness? or that placards were seen in public places, bearing the disgraceful words, "DO YOU WANT A DRUNKARD FOR A JUDGE??"
               Such placards met the eyes of Adaline; they were posted everywhere by the leaders of the canvass for her husband, but against his remonstrance. And her eyes never fell upon one of them without a cold shiver running to her heart, as she thought of what might have been, had she not refused to marry the man whose words of love came to her ears on a liquor-tainted breath. "Thank God for the strength given me in that hour  of deep bewilderment and sore trial!" How often did these words fall from her lips!
               Adaline was sitting alone in the dim October twilight, looking upon the western sky, where still lingered the fading colors of a sunset as glorious as the one that entranced her with its loveliness on another well-remembered evening years gone by. The past was very distinct to her, mingling its threads of incident and hues of feeling with the present.
               Suddenly the sound of voices struck with a jar upon her ears. She arose and went out upon the porch, straining her eyes into the dusky air. The voices grew louder, and she became aware that a small crowd of men were advancing along the street from the upper end of the town. She stepped from the porch and went to the garden-gate, remaining there until they came near. Two of them were holding a drunken man, who was in a wild passion,—raving, swearing, and savagely denouncing some one in the bitterest terms. Just as he was opposite the gate at which Adaline was standing, one of the men, on  seeing her, took off his hat and cried, "Three cheers for Mrs. Judge Welford!"
               It was her first intimation of the result of the election held that day.
               Instantly the words were taken up, and the crowd gave three hearty cheers. As their voices died away, and before Adaline had recovered from her surprise and confusion, the drunken man sprang forward, exclaiming in his mad frenzy, "Ha! Is this the huzzy? Let me have a good look at her! Oh, I remember you, my pretty one!"
               He had broken from the men who were forcing him home, and, ere Adaline could start back, stood face to face with her, leering and scowling alternately in his drunken insanity.
               Then a strong hand was laid on him, and as he was borne back, Adaline heard the pitying but stern voice of her husband say, "Take him home, gentlemen! Take him home!"
               It all passed like a bewildering dream.
               "Poor Alice!" They were the first words  spoken by Adaline, as she stood alone with her husband. "How my heart aches for her!"
               Then a cold shiver ran along her nerves, as the old thought of what might have been flashed through her mind. A moment she stood as if transfixed by pain; then, as a great peace flooded her soul, she laid her head against her husband's manly breast, saying, in the fulness of her heart, "I am the happiest wife in R—to-day!"
            
            
               VII. NOT MYSELF.
               IF not myself, then who was I?
               Just so. Who was I? That's the question. Perhaps, friendly reader, if I take you into my confidence, you will help me to see the matter in a clearer light, for I am just now in much obscurity.
               "I was not myself" at the time. My friends said so, and I said so. It was my, and their, only apology and excuse.
               "Mr. Jones is prudent and clear-headed, and never would have done it if he had been himself." Every one assented to this, and I accepted the declaration as true.
               But how came it that I was not myself? Had I been to a "Circle" or "Séance"? No; for I have no fancy for the sounds of footfalls on the boundaries of another world.  My business for the present is with embodied, and not with a vagrant crew of disembodied, spirits. Was I suffering from temporary insanity? No one, so far as I know, ever hinted such a thing.
               Let me tell you the whole story. I think it will interest you.
               I am, or was, a merchant. For years my business, under prudent management, had grown steadily, until the house over which I presided was known as one of the most prominent in the city. There are two pivots in every mercantile business, on which success or failure rests,—buying and selling. If the buyer of an establishment thoroughly understands his rôle, and the salesmen theirs, success, in ordinary circumstances, is almost sure; but if either be seriously at fault, ruin is quite as certain.
               I was, and always had been, the buyer in our house. To this part of the business I gave careful and systematic attention, keeping myself posted in regard to stocks of leading goods in market, and the prospect of  advancing or receding rates. To-day I would buy freely, when others hesitated, because I was better informed, or had, from long observation and experience, a kind of intuition as to the future of prices; but to-morrow found me cautious on a different line of goods, and I touched them lightly, while others bought heavily. The result nearly always proved my skill or prescience.
               There was no guess-work in all this. I was educated to it; and when I went to auction, or examined the importer's samples, I knew to a fraction what the article offered for sale was worth in the market; whether stocks in first hands were large or small, and how much, under the circumstances, it would be prudent to buy.
               During a period of ten years, in which scarcely a day passed that I did not go to auction, or visit the sample-room or store of some manufacturer, commission merchant, or importer, no serious mistake in buying was made. In consequence, we were never caught with a large stock of anything, on a falling  market, but often got signal advantages when prices went up.
               But something came over me about three years ago, and every now and then I would make a slight mistake that annoyed me exceedingly, for I had grown proud of my skill and reputation as a buyer.
               The first time this occurred the mistake was so palpable that I made no attempt to excuse it. The case of goods I bought fell six cents a yard on the very next day. Every clerk in the store knew there would be a fall, and so did I. And yet, when the case was put up, I bid it off in my usual confident tone,—the error flashing on me when it was too late for repair.
               "I don't understand this," I said to myself, greatly annoyed by the incident. "What could have possessed me? The blunder has no excuse."
               And yet, strange to say, within a month I committed a worse blunder. Now, if I had fallen into habits of intemperance, the thing would have been plain. But this was not the  case. I am temperate in all things, in drinking as in eating. I don't mean that I am what is called a teetotaler, for I consider myself a rational being, and so put myself under the government of reason, and not in bonds. I take a glass of wine, or ale, or brandy, whenever I think I need it, and expect to continue doing so until I find that it does me harm, which is not yet. I can stop whenever I please.
               Well, as I was saying, within a month I committed a worse blunder,—stocking our shelves with a line of goods that fell twenty per cent. in the market before the end of a fortnight. I was annoyed, bewildered, confounded.
               "What has come over me? Am I losing my senses?" So I talked to myself. "There isn't a buyer, of six months' experience, that wouldn't have known better, and avoided such an error."
               I put as good a face on the matter as possible, and resolved never to be "caught napping again." Naturally, I was sensitive about  the mistakes committed, and the remotest allusion to them annoyed me.
               One of my partners, whose faith in my judgment these lapses had disturbed, ventured, now and then, a word of caution, especially when I was about going to some large sale. I was never able to repress my irritation at this; and we had sharp words, now and then, in consequence.
               A great sale of goods, in our line, had been advertised in New York; the invoices covering, in the aggregate, nearly a quarter of a million of dollars.
               "Buy cautiously," said the partner, whose faith in my judgment had been impaired.
               "Hadn't you better go yourself?" I answered testily.
               He looked at me with troubled eyes, but made no response.
               I went over to New York in the evening train, in company with several merchants on the same errand with myself. They talked up the matter of stocks of goods; the effect this heavy sale would have on prices, and the  probable future of the market. Opinions differed. Some held that prices would advance, and some that they would recede. I listened and said but little, as was my habit; but carefully weighing all the pros and cons, and considering all the reasons urged on both sides.
               When I reached New York my mind was made up to buy with great caution. It was barely possible that one or two leading capitalists in the trade might purchase heavily on speculation, and hold for an 
                     advanee
                     advance
                  ; in that case, other buyers would make a good thing of it. But if the large stock went into several hands, each taking pretty freely, some, more eager to sell than the rest, might press the market, and cause a serious decline in prices.
               I saw all this clearly, and resolved to purchase only to the extent of supplying our immediate wants. But, during the evening, this purpose was disturbed, and a different view adopted.
               "Come to my room," said a well-known  merchant who had been with me in the cars. It was after supper. "Two or three friends are to drop in for a talk over a bottle of wine about to-morrow's sale."
               I went with him to his room. In a short time two merchants from my own city, and one resident in New York, joined us. Wine and cigars were ordered, and we spent two or three hours together, drinking, smoking, and talking about the sale. I have never been able to recall the data and reasonings by which I passed to the conclusion that my rôle on the next day was to be that of a heavy, instead of a light, buyer; but when I went to bed that night, such was my fixed purpose. I lay awake for a long time, pleasing my fancy with golden results that were sure to come from to-morrow's business. I counted the profits of our house by tens of thousands of dollars. Thought ran riot over the gains I would not fail to secure.
               In thinking back to that night, I have always felt that I was not my real self; that, in some way, the perception or reasoning of  another mind was superinduced upon my own; that all my experience, clear judgment, and prudence were lost for a period, and that my mental powers were operated by some volition foreign to my own.
               I was not myself; that is certain. I was not fully myself on the next morning. On rising, my head ached in a dull way, and my brain was slightly confused. It was not so clear to me that I was to make the fortune of our house by bidding off at the coming sale to the tune of fifty or a hundred thousand dollars. The wet blanket of doubt chilled my night's enthusiasm.
               But a glass of brandy and water, followed by coffee and breakfast, cleared my head, gave life to my pulse, and tension to my nerves. I met my friend of the evening before, and we spent an hour previous to the sale in talking up the business of the day, and then, after emptying a bottle or two of wine, repaired to the auction-rooms, which we found crowded with merchants from all parts of the country.
               
               I was in a state of confidence and exhilaration; never had a clearer head, so it seemed, nor saw my way more distinctly. Terms were announced, and the sale began. Bidding was cautious at first, and a few lots were struck down at figures so low that I remember feeling disturbed as well as surprised. But the impression faded out in a moment. On the next lot I bid at the figure last obtained. Some one advanced, and I went higher promptly. The goods were mine, no one going above me.
               "Do you take the whole lot,—forty cases?" asked the auctioneer.
               "The whole," I answered in a confident way, that caused many to turn and look at me.
               The sale went on, growing more spirited as it progressed, new bidders venturing in with every successive lot. I forgot everything but my purpose to buy heavily, and make the fortune of our house. A single idea possessed me, and that was the certain great advance in the price of the goods now being sold. I was as sure of this as of my  existence, and felt a kind of contempt for the timid buyers, who, with the opportunity of a hundred cases, took only five or ten.
               At two o'clock, I left the heated auction-rooms with flushed face and throbbing temples. As the fresh air struck upon me with its grateful coolness, I seemed to pass into a new world of thought and perception. I was myself again,—my clear-headed self, poised amid my own business experiences and convictions.
               What a shiver ran down to my heart as the fact that I had just bid over sixty thousand dollars on a single line of goods looked me darkly in the face!
               "Impossible!" I exclaimed, standing still and catching my breath, for I seemed, for the instant, as if in a vacuum. "Impossible! That would be ruin!"
               And it was ruin! On the day after the sale, the goods I had bought for a rise fell twenty per cent., and steadily declined day after day, until they were fifty per cent. below the figures I paid.
               
               Stunned and bewildered by the peril in which my blind recklessness had plunged our house, we failed to do the only wise thing that was left for us, and that was to sell at once, and accept the inevitable loss of twelve thousand dollars. But none of us had the courage to look that disaster fairly in the face.
               "The market will surely rally," we said. But it did not rally. We struggled with our fate, resorting to all kinds of expedients to keep our ship afloat,—plunging, buffeting, gasping amid the waves, until in storm and darkness the goodly vessel was stranded.
               We saved little from the wreck. My partners gathered what to them remained, and started on a new business venture, leaving me out.
               Yes, I was left out,—out in the cold, where I have been shivering ever since.
               I was not myself when I bid so blindly. That my partners said; that our business friends, who pitied us, said; and that I said emphatically.
               But, if not myself, who was I? You see, reader, I am back to where I started. Ever since the memorable day when I went to that auction-room and acted the blind, over-confident, reckless speculator, instead of the cool, experienced, cautious business man that I am and was, I have puzzled my brain over this question. Can evil spirits, who love to do us harm, get, through some strange process unknown to us, a temporary possession of our mental machinery, and drive it to our hurt or ruin? I have thought so sometimes. What happened to me I have seen happen to others at various times in my life. One of the shrewdest and most wary buyers I ever knew, lost, suddenly, as I did, on a single occasion, his clearness of judgment, and involved his house in a heavy loss. "I don't know what came over me," he said, when I asked him about it. "Somehow, I was not myself on that day." He looked puzzled and worried when he said this.
               A thought comes flashing across the darkness of my mind as I write, and startles me!  Can it bring the solution? Let me ponder. My brain did not have its normal coolness and steadiness on that night at the hotel, when we discussed the coming sale. Why? Let me not deceive myself. Why? Was it the fatigue of riding in the cars? No! I was used to that, and not fatigued. The supper? Of course not. The wine?
               I have walked the floor, since writing the last sentence, in much agitation, and now sit down in a calmer state and with a clearer brain. I am afraid it was the wine! My judgment was clear when I went, on the night before the sale, to the room of my business friend, and clouded when I left it. And yet it seemed clear. That is strange. It was an erroneous judgment, and false in the light of my own true intelligence; and yet it looked fair to me that night. Perception was inverted. How? Why? I was not my own real self.
               On the next morning this false judgment was in a wavering state. The convictions of the night previous were not so clear. I had  disturbing doubts and troublesome questionings. I was by no means so confident that an advance in the market was to follow this large sale. What dispersed these doubts? What restored my confidence? Was it the nerve-quieting brandy before, and the exhilarating wine after, breakfast? Did they give back that abnormal state of the brain, the result of unnatural stimulus, through which I became, as it were, another, and not myself,—acting the part of a blind and foolish speculator, instead of the wise and prudent merchant that in my real self I was?
               How is it? I am startled and shocked at such a view of the case. Strange that this old saw should just now intrude itself: "When the wine is in, the wit is out!" Whatever was in with me, surely the wit was out! There is no gainsaying that. And I, too, am out,—out in the cold; and all for what?—a glass or two of brandy and a bottle of wine?
               You have the whole story, reader. Do you think it was the wine?
            
            
               
               VIII. ONE GLASS OF WINE.
               "IT is one of the things I can't understand," said a friend, with that perplexed, half-angry look we see in faces sometimes. We were speaking of the difference in character and condition of two families that lived in our neighborhood: one very poor, yet showing a refinement and culture above the usual range; the other wealthy, but coarse and ignorant. "Why Providence should be on the side of that coarse boor instead of his neighbor, the refined gentleman, is something I don't comprehend."
               "It is your way of putting it that makes the case a puzzle," I returned. "There is no such thing in the government of Divine Providence as arbitrarily setting one man up,  and keeping another down. But there are unjust social laws and customs that bear heavily on the weak and ignorant, and load them with impediments that have to be borne, in too many cases, through life. Yet, even under these hindering conditions, the will has a large measure of free action, and the individual may always get higher than his social starting-place if he cares to do so. Society advances towards a better order, and to the assertion and maintenance of equal rights, through the efforts of just such individuals to rise above the common level of their class. Providence forces nothing, for that would be to destroy human freedom,—in other words, to destroy man; for we are men because we are endowed with freedom and reason."
               "Then, according to your view," remarked my friend, "it is the fault of our poor neighbors over the way that they are not as rich as the Sterlings."
               "A single glass of wine made all the difference," said I.
               
               He turned upon me a quick, surprised look.
               "You know the history of these two families?"
               "Very well."
               "What do you mean by saying that a single glass of wine made all the difference between them? Has Fabian been intemperate?"
               "No. He has been temperate all his life; temperate, industrious, and frugal. And yet, but for a single glass of wine, he might have been as rich to day as his neighbor Sterling. Providence led him to the very threshold of worldly prosperity; but with his own hand he shut the door, and was not strong enough to open it again. Humble and poor,—toiling and striving,—there came a 'tide in his affairs,' which, 'taken at the flood,' would have borne him on to fortune. He failed to take the flood, and the ebbing waters left him stranded for all time; failed, because of a single glass of wine! Shall I tell you his story?"
               "Yes."
               Henry Fabian, a mechanic of more than usual culture and refinement, while at work repairing a complicated piece of machinery, thought of an improvement, which, if successfully applied, would make a saving of hundreds of thousands of dollars annually in the product of a single article of common use.
               He spoke of it to no one, but turned the thought over and over in his mind, until it took such a definite shape that he began to make hasty drawings in a stealthy sort of way, and instead of reading aloud to his little family in the evening, as was his custom, would often sit in silent musings for hours together.
               In order to quiet the concern of his wife, who began to be troubled at this change in her husband, Mr. Fabian took her into his confidence, and found no difficulty in transferring to her mind a measure of the golden hopes that were beginning to fill his own; for the improvement he sought to effect was so simple, that its bare suggestion made it plain to almost any intelligent person.
               
               "Keep it to yourself, Henry! Keep it all to yourself!" was the earnest injunction of his wife, who had no great faith in human nature. "Don't let a soul at the shop know what you are doing, until all the models are ready and your patent secured."
               "Trust me for that, Mary," he answered, with the firmness of a man who felt the value of his secret.
               Now that Fabian had taken his wife into his confidence, he could pursue his work, to which all his evenings were devoted, with a directness of purpose that met with no outside impediments. With her his secret was as safe as with himself; nay, safer, for all day he was surrounded by fellow-workmen in a large machine-shop, and it was impossible for him not to betray the fact that his mind was deeply occupied with something beyond his daily tasks. The hurried sketch of some strange piece of machinery, made at times half stealthily; the tool, not required in his daily work, occasionally seen on his bench; his absent or abstracted manner,—all gave  notice of the fact that Fabian had taken up the rôle of an inventor.
               "I wonder what he can be after?" said a fellow-workman, named Sterling, knitting, as he spoke, his heavy eyebrows. This remark was to one of the foremen in the establishment.
               "After a wild goose," was the curt reply.
               "Not the man," answered Sterling. "Fabian's mind is too well balanced. It's my opinion, that he's going to make his own or somebody else's fortune. Somebody else's most likely. It is generally so."
               The foreman, whose name was Darnell, shrugged his shoulders, as he said, in a lower tone, half confidentially, "If there's going to be a fortune, it might as well be for us as anybody else—ha?"
               "Just my own thought, Mr. Darnell. In this world one man sows and another reaps. That's the rule. I've lived long enough to know this. And if the man who sows loses the harvest, what matter is it who reaps? My rights are as good as my neighbor's.  Let the shrewdest and smartest go in and win, say I."
               The two men, now clearly understanding each other, talked together for some minutes longer, and then separated.
               From this time, Sterling manifested the friendliest regard for Fabian; but the latter had too fine a moral quality to respond with anything beyond a gentlemanly kindness. The man's coarse nature repelled him.
               One day, the workman—a dull, plodding hand—who occupied the bench next to Fabian was discharged, under some pretext, by Darnell, the foreman. The bench remained vacant for a couple of days. On the second day, Darnell, standing near to Fabian, called across the shop to Sterling, and told him to change his tools to the vacant bench, as it had a better lathe than the one he was using. This brought Sterling close to the man in whom he now felt so lively an interest. Without appearing to observe him, he watched Fabian closely from morning till night, and all he saw confirmed the impression that his  fellow-workman was deeply absorbed in some mechanical invention. Often he would see him pause in his work, and sit motionless, lost in thought for a considerable time. Occasionally he would make a hurried draft of something on a piece of paper, study it for a few moments, and then thrust it into his pocket. Scarcely a day passed that he did not file or turn in his lathe some small piece of iron or brass, which the sharp eyes of Sterling detected as not belonging to his regular work.
               For fear of exciting suspicion, Sterling never seemed to notice any of these things. He made himself very friendly; talked about the current news of the day; gossiped on shop matters, and sought in every way to break down the quiet reserve of Fabian, and get into his confidence. But, just so near could he come, and no nearer.
               The foreman, Darnell, had, also, a changed manner towards Fabian, not unnoticed by the latter. It was more respectful than formerly.
               "What do you make out of him?" asked  the foreman of Sterling, a week after he had given his accomplice the bench purposely made vacant beside Fabian.
               "Nothing," was the moody answer, "except that he's completely absorbed in something, and that something an invention, on which he is at work every evening. I've tried my best to get an invitation to call and see him; but he won't take any hint I can give. Over and over again have I asked him to call in and take a game of draughts or backgammon with me; but he excuses himself by saying that he rarely goes out at night.
               "Does he drink anything?" asked Darnell.
               "I've seen him take a glass of ale, now and then; but very seldom."
               "Can't we get round him in that way? A glass of ale or wine often has a magical effect. 'When the wine's in, the wit's out,' you know."
               Sterling knit his heavy brows, and thought for a good while. At last, striking his hands together, he exclaimed, "I have it!" while a gleam of satisfaction went over his face.  "Our Building Association, of which he is Secretary, meets again in three weeks from to-morrow."
               "Well?"
               "At that meeting a committee will have to be appointed to audit the Treasurer's accounts."
               "Well?"
               "You are President."
               "Yes."
               "And will appoint the auditing committee."
               "Yes."
               "Make me chairman, and put on Fabian," said Sterling.
               "What then?"
               "Of course I shall have to fix the time of meeting."
               "Well?"
               "I will call it at my own house, in the evening. It must be so arranged that you, Fabian, and I constitute this committee."
               "No trouble as to that," said Darnell. "What next in the programme?"
               "As soon as we have made the audit, you  must go off hurriedly, on the plea of an engagement, leaving Fabian with me. I shall have a bottle of wine ready for the occasion, and, as he cannot plead teetotalism as an excuse for not joining me in a social glass, I will warm up his blood, and set his tongue free, if possible."
               A heavy slap on his companion's shoulder was Darnell's sign of approval. "If one glass doesn't do the work, let him have half a dozen."
               "Trust me for that," answered Sterling, with a sinister leer at the foreman. "I am not over-scrupulous."
               One evening, a few weeks after, as Fabian sat at the supper-table with his wife and children,—there were four children; two daughters and two sons,—Fanny, the eldest, just in her fifteenth year, said, with a half-doubtful look at her father, "I wish I could take music lessons; but it costs so much, and we are poor." Then she added, playfully, leaning in a fond way towards her father, "Haven't we a ship coming in?"
               "I shouldn't wonder," replied Fabian, light breaking into his face, and revealing the confident hopes that grew stronger in his heart every day.
               "Oh!" exclaimed Fanny, clapping her hands, "how I wish it would arrive! Is it richly laden, papa, dear?" and the affectionate girl drew down his head and kissed him.
               "Some ships return in ballast only," said the father, veiling with a sober expression the light that was flooding his face. "And mine, if she ever does come in, may bring only a heap of cobble-stones instead of golden treasure."
               "Don't say that, papa! I can't bear it," answered the girl. "Oh, I want to take music lessons so badly! I'm nearly fifteen years old, and if I don't begin soon my fingers will grow stiff, and I'll never make a good player. I love music so!"
               "What will a teacher cost?" asked her father.
               "Milly Gray's teacher charges twenty-five dollars a quarter," returned Fanny.
               
               Fabian sighed. His daughter noticed this, and said quickly, "Of course you can't afford it now; but when the ship comes in!"
               "Then, dear, you shall have the best music and French teachers in the city," replied Fabian, with a thrill of pleasant anticipation in his voice.
               "And we'll move out of this mean old house, won't we?" said John, next younger than Fanny. He was a handsome boy of thirteen, and the best scholar in his class at the public school. "I don't like the boys about here. They fight, and swear, and worry a fellow's life out of him."
               "The wisest thing for us all," spoke up the mother, whose wasted features showed how much she needed the ship's arrival, "is to make the best of what we have. This looking for a ship to come in is very apt to breed discontent. God knows what is good for us, and we are in his hands."
               She meant to speak the last sentence in a cheerful tone, but on the closing word her voice faded out with a sigh. None in that  humble dwelling looked and longed as ardently for the coming ship; for on her weak shoulders, that stooped daily more and more, the heaviest burdens rested.
               And yet that sighing cadence was not from any thought of herself. Her eyes had wandered, as she spoke, to the face of Mary, her youngest daughter,—Mary, her invalid child,—Mary, the sweet, patient sufferer, whose presence in that household was a perpetual yet precious burden to the hearts of all, drawing them closer together in a loving interest for one who grew dearer and dearer to them every hour.
               Up from the tenderest depths of the mother's heart came that sigh, as she looked into Mary's face, which had brightened like the others as they talked of the coming ship. All the rest were strong and healthy, and, even if the ship never arrived, could hold their own with the world; but Mary was helpless.
               There was silence for a little while, then Fabian rose from the table, and said, playfully fully, as he bent over Mary, and laid his hand gently on her head, "I saw a chair, lined with soft cushions, in at Wilson's furniture store to-day, and thought how nice it would be for you, dear. You shall have it when the ship comes in."
               The child did not answer. But the look of grateful love that filled her large brown eyes as she turned them to his face, made Fabian long more earnestly for the success that seemed just about crowning his work. Leaving his family, he went to the room where he spent most of every evening in trying to perfect his invention. It was about right now. Every important difficulty had been surmounted, and he had a working model all ready to submit with the patent papers as soon as they could be drawn up. He was examining this model, his mind strongly excited over the result, when his wife came in with her quiet step.
               "The work is done, Mary!" said Fabian, in a tone of exultation. "The ship is in sight, richly freighted."
               The wife smiled at her husband's enthusiasm, and said gently, "Don't be too confident, Henry. Nothing is sure, except—"
               "There!" exclaimed Fabian, interrupting his wife, "I came near forgetting that committee. I don't know why they put me on it, for I'm not much of a hand at figures."
               "What committee?" asked Mrs. Fabian.
               "I am one of three to audit the accounts of our Treasurer."
               "Oh, yes; so you told me. And you meet to-night?" A cold shadow seemed to drop down over Mrs. Fabian, causing an inward shiver. The faint color which had warmed her pale face went out of it instantly.
               "Yes, we meet to-night, and I came near forgetting it."
               "And you must go?" said Mrs. Fabian, a husky tremor in her voice that she could not repress.
               "Of course. But what ails you? You look scared."
               "I don't know, Henry; but there's a great load here." And the wife laid her hand over  her heart. "It came all at once. Oh, I wish you wouldn't go out!"
               "But I must go, dear. It's a business engagement, and has to be kept. I ought to be there now."
               And Fabian hurried off, leaving his wife standing in statue-like stillness. She did not move for some minutes after he was gone; then she sunk down into a chair like one whose strength had failed suddenly, and sat for a long time with a strange, stony look on her face.
               "God help us all!" she at last exclaimed, as a flood of tears gushed over her cheeks. "The ship will never come in!"
               She was very still again for a good while, sitting with eyes cast down and fixed; but the expression of her countenance gradually softened, until the old patience came back, but not the old touch of cheerfulness that made it so pleasant to look upon.
               The model of the new invention which was to lift them out of the vale of poverty stood just in front of her. Her eyes fell upon it, and  a low thrill of pain crept along her nerves to her heart. What ailed her? She could not tell; but an evil foreboding had come suddenly, like the blackness of darkness, on her heart, and would not pass away. She had no more faith in the invention. It would disappoint all their hopes; of that she was sure.
               Meanwhile her husband was hurrying to his engagement.
               "A little behind time," said Darnell, the foreman, as he came in.
               "Haven't kept you waiting long, I hope?" returned Fabian.
               "Oh, no; but let's to business at once, as I have another engagement this evening."
               So the three men took up the Treasurer's accounts, which they had met to examine, and in half an hour they completed their work.
               "And now," said Darnell, as he signed the certificate of audit, "pray excuse me;" and he hurried off, leaving Sterling and Fabian together. The latter made a motion to follow low, but Sterling laid his hand on his arm, saying, in a positive way:—
               "No, no, my friend! It's early in the evening yet. Sit down and let us have a chat, if it's only for ten minutes. Don't run off as if you were afraid of me!"
               With some reluctance Fabian resumed his chair.
               "It's pleasant," said Sterling, "to hear a friend's voice, now and then, sounding in a natural way. The fact is, one hardly knows, in the shop, what his own voice is like; there's such a mixed-up din of wheels, hammers, files, and all that."
               "Din enough to distract any one; only we get used to it," replied Fabian. His thought was somewhere else, and he spoke absently.
               "It's a miserable sort of life we hewers of wood and drawers of water have to live," said Sterling. "As hard as we can spring to it from morning till night, and only just able to keep the wolf from our doors."
               He sighed in a natural way, dropped his  eyes to the floor, and seemed to be lost in thought. As Fabian made no response, Sterling, after a short time, said, looking towards his wife, "Haven't we a bottle of wine left out of the half dozen your brother sent us last spring? It was capital stuff. If there is one, I'd like to break it in honor of our friend to-night."
               Now Fabian had been asked, only a week before, to sign the teetotal pledge; but he refused, saying that he wasn't fond of liquor, and, therefore, in no danger of becoming a drunkard. If he had signed, he would now have said, "Don't open the bottle for me,—I'm a teetotaler." But he had no such reason to offer; and any other would have given offence. So he could do nothing but wait for the wine, which Mrs. Sterling soon produced. The cork was drawn, and two glasses filled. Sterling lifted one and Fabian the other, touched them in silence, and drank, looking into each other's faces. A quick, fiery thrill, almost electric, shot through Fabian's nerves; then a softer glow pervaded  his whole body, giving it a genial warmth and sense of comfort.
               "What do you think of that?" asked Sterling.
               "I am no judge of wine," answered Fabian; "but I should call this excellent."
               "Let us fill your glass again." And Sterling took up the bottle.
               "No, thank you!" Fabian spoke positively, as he drew away his glass. "I limit myself always. In fact, I rarely take anything stronger than tea or coffee. Once in a while, as on the present occasion, I drink with a friend; but never take more than a single glass of anything."
               "A very good rule," said Sterling, falling in with Fabian's mood. "I know forty men in the shop who would be a thousand times better off than they are, if they would adopt it also. By-the-by, Fabian," and he leaned towards his friend, dropping his voice, and speaking in a confidential way, "I overheard Darnell and Mr. Bertram talking about you this morning."
               "About me!" Fabian's brain was slightly exhilarated, and in just the same degree obscured, by the glass of wine. "What had they to say about me?"
               Sterling's keen eyes were upon him, and saw that he was now only half on guard. "Oh, nothing of very great importance; and yet, you might think it so. Baker is going to Altoona, and you were mentioned as one who might be able to take his place."
               "As foreman?"
               "Yes."
               Fabian shook his head. "Don't want the position."
               "Don't want it!"
               "No."
               "You only make sixteen dollars a week; and this would give you at least a hundred and twenty dollars a month."
               "For all that I wouldn't accept it; at least not now."
               "Oh! you have something better in view?"
               "Perhaps I have," answered Fabian, with  a look of mystery, which surprised even Sterling.
               That one glass of wine was doing its work bravely.
               "But you'll never make that thing go!" said Sterling, in a confident way.
               "Why not?" was the quick inquiry.
               "Because water won't run up hill." Sterling hid, carefully, every sign of interest, as he spoke.
               "What do you mean by that?" asked Fabian.
               "Simply," replied his fellow-workman, "that any attempt, in a mechanical contrivance, to go past a natural law, will fail."
               "I shall not fail," said Fabian, speaking with considerable warmth.
               "You will, unless one defect in your machine is overcome," answered Sterling, with a quiet assurance that did its intended work on the mind of Fabian.
               "What do you know of my machine?" he asked, showing the surprise he felt, which was not unmingled with alarm.
               "Oh! And did you really think no one knew of this?" Sterling made himself merry for some moments. "Why, half the shop has been laughing at you in its sleeve for a month past."
               "Let it laugh," said Fabian, showing considerable annoyance. "My time will come, and then let him laugh who wins."
               Sterling shook his head gravely. "You are building on a false hope, my friend. The thing will never work."
               "But it does work! I have the model complete, and there is no defect."
               "If the model were here, I could show you the fatal defect in a moment."
               "I wish it were," said Fabian, his face on fire with the quick-flowing blood to which one glass of wine had given unusual heat and motion.
               "A drawing will do as well. Make a rough sketch, and I will show you where the hitch lies. I wonder you have not seen it yourself."
               Fabian threw a look of suspicion at his  companion, whose eagerness betrayed itself both in voice and manner. But his mind had lost its usual clearness, and when Sterling, who saw the change in his countenance, said quickly, as one who felt but slight interest in the matter, "Excuse me, Fabian. Inventors are a little shy, and I don't blame them. If there is a shade of hesitation in your mind, don't go a step farther. I felt as if I would like to save you from disappointment; for I know you have made a fatal blunder in the machine. It is only a matter of time, however. You will find it out for yourself in the end."
               Fabian sat motionless for a little while, trying to rally himself and get his thoughts clear. But there was an obscurity of perception through which his mind could not break. The danger that lay right in his path—the precipice down which a few more steps would plunge him—were all hidden. Slowly drawing a pencil from his pocket, he said, "Have you a sheet of paper?"
               "I'll see." And Sterling, with assumed indifference difference of manner, went to a table-drawer, and, after fumbling about for a while, brought forth half a sheet of drawing-paper, suspiciously smooth and clean. But suspicion had faded out of Fabian's mind.
               A few rapid motions of the pencil, and Sterling saw before him a rough drawing of his fellow-workman's invention; but its use was hidden. He strained eyes and thought with the most intense eagerness; but found no clue.
               "Where is the defect you mentioned?" asked Fabian.
               "It is here," answered Sterling, speaking at a venture, as he laid his finger, almost at random, on the drawing.
               Fabian smiled confidently, as an expression of relief came into his face.
               "That's all right," he said. Let me show you."
               And then, completely off his guard, he went on to explain the machine in every part, as well as the purpose for which it was intended, led on by the persistent objections of  Sterling, who, to the last, pronounced the whole thing a failure.
               The cold night air that struck on the face of Henry Fabian, as he left the house of his fellow-workman, sent a shiver along his nerves. He had a feeling as of one coming out of a dream, the influence of which could not be shaken off. All at once there flashed upon him a painful sense of the folly he had committed.
               "What have I done!" he exclaimed, in a sudden agony of fear and concern that made his heart stand still. "I have betrayed myself, and to a man in whom I never had any faith! Could all have been planned?—this committee at Sterling's house—the wine to confuse my brain and loose my tongue!"
               An appalling dread so overwhelmed him that he leaned against a lamp-post, almost bereft of strength. A man came hurrying by. It was the foreman, Darnell. But Fabian did not recognize him, nor see the start he gave.
               "Have you squeezed it out of him?"
               "Every drop!" replied Sterling to the foreman's question.
               The two faces glowed with intense satisfaction.
               "Is it worth the trouble?"
               "Forty times told. We have a fortune in our hands. It is the simplest thing imaginable; and I only wonder it hasn't been hit on before. But no time is to be lost. Fabian has a working model completed, and all his drawings and specifications ready. His application for a patent may go in to-morrow."
               "We must forestall him with a caveat," said Darnell.
               "Our only chance. Since he left, a few minutes ago, I have partly roughed out a drawing of the machine. Here it is on the table. Wait a moment until I finish it." And Sterling worked rapidly with his pencil. "There it is. Now let me explain its action."
               Darnell listened with rapt attention, every now and then uttering an exclamation of surprise or approval.
               "There is a gold mine in that for somebody body, and no mistake," said the foreman, knitting his brows, and closely shutting his lips.
               "For us, if we make hay while the sun shines," answered Sterling. "I've got the whole thing mapped out. You are a draughtsman, and by working for a few hours to-night can, from this rough sketch, give clean and perfect drawings. While you are doing this, I will get the specifications in shape, and by to-morrow, or next day at the farthest, a patent agent will have all in Washington. But, to give our claim absolute precedence, a caveat must be filed instanter."
               "It should go on by the next mail," said Darnell. "I saw our friend leaning against a lamp-post in the next block, as I came along, like one half asleep or half drunk. He's wide awake and sober enough by this time, I'll warrant you, and with the scent of danger in his nostrils. When the wine was in, the wit was out; but the wine won't stay very long, and then the wit will return, made sharper by a sense of peril. You may be  sure of one thing,—his application for a patent will go on to-morrow."
               "There is a midnight mail," suggested Sterling.
               "Too late for that. A caveat will have to be drawn in a legal form, and duly attested."
               "Do you know where Harmer lives?"
               "The patent agent?"
               "Yes."
               "Somewhere on Vine Street. A directory will give his number. While I am at work on the drawings, suppose you try to find him, Sterling. I'll write a note, asking him to come at once to see me here on very particular business. He'll be on hand. I know him. Give him a hint of what we want, so that he can bring the required blanks. The early morning mail will be time enough for us. Do the best he can, Fabian will not be able to get his papers in before the afternoon mail."
               All this that the two unscrupulous men proposed to do was done, and the first mail that left the city on the next morning took  the caveat that gave them the precedence in time over Fabian.
               "Where is Fabian?" asked Darnell, pausing next day about nine o'clock, at Sterling's work-bench.
               "He hasn't been here this morning."
               "What can it mean?"
               "I don't know; but I have my guess," said Sterling.
               "What?"
               "He's hurrying up his patent papers."
               "It's time." And a sinister gleam shot across the bad face of Darnell.
               "Nothing of Fabian yet?" asked the foreman, two hours afterwards.
               "Nothing."
               "Can he have got wind of our doings?"
               "If he has seen Harmer, which is barely possible."
               The two men looked at each other in mutual doubt and uneasiness.
               "He may have gone to Washington with his model and drawings, in order to show the commissioner that our simple caveat is  worth nothing. If he has seen Harmer, to whom, as a patent agent, he may have gone, and gathered from him the slightest hint of our hurried doings last night, he will be able to present a strong case to the commissioner. His working model will make precedence on his part self-evident."
               "Put your heart at rest on that score," replied the other. "There he is now."
               Darnell moved away, as Fabian crossed the shop, and sat down at his work-bench.
               "You are late this morning," said Sterling, affecting a careless tone.
               Fabian looked at him steadily for a moment or two, and then replied, "Yes. I had some business that detained me." Sterling noticed a great change in his fellow-workman. His face was calm, but paler and graver than usual. He looked like one who had come out of a deep trouble, the pain and gloom of which still left their shadows upon him.
               No reference was made to their meeting on the night before; and as neither was disposed for conversation, they turned from each  other and bent to their work. The day passed, and the two men, with brains more active than their busy hands, exchanged but a word or two, though in the thought of each the other was continually present.
               The cheerful talk about the ship coming in was not repeated at Fabian's table that evening. Both the father's and the mother's faces wore so deep a concern, that the children, wondering and grieving for the change, kept silent.
               "Everything went to Washington to-day," Fabian said to his wife, when they were alone after supper.
               "That is all you can do," she answered, in a quiet voice, which was neither cheerful nor desponding.
               "Yes. I have done all I can, and must now wait patiently for a decision." There was no confidence in his tones.
               In the hearts of both husband and wife, hope in the success of this invention had died; yet had neither spoken a word to the other touching the change that had passed  over them. On the wife had fallen, as we have seen, a sudden foreboding. It was so deep and oppressive that she accepted it as a warning not to build any longer on this foundation. With what strength she had, and trying to look up for patience and resignation, she was bracing herself for the duties that lay in her path. The husband's ground of despondency lay in the painful fact that he had betrayed his own secret. In Sterling, he had not a particle of faith; and when he recalled what was said and done after his brain lost its clear poise through the pleasant exhilaration of a single glass of wine, he was satisfied that he had been made the victim of a plot.
               To save himself, if possible, Fabian had immediately forwarded to Washington his application for a patent; and he could not see how it was possible for any one to precede him. Still he felt the shadow of approaching failure and disappointment; and it was heavy enough to shut out every gleam of sunshine.
               
               On the third day after his application had gone to Washington, a letter in a broad, legal envelope was handed to Fabian as he sat at work. It was from the Patent Office. His hands were unsteady as he broke the seal, and shook as he unfolded the paper. The communication was brief, and in this sentence lay the pith: "A caveat, covering all your claim, has already been filed in this office."
               The shock was too great for poor Fabian. He sat for nearly half a minute, fixed as stone, his eyes on the fatal writing, then fell to the floor insensible. Sterling, who had been watching him intently from the moment he received the fatal letter, sprung towards him as he began to fall, and, catching the missive from his hand, thrust it into his own pocket.
               When, just one month from that miserable day, Fabian came back to the shop, a pale, weak, sad-faced man, and took his old seat at the work-bench, neither Sterling nor Darnell were in the shop. Both had left two weeks before, and it was said among the workmen, that they had got a patent for  something, and were going to make a fortune.
               "You have the story," said I, "of our poor neighbors opposite. All this happened ten years ago, as I told you; one glass of wine has made all the difference between their fortune and that of the Sterlings, who ignore them altogether. Fabian belongs to a class of men who never rise from a first disaster. Misfortune quickens some men's instincts, toughens their nerves, and gives a higher power to their minds; while it takes all the heart out of other men, and leaves them wrecked for life. He belongs to the latter class."
               "Ah me!" sighed my friend, as his thought went from the case before him to the cause of failure I had given. "This taking of a single glass of wine, or beer, or brandy,—what a little thing it is, and yet what peril lies in the act sometimes! There come, often, very often with most men, occasions  when the mind needs all its natural acuteness and strength to decide questions on which hang the most important interests,—when a mistake may involve disaster. In these crises, if I may so call them, thousands and thousands have missed the right way, through slight mental obscurity, caused by a glass of beer or brandy.
               "Among the causes of failure in business," he went on, "I wonder that this has never been counted. How few young merchants are there who do not drink moderately; and how few there are who do not fail! The ratio has been given at ninety in a hundred. The glass of ale, or the brandy-toddy, taken at lunch-time, daily, stimulates the brain, and gives boldness and confidence in selling or buying, where caution and prudence are, of all things, most needed. Many a bad purchase of goods by the buyer of a firm, leading to heavy loss, might be traced to the moderate glass he took before going to the importer's, or to the auction-room; and quite as many sales to doubtful customers, as prudently dently managed as if the goods were thrown into the sea, might also be traced to the same cause."
               "You comprehend the whole question," I returned. "Men think themselves very safe, in taking their wine and beer, their whiskey and brandy, moderately. 'If I find the habit growing on me, I will stop instantly,' you will hear them say very confidently. The danger of creating a habit is always hiding in the moderate drinker's path, and too often finds him out; but there is a greater danger in the custom,—the one we have been considering,—and its evil work, everywhere seen, while the cause remains hidden or unsuspected, is appalling."
            
            
               
               IX. TWO LIVES WRECKED.
               "YOUR story has done me no good," said a gentleman with whom I fell recently into conversation.
               "What story?" I asked.
               "The one called 'NOT MYSELF.'"
               "It was not written for your edification," I answered.
               "Would to Heaven it had been written, and that I had read it twenty years ago!" he said, with an emphasis that startled me. "Then it might have done me good,—might have saved me from a life of wretchedness; and not me only, but another who was dearer to me than life."
               I knew something of the man's history. After living with his wife for nearly twenty years, he had separated from her, and was  now divorced. The application came from him on the charge of infidelity.
               "That story," he continued, "came to me like a revelation; but, alas! too late. As just said, it has done me no good—has only filled my soul with exquisite pain. I see, as I never saw before, the cause of a momentary folly that ruined my whole life. 'I was not myself.' That I knew; but the origin of that strange hallucination in which I acted the poor, weak fool I did not suspect, until your story made it plain. I thank you for others, whom it may do good; but not for myself."
               His concluding sentence was spoken with much bitterness.
               "You know my wretched story," he said, after a little while. "It is public property."
               "So much of it as is public property—no more," I replied. "And that is not much."
               "Not much! Heaven knows that!" His eyes gleamed, and I saw him shiver. "Twenty years of a married life that ends in divorce is no child's play, my friend!"
               
               He drew his arm into mine, saying in a low, muffled voice that he steadied with difficulty, "Come! I want to talk with you, Maybe it will do me good. But I don't know."
               He was a lawyer of considerable ability, named Austin, and had once been in good practice at the Philadelphia bar; but of late years had neglected his business, and fallen into bad habits.
               I went with him to his office.
               "No child's play, my friend," he said, with less agitation of manner, repeating the words spoken a little while before. He had offered me a chair, and then taken one directly in front of me. "And to think," he added, now speaking very calmly, but oh! so bitterly, "that all this wretched life turned on the pivot of a single moment,—a moment when I was not myself! a moment when wine took the place of reason. Shall I tell you the whole story?"
               "It may do you good," I replied.
               "Ah! so I thought when I asked you to  come here. Have you patience to listen to me?"
               "Go on."
               "I shall make a clean breast of it," said he. "Maybe it will do me good; maybe it will not. You know Mrs. Akers?"
               "Yes."
               "Do you remember her as she was over twenty years ago?"
               "Very well."
               "Before her marriage?"
               "Yes."
               "She was not regarded as either brilliant or beautiful; but to me there was a charm and grace about her that drew me irresistibly to her side. I was a young, ambitious man, and before meeting with Miss Clayton—afterward Mrs. Akers—had looked to marriage as a means of social and worldly advancement. No such advancement could result from an alliance with Miss Clayton. Her family had neither large wealth nor high position; so, at first, I did not think of her as other than a pleasant friend; though every  time I met her in company I felt the sphere of a sweet attraction, that steadily grew stronger and stronger.
               "Suddenly I awoke to the fact that Annie Clayton was more to me than any woman I had ever met. Then, worldliness, ambition, and other meaner influences sought to put out the fire of love which had been kindled in my heart. But this heavenly fire cannot be extinguished; for it is fed with divine substances. I believed it then—I know it now.
               "Another fire, less pure and not divine, began to send up a dull light in my soul. It never burned with a clear flame, nor with intense heat. It was the love of myself transformed into the appearance of love for a beautiful maiden. She was fair, and brilliant, and rich; but oh! so infinitely below Annie Clayton in all that goes to make up true womanly attractions, that I can find in my thought no ratio of comparison between them. Fascinating she was; for she knew by instinct the arts with which we are so often led blindly  captive by woman. Why she laid her snares for me, I know not. It was the great error of her life, and the curse of mine.
               "Steadily, and growing stronger day by day, burned in my heart the heavenly flame of love for Annie Clayton, until its delicious warmth pervaded and penetrated my whole being. I never felt so happy as when in her society. There was an atmosphere of peace and purity around her that always tranquillized my spirit, and awoke into life all the better impulses of my soul. Ambition felt the inspiration of nobler aims and truer ideals.
               "How different were all my feelings when in the society of the brilliant and fascinating Margaret Claire! To be rich, to be honored of men, to have equipage and eminence, seemed, of all things, most desirable. I looked at her radiant face and queenly person, and thought of the eclat her possession would bring, or the envy it would excite. I knew, from her eyes and tones of voice and manner, when we were alone, that I had but to offer  my hand. Only one thing held me back, and that was my love for Annie Clayton. Was that love returned? I believed so—nay, I was sure of it.
               "One fatal evening I met them both at a grand entertainment. My head was cool and clear when I went there, and my heart true to its higher instincts. I knew that I should meet Annie, and the thought of her gave anticipation its highest pleasure. Toward Margaret I felt an unusual indifference.
               "Early in the evening I met Annie, and never felt more strongly drawn toward her. The brilliant Margaret flashed before my eyes, but failed to win me from Annie's side. How poor and meagre seemed all her rich attractions to the simple grace of my heart's idol!
               "When supper was announced, I gave my arm to Miss Clayton, and went with her to the supper-room. On leaving this room, half an hour afterward, Margaret Claire was on my arm.
               "'It is so hot here,' she said, leaning heavily on me as we entered the half-deserted  parlors. I drew her into the conservatory, where the air was cooler, and, seating her in a chair, stood and looked down into her dark, weird eyes, that were upturned to my face. I shall never forget how beautiful she looked, nor the strange fascination there was about her. As for me, I was like one in a bewildering dream. I saw nothing, felt nothing, cared for nothing, outside this region of enchantment; and so in a mad, blind impulse, I spoke a few hasty words that wrecked two lives.
               "When I went back to the parlors, with Margaret leaning on my arm, the first eyes that met mine were the clear, tender, half-startled eyes of Annie Clayton. My own dropped away from hers instantly. On lifting them again, and looking at her, I saw that a swift pallor had swept over her face, and that her eyes had a wild look of pain. My bewildering dream was over! I was no longer in a region of enchantment. My hot pulses lost their fever heat. A chill passed over me.
               "I am a man of honor; and so there was  no escape. I had offered myself in marriage, and been accepted, and nothing was left for me but to consummate that marriage.
               "I never called again upon Annie Clayton. All the pure, tender, heavenly states of the soul she had awakened were buried out of sight, and the nobler aims she had inspired put far from me. I was to be of the earth, earthy, and the service I had to give must be for the god of this world. Ah me! what a service, and what a reward!"
               He shivered as he said this, sat for a few moments, like one stunned into silence by the shock of some great emotion, and then went on:—
               "My next meeting with Annie was memorable. It occurred after my engagement with Margaret was known. I had gone to a summer boarding-house in a lovely region of country, fifty miles away from the city, to spend a week or two. On the morning after my arrival I strolled into a neighboring wood, and soon found myself in a charming valley, through which ran pleasant paths,  crossing and recrossing a stream that made the scene beautiful with tiny lakes and waterfalls. The hushed quiet of the woods, and the strange, breathless sense of isolation we sometimes feel when alone with nature, softened my feelings, while it strained every sensitive nerve to unwonted tension. Turning a sharp angle of the path in which I was walking, I came upon a rustic bench, on which a lady sat alone. I was only a few yards distant. My step startled her, and she looked up. It was Annie Clayton!
               "The meeting was too sudden. We were both off guard. For an instant I stood as fixed as a statue, and she, half rising, startled, and pale as death, held me with a look that betrayed her passionate, hopeless love.
               "There was only one right thing to do, and she did it. I would have been too weak. She drew herself up with sudden strength, bowed slightly, and then, with quick but steady steps, moved past me in the direction from which I had come. My strength was gone, and I went unsteadily to the seat  from which she had arisen, and did not leave it for an hour. On the next morning I went away, and spent my summer vacation in another region of country. Annie, I learned, was taken home a week afterward, very ill.
               "In the winter I was married to Margaret Claire. I think she loved me as well as women of her nature, education, and false views of life usually love their husbands. Perhaps she would have loved me in a deeper, truer way—been more a wife to me—if I had felt any love for her; and so we might have been indifferently happy together, instead of wretched, through many, many miserable years.
               "Every now and then I met Annie Clayton. It seemed as if some malignant spirit, that took delight in torturing us both, would bring us suddenly together in ways that made it almost impossible to prevent a mutual betrayal of our feelings. But I was honorable, and she was pure and good; and so we stood far apart from each other, cold in exterior as ice.
               "For ten years Annie remained single, and then became the wife of Mr. Akers, a man as little fitted to become her husband as Margaret Claire was to become my wife. I know something of his mean, hard nature, and irascible temper. If reports are true, the union has been far from a happy one. When I heard of this marriage, it filled me with bitterness of spirit; I cursed myself and my own wife, and the evil hour in which, 'not being myself,' I had steered the life-bark in which God had placed two human souls, and given me the helm, right among the seething breakers.
               "'Not being myself!' "He repeated the little sentence in a tone of mingled bitterness and scorn. Then, speaking slowly, and with a hard deliberation of utterance, he said, "That is, after firing my blood, and confusing my brain with wine (I see it all now as I never saw it before), I laid my head in the lap of another Delilah, and was betrayed!"
               "As thousands of others have been, and are daily being betrayed to one kind of ruin  or another, through the confusion of wine and strong drink taken socially, and, as the phrase goes, temperately," I replied.
               "No truer words were ever uttered!" he said, with strong excitement of manner. "And yet, strange to tell, until now the truth never flashed across my mind. The thought startles and appals me! What sorrow and wretchedness, what wrongs and crimes, what life-long experiences of misery, what hopeless anguish and maddening remorse, what frightful disaster of body and soul, have their origin in a social glass or bottle of wine! It is all a new revelation to me, sad and terrible!"
               "Then," I answered with a solemn earnestness, "let me conjure you, by the suffering of years, by the hopeless anguish of two precious souls, and by the wreck of dearest hopes, to put far from you that which has so cursed your own and another life!"
               For a little while he sat looking at me with a surprised, uncertain expression of face.
               "It has been your deadliest enemy," I  went on; "has done you the greatest of all wrongs. And still you suffer its evil presence; nay, court it, and consort with it, as if it were the friend of your soul!"
               He started to his feet as if struck with a sudden pain, and grasped my hand with a tight, nervous grip.
               "Loathing and disgust are the more fitting sentiments with which one ought to regard such an enemy," I ventured to say.
               "Thank you, my friend," he answered, after a little pause, repressing his agitation, and speaking with calm deliberation. "I will be, from this day forth, like a Jew of the olden time, loving my friends and hating my enemies; and this one enemy shall be hated with a perfect hatred!"
               "Hated unto the death?" I said.
               "Ay, unto the death!"—speaking with energy.
               And so far he has kept his word.
            
            
               
               X. AFTER MANY DAYS.
               "AH! you have cards for the wedding, I see."
               "Yes."
               "Are you going?"
               "Yes. Can't stay away without giving offence."
               "It's to be a stupid affair, I hear."
               "Stupid enough. But Lyman is a character in his way, and when he sets his mind on doing a thing, saints and angels can't change him."
               "There's to be no wine."
               "Not a drop. Did you ever hear of such an absurdity?—A wedding without wine!"
               "Yes, I've heard of such things, but never  happened to be a guest at so odd an affair in good society."
               Talk like this was heard among a few young men, on the eve of a wedding, to be celebrated at the house of a well-known citizen residing on Chestnut Street.
               A few weeks before this, in a family council at the Lymans', a discussion took place that it is our province to record. Mr. Andrew Lyman is a merchant of Philadelphia, of high character, large wealth, and good social standing. He has two sons and one daughter. These children grew up among the sons and daughters of people of like position with their parents, and acquired the tone of thinking common to their class.
               Adeline was an attractive girl in person and in manner, a little spoiled by her position, and the true grace of her sex a little marred by that saucy dash and jauntiness which too many of our girls mistake for ease and independence.
               She was to be married. We cannot say that Mr. Lyman felt entirely at ease in his  mind touching the future of his daughter. Not that he had any special objection to the young man who had wooed and won her. He was good enough in his way,—a fair specimen of the class he represented. The son of a well-to-do merchant, he had been fairly educated, and at the age of twenty introduced as a clerk into his father's business. He was now a partner with a limited interest and good expectations. As to his character and personal habits, they were yet in a formative state. The influences surrounding him were not all of the safest character, and he shared the common danger of those who were subject to like influences. He might rise to a high and noble manhood, or sink to unfathomable depths of moral degradation. Nothing in his character as yet developed gave to Mr. Lyman, who had studied him closely, a clue to his future; and so, very naturally, he did not feel altogether at ease in his mind.
               But to the discussion in family council:—
               "There is one thing," said Mr. Lyman,  speaking in his slow, quiet way, when his mind was made up, "that I have thought over a great deal. We have too much drinking at our social entertainments. At nearly all of them wine is used by young men with a dangerous freedom; and very many, I fear, are drawn on and on by the temptation of social parties to their ruin. Now, for one, I have made up my mind to stand conscience-clear in this matter."
               "But we are not going to give a large party," said Mrs. Lyman; "it is only a wedding reception."
               "With a handsome entertainment," remarked Mr. Lyman.
               "Yes," responded the lady.
               "But no wine," said Mr. Lyman, setting his lips firmly.
               "Why, father!" exclaimed the bride-to-be, actually starting to her feet in surprise.
               "You are surely not in earnest," said Mrs. Lyman.
               "Altogether in earnest," was answered. "I have thought about the matter a great  deal, and meant to have spoken of it before, and less abruptly than now. I wish that I could get you all to look at the matter as I do. It would be so pleasant to me if we could all see eye to eye, and act in harmony.
               "But a wedding without wine, father!" said Adeline, in a voice that was almost choking.
               "I have seen a number of weddings in my day," answered Mr. Lyman. "At some of them wine has flowed like water, to the hurt of many. At a few of them there has been no wine. And as far as my observation goes, the presence or the absence of wine has not had anything to do with the future happiness of the parties, except so far as its presence on the occasion favored its after use."
               "But it is the custom in good society, father," urged one of the sons. "We would draw the laugh upon us from everybody."
               "I am sorry you said that, Horace," replied Mr. Lyman.
               The color mounted to the young man's forehead; he understood his father.
               "He who cannot, in a right cause, brave so small a thing as a laugh, is not made, it seems to me, of very sound stuff," added Mr. Lyman.
               The young man winced a little, but answered, "If any good were to come of it, one might set himself against the customs of society. But we shall simply draw the laugh, as I said, and there the matter will end."
               "My son," replied Mr. Lyman, "you may set this down as a rule that has no exception; society always gains by the right act of an individual. If I see that evil consequences flow from our social-drinking customs, and break the custom so far as I am concerned, then society must be the gainer, small though it be."
               "How? In what way?" asked the young man, doubtfully.
               "It gains through my example. Our neighbor, who sees and deplores the evil of  intemperance as I do, but has not the moral courage to set himself against it, strengthened by my act, grows brave enough to do in like manner himself. That is one gain. Another may be found in the fact that some weak young man, who cannot deny his already vitiated appetite when others are drinking around him, goes away from our house with a clear head, and it may be a thankful heart. Your friend Hartwell will, of course, be here?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "And if there is champagne on our table, will drink too much?"
               "I am afraid so," answered the young man, a slight depression in his tone of voice.
               "He shall never go home to his father and mother from my house, with his brain confused by wine," said Mr. Lyman, speaking in so emphatic a way that no one for a while made answer.
               At length the daughter said, "I'd rather have no reception."
               "As you like," returned her father.
               But the family council could not decide against a reception. That would be a social innovation they were not independent enough to make. So the entertainment was without wine.
               Was it a stupid affair? By no means. The bride was lovely—the ceremony impressive—the entertainment liberal—the company in the best of spirits. Sisters and wives, who, on similar occasions, grew dull and silent as the wine exhilarated brothers and husbands, now showed unusual life and brilliancy. Young men, who were apt at social parties to be silly or boisterous, were now sensible and truly convivial, doing their true part in the festivities of the occasion.
               "The pleasantest wedding reception of the season," said one to another, as the guests separated. "And there was no wine."
               "No wine!" answered a gentleman to whom the remark was made.
               "That's so, as I live! And I never observed the omission. What does it mean?"
               "Just this: that Lyman has been brave  enough to do what he sees to be right, and I honor him for it, even though not brave enough myself to follow so good an example. Of course, he'll be laughed at."
               "Not by any one whose laugh is worth a dime. Sensible people never laugh at such things."
               "I believe you there."
               On the very next week another family council was held, but not at the house of Mr. Lyman. One of his neighbors had sent out cards for an evening party. The absence of wine at the Lymans' wedding reception set this neighbor to thinking, and gave him courage to think with a purpose. If the invitations had not been out, there would have been no party,—the wine and liquor question would have decided that. But, being out, the battle between a clear perception of right, and the dread of a false public sentiment, had to be fought.
               "It will never do for us to set ourselves against society," said the wife, timidly. "Some of our guests will take it as a reflection tion upon themselves; others will think it a virtuous affectation; a bid for notoriety, or a setting up of ourselves as leaders in a reform. We can't indeed, husband. I am not strong enough for this."
               "Shall we not be strong enough to do right, my dear?" answered the husband. "No one that I have heard of laughs at or censures the Lymans."
               "But theirs was only a reception. Ours is to be an evening party; and who ever heard of such an affair in good society without wine?"
               "If a new thing under the sun," replied the husband, "we shall have the credit of its inauguration."
               "It won't take," said the wife. "People are not going to follow our lead in that direction, you may be sure. We shall only get laughed or sneered at, and accomplish no good."
               Here the daughter, a young lady of twenty, spoke out in no uncertain way.
               "Don't have a drop of liquor," she said.  "I'm on father's side. Young men drink a great deal too much at parties. Harry Grant took so much champagne at Mrs. Elmore's, last week, that he was foolish all the evening. I never was so sorry for any one in my life as I was for his sister Julia. And I saw Mrs. Bedford's anxious eyes following her son George, in the supper-room, and read sorrow and pain in them whenever he put a glass of wine to his lips. I wouldn't, on any account, see in our house what I have seen at fashionable parties. Father is right. Don't let us have any liquors. I'm ready to face the whole world in this thing."
               Thus reinforced, the anti-liquor cause prevailed, and at the party no more exhilarating beverages than coffee and chocolate were served. There were some liftings of eyebrows and exchanging of shrugs when the company assembled in the banqueting-room, and the usual reinforcements of sherry and champagne were missed. A few of the old stagers, who came more for what they would get to eat and drink than to honor the host  and hostess, and who were never able to show their best social points until after the corks began popping, were duller than usual; but a finer and more sympathetic element of pleasure soon evolved itself, and in a little while the room was echoing with rich laughter, and the mingling of happy voices.
               "Well done, my friend!" said a gentleman to the host, as he stood sipping a cup of coffee. "Champagne always gives me the headache; fool that I am ever to touch it! But-how can one resist, when it sparkles in his eyes temptingly! You have done a brave thing, and I honor and respect you for it."
               Now, if there was one in the company about whose opinion the host was over-sensitive, this was the man. He had looked for light banter, just covering a sneer; but, instead, got hearty approval.
               "I cannot set up a drinking-saloon in my house, nor make it a place of temptation for the sons of my friends," answered the host.
               The man took the cup of coffee from his  lips, and stood in thoughtful silence for a few moments.
               "It never struck me just in that way," he said at length, quite soberly, and with a little abstraction of manner. "And yet the idea you have put in words has more than once dimly shaped itself in my mind. Making drinking-saloons of our homes! That's just it! I thank you, my friend! I shall remember your words."
               "Well, it's all over, and I'm glad of it," said the wife, in a tone of relief, after the last guest had departed. "It wasn't as stupid as I feared it would be. But there were many who missed the wine."
               "Perhaps so; but they were better without it."
               "I don't imagine," said the wife, "that any particular good will come of all this. Our guests of to-night, at the next party they attend, will have plenty of liquor, and drink as freely as usual. We have only intermitted, not stopped, the flow of wine."
               The husband made no reply. He was not  over-sanguine as to the effect of his example. But he had done what reason and conscience told him was right, and there he rested. As to party-giving, it was at an end with him and his family. He could not have liquor, and did not feel like again setting himself in opposition to a social custom. And so the matter soon passed out of thought, and became a thing of the past.
               But, like every other right act in the world, it bore fruit. Not every one sees the harvest of his good deeds; but still the harvest is sure.
               One day, nearly five years after the reception given by Mr. Lyman on the occasion of his daughter's wedding, a gentleman, after paying him some money in settlement of a bill, said:—
               "I owe you another debt, not so easily cancelled."
               "Ah! on what account?" asked Mr. Lyman, with surprise.
               "A few years ago you gave society a lesson and an example which have not been lost."
               
               "Indeed!"
               "Yes, sir. I was not at the wedding-reception of your daughter; but I attended a large party given a week afterward, by one of our citizens residing near you. Following your good example, he excluded all kinds of intoxicating liquor from the entertainment. A thing so novel set people to thinking and talking; and I know that the sad evils that come from the free use of wine among our young people, so common at evening parties, were soberly discussed in many family circles, and that in not a few of them no party has since been given, because, with some member of the family, conscience forbade the free circulation of liquors; and the rest were not willing to brave public opinion, like you and your neighbor, and give an entertainment without wine.
               "But I have something more nearly personal to say. I have two sons. One of them, lured on by our social-drinking customs,—tempted with wine at fashionable evening parties, where 'good citizens' turn  their dining-halls into drinking-saloons,—lost for a time the control of his appetite. Often has he come home to us from the house of a friend, with his brain all stupid or on fire from the wine and brandy that friend has poured out for his guests, young and old, as freely as though it were water.
               "He was at the party to which I have referred. His mother and I were guests, both of us bearing in our hearts a dull weight of anxiety about our boy, whose many good and noble qualities were in such danger of a sad eclipse. When supper was announced, I saw my wife's eyes turn instinctively toward our son, and knew by the expression they wore what was in her thoughts. Ah, sir! they only know who have had a fear like ours what a light bound of relief our hearts gave when we clearly comprehended the fact that there was no wine on the richly furnished table!
               "Well, sir, we received our boy home that night as clear-headed as when he went out. And, what was better and pleasanter still, were  able to lead him into such a conviction of his danger, that he set a seal of abstinence on his lips, that has not up to this day been broken. It was the contrast of that evening, and the discussion it awakened, not only in our home, but in the homes of many of our friends, that gave light to our boy's mind, and strength to his will. He saw himself on the brink of a dark and fearful gulf, and started back in horror. I thank you, sir, for the good example you set. It has blessed my home,—oh! so richly!—and many other homes, I doubt not."
               And, giving the hand of Mr. Lyman a grasp full of strong emotion, he turned and went away.
               So, after many days, Mr. Lyman gathered from the field where he had sown in doubt a few ripe sheaves; but of the rich harvests that grew in other fields from the seed of this planting, he could not know, but many hearts gathered them in thankfulness and joy.
            
            
               XI. IN LEAGUE WITH SATAN.
               "OF whom are you speaking?"
               "Of Harland," I replied.
               "That is a hard saying."
               "Is it not true?"
               My friend put on a thoughtful face, that grew, after a moment or two, a little puzzled.
               "There are, so to speak," I said, "two great powers that rule the destinies of men: Hell and Heaven; and we are each of us in league with one or the other. Heaven conserves,—Hell destroys. One is the power of good,—the other of evil. On which side is Harland?"
               My friend was silent.
               "Does he do good in his life-work?"
               No answer.
               
               "Evil?"
               My friend shrugged his shoulders.
               "Is he in league with Heaven, to bless and save mankind? Or with Hell, to destroy both soul and body?"
               "You put the case too strongly," was answered. "Harland is a kind-hearted man, and, in the main, a good citizen. We called on him for a contribution to our church, and he gave us a hundred dollars."
               "The price, it may be, of a human soul, sent to perdition through the door opened by his hand."
               "You call things by hard names."
               "By true names only. If his one hundred dollars had represented some useful service,—been the gain of good to his fellow-man,—you might rejoice in its acceptance. The money would have been thrice blessed: in its gain, in its gift, and in its reception. But the case, as it stands, is very different. Cursed in the gaining, can any blessing attend the giving or receiving?"
               "You put too fine a point to the matter,"  said my friend, impatiently. "We must take things as they are, and make the best of them. That is my way."
               "If your neighbor maintained a fever-breeding nuisance at your very door,—poisoning the air, and putting the lives of your children in danger,—would you mildly accept it, and make the best of it, or protest against and try to get rid of it?"
               "The cases are hardly parallel."
               "Hardly? Perhaps not. The fever-breeding nuisance is a mild affair to the dram-shop. The one simply affects the health of the community which surrounds it; the other not only touches the physical and temporal well-being of all who come within its reach, but saps the foundations of morality as well. It not only concerns itself with the present, but its influence extends to all eternity. Domestic peace is invaded, and entire families become involved in the ruin which it works, and poverty, ignorance, and crime are the certain results. Look here, my friend; you have a son. In ten years he will be far on  his teens. How would you feel to see him, at twenty, going into Harland's bar-room?"
               "I would rather see him dead!" was the startled and emphatic answer.
               "Why? Because you would regard it, under such a view, as the very gate of Hell. Is it less so because the sons of other men are enticed to enter? Is the man in league with Heaven who keeps such a place,—who engages in a traffic that kills men's souls as well as bodies,—that pauperizes the people and covers the land with crime?"
               My friend was dumb.
               "Let me read you," said I, "an imaginary compact between a man and the devil. I find it in a late number of 'The Christian at Work.'"
               And I read him the following:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "THE RUMSELLER'S PROPOSAL TO THE DEVIL.
                           "DEAR SIR,—I have opened apartments, fitted up with all the enticements of luxury, for the sale of rum, brandy, gin, wine, beer, and all their compounds. Our objects, though different, can be best attained by  united action. I therefore propose a copartnership. All I want of men is their money. All the rest shall be yours.
                           "Bring me the industrious, the sober, the respectable; and I will return them to you drunkards, paupers, and beggars.
                           "Bring me the child, and I will dash to earth the dearest hopes of the father and mother.
                           "Bring me the father and the mother, and I will plant discord between them, and make them a curse and a reproach to their children.
                           "Bring me the young man, and I will ruin his character, destroy his health, shorten his life, and blot out the highest and purest hopes of youth.
                           "Bring me the mechanic or the laborer, and his own money—the hard-earned fruits of his toil—shall be made to plant poverty, vice, and ignorance in his once happy home.
                           "Bring me the warm-hearted sailor, and I will send him on a lee-shore, and make shipwreck of all his fond hopes for evermore.
                           "Bring me the professed follower of Christ, and I will blight and wither every devotional feeling of the heart. I will corrupt the ministers of religion, and defile the purity of the church.
                           "Bring me the patronage of the city and of the courts of justice; let the magistrates of the State and the Union become my patrons; let the law-makers themselves meet at my table; and participate in violation tion of law, and the name of law shall become a hissing and a by-word in the streets.
                           "Bring me, above all, the moral, respectable man; if possible, bring the moderate temperance man; though he may not drink, yet his presence will countenance the pretexts under which our business must be masked,—bring him to our stores, oyster-saloons, eating-houses, and hotels, and the more timid of our victims will then enter without alarm.
                           
                              "Yours faithfully,
                              "RUMSELLER."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "REPLY."
                           "MY DEAR BROTHER:—I address you by this endearing appellation, because of the congeniality of our spirits, and of the great work we are both engaged in—the work of destruction. I most cordially accept your proposals. For five thousand years I sought in vain for a man so fully after my own heart to do my work among men. I even ransacked the lowest depths of Hell for a devil who could and would do for me the whole work of destruction. But little success attended their efforts. My minions always made some mistake, or too soon showed the cloven foot. I sent out the demon Murder, and he slew a few thousands, most generally the helpless and innocent. Men turned away with loathing from him, and his mission was comparatively a failure.
                           "I bade my servant Lust go forth. He led innocent  youths and beautiful maidens in chains, destroying virtue, wrecking happiness, blasting characters, and caused untimely deaths and dishonored graves. But even then, many of his victims escaped through the power of God, my enemy.
                           "I sent out Avarice, and in his golden chains some were bound; but men learned to hate him for his meanness, and comparatively few fell by him.
                           "The twin brothers, Pestilence and War, went forth, and Famine stole behind them; but these three indiscriminately slew the old and young, men, women, and children—the good as well as the bad—and Heaven received as many accessions as Hell.
                           "In sadness my Satanic heart mourned over the probable loss of my crown and kingdom, as I contemplated the tremendous strides which the Gospel of Jesus was making in saving men from my clutches.—But when I received your kind letter, I shouted till the welkin of Hell echoed the shout, 'Eureka! Eureka!' 'I have found it! I have found it.' Yes, my dear friend, I could have embraced you a thousand times, and I have given orders to reserve for you a place nearest my person, the most honorable seat in my kingdom. In you are combined all the qualifications of just such a friend and partner as I have long wished for, and in your business are all the elements of success. Now shall my throne be forever established. Only carry out your designs, and you shall have money, though it be wrung from the broken hearts of helpless women, and from the mouths of innocent,  perishing children. Though you fill the jails, workhouses, and poor-houses; though you crowd the insane asylums; though you make murder, incest, and arson to abound, and erect scaffolds and gallows in every village, town and city, you shall have money. I will also harden your heart, so that your conscience will never trouble you. You shall look upon blood, and even shed it, without shame or anguish. You shall think yourself a gentleman, though men and women, your victims, shall call you a demon. You shall be devoid of the fear of God, the horrors of the grave, and the solemnities of eternity, and when you come to me your works shall produce you a reward forever. All I claim is the souls of the victims.
                           
                              "Yours to the very last,
                              "DIABOLUS."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "What an outrage!" exclaimed my friend, with much warmth, as I finished reading.
               "You think so?"
               "I do. Men should reflect a little before they write and publish such things. I have a brother-in-law who sells liquor, and he has one of the finest families I know. His daughters are good, respectable, well-educated, lady-like girls, and are received in the best  society. How would they feel to read a scandalous tirade like that?"
               "I should be sorry for them, of course," said I. "But their respectability, intelligence, and good character give no warrant to their father to destroy human souls, or fill our fails and almshouses."
               "Who says he does it?"
               "Can he engage in this fearful traffic, and not thus hurt the souls and bodies of men? You know he cannot. Is there a sentence just read, descriptive of the awful work in which rumsellers are engaged, that is not true to the letter?"
               My friend was silent.
               "You know there is not. Let us then call such things by their right names, not gild them over with false appearances; for every time we do so we lure a human soul to ruin. Men who, for gain, engage in any business that hurts their neighbor, are surely not in league with Heaven,—if not with Heaven, then it must be with Hell."
               
               My friend turned away, still, I could see, unconvinced. Oh, the blindness of those who are wilfully blind!
            
         
      
      
         
            New Publications of the NATIONAL TEMPERANCE SOCIETY AND PUBLICATION HOUSE, FOR SUNDAY SCHOOL LIBRARIES.
            Sent by mail on receipt of price.
            
               The Temperance Doctor. 12mo, 370 pp. By MISS MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, Author of "Deacon Sim's Prayers," etc. $1 25
               The Old Brown Pitcher. 12mo, 222 pp. By the Author of "Susy's Six Birthdays," "The Flower of the Family," etc. 1 00
               Out of the Fire. 12mo, 420 pp. By MISS MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, Author of "Temperance Doctor," "Deacon Sim's Prayers," etc. 1 25
               Our Parish. 18mo, 252pp. By MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON. 75
               The Hard Master. 18mo, 278 pp. By MRS. J. E. McCONAUGHY, 85
               Echo Bank. 18mo, 269 pp. By ERVIE, 85
               The Red Bridge.18mo, 321 pp. BY THRACE TALMAN, 90
               Rachel Noble's Experience. 18mo, 325 pp. By BRUCE EDWARDS, 90
               Vow at the Bars. 18mo, 108 pp. .40
               History of a Threepenny Bit. 18mo, 216 pp. .75
               Philip Eckert's Struggles and Triumphs. 18mo, 216 pp. By the Author of "Margaret Clair," 60
               Gertie's Sacrifice, or Glimpses at Two Lives. 18mo, 189 pp. By MRS. F. D. GAGE, 50
               The Broken Rock. 18mo, 139 pp. By KRUNA, Author of "Lift a Little," etc. 50
               Andrew Douglas 18mo, 232 pp. By the Author of "Madeline," "Harry and his Dog," etc. 75
               Rev. Dr. Willoughby and his Wine. 12mo, 458 pp. BY MRS. MARY SPRING WALKER, Author of "The Family Doctor," etc. 1 50
               Aunt Dinah's Pledge. 12mo, 318 pp. By MISS MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, Author of "Temperance Doctor," "Out of the Fire," etc. 1 25
               Frank Oldfield, or Lost and Found. 12mo, 408 pp. A Prize Tale. By REV. T. P. WILSON, M. A. 1 50
               Tom Blinn's Temperance Society, and other Sketches. By T. S. ARTHUR, Author of "Ten Nights in a Bar-room," &c. 1 25
               The Drinking Fountain, and other Stories. 12mo, 192 pp. .90
               Temperance Anecdotes. 12mo, 288 pp. By GEORGE W. BUNGAY, 1 00
               Temperance Speaker. 288 pp. By J. N. STEARNS, 75
               Jug-Or-Not. By MRS. J. McNAIR WRIGHT, 1 50
            
            Address, J. N. STEARNS, Publishing Agt. 172 William Street, New York.
         
         
         
            NEW PUBLICATIONS OF THE National Temperance Society and Publication House.
            
               MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
               
                  Delavan's Consideration of the Temperance Argument and History. By EDWARD C. DELAVAN, Esq. $1 50
                  Four Pillars of Temperance. By JOHN W. KIRTON, 75
                  The Four Pillars are: Reason, Science, Scripture, and Experience. The book is argumentative, historical, and statistical.
                  Alcohol; Its Nature and Effects. By CHARLES A. STOREY, M. D., 90
                  Scripture Testimony Against Intoxicating Wine. By REV. WM. RITCHIE, of Scotland, 60
                  Bible Rule of Temperance, or Total Abstinence from all Intoxicating Drinks. By REV. GEORGE DUFFIELD, D. D., 60
                  Alcohol; Its Place and Power. By JAMES MILLER. And The Use and Abuse of Tobacco. By JOHN LIZARS, 1 00
                  Zoological Temperance Convention. By Rev. EDWARD HITCHCOCK, D. D., of Amherst College, 75
                  Bound Volume of Tracts,. 1 00
                  Communion Wine, or Bible Temperance. By REV. WM. M. THAYER. Paper, 20 cents; cloth. 50
                  An unanswerable argument against the use of intoxicating wine at Communion, and presenting the Bible argument in favor of total abstinence.
                  Lunarius; A Visitor from the Moon, 35
               
            
            
               TEMPERANCE CHIMES.
               PRICE: In paper covers, 30 cents single copies; $25 per 100. In board covers, 35 cents, single copies; $30 per 100.
               Comprising a great variety of New Music, Glees, Songs and Hymns, designed for the use of Temperance Meetings and Organizations, Bands of Hope, Glee Clubs and the Home Circle. The Odes of the Sons of Temperance and Good Templars are given in full and set to appropriate music.
            
            
               TEMPERANCE HYMN-BOOK.
               PRICE: In paper covers, 12 cents, single copies; $10 per 100. In board covers, 15 cents, single copies; $13 per 100.
               This new temperance Hymn-book, 32mo, 128 pages, contains about 150 Songs and Hymns, set to old familiar tunes, giving the first line of music to each, so that any one can start the tune, and when started, every one can sing without notes.
            
            
               THE YOUTH'S TEMPERANCE BANNER.
               The National Temperance Society and Publication House publish a beautifully illustrated Monthly Paper, especially adapted to children and youth, Sunday-School and Juvenile Temperance Organizations. Each number contains several choice engravings, a piece of music, and a great variety of articles from the pens of the best writers for children in America. It should be placed in the hands of every child in the land.
               
                  TERMS, IN ADVANCE:
                  Single copy, one year, $0 25
                  10 copies to one address, 2 00
                  50 copies to one address, $7 50
                  100 copies" ". 12 00
               
               Address, J. N. STEARNS, Publishing Agent, 172 William Street, New York.
            
         
      
   
