
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Southern and South-Western Sketches .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5719 wright2-0200
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               SOUTHERN AND SOUTH-WESTERN SKETCHES.
               FUN, SENTIMENT AND ADVENTURE.
            
            Edited by a Gentleman of Richmond.
            
               RICHMOND:
               J. W. RANDOLPH, 121 MAIN ST.
            
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            The following tales have been selected from various journals of the South, and are
               deemed worthy of preservation in a more permanent and enduring form than that in
               which they first appeared. The compiler is not aware that any one of them has before
               appeared in any similar volume. If such be the fact in regard to any of them, it has
               escaped his attention, after an examination of a large number of the collections of
               numerous stories and anecdotes which have, from time to time, been given by various
               authors and compilers to the American public.
            It is believed that the present volume contains as great a variety of mirth-moving
               and interesting matter, as any like work which has ever been published. The peculiar
               humor of the South, and its characteristic qualities of reckless daring and profuse
               generosity, are happily illustrated in many of these sketches. Those who love that
               innocent mirth which leaves no pain, and can relish the honey of wit without the
               poison which it sometimes leaves, will find in these pages ample sources of
               entertainment.
            The character, as well as habits of a people, and the spirit of the times, may be
               more clearly and accurately discerned in fugitive newspaper sketches, than in
               elaborate essays or learned volumes. While the former may not possess the profound
               reflections and the polished style of the closet, nor smell so strongly of the oil of
               study, they will have a likeness to life and a truth to nature, which are not to be
               found in more elaborate productions. The one is a daguerreotype, which, in a moment,
               and almost without effort, presents before you the living man, no beauty heightened,
               and no defect concealed: the man whom you will recognize at once, should you meet him
               at the next corner. The other is a portrait by
               a professional painter, worked out by long and patient hours at the easel, and more
               excellent as a specimen of art, but which rarely, like its modern rival, brings the
               living, and almost breathing and speaking men before you.
            With these remarks, the compiler commits his little work to the consideration of the
               public.
         
      
      
         
            Southern and South-Western sketches
            
               REV. PETER CARTWRIGHT.
               
               REV. PETER CARTWRIGHT,
               THE METHODIST PRESIDING ELDER.
               A Genuine Portrait from "Life in Illinois."
               Immense was the gathering at the Methodist camp-ground, near Springfield, in
                  Illinois, on the second Sunday in September, 18—. A powerful magnet had attracted
                  this great mass of people from their homes, in many counties, for a hundred miles
                  around. The new presiding elder, a late arrival from Kentucky, an orator of
                  wide-spread and wonderful renown, was to hold forth for the first time, on that
                  interesting day. The glittering prestige of his fame had penetrated the wilderness
                  from afar, and hence the universal eagerness to see and hear this mighty stranger,
                  concerning whom the tongue of Rumor had discoursed so loudly and so lavishly.
               Morning broke forth with peculiar stillness in the azure east, the sun rose bright
                  and beautiful; eleven o'clock, the usual hour for the commencement of the
                  detonation of the heavy guns of orthodoxy, had now come, but still there was no
                  news of the clerical lion. A common circuit rider, sensible of the popular
                  disappointment, which began now to manifest itself, ascended the pulpit, and
                  endeavored to stay the anxious multitude, but only increased the dissatisfaction,
                  by stammering out a miserable and mortifying failure. The restless crowd began at
                  length to disperse, when an event occurred, which excited afresh their curiosity,
                  and concentrated the moving masses denser than ever. A messenger rushed to the
                  pulpit in hot haste, and presented a note that was immediately read out to prevent
                  the people from scattering. The following is a literal copy of that singular
                  epistle:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Dear Brethren: The devil has foundered my horse, which will detain me
                              from reaching your earthly tabernacle until evening. I might have
                              performed the journey well enough on foot, but I could not consent to
                              leave poor Paul, especially as he had never left poor Peter. Horses,
                              you know, have no souls to save, and it is therefore all the more our
                              duty as christians, to take care of their bodies. Watch and pray, I
                              beseech you, and don't let the devil get among you until
                              candle-lighting, when, God being willing, I shall be at my post.
                           
                              "Your brother in Christ,
                              "PETER CARTWRIGHT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               In fashionable phrase, the reading of this strange effusion "produced quite a
                  sensation." Some thought the man mad, others deemed the letter a hoax. But still
                  the effect as to one particular was unquestionable—it heightened and intensified
                  the public curiosity; and such, very probably, was the precise result intended by
                  the writer.
               At length the day closed. The purple curtain of twilight fell over the earth from
                  the darkening sky. God's golden fires flashed out in heaven, and men below kindled
                  their pale candles. The encampment, a village of rudely-constructed tents was
                  illuminated with a brilliancy that caused every leaf of the grove to shine and
                  sparkle as if all the trees were burnished with phosphorescent flame. It was like
                  a theatre. It was a theatre in the open air, on the green-sward, beneath the
                  starry blue, incomparably more picturesque and gorgeous than any stage scenery
                  every prepared within walls of brick or marble, where the elite of imperial cities
                  throng to feast their eyes on beauty, and their ears on the music of silver
                  sounds.
               Not only the altar and rows of benches under the broad shed, but the entire
                  dimensions of the grove also were crowded to the verge of suffocation. The word had been circulated that the mighty orator
                  had come at last, and the feverish anxiety to behold him augmented more and more,
                  as they pressed around the pulpit.
               Presently a form arose on the preacher's stand, and commenced giving out a hymn,
                  in a slow and measured tone, preliminary to the main exercises of the night, when
                  every eye became riveted on the person of the stranger; for a single glance of the
                  gazer's vision was sufficient to reveal the presence of an extraordinary man;
                  although it must be admitted, for the sake of truth, that the first impression
                  made upon the mind of the astonished beholder, would also indicate a personage of
                  an ambiguous, enigmatical, and incomprehensible order of character. They knew not,
                  in fact, what to think or make of the man. His figure was tall, burly, massive,
                  and seemed even more gigantic than the reality from its crowning foliage of
                  luxuriant coal black hair, wreathed into long, curling ringlets. Add a head that
                  looked large as a half-bushel, beetling brows, rough and craggy as 
                     fragamentary
                     fragmentary
                   granite, irradiated at the base by eyes of dark fire, small and
                  twinkling like diamonds in a sea—(they were diamonds of the soul shining in a
                  measureless sea of humor,) a swarthy complexion, as if embrowned by the kisses of
                  sunbeams, a fixedness of purpose in the expression of the mouth, with rich, rosy
                  lips, always slightly parted as if wearing a perpetual and merry smile, and you
                  have a life-like portrait of Peter Cartwright, the far-famed Methodist Presiding
                  Elder. He wore a black coat, cut with a square collar, and rounded in front, such
                  as we see in the pictures of Wesley, and other early Methodist Divines.
               Before he gave out his text he paused, with his hand upon the Bible before him,
                  and looked slowly around on the assembled multitude. I know not how others felt,
                  but there was a magnetism in his eye, as it met mine, that bowed my soul before
                  him in humiliation. And he must have exercised the same influence upon the others,
                  for a profound hush fell on the congregation, so that you could hear distinctly
                  the breathings of those around you. He then gave out his text, which was of itself
                  a sermon, in the following words: "What shall it profit a man, if he
                  shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul." He read the words
                  impressively, then waited a full minute, while his eyes wandered as before around
                  the assembly, and then read them again—"What shall it profit a man,
                  if he gain the whole world, and lose his own soul." Never had I heard such a
                  sermon as that which followed; and old men who had been members of the church ever
                  since their early youth, said the same; and though I heard it all, from the text
                  to the amen, I am forced to despair of every attempt to convey an accurate idea of
                  the transcendent eloquence of the speaker. There are different kinds of sermons:
                  the argumentative—the dogmatic—the postulatory—the persuasive—the combative in
                  orthodox blows and knocks—the logical—and the poetic; but this specimen belonged
                  to none of these categories. It was sui generis,
                  and of a new species. I shall certainly never attempt to describe that sermon, and
                  yet my memory of it is as distinct and vivid as if it was yesterday.
               He began with a clear, beautifully-modulated tone of voice that rolled upon the
                  serene night air like the soft and enchanting notes of the bugle. Methodist
                  preachers are generally celebrated for their sonorous voices, but his was
                  matchless in sweetness as well as power. For the fist ten or fifteen minutes, his
                  remarks being prefatory, were common-place, and by no means interesting; so that
                  many began to fear that he would not fulfil the high expectations which had been
                  entertained of him by his immense auditory, and that, after all, the whole scene
                  might result in failure. But scarcely did these unfavorable reflections flit
                  across the imagination, when, all of a sudden his features began to brighten, his
                  eyes became brilliant and sparkling, and his whole countenance changed to an
                     expression pression of inimitable
                  humor—and now his wild, waggish and peculiar eloquence poured forth, splashing and
                  foaming, like a mountain torrent. Glancing arrows of wit, the most galling satire,
                  well-directed shafts of ridicule, and side-splitting anecdotes, were hurled in
                  every direction with such wonderful effect, that in a very short time the whole
                  encampment was in a perfect uproar of laughter. For a while, the more ascetic
                  strove to resist the strong current of their own spontaneous emotions. The
                  long-faced, sober looking circuit-riders around him frowned and hung their heads
                  in silent, but solemn disapprobation, while the old maidenly saints groaned with
                  unspeakable anguish at such an apparent desecration of the evangelical office.
                  These, however, soon discovered that they had undertaken an impossible
                  achievement, in thinking to resist the torrent of indescribable humor of the
                  celebrated Cartwright. His very looks incited to mirth far more than the best told
                  of other men's jokes; so that the efforts to retain one's equilibrium only
                  increased the disposition to burst into still louder explosions.
               The sternest features had now relaxed into smiles at first, and then laughter; the
                  solemn-looking clergy around had also by degrees caught the infection, and the old
                  maids, matrons, children and all, at length gave way to the most irrepressible
                  merriment. Moliere's best comedy, or Sheridan's most laughable farce, was never
                  half so successful.
               Thus continued the orator for more than thirty minutes, while he painted in the
                  most ludicrous but impressive manner, the follies and vices of the sinner; for
                  these were now the all-absorbing theme of his discourse. I looked on and laughed
                  with the rest, but finally began to fear for the result as to the speaker. How,
                  exclaimed I, mentally, will he ever be able to extricate his audience from that
                  deep whirlpool of humor? If he ends thus, when the merry mood subsides and calm
                  reflection supervenes, will not the revulsion of feeling be deadly to his fame?
                  Will not every hearer realize that he has been trifled fled with in matters of
                  sacred and eternal interest? At all events, there is no prospect of a revival
                  to-night, for were the orator a magician, he could not change the subject now, and
                  stem this torrent of headlong laughter?
               But the shaft of my inference fell wide of the mark; for then he commenced to
                  change—not all at once, but gradually as the wind of a thunder-cloud. His features
                  lost their comical tinge of pleasantry; his voice-first earnest and then
                  solemn—soon wailed out in tones of deepest pathos; his eye was shorn of its mild
                  light, and yielded streams of tears, as the fountain of the hills yields water.
                  The effect was indescribable; the rebound of feeling beyond all revelation in
                  words of portraiture by imagination. He descanted on the horrors of hell, till
                  every shuddering face was turned downwards, as if expecting to behold the solemn
                  globe riven asunder, and the fathomless, fiery gulf yawn from beneath. Brave men
                  moaned like sick infants; and fair, fashionable woman, covered with silken
                  drapery, shrieked as if a knife was at work upon their heart-strings.
               Again he changed the theme, and sketched the joys of a righteous death—its faith,
                  its hopes, its winged raptures, and what beautiful angels attend the liberated
                  spirit to its starry home—with such force, fire, and evident belief, that all eyes
                  were raised towards Heaven, as the entire congregation started to their feet, as
                  if to hail the vision of angels at which the finger of the preacher seemed to be
                  pointed, elevated, as it was on high, to the full length of his arm.
               He then made a call for mourners to come to the altar, and five hundred, many of
                  them until that night infidels, rushed forward and prostrated themselves upon
                  their knees. The meeting was continued for two weeks, and more than a thousand
                  converts were added to the church. From that time the success of Peter Cartwright
                  was 
                     unparrallelled
                     unparalleled
                  , and the fact is chiefly due to his inimitable wit and masterly
                  eloquence that Methodism is now the prevailing religion in Illinois.
               
               As soon as the meeting was dismissed, with the usual benediction, a very
                  nicely-dressed down-easter, of the blue-stocking order, who had gone to this
                  camp-meeting for curiosity doubtless, and who could not allow anything to be
                  orthodox in the way of religion which had not been handed down in the direct way
                  pointed out by his Pilgrim Fathers—seeing the impression the discourse had made
                  upon me, as he sat near by during the preaching, said: "A strange scene, this
                  camp-meeting, stranger. What do you think of it?" "I must confess," said I,
                  "though brought up from childhood with strong prejudices against Methodism, I have
                  lost them all to-night, and am now half a convert to that preacher's doctrine. I
                  have heard many pulpit orators, but never one like him." "I am sorry," said he,
                  "to hear one who appears to be so intelligent as you, give way to first
                  impressions, and make such an admission; for whatever you may think of the
                  oratory, you surely cannot see true religion in the excitement of a Methodist
                  camp-meeting." "I don't know so well about that," said I; "I used to think as you
                  do, but my mind has undergone a great change to-night; for I now think that these
                  demonstrations of feeling, both rational and natural at times like this, when the
                  heart and soul are operated upon by such an overwhelming influence. Do we not see,
                  for instance, that the best-informed and pious men, too, when suddenly excited by
                  tidings of joy or grief, give vent to their emotions in sighs or laughter?
                  Religion of the intellect merely," I continued, "sounds to me now very much like a
                     misnomer. The heart must be concerned in it, as well as the head.
                  For while the intellect points us to the road, there must be something in the
                  excitement of feeling more powerful to urge us on the way—and that feeling
                  proceeds from the heart. A mere intellectual religion, I fear, would soon
                  degenerate into cold formalism, or, what is much worse, past away into absolute
                  skepticism." "You surely do not mean to say," said he, "that none but shouting
                  Methodists can be saved?" "By no means," I replied; "I judge not my neighbor; but,
                  as for myself, I would rather see a professor of religion too enthusiastic than
                  too cold—too much overflowing of the heart, rather than too little. I tell you,
                  sir, frankly, I envied that man's rare endowments to-night! and if great oratory,
                  and a good cause, are according to the success which attends them, his must be
                  great and good, indeed, for I never beheld such an impression produced by mortal
                  words before. Before his vocation all worldly ambition becomes as nothing, and the
                  results prove the authenticity of his divine commission." "Well, I see you are in
                  for Methodism and camp-meetings," said he. "Now, will you be so kind as to inform
                  me in what college this Mr. Cartwright graduated? Surely it must have required a
                  mighty alma mater to have developed such a son;
                  for he is, I must admit, with all his ranting Methodism, an extraordinary man—a
                  rare intellect, indeed!" "He did graduate," said I, "but not in schools or
                  colleges. His lessons were drawn from the inspirations of the Bible, and the great
                  Book of Nature, which were spread out wide before him. High on the hill tops, deep
                  down in the valleys, and far out on the wide-spread bosom of the prairies, he
                  studied and toiled together. Each tree and blossom, and each rivulet with the
                  green turf and beautiful flowers upon its banks, was to him a lesson for
                  reflection. Thus it was that Divine Inspiration and Nature's own hand wrote his
                     diploma with a pencil of living light, and stamped it with a seal
                  of inextinguishable fire—the immortal fire of true genius.
               "Peter Cartwright became an itinerant Methodist circuit rider at the early age of
                  eighteen, with no learning from books save what he derived from the pages of his
                  Bible and a collection of hymns. Year after year he continued to travel the wild
                  circuits of the frontier, earning annually but a hundred dollars for labors
                  painful as those of a slave at the oar. But his vocation afforded him an excellent
                  opportunity for meditation and even reading. In his long journeys from one
                  appointment to another, he was alone—with
                  nothing around him but the woods and waters, birds, trees, mountains, sun, moon,
                  and stars. These, he might and did ponder well. Aye, he did more—he bought him
                  books of literature and science, and poured over them as he rode along with an
                  ardor and patient perseverance such as perhaps was never witnessed within the
                  stone walls of a college. Oh! believe me—believe all human history—there is no
                  teacher like the student's own hard-working intellect, urged on to action, and
                  guided in its efforts by the omnipotence of unconquerable will."
               "But why did not this prodigy achieve for himself a more extensive renown? Why did
                  he not climb to the loftiest stations in the church? If this narrative be true, he
                  ought, ere this, to have been bishop at least."
               The statement of a few facts will solve the problem. Let it be remembered, then,
                  that the Methodist Episcopal Church is a hierarchy, in which the dispensation of
                  clerical honors rests exclusively with the Bishops and General Conference of
                  itinerants where the laity and local preachers are unrepresented, and
                  consequently, have no voice. Hence, in that sect, popularity, eloquence, and other
                  showy qualities have never been found sufficient passports to the preeminent
                  distinctions of authority and office, but often to the reverse. The Bishop's gown
                  must be won by steady, austere devotion, not by brilliant oratory or profound and
                  varied learning. On this perilous rock, Peter Cartwright's lofty vessel was
                  shivered into the atoms of a hopeless wreck. He made no pretensions to superior
                  sanctity, nor was it manifested in his conduct and demeanor, whether in the pulpit
                  or in private life. Indeed, he was distinguished for one very unclerical
                  peculiarity—combativeness in the superlative degree. For, to tell the truth,
                  Cartwright belonged to the Church militant in more senses than one; for he could
                  fight as well as preach; and his battles, though always apparently on the
                  defensive, were us numerous as the celebrated Bowie. The only difference lay in
                  this: that Bowie fought with deadly weapons, while Cartwright used but his
                  enormous fists, which were as effective, in the speedy settlement of belligerent
                  issues, as any knife or pistol ever forged of steel. Let the reader judge from the
                  following anecdotes:
               On a certain occasion, while traveling the rounds of the circuit with a brother
                  circuit-rider, they tarried for a night at a place where the man of the house was
                  from home. The woman, understanding that they were preachers, treated them with
                  great respect and reverence, and requested Mr. Cartwright and his companion to
                  sing a hymn and say prayers before retiring to bed for the night, and also desired
                  that the same services might be repeated after breakfast, and before their
                  departure on their journey in the morning, it being understood that they were to
                  leave immediately after an early breakfast. Next morning while they were at
                  breakfast, the husband returned, and in his homely way expressed himself gratified
                  at the hospitality shown to the strangers by his wife during his absence. Having
                  finished their repast, and the horses being ready, Cartwright pulled out a hymn
                  book from his pocket, and prepared to comply with the lady's request of the
                  previous night, by singing a hymn and uniting in prayer before parting. The
                  husband here interfered in a very rude manner, and declared, with an oath, that
                  there should be no praying about his house, and threatened to resort to force, if
                  necessary, to prevent it. "Very well," said Cartwright; "we'll see about that; we
                  Methodists never force our prayers unbidden upon the ladies; but when they make
                  the request, we always see that they are accommodated. Your wife has treated us
                  kindly in your absence, and is unquestionably a good woman—much better, I am sorry
                  to say, than you are a man; and as she has made the request that we would unite in
                  prayer this morning before parting, it is my intention to carry out that request;"
                  and then, deliberately pulling off his coat, and squaring himself directly in
                  front of his adversary who was now
                  standing in a menacing attitude, he said to his brother circuit-rider, in a calm
                  but firm tone of voice, "Now, brother, do you pray while I watch."
                  The man, being a generous backwoodsman, after all, was so much pleased with the
                  singular but determined conduct of Cartwright, that he apologized for his
                  rudeness, and told him he must forgive him, and not fail to call and see them if
                  he ever came that way again. A few years afterwards, it is said, this man was a
                  respectable member of the Methodist church, and an exemplary
                  Christian in his neighborhood.
               But the most celebrated feat which was performed by him as a member of the church
                  militant, occurred at a camp-meeting held near Alton, in Illinois, many years ago.
                  The worshippers were much annoyed at this meeting by a set of 
                     deperadoes
                     desperadoes
                   from St. Louis, under the control of a notorious bully, the triumphant
                  hero of countless fights, in none of which he had ever met an equal or even
                  second. These coarse, drunken ruffians carried it with a high hand, outraged the
                  men and insulted the women, so as to threaten the dissolution of all pious
                  exercises: and such was the terror the name of their leader inspired, that not one
                  individual could be found brave enough to face his prowess.
               At last, when Cartwright ascended the pulpit to hold forth, the desperadoes on the
                  outskirts of the encampment raised a yell so deafening as to drown utterly every
                  other sound. Cartwright's dark eye shot lightning. He deposited his Bible, drew
                  off his coat, and remarked aloud—"Wait a few minutes, my brethren, while I go and
                  make the devil pray."
               He then proceeded, with a smile on his lips, to the focus of the tumult, and
                  addressed the chief bully—"Mr. — , I have come to make you pray."
               The desperado raked back the tangled festoons of his coarse red hair, arched his
                  huge brows with a comical expression, and replied, "By jolly, I'd like to see you
                  do it, old snorter!"
               "Very well," said Cartwright. "Will these gentlemen, your courteous friends, agree
                  not to show foul play?"
               "In course they will. They're real grit, and won't do nothing but the clean thing,
                  so they won't," rejoined the bully, indignantly.
               "Are you ready?" asked Cartwright.
               "Ready as a race-horse with a light rider," answered his adversary, squaring his
                  ponderous person for the combat.
               But the bully spoke 
                     to
                     too
                   soon; for scarcely had the words left his lips, when Cartwright made a
                  prodigious bound towards his antagonist, and accompanied it with a quick, shooting
                  punch of his herculean fist, which fell crashing on the other's chin, and hurled
                  him to the earth like lead. Then even his intoxicated comrades, filled with
                  involuntary admiration at the feat, gave a cheer.
               But the bully was up in a moment, and rushed upon his enemy, exclaiming—"that
                  warn't done fair, so it wasn't." He aimed a furious stroke that Cartwright parried
                  with his left hand, and grasping his throat with the right, crushed him down as if
                  he had been an infant. He struggled, squirmed, and writhed in the dust, but all to
                  no purpose; for those strong, muscular fingers held his windpipe as if in the jaws
                  of an iron vice. When he began to turn purple in the face, and ceased to resist,
                  Cartwright slackened his hold, and inquired, "Will you pray now?"
               "I doesn't know a word how," gasped the ruffian.
               "Repeat after me," commanded Mr. Cartwright.
               "Well, if I must I must," said he, "because I believe you're the devil."
               The preacher then said over the Lord's prayer, line by line, and the conquered
                  bully responded in the same way, when the victor permitted him to rise. At this
                  consummation the rowdies thundered three loud and long cheers.
               The bully then shook Cartwright's hand warmly, declaring, "By jolly, you're some beans in a bar fight. I'd
                  rather set-to with an old he in the dog-days. You can
                  pass in this 'ere crowd of nose smashers, blast your pictur!" After this, the
                  rowdies behaved with exemplary decorum, and Cartwright resumed his Bible and the
                  pulpit.
               A thousand other incidents, equally martial and ludicrous, are related as to
                  Cartwright's adventures, both in Kentucky and Illinois. Many of them are probably
                  fictions, but those genuine, if collected, would alone be sufficient to fill at
                  least two volumes of romantic reality."
               Such was the celebrated Methodist preacher, Peter Cartwright, whose biography
                  teaches us the mighty influence of circumstances in moulding the characters and
                  fixing the destinies of men. Had that splendid genius been cast on the tide of
                  war, or thrown into the fiery vortex of a revolutionary era, his name might have
                  been a signal of doom to quaking nations; his renown might have blazed like a
                  comet, through all time. But he was born in the wildest mountains of Kentucky; he
                  was taught the spiritual tenets of Wesley, and educated to regard the calling of a
                  Methodist circuit-rider as the loftiest on earth.
            
            
               UNCLE BILL.
               Uncle Bill Griffin, or Uncle Bill, as he was commonly called, with an irreverent
                  disregard of his patronymic, did not retire from the ship chandlery business till
                  he was worth something more than a plum. Not being blessed with a son to continue
                  his name and inherit his fortune, he lavished all his tenderness and all his care
                  upon his daughter. Sweet Molly Griffin, thou wert as unlike thy papa as a
                  canary—bird is unlike a bull-dog. His face was as hard as a Dutch
                  nut-cracker—thine as soft as a rose-leaf. He was the veriest miser in all
                  creation-thou didst spend thy pocket-money as liberally, as a prince of Wales. In
                  his household management Uncle Bill was a consummate skin-flint; tradition says
                  that he used to soak the back-logs in the cistern, and water the lamp oil, and he
                  was aided and abetted in all his niggardly schemes by a vinegar-faced
                  house-keeper, who was the sworn enemy of all good cheer, and stinted from a pure
                  love of meanness. Yet pretty Mary had no reason to complain of her father's
                  penuriousness, as far as she was concerned. He sent her to the best schools, and
                  gave her a carte blanche on the most expensive milliners, and when she walked
                  Washington street on a sunny day, there was not a more gaily bedecked damsel from
                  Cornhill to Essex street.
               Of course, several very nice young men in varnished leather and white kids, fell
                  over head and ears in love with her, and there was a larger number of whiskers
                  collected outside of the meeting she attended on Sunday than darkened the door of
                  any other metropolitan church.
               
               
                  
                     Yet cold was the maid, and tho' legions advanced,
                     All drilled in Ovidian art,
                     Though they languished and ogled, protested and danced,
                     Like shadows, they came, and like shadows they glanced,
                     From the pure polished ice of her heart.
                  
               
               Besides, Uncle Bill was a formidable guardian to his attractive daughter. Did he
                  not fire a charge of rock-salt into the inexpressibles of Tom Bilkins, when he
                  came serenading with a cracked guitar? Didn't he threaten to kick Towle for
                  leaving a valentine at his door. Wasn't he capable of unheard of atrocities? The
                  suitors of pretty Mary were all frightened off the course by her ogre of a father,
                  except a steady young fellow who rejoiced in the name of Sampson Bittles, and who
                  was addicted to book-keeping in a wholesale grocery store in Commercial street.
                  The old gentleman really liked Bittles; he was so staid, so quiet, and so full of
                  information. He was a regular price current, and no man on change was better
                  acquainted with the value of stocks. Why Mary liked him, it is more difficult to
                  conjecture, for he was very deficient in the small talk that young ladies are so
                  fond of, was averse to moustaches, disliked the opera, thought the ballet immoral,
                  and considered waltzing indelicate. Perhaps his good looks compensated for other
                  deficiencies, or perhaps her horrors of dying in a state of single blessedness
                  induced her to countenance the only young man Uncle Bill was ever known to
                  tolerate.
               One evening Bittles screwed up his courage to the task of addressing the old man
                  on the subject nearest to his heart.
               "Mr. Griffin," said he, "I've had something here for a long time," and he made up
                  a horrible face, and placed his hand somewhere near his heart.
               "Dyspepsia?" said the old man.
               "Your daughter," gasped the young one.
               "Well, what about her?" asked Uncle Bill sharpishly.
               "I'm in love with her," said the unhappy clerk.
               "Humbug!" said Uncle Bill.
               "Fact!" rejoined Bittles.
               "What's your income?" inquired Griffin.
               "Eight hundred," answered the supplicant.
               "It won't do, my boy," said Griffin, shaking his grim locks. "No man on a salary
                  shall marry my daughter. Why, she's the finest girl in Boston, and it takes
                  capital to marry a fine girl. When you have thirty thousand dollars to begin with,
                  you may come and talk with me."
               Bittles disappeared. Six months after that Miss Mary Griffin received a letter,
                  with an endorsement of Uncle Sam, acknowledging the receipt of forty cents. It ran
                  thus: 
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "SAN FRANCISCO, California, 1849.
                                 Dearest Mary—
                              
                              Enclosed, you will find a specimen of California gold, which please
                                 hand your father, and oblige. Have to advise you of my return to
                                 Boston. Please tell your father that I have made fifty thousand
                                 dollars at the mines, and shall, wind and weather permitting, soon
                                 call upon him to talk over that matter, and arrange terms of
                                 partnership.
                              
                                 Yours to command,
                                 SAMPSON BITTLES."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Mary, as in duty bound, handed the epistle to her father, who was overjoyed.
               Some weeks elapsed, and the return of the steamer to New York was telegraphed.
                  Griffin was on the qui vive to see his future son-in-law.
               On the day of his expected arrival, he met a Californian who came home in the same
                  ship.
               "Where's Bittles?" he inquired.
               "Oh, ho! you'll see him before a great while," replied the Californian.
               "Has he been lucky?"
               
               "Yes—fifty thousand at the lowest calculation. But he's going to try a game over
                  you. He means to tell you that he's been robbed of all his gold on his way home,
                  to see if you have any generosity and disinterestedness—to see whether you'd give
                  your daughter to him, gold or no gold."
               "Sly boy!" chuckled old Griffin. "I'm much obliged to you for the hint. I'll act
                  accordingly. Good morning."
               Now it happened that the Californian was a good friend of Bittles, and that the
                  story of Bittle's misfortunes was absolutely true, he having been robbed of every
                  ounce of his hard-earned gold dust on his way home. So it may be supposed he
                  called on Griffin with a very lugubrious and woe-begone air.
               "My dear boy," said Uncle Bill, "I am delighted to see you, and pleased to hear of
                  your luck. I welcome you as my son-in-law. But what the deuce is the matter with
                  you?"
               "Alas, sir!" said Bittles, "I made fifty thousand dollars at the mines——"
               "Very hard luck!" interrupted the old gentleman, chuckling.
               "But on my way home, I was robbed of every ounce—and now how can I claim your
                  daughter's hand?"
               "Sampson Bittles," said Uncle Bill, very cunningly, "if you haven't got fifty
                  thousand dollars you deserve to have it—you've worked hard enough to get it. You
                  shall have my daughter, and the marriage shall be celebrated to-morrow night. In
                  anticipation of your return I hare had you published. And while you're talking to
                  Mary, I'll draw a check for $50,000, so that you may go into partnership with a
                  sufficient capital."
               "But, sir, I am a beggar."
               "So much the better—you'll work the harder to increase your fortune."
               "My dear sir, how can I thank you?"
               "By making my girl a good husband. There—go—go—and tell Mary the news."
               Bittles did tell her the news, and they were married. He went into business on the
                  fifty thousand furnished him by his father-in-law, and was so extraordinary
                  prosperous, that Uncle Bill was more convinced than ever that the story was a
                  regular Munchausen. Once or twice he tried to repeat it, but the old gentleman
                  always cut short with—
               "I know all about it. Had it put in the papers, too, eh? Oh, it was a terrible
                  affair. Lost all! Poor fellow! Well, I made it up to you, and now I won't hear
                  another word about it."
               When Uncle Bill departed this life, his immense property was found to be equally
                  divided between his daughter and son-in-law; the testator bequeathed to the latter
                  his share to compensate him for the loss he sustained on his return from
                  California. The old miser had died in the full belief that Bittles never lost the
                  gold dust.
            
            
               
               DRAWING A CHALK LINE; OR, RESERVING THE RIGHT OF PASSAGE.
               AN INCIDENT FOUNDED ON FACT.
               This is a strange world, or, if you please, many strange things occur in this
                  world—either way suits us, and amongst the strange things which happen in this
                  strange world, some are ludicrous and some are serious—some are one thing and some
                  another. Many things, too, which take place, are shrouded in the dark pall of
                  mystery, and remain unknown and inexplicable, till some chance of fate or fortune
                  draws aside the veil from our vision, and we behold objects which before we had
                  not thought of. Thus has it been with the present story which we are about to
                  unfold. Like a sweet flower blushing unseen, it has long remained concealed. But
                  chance has given it to us, and we shall now give to our readers the story of
                     Drawing a Chalk line, or reserving the Right of Passage.
               "Once upon a time" there came to this city a young Kentuckian, for the purpose of
                  learning the sciences of medicine and surgery. He was tall and athletic, shrewd,
                  apt, and intelligent, with a "little sprinkling" of waggishness. He was inducted
                  into the Charity Hospital, and a room in the third story given him as a study. On
                  entering into his new quarters, he was introduced to a young French gentleman,
                  occupying the room also as a student. The young Frenchman, it seems, was very
                  frank in his manners, courteous, yet cold, and he thus addressed his new
                  companion:
               "Sir, I am indeed pleased to see you, and hope that we may prove mutually
                  agreeable; but, in order that this may be the case, I will inform you that I have
                  had several former roommates mates, with none of whom I could ever agree—we could
                  never pursue our studies together. This room contains two beds; as the oldest
                  occupant, I claim that nearest the window."
               The Kentuckian assented.
               "Now," says the Frenchman, "I'll draw the boundary line between our territories,
                  and we shall each agree not to encroach upon the others' rights," and taking a
                  piece of chalk from his pocket, he made the mark of division, midway, from one
                  side of the room to the other. "Sir," he added, "I hope you have no objection to
                  the treaty."
               "None in the world, sir," answered the stranger, "I am perfectly satisfied with
                  it." He then sent down for his baggage and both students sat down with their
                  books.
               The Frenchman was soon deeply engaged, while "Old Kentuck" was watching him, and
                  thinking what a singular genius he must be, and how he might "fix" him.
               Thus things went on until dinner time came. The bell was rung; the Frenchman
                  popped up, adjusted his cravat, brushed up his whiskers and mustachios, and
                  essayed to depart.
               "Stand, sir!" said the stranger, suddenly placing himself with toe to the mark,
                  directly before the French student, "if you cross that line, you are a dead
                  man."
               The Frenchman stood pale with astonishment. The Kentuckian moved not a muscle of
                  his face. Both remained in silence for some moments, when the Frenchman exclaimed
                  "Is it possible that I did not reserve the right of passage?"
               "No, sir, indeed you did not; and you pass this line at your peril."
               "But how shall I get out of the room?"
               "There is the window which you reserved to yourself—you may use that; but you pass
                  not that door—my door, which you generously left me."
               The poor Frenchman was fairly caught. He was in a quandary, and made all sorts of
                  explanations and entreaties. The
                  Kentuckian took compassion on him, and thinking that going out of a third-story
                  window was not "what it's cracked up to be," said to his new friend, "Sir,
                     in order that we may be mutually agreeable, I'll rub out that hateful
                  chalk line and let you pass."
               The Frenchman politely thanked him, and since the settlement of that "boundary
                  question," they have been the very best friends.
            
            
               A SCENE IN FLORIDA.
               I witnessed a scene a few days ago, which, in my humble opinion, puts the story of
                  Damon and Pythias quite in the shade. A party of Indians were recently discovered,
                  by some of our troops, who succeeded in capturing three of the warriors; the rest
                  of the party, consisting of three men and several women and children, numbering in
                  all about twenty, fled. The captives were brought to this place, where they were
                  interrogated by the Colonel, during which it was discovered that two of them had
                  been concerned in killing and burning a mail rider, some time in March last. They
                  were told for this conduct of theirs they would be hung in fifteen days, unless
                  within that time the rest of their people came in. They were then placed in
                  chains, and were permitted to send out the third man of their party, with a talk
                  to bring in the rest of their people, while they themselves were committed to the
                  guard. The man thus sent out returned in five days, bringing with him a warrior by
                  the name of Holati Fixico, and some women and children, among whom were the mother
                  and sister of one of the prisoners, whose name is Talof Hadjo. The scene that
                  followed may be dramatized thus:
               Scene. An open court in front of the commanding officer's quarters. Indians are
                  discovered seated under the trees, among them Holati Fixico, (Pythias,) on the
                  grass in the Indian posture; Talof Hadjo, (Damon,) in chains, on a bench, his head
                  resting against a tree, and looking towards the heavens with a countenance
                  expressive of resignation; his mother and sister lying upon the grass at his feet,
                  the mother weeping at the fate which awaits her son. The Colonel and other
                  officers are discovered at a little distance from the group of officers.
               
               
                  Colonel, (to Holati Fixico.) Where are the rest of the people sent
                  for?
               
                  Holati. They have separated and cannot be found. Your troops have
                  scattered them, and they have taken different paths.
               
                  Colonel. Know you not that unless they are brought in, these men
                  (pointing to the prisoners) will be hung? (A pause, the Indians disconsolate, but
                  apparently resigned.) If I send you out for the people, will you bring them in, in
                  time to save their lives?
               
                  Holati. The people have gone off, and I know not where to look for
                  them. Like the frightened deer, they fled at the presence of your troops.
               
                  Colonel. Indian can find Indian. If they are not here in ten days,
                  these men will surely die!
               
                  Holati. The track of the Indian is crossed; his path is hidden, and
                  cannot be traced in ten suns.
               
                  Colonel, (to Talof Hadjo.) Have you a wife?
               
                  Talof. My wife and child are out with the people. I wish them here,
                  that I may take leave of them before I die.
               
                  Colonel. Do you love your wife and child?
               
                  Talof. The dog is fond of its kind: I love my own blood.
               
                  Colonel. Could you find the people that are out?
               
                  Talof. They are scattered, and may not be found.
               Colonel—Do you desire your freedom?
               
                  Talof. I see the people passing to and fro and wish to be with
                  them—I am tired of my chains.
               
                  Colonel. If I release you, will you bring in the people within the
                  time fixed?
               
                  Talof. You would not trust me; yet I would try.
               
                  Colonel. If Holati Fixico will consent to take your chains, and be
                  hung in your place if you should not return, you may go!
               A long pause. Talof continues, throughout the scene, with his eyes fixed on the
                  heavens. His mother and sister now cast imploring looks to Holati, who, during the
                  last few questions, has struggled to maintain his composure; evincing, by the
                  heaving of his breast and his gaspings, as though the rope were already about his
                  neck, that he is ill at ease. All eyes are turned to him: he recovers, and, with
                  the utmost composure and firmness, replies—
               
                  Holati. I have no wife, or child, or mother: it is more fit he
                  should live than I. I consent to take his chains, and abide his fate—let him
                  go!
               
                  Colonel. Be it so: but do not deceive yourselves. So sure as Talof
                  Hadjo brings not in the people within ten days, Holati dies the death of a
                  dog.
               With the utmost solemnity the two Indians were then taken to the armory, when the
                  chains were transferred to Holati, and in fifteen minutes after Talof was on his
                  journey. Yesterday a messenger arrived, bringing intelligence that Talof was on
                  his way in, with all his people, and might be expected here to-morrow or next day.
                  There is more truth than poetry in the foregoing, and what makes it more
                  remarkable, when compared with the story of Damon and Pythias, is, that in the one
                  case a strong and devoted friendship existed between the parties, while in the
                  other there appears no such feeling, but the sacrifice offered by Holati arose
                  from a purely noble and disinterested motive, a desire to save the life of one
                  whom he considered of more consequence than himself. Pythias placed the utmost
                  faith in the promise of his friend to return at the time appointed. This poor
                  Indian had no such assurance in him; on the contrary, he well knew it was barely
                  probable that Talof would return with his people in time to save his life.
            
            
               
               HOW MICK SHOUTER CAME VERY NEAR "WALLOPING" ARCH COONY.
               A YAZOO SKETCH.
               In the Yazoo hills, near the town of Satartia, in the good State of Mississippi,
                  there lived, at no distant date, one Mick Shouter, whose hunting and preaching
                  adventures became famous in all the land. Besides being a great bear hunter, and
                  hard to beat at preaching, Mick professed to be "considerable" of a fighter, and
                  in a regular knock-down and drag-out row, was hard to beat.
               In order that the world may not remain in darkness as to his doings in this last
                  behalf, and fearing least there should be no one who entertains for him that
                  particularly warm regard which animates us towards him, we have thought it
                  incumbent on us, in evidence of our attachment for the reverend hero, to jot down
                  an incident that lingers in our memory respecting him, bequeathing it, as a rich
                  legacy, to remotest time. Entertaining such partiality, we may be pardoned for
                  following Mick in one of his most stirring adventures, related in his peculiar and
                  expressive vernacular.
               I'm one of the peaceablest fellers, said Mick, that ever trotted on hind legs, an'
                  rather than git into er fuss 'bout nuthin', I'd let er chap spit on me; but, when
                  it comes to rubbin' it in, I always in gen'ally kinder r'ars up, an' won't stan'
                  it. But thar's some fellers up in Yazoo, what would rather git into er scrimage
                  than eat. An' I've seen er few up thar what war so hungry for er fight that they
                  fell away, an' got so poor an' thin that they had to lean up agin er saplin' to
                  cuss!
               That chap, Arch Coony, was er few in that line! He was the durndest, kantankerous
                  hoss fly that ever clum a tree! I tell you what, ef I hadn't er bin thar I
                  wouldn't er bleeved it. I seed him one day in Satartia, git up from er jug of
                  whiskey, when he hadn't drunk more'n half of it, and leave t'other half to spile,
                  an' go an' pitch into er privit 'spute 'twene two injuns, (when he didn't care er
                  durn cent which walloped t'other,) an' lam both on um out'n ther mockasins!
               Well, you see, Arch was mighty fond of them kinder tricks, an' ef he seed er
                  feller he thought he could lam without no danger, he wouldn't make no bones, but
                  he'd jest go up to the chap and make faces at him, an' harry his feelings er bit,
                  an ef the feller showed spunky-like, he'd let him alone an' ax him to take er
                  drink; but, ef he sorter tried to sidle out of it, Arch would git as mad as all
                  wrath, an' swar, an' cuss, an' r'ar, an' charge like er ram at er gate post, and
                  the fast thing you knowed he'd shuck of his coat, an' when the feller warn't
                  'spectin' nuthin', Arch would fetch him er side wipe on the head, and knock him
                  into the middle of next week!
               You see, I didn't like them sorter doins much, me, myself, I didn't, an' I all'ays
                  sed ef ever I got er chance at Arch, I'd let him down er button hole or two. He
                  was gettin' too high up in the picturs any how, an' ses I, ef that feller, Arch
                  Coony, don't mind which side of his bread's buttered, I'll git hold of him one of
                  these days, an' I'll make him see sites! Well, you see, thar was two or three
                  sheep stealin' chaps listnin' to what I sed, an' they goes an' tells Arch the fust
                  chance I got I was gwine to larrup him like all fury, an' soon as he hearn it, he
                  begin er cussin' like all wrath, an' sez he, dod rot that ole Mick Shouter!—he
                  pretend to be er preacher!—his preachin' aint nuthin' but loud hollerin' no how!
                  So you see, them same chaps, they comes an' tells me what Arch he'd sed, an' I got
                  mad, too, an' we had the durndest rumpus in the neighborhood you ever hearn.
               
               I didn't see nothin' of Arch from that time till about er month; Every time I went
                  down to Satartia to buy enything, er barral of whiskey, or backer, or such like
                  truck, for privit use, I looked for Arch, an' Arch he looked for me; but, some how
                  or 'tother he never crossed my path. At last, one day I sent him word I b'lieved
                  he was skeered of me, and the fust chance I got I'd take the starch out'n him as
                  sure as shootin'; an' he sent word back to me that was a game what two could play
                  at, an' when I wanted to try it, he'd see if he couldn't help me.
               Well, things went on so for a long time, an' I didn't see nuthin' of Arch, so I
                  begin to forgit all about him. At last, one day when me an' two or three other
                  chaps was gwine down to Big Black river, to go b'ar huntin' on t'other side of it,
                  I had hearn the darndest clatterwhackin' and noise in the road behind us, an' when
                  I turned round to see what in the name of thunder 'twas, thar was Arch an' er
                  whole lot of fellers cumin' down the road, er galloppin' full tilt right up to us,
                  an' er gwine bar huntin' too.
               When I seed him, I was so mad I thought I should er bust right wide open! I was
                  hot, I tell you, and sez I to myself, now Mr. Arch I've got you, an' if you don't
                  keep your eye skin'd, I'll lick you till your hide won't hold shucks.
               Torectly, Arch he cum up along side, an' looked me right plum in the face as
                  savage as er meet axe, an' sez he, good mornin', ole preach! give us your paw!
               I see thar was hell in him as big as er meeting house, an' I determined to give
                  him as good as he sent; so I looked at him sorter servagerous like, an' sez I,
                  look here boss, how can you have the face to talk to me, arter sayin' what you
                  sed?
               Why, sez he, uncle Mick, didn't you begin it?
               No, sez I, an' ef you sez I begun it, I'll larrup you in er inch of your life.
               Sez he, you eternal ole cuss, ef you want to larrup me, jest larrup away as soon
                  as you darn please, an' we'll see which'll git the wust of it.
               Now, sez I, I like you Arch, 'cause I all'ays thought you was er fust-rate feller;
                  but aint you bin 'busin' me every whar fur every thing you could think of?
               Yes, sez he, but didn't you say you'd git hold of me one of these days, and make
                  me see sites?
               No, sez I, I didn't; but this here's what I sed: Sez I, ef that feller Arch Coony
                     don't mind which side of his bread's buttered, I'll git hold of
                  him one of these days, an' make him see sites!
               Well, sez he, uncle Mick, you knows I'm the most peaceablest feller livin', an'
                  all'ays minds which side of my bread's buttered, an' ef that's all you sed, 'taint
                  nuthin', so let's take er drink.
               Then he tuck out a tickler of whiskey, and arter he'd tuck three or four swallows
                  out'n it, sez he, Uncle Mick, obleege me by taking er horn?
               No, sez I, wont do no sich er dog on thing, for when I likes er chap I likes him,
                  an' when I don't like him, I don't like him; but if you wants to fight, I'm your
                  man!
               You oughter seen Arch then! I think he was the most maddest man that ever whobbled
                  on two hind legs! He rard an' pitched, an' cussed, an' swore, 'tell you'der
                  thought the day of judgmen' was at han'!
               When I see him cuttin' up that way, I commence' gittin' mad too, an' my knees.
                  they began to shake, sorter, like I had er chill; an' —— skeered?—no sir!—an' I
                  s'sposed thar was gwine to be the devil to pay! I give you my word, I aint bin so
                  wrathy afore but once since, an' that was t'other day when Mat Cain, the
                  blacksmith, drunk up my last bottle of "bald face," an' when I tacked him 'bout it
                  he said he thought it was milk.
               But that aint neither here nor thar. As I was er sayin', Arch, he cussed at me, an' I cussed at him, an' the
                  fellers what was along with me sed I beat him all holler!
               Torectly I begin to get tired of jawin' away so much, an' sez I, Arch, what's the
                  use of makin' sich er allfired racket about nothin'? spose we make it up?
               Good as wheat, sez he.
               Well, sez I, give us your paw, sez I, but sez I, thar's one thing you sed what
                  sorter sticks in my craw yit, an' ef you don't pollogise, I'll wallop you right
                  now.
               What does you mean? sez he.
               Sez I, did'nt you sed one day that my preachin' warn't nuthin' but loud
                  hollerin?
               Yes, sez he, but did'nt you send me word one time that you b'lieved I was skeered
                  of you, an' the fust chance you got you'd take the starch out'n me as sure as er
                  gun?
               Sez I, yes, I konolly, but what does that signify?
               Well, sez he, ef you'll take back what you sed, I'll take back what I sed.
               Then I begin to git as mad as all wrath; an' sez I, you eternal sheep-steelin',
                  whiskey drinkin', nigger-lammin' bow-legged, taller-faced son of er —— never mind
                  what—does you want me to tell a lie by chawin' up my own words? Ef that's what
                  you're arter, jest comen, an' I'll larrup you till your mammy wont know you from a
                  pile of sassage meet.
               So we kep er ridin' on an' er cussin one another worse than two Choctaw Injuns,
                  an' torectly we cum to the ferry boat whar we had to cross the river. Soon as we
                  got thar, Arch he hopped down off'n his ole hoss, an commence schukin' his self
                  fur er fight, an' I jumped down two. I see the devil was in him as big as er bull,
                  so I begin grittin' my teeth, an' lookin' at him as spunky as a dominicker
                  rooster; an' now, sez I, Mr. Arch Coony, I sed I'd make you see sites, an' the
                  fust thing you know I'll show em to you! Then I pulled off my ole Sunday go to
                  meetin' coat an' slammed it down upon er stump, an' sez I, lay thar ole Methodist,
                  till I learn this coon some sense!
               I soon see thar was gwine to be the bustiness fight that ever was so I rolled up
                  my sleeves, an' Arch rolled up his'n, and we was gwine at it regular.
               Now sez he ole pra'r meeting, just pitch in!
               Well, I begin sidelin' up, and he begin sidelin' up, an' soon as I got close 'nuff
                  to him so as I could hit him a jo-darter, sez he, hole on er minit—this ground is
                  too rooty—wait till I clear the stick away from here, so as I can have a fair
                  chance to give it to you good!
               Don't holler till you'r out'n the woods sez I—p'raps when I'm done with you, you
                  wont say my preachin' aint nuthin but loud hollerin', I 'spec!
               When he'd done scrapin' off the groun', it looked jist like two bulls had bin
                  thar, pawing up the dirt—I give you my word it did.
               Well, as I sed before, he sidled up, and I sidled up, an' now sez I, lookout for
                  your bread basket, ole stud, fur ef I happen to give you a jolt thar, p'raps it'll
                  turn your stomach.
               So thar we stood, head and tale up jest like two chicken cocks in layin' time; an'
                  sez I to him, Arch, I'm gwine to maul you tell you won't know yourself!
               Soon as we got close 'nuff, an' I see he was erbout to make er lunge at me, sez I,
                  hole on, dod drot you! wait tell I unbutton my gallowses, an' may-be-so then I'll
                  show you them sites what we was talkin 'bout!
               Well, all the fellers was stanin' roun' ready to take sides in the fight, an'
                  torecly the chap what kep' the ferry, he 'gin to get tired of keepin' the
                  ferry-boat waitin', an' sez he, cuss your pictures, I'm not gwine to keep this
                  here boat waitin' no longer, an' people on t'other side waitin' to get over; so ef
                  you wants to fight, you come over on t'other side an' fight thar!
               Good as ole wheat, sez I; enny thing to keep peace away— ef you say so, let's get in the boat an' settle it
                  over thar. Well they all agreed to that without sayin' er word, an' Arch he got
                  into the ferry-boat, an' all the fellers they follered. When the boat was 'bout
                  pushin' off, I jumped on to the eend of it, an' was gwine to lead my boss on, too,
                  but the allfired crittur was skeer'd to jump onto it, an' sez I, to the man what
                  kept the ferry, sez I, why in the h—ll don't you wait tell I gits this durned
                  four-legged critter into the boat? He did'nt wait to say er word, but kept shovin'
                  the boat out, and toreckly my hoss begin pullin' back with the bridle an' I er
                  holein on to it, an' the fust thing I knowed down I went, kerwash into the drink.
                  So you see, in about er minit thar was Arch on tother side of the river an' no
                  chance for me to git at him. I tell you what I was hot then!—an' what was worser,
                  Arch, he holler'd out an' sed he b'lieved I skeer'd the hoss an' made him pull
                  back on purpose to git out'n the scrape. When I hearn him say that, I was so mad I
                  farly biled!
               Hows'ever, I soon see 'twarnt no use raisin' er racket 'bout what couldn't be
                  helped, so I eluded I'd have my satisfaction out'n him enny way, an' I begin
                  shakin' my fist at him, an' er cussin him. Sez I, you eternal, yaller faced,
                  pisen-mouthed, suck egg son of er ——! what is it you aint mean enough for me to
                  call you? I tell you what, (an' I hope to be forgive for swarin') I cussed him
                  blue!
               Well, I was so out done, I did'nt wait for the boat to come back, for it was
                  gittin' most night an' too late for bar huntin' that day—'sides my wife she would
                  be 'spectin' me at the house, an' might raise pertickler h—ll if I did'nt git thar
                  in time; so I jumped on my ole boss an' put for home. But the way I cussed an'
                  'bused Arch when I got on this boss was er sin!—an' the further I got from him the
                  louder I hollered! I pledge you my word, you might er hearn me er mile!
               To make a long story short, the last word I sed to him, sez I, Arch, you've scaped
                  me this time by er axident, but the next time you cross my path, I'll larrup you
                  worse nor the devil beaten tan bark!—I will, by hokey!
               Whew! whistled Mick, drawing a long breath, "I tell you what, I come the nearest
                  wollopin' that feller, not to do it, that you ever saw!"
               At this point, Mick donned his coon skin cap, and giving it a slam that brought it
                  over his eyes, vanished!
            
            
               
               ROUSING A HOOSIER.
               SCENE AT A STEAMBOAT DINNER.
               It happened to be my lot, hot many weeks since, to be a passenger on board the
                  fast running steamboat M——, bound from Cincinnati to St. Louis. Among the number
                  of persons in the cabin was H——, a would-be wag, and a live Hoosier fresh from the
                  swamps and bogs of Indiana. It so happened that, in his humor of fun, H—— resolved
                  to quiz this, as he supposed, green individual, and only waited for a good
                  opportunity of so doing. None occurred until dinner time, when the wag took
                  particular pains to place himself exactly opposite the Hoosier at the table, and
                  soon after the company had commenced eating, he hailed him as follows:—
               "I say, my friend, you're from Hoosierdom, I suppose."
               "I'm from Indiana," was the civil reply.
               "Do they raise cabbage where you come from?"
               "No; but I reckon they du whar you come from."
               "What do you judge by?"
               "By the looks of that ar cabbage head between your shoulders."
               Several sitting near H—— now began to titter at his expense; but, nothing daunted,
                  he returned to the charge. "Does your mother know your'e out?" he asked.
               "Yes, I reckon so; she told me go talk to the goslins."
               "Indeed," said H——, biting his lips, "then you must be a goose to understand the
                  language so well."
               "When among Romans, I du as Romans du," was the instant retort. "I talk the
                  language of those I am talking to."
               "Which way are you travelling," cried H——, as another giggle ran round the
                  table.
               "Down the Ohio river, I reckon:" and the Hoosier half filled his plate with
                  poached eggs.
               "What business do you follow?" But, instead of answering the question, the face of
                  the Hoosier suddenly became red as blood, and he dashed the contents of his plate
                  full in the face and bosom of the wag.
               There was a sudden start among those at the table, which was turned into instant
                  confusion by the further actions of the Indianian. Raising aloft the heavy plate
                  in his right hand, he brought it down with stunning force upon the head of the
                  individual at his right side, knocking him backwards upon the floor, where he lay
                  sprawling, unable for the moment to rise. No sooner had the plate done its duty
                  upon its victim, than bending the left arm, he brought back the elbow with
                  terrible force into the mouth of the man at his left side, knocking out a couple
                  of teeth, and also prostrating him at full length, with his head against the door
                  of a berth. This done, the Hoosier jumped up, and, placing his back against the
                  side of the cabin seized hold of the chair he had been sitting in, and stared
                  around him with eyes flashing like those of a madman.
               In the meanwhile, the now thoroughly excited passengers had risen from the table,
                  the female portion fleeing into the cabin, and the men gathering around the
                  assaulter.
               "He's mad!" shouted one.
               "Throw him overboard!" yelled another.
               "Knock him down!" cried a third.
               "Bind him hand and foot!" bawled a fourth.
               "Take care he don't kill some one!" echoed a fifth.
                But the voice of the sixth speaker was drowned by the louder lungs of the
                  Hoosier, who suddenly exclaimed in a voice of thunder—
               "Whar's the captain?"
               
               "Here I am," answered the person called for, as he came up to the spot.
               "Wall, I want that man and this man searched;" and he pointed to the two he had
                  knocked down.
               "What for?" asked the captain.
               "What for? Why, for stealing. That blackguard on my right stole my puss,
                  containin' five hundred dollars, and in eagles, which I've been a year layin' up
                  to go to Kaliforny; the thief on my left stole my new silk pocket handkerchief,
                  gin me by Polly just afore I left home."
               By this time, the fellow who had fallen under the plate had managed to get up.
               "You're a liar, sir!" he shouted, in passion, at the same time thrusting his hand
                  in his bosom.
               "You're a thief, you son of a gun!" retorted the Hoosier, in a rage. "Sarch him,
                  captain, and if you don't find the puss on him, why chop me into sassages and eat
                  me for supper, thot's all."
               "We must search you, sir," said the captain to the man accused.
               "I won't be searched," answered the fellow haughtily. "I'm a gentleman."
               "That remains to be seen," said the Skipper, calmly. "Searched you shall be."
               The man was accordingly examined, and, though every pocket was looked into, no
                  money answering the description of the Hoosier was found, and they were about
                  giving it up.
               "Look in his boots," exclaimed the loser of the purse; "He's some kin to John
                  Andre, and will be hung yet afore he dies."
               The left boot was pulled off, and sure enough, there was the money, exactly
                  answering the description, confirming the guilt of the gentleman!
               Upon the other fellow the handkerchief was also found, having the Hoosier's name
                  legibly written upon it, and the two rascals were, with the permission of the
                  Indianian, landed upon the shore at once. The Hoosier was for also putting H——
                  ashore, declaring that he had engaged him in conversation on purpose to call his
                  attention, so that the scoundrels could rob him. But, as the wag was well known to
                  many on board, he was let off, the Hoosier swearing it was some satisfaction to
                  know that he had spoiled his best ruffled shirt with the contents of his plate.
                  H—— has never since attempted to poke fun at an Indianian, and doubtless the two
                  thieves are also careful how they succeed in rousing a Hoosier.
            
            
               
               SPECULATION IN WHISKERS;
               OR, SHAVING IN A BROKER'S OFFICE.
               BY SOL SMITH.
               There lived in Milledgeville, in 1832, a dandified individual whom we will call
                  Jenks. This individual had a tolerably favorable opinion of his personal
                  appearance. His fingers were hooped with rings, and his shirt bosom was decked
                  with a magnificent breastpin; coat, hat, vest and boots were made exactly to fit;
                  he wore kid gloves of remarkable whiteness; his hair was oiled and dressed in the
                  latest and best style! and, to complete his killing appearance, he sports an
                  enormous pair of Real Whiskers! Of these 
                     whisders
                     whiskers
                  , Jenks was as proud as a young cat is of her tail, when she first
                  discovers she has one.
               I was sitting one day in a broker's office, when Jenks came in to inquire the
                  price of exchange on New York. He was invited to sit down, and a cigar was offered
                  him. Conversation turning on the subject of buying and selling stocks, a remark
                  was made by a gentleman present, that he thought no person should sell out stock
                  in such-and-such a bank at that time, as it must get better in a few days.
               "I will sell any thing I've got, if I can make any thing on it," remarked
                  Jenks.
               "Oh, no," replied one—"not any thing; you wouldn't sell your
                  Whiskers?"
               A loud laugh followed this chance remark. Jenks immediately answered; "I would—but
                  who would want them? Any person making the purchase would lose money
                  by the operation, I'm thinking."
               "Well," I observed, "I would be willing to take the speculation, if the price
                  could be made reasonable."
               "Oh, I'll sell 'em cheap," answered Jenks, winking at the gentlemen present.
               "What do you call cheap?" I inquired.
               "I'll sell 'em for fifty dollars" Jenks answered, puffing forth a cloud of smoke
                  across the counter, and repeating the wish.
               "Well, that is cheap: and you'll sell your whiskers for fifty dollars?"
               "I will."
               "Both of them?"
               "Both of them."
               "I'll take them! When can I have them?"
               "Any time you choose to call for them."
               "Very well—they're mine. I think I shall double my money on them, at least."
               I took a bill of sale, as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Received of Sol Smith Fifty Dollars in full for my crop
                              of whisker, to be worn and taken care of by me, and delivered to him
                              when called for.
                           
                              J. JENKS."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The sum of fifty dollars was paid, and Jenks left the broker's office in high
                  glee, flourishing Five Central Bank X's, and telling all his acquaintances of the
                  great bargain he had made in the sale of his whiskers.
               The broker and his friends laughed at me for being taken in so nicely. "Never
                  mind,", said I, "let those laugh that win; I'll make a profit out of those
                  whiskers, depend on it."
               For a month after this, whenever I met Jenks, he asked me when I intended to call
                  for my whiskers?
               "I'll let you know when I want them," was always my answer. "Take good care of
                  them,—oil them occasionally; I shall call for them one of these days."
               A splendid ball was to be given to the members of the Legislature. I ascertained
                  that Jenks was one of the managers— he
                  being a great ladies' man, (on account of his whiskers, I suppose,) and it
                  occurred to me that before the ball took place, I might as well call for my
                  whiskers.
               One morning I met Jenks in a barber's shop. He was adonising before a large
                  mirror, and combing up my whiskers at a wonderful rate.
               "Ah! there you are, old fellow," said he, speaking to my reflection in the glass,
                  "Come for your whiskers, I suppose?"
               "Oh, no hurry," I replied, as I sat down for a shave.
               "Always ready, you know," he answered, giving a final tie to his cravat.
               "Come to think of it," I said, musingly, as the barber began to put the lather on
                  my face. "Perhaps now would be as good a time as another; you may sit down and let
                  the barber try his hand at the whiskers."
               "You couldn't wait until to-morrow, could you?" he asked hesitatingly. "There's a
                  ball to-night, you know ——."
               "To be sure there is, and I think you ought to go with a clean face; at all
                  events, I don't see any reason why you should expect to wear my whiskers to that
                  ball; so sit down."
               He rather sulkily obeyed, and in a few moments his cheeks were in a perfect foam
                  of lather. The barber flourished his razor, and was about to commence operations,
                  when I suddenly changed my mind!
               
               "Stop, Mr. Barber," I said; "you needn't shave off those whiskers just yet." So he
                  quietly put up his razor, while Jenks started up from the chair, in something very
                  much resembling a passion.
               "This is trifling!" he exclaimed. "You have claimed your whiskers—take them."
               "I believe a man has a right to do as he pleases with his own property," I
                  remarked, and left Jenks washing his face.
               At dinner that day the conversation turned upon the whisker affair. It seems the
                  whole town had got wind of it, and Jenks could not, walk the streets without the
                  remark being continually made by the boys—"There goes the man with old Sot's
                     whiskers." And they had grown to an immense size, for he dared not trim
                  them. In short, I became convinced Jenks was waiting very impatiently for me to
                  assert my rights in the property. It happened that several of the party were
                  sitting opposite me at dinner who were present, when the singular bargain was
                  made, and they all urged me to take the whiskers that very day, and
                  thus compel Jenks to go to the ball whiskerless, or stay at home. I agreed with
                  them it was about time to reap my crop, and promised that if they
                  would all meet me at the broker's shop where the purchase had been made, I would
                  made a call on Jenks that evening,  he had dressed for the ball. All
                  promised to be present at the proposed shaving operation in the broker's office,
                  and I sent for Jenks and the barber. On the appearance of Jenks, it was evident he
                  was much vexed at the sudden call upon him, and his vexation was certainly not
                  lessened when he saw the broker's office was filled to overflowing by spectators,
                  anxious to behold the barbarous proceeding.
               "Come, be in a hurry," he said, as he took a seat, and leaned his head against the
                  counter for support. "I can't stay here long; several ladies are waiting for me to
                  escort them to the ball."
               "True, very true—you are one of the managers—I recollect. Mr. Barber, don't detain
                  the gentleman—go to work at once."
               The lathering was soon over, and with about three strokes of the razor, one
                     side of his face was deprived of its ornament.
               "Come, come," said Jenks, "push ahead—there is no time to be lost—let the
                  gentleman have his whiskers—he is impatient."
               "Not at all," I replied coolly, "I'm in no sort of a hurry, myself—and now I think
                  of it, as your time must be precious at this particular time, several ladies being in
                  waiting for you to escort them to the ball, I believe I'll not take the
                     other whisker to-night!"
               A loud laugh from the by-standers, and a glance in the mirror, caused Jenks to
                  open his eyes to the ludicrous appearance he cut with his single whisker, and he
                  began to insist upon my taking the whole of my property! But all that
                  wouldn't do. I had the light to take it when I chose—I was not obliged to
                     take all at once! and I chose to take but half
                  at that particular period—indeed, I intimated to him very plainly that I was not
                  going to be a very hard creditor; and that if he "behaved himself," perhaps I
                  should never call for the balance of what he owed me!
               When Jenks became convinced I was determined not to take the remaining whisker, he
                  began, amidst the loudly expressed mirth of the crowd, to propose terms of
                  compromise—first offering me ten dollars, then twenty, thirty, forty, fifty! to
                  take off the remaining whisker. I said firmly, "My dear sir, there is no use in
                  talking-I insist on your wearing that whisker for me a month or two."
               "What will you take for the whisker?" he at length asked. "Won't you sell them
                  back to me?"
               "Ah," replied I, "now you begin to talk as a business man should. Yes, I bought
                  them on speculation—and I'll sell them if I can obtain a good price."
               "What is your price?"
               "One hundred dollars—must double my money."
               "No less?"
               "Not a farthing less—and I'm not anxious to sell even at that
                  price."
               "Well, I'll take them," he groaned, "there's your money; and here, barber, shave
                  off this infernal whisker in less than no time—I shall be late at the ball."
               The barber accomplished his work, and poor Jenks was whiskerless! He went to the
                  ball, but before the night was over, he wished he hadn't——
            
            
               THE VOLUNTEER COUNSEL.
               A TALE OF JOHN TAYLOR.
               We copy the following from the New York Sunday Times. The subject of it, John
                  Taylor, was licensed, when a youth of twenty one, to practice at the bar of this
                  city. He was poor, but well educated, and possessed extraordinary genius. The
                  graces of his person, combined with the superiority of his intellect, enabled him
                  to win the hand of a fashionable beauty. Twelve months afterwards the husband was
                  employed by a wealthy firm of the city to go on a mission as land agent to the
                  West. As a heavy salary was offered, Taylor bade farewell to his wife and infant
                  son. He wrote back every week, but received not a line in answer. Six months
                  elapsed, when the husband received a letter from his employers that explained all.
                  Shortly after his departure for the West, the wife and her father removed to
                  Mississippi. There she immediately obtained a divorce by an act of the
                  Legislature, married again forthwith, and, to complete the climax of cruelty and
                  wrong, had the name of Taylor's son changed to Marks—that of her second
                  matrimonial partner! This perfidity nearly drove Taylor insane. His career, from
                  that period, became eccentric in the last degree; sometimes he preached, sometimes
                  he pleaded at the bar; until, at last, a fever carried him off at a comparatively
                  early age.—Phila. Bulletin.
               At an early hour on the 9th of April, 1840, the Court House in Clarksville, Texas,
                  was crowded to the overflowing. Save in the war-times past, there had never been
                  witnessed such a 
                     gathing
                     gathering
                   in Red River County, while the strong feeling, apparent on every flushed
                  face throughout the assembly, betokened
                  ened some great occasion. A concise narrative of facts will sufficiently explain
                  the matter.
               About the close of 1839, George Hopkins, one of the wealthiest planters and most
                  influential men of Northern Texas, offered a great insult to Mary Elliston, the
                  young and beautiful wife of his chief overseer. The husband threatened to chastise
                  him for his outrage, whereupon Hopkins loaded his gun and went to Ellison's house
                  and shot him in his own door. The murdered was arrested, and bailed to answer the
                  charge. This occurrence produced intense excitement; and Hopkins, in order to turn
                  the tide of popular opinion, or at least to mitigate the general wrath, which at
                  first was violent against him, circulated reports prejudicial to the character of
                  the woman who had already suffered such wrong at his hands. She brought her suit
                  for slander. And thus two cases, one criminal, and the other civil, and both out
                  of the same tragedy, were pending in the April Circuit Court for 1840.
               The interest naturally felt by the community as to the issues, became far deeper
                  when it was known that Ashley and Pike of Arkansas, and the celebrated S. S.
                  Prentiss, of New Orleans, each with enormous fees, had been retained by Hopkins
                  for his defence.
               The trial, on the indictment for murder, ended on the 8th of April, with the
                  acquittal of Hopkins. Such a result might well have been foreseen, by comparing
                  the talents of the counsel engaged on either side. The Texan lawyers were utterly
                  overwhelmed by the argument and eloquence of their opponents. It was a fight of
                  dwarfs against giants.
               The slander suit was set for the 9th, and the throng of spectators grew in numbers
                  as well as excitement; and, what may seem strange, the current of public sentiment
                  now ran decidedly for Hopkins. His money had procured pointed witnesses, who
                  served most efficiently his powerful advocate. Indeed, so triumphant had been the
                  success of the previous day, that when the slander case was called, Mary Elliston
                  was left without an attorney—they had all withdrawn. The pigmy pettifoggers dared
                  not brave again the sharp wit of a Pike, and the scathing thunder of a
                  Prentiss.
               "Have you no counsel?" enquired Judge Mills, looking kindly at the plaintiff.
               "No, sir; they have all deserted me, and I am too poor to employ any more,"
                  replied the beautiful Mary, bursting into tears.
               "In such a case, will not some chivalrous member of the profession volunteer?"
                  asked the Judge, glancing around the bar.
               The thirty lawyers were silent as death.
               Judge Mills repeated the question.
               "I will, your honor," said a voice from the thickest part of the crowd, situated
                  behind the bar.
               At the tones of that voice many started half-way from their seats; and perhaps
                  there was not a heart in the immense throng which did not beat something
                  quicker—it was so unearthly sweet, clear, ringing and mournful.
               The first sensation, however, was changed into laughter, when a tall, 
                     guant
                     gaunt
                  , spectral figure, that nobody present remembered to have seen before,
                  elbowed his way through the crowd and placed himself within the bar. His
                  appearance was a problem to puzzle the sphinx herself. His high, pale brow, and
                  small, nervously-twitching face, seemed alive with the concentrated essence and
                  cream of genius, but then his infantine blue eyes, hardly visible beneath their
                  massive arches, looked dim, dreary, almost unconscious; and his clothing was so
                  exceedingly shabby that the court hesitated to let the cause proceed under his
                  management.
               "Has your name been entered on the rolls of the State?" demanded the Judge
                  suspiciously.
               "It is immaterial about my name's being entered on your
                   rolls," answered the stranger, his thin,
                  bloodless lips curling up into a fiendish sneer.
               "I may be allowed to appear once, by the courtesy of the court and bar. Here is my
                  license from the highest tribunal in America!" and he handed Judge Mills a broad
                  parchment.
               The trial immediately went on.
               In the examination of witnesses the stranger evinced but little ingenuity, as was
                  commonly thought. He suffered each one to tell his own story without interruption,
                  though he contrived to make each one of them tell it over two or three times. He
                  put few cross questions, which, with keen witnesses, only serve to correct
                  mistakes; and he made no notes, which, in mighty memories, always tend to
                  embarrass. The examination being ended, as counsel for the plaintiff, he had a
                  right to the opening speech, as well as the close; but to the astonishment of
                  every one he declined the former, and allowed the defence to lead off. Then a
                  shadow might have been observed to flit across the fine features of Pike, and to
                  darken even in the bright eyes of Prentiss. They saw they had caught a
                     Tartar; but who it was, or how it happened, it was impossible to
                  guess.
               Colonel Ashley spoke first. He dealt the jury a dish of that close, dry logic,
                  which, years afterwards, rendered him famous in the Senate of the United
                  States.
               The poet, Albert Pike, followed with a rich train of wit and a half torrent of
                  caustic ridicule, in which you may be sure neither the plaintiff nor the
                  plaintiff's ragged attorney was forgotten and spared.
               The great Prentiss concluded for the defendant with a glow of gorgeous words,
                  brilliant as showers of falling stars, and with a final burst of oratory that
                  brought the house down in cheers, in which the sworn jury themselves joined,
                  notwithstanding the stern "order!" "order!" of the bench. Thus wonderfully
                  susceptible are the southwestern people to the charms of impassioned
                  eloquence.
               It was then the stranger's turn. He had remained apparently abstracted during all
                  the previous speeches. Still, and straight, and motionless in his seat, his pale
                  smooth forehead, shooting like a mountain cone of snow; but for that eternal
                  twitch that came and went perpetually in his sallow cheeks, you would have taken
                  him for a man of marble, or a human form carved in ice. Even his dim, dreamy eyes
                  were invisible beneath those gray, shaggy eyebrows.
               But now at last he rises—before the bar railing, not behind it—and so near to the
                  wondering jury that he might touch the foreman with his long, bony fingers.—With
                  eyes still half shut, and standing rigid as a pillar of iron, his thin lips curled
                  as if in measureless scorn, slightly apart and the voice comes forth. At first, it
                  is low and sweet, insinuating itself through the brain, as an artless tune,
                  winding its way into the deepest heart, like the melody of a magic incantation:
                  while the speaker proceeds without a gesture or the slightest sign of excitement,
                  to tear in pieces the argument of Ashley, which melts away at his touch as frost
                  before the sunbeam. Every one looked surprised. His logic was at once so brief,
                  luminously clear, that the rudest peasant could comprehend it without effort.
               Anon, he came to the dazzling wit of the poet lawyer, Pike. The curl of his lip
                  grew sharper—his sallow face kindled up—and his eyes began to open, dim and dreamy
                  no longer, but vivid as lightning, red as fire globes, and glaring like twin
                  meteors. The whole soul was in the eye—the full heart streamed out on the face. In
                  five minutes Pike's wit seemed the foam of folly, and his finest satire horrible
                  profanity, when compared with the inimitable sallies and exterminating sarcasms of
                  the stranger, interspersed with jest and anecdote that filled the forum with roars of laughter.
               Then, without so much as bestowing an allusion on Prentiss, he turned short on the
                  perjured witnesses of Hopkins, tore their testimony into atoms and hurled it in
                  their faces with such terrible rible
                  invective that all trembled as with ague, and two of them actually fled dismayed
                  from the court house.
               The excitement of the crowd was becoming tremendous. There, united, life and soul
                  appeared to hang on the burning tongue of the stranger. He inspired them with the
                  powers of his own passions. He saturated them with the poison of his own malicious
                  feelings. He seemed to have stolen nature's long hidden secret of attraction. He
                  was the sun to the sea of all thought and emotion, which rose and fell and boiled
                  in billows as he chose. But his greatest triumph was to come.
               His eyes began to glare furtively at the assassin, Hopkins, as his lean, taper
                  fingers slowly assumed the same direction. He hemmed the wretch around with a
                  circumvallation of strong evidence and impregnable argument, cutting off all hope
                  of escape. He piled up huge bastions of insurmountable facts. He dug beneath the
                  murderer and slanderer's feet, ditches of dilemmas, such as no sophistry could
                  overleap, and no stretch of ingenuity could evade; and having thus, as one might
                  say, impounded the victim, and girt him about like a scorpion in the circle of
                  fire stripped to the work of massacre!
               Oh! then, but it was a vision both glorious and dreadful to behold the orator. His
                  actions, before graceful as the wave of golden willow in the breeze, grew
                  impetuous as the motion of an oak in the hurricane, His voice became a trumpet,
                  filled with whirl-winds, deafening the ear with crashes of power, and yet
                  intermingled all the while with a sweet undersong of the softest cadence. His face
                  was as red as a drunkards—his forehead glowed like a heated furnace—his
                  countenance looked haggard like that of a maniac: and ever and anon he flung his
                  long, bony arms on high, as if grasping after thunderbolts! He drew a picture of
                  murder in such appalling colors, that, in comparison, hell itself might be
                  considered beautiful. He painted the slanderer so black, that the very sun seemed
                  dark at noon-day when shining on such an accursed monster—and then he fixed both
                  portraits on the shrinking brow of Hopkins, and he nailed them there forever. The
                  agitation of the audience nearly amounted to madness.
               All at once the speaker descends from his perilous height. His voice wailed out
                  from the murdered dead, and described the sorrows of the widowed
                     living—the beautiful Mary, more beautiful every moment, as her
                  tears flowed faster—till men wept and lovely women sobbed like children.
               He closed by a strange exhortation to the jury, and through them to the
                  bystanders. He entreated the pannel, after they should bring in their verdict for
                  the plaintiff, not to offer violence to the defendant, however richly he might
                  deserve it, in other words, 'not to lynch the villain, Hopkins, but leave his
                  punishment to God.'
               This was the most artful trick of all; and the best calculated to insure
                  vengeance.
               The jury rendered a verdict for fifty thousand dollars, and the night afterwards
                  Hopkins was taken out of his bed by lynchers and beaten almost to death.
               As the court adjourned, the stranger made known his name and called the attention
                  of the people with the announcement: "John Taylor will preach here this evening at
                  early candlelight!"
               The crowd, of course, all turned out, and Taylor's sermon equalled if it did not
                  surpass, the splendor of his forensic effort. This is no exaggeration. I have
                  listened to Clay, Webster, and Calhoun—to Dewey, Tyng, and Bascom; and have never
                  heard anything in the form of sublime words even remotely approximating the
                  eloquence of John Taylor—massive as a mountain, and wildly rushing as a cataract
                  of fire. And this is the opinion of all who have ever heard the marvellous
                  man.
            
            
               
               A HOOSIER WEDDING.
               BY JACOB JENKINS, JR.
               It was once my good fortune to be invited to a country wedding; not exactly a
                  country wedding either, but a village wedding, in the goodly State of Indiana,
                  which passed all the charms of the most complete rurality. There is so much
                  natural generosity, and blunt open-heartedness amongst the hardy inhabitants of
                  the woods, that to me, reared and confined in the crowd and bustle of city life,
                  and tired of its formal etiquette and cold conventionalities, a visit or a frolic
                  of any description in the country, possessed charms of the first magnitude. Hence
                  my delight may be easily imagined, upon receiving, whilst busily engaged in my
                  daily avocation, a fancifully enveloped billet,
                  the contents whereof read as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Mr. J. JENKINS—You are respectfully invited to be present at the
                              wedding of Mr. Thomas 
                                 Baily
                                 Bailey
                               and Miss Susan Wilkins, which will take place to morrow,
                              (Wednesday) afternoon, at 3 o'clock, at the Jeffersonville Hotel. You
                              are also invited to attend the wedding party to Charlestown, where the
                              infair will be held, at half-past seven o'clock.
                           
                              Respectfully,
                              S. W."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This pleasant invitation came from the bride, with whom I had been acquainted
                  about a week, and which acquaintance happened whilst she was in the city,
                  superintending the manufacture of her wedding "toggery." I had no fear about
                  making my way with the country people—for the bride was my only acquaintance—so I
                  made instant preparations for departure; and next day, at the appointed hour, I
                  bade a short good-by to the bustling city of the Falls, and crossing the river,
                  soon found myself at the hotel where the wedding was to take place. In the parlor
                  were assembled a goodly number of robust damsels, in bandbox trim, preserving a
                  tremulous silence, in anticipation of the "orful event." In a short time, a bustle
                  in the backroom announced something, and in marched bridegroom, bride, attendants,
                  and minister, and took up their stand in the middle of the room.
               Thomas Bailey, Esq., was a tremendous double-fisted, raw-boned young man, and tall
                  enough to "lick salt" off the head of any man in the room. He appeared ill at ease
                  in his new suit of glistening doe-skin; notwithstanding which, a roguish leer on
                  his bronzed countenance, as he exchanged glances with his friends, seemed to
                  indicate his appreciation of the whole affair as a first-rate joke. The bride,
                  however, from her little smattering of city manners, considered it her duty to
                  look sad, in which she succeeded very creditably. But the ceremony once over, her
                  smiles returned, and then commenced the kissing, shaking of hands,
                  congratulations, &c., &c. In my enthusiasm, I seized the hand of the
                  gigantic Tom, and received a squeeze that made my joints crackle. I resolved that
                  from that time forward, I would salute him only at a distance. Refreshments were
                  handed round, and then came preparations for departure. After a great amount of
                  chaffering, pinning of ribbons and capes, adjusting of bonnets, etc., the "gals"
                  announced themselves ready. The bridegroom went to the door, and gave a signal,
                  and up came the "Jeffersonville and Charlestown United States Mail Coach," as it
                  was styled in the mail contract. In reality, however, it was nothing more than a
                  very dilapidated, ancient-looking barouche, drawn by two horses, of that species
                  known as "crow-baits." The bride and two other young ladies were crammed into the
                  back seat, whilst the bridegroom and his friend took the front seat, the former
                  driving. And then, in regular succession,
                  came five or six other vehicles of venerable appearance, into which the company
                  were stowed, in all sorts of confusion. I had a light buggy, with one vacant seat,
                  which, after an introduction for the purpose, was filled by a very comely country
                  lass, I commenced the cultivation of her acquaintance as soon as the cavalcade got
                  under way; she was very shy at first, but gradually got over her bashfulness, and,
                  barring her loud laughter, I found her a very charming companion.
               The procession was now fairly started, and moved leisurely along; for the distance
                  to Charlestown being fifteen miles, the bridegroom regulated the speed, so as to
                  reach the village about sunset. We had scarcely got out of sight of Jeffersonville
                  when the bridegroom, who had evidently been under an unpleasant restraint of some
                  kind, startled the whole conclave by a loud and prolonged "Whoo-o-o-pee!" which
                  rang through the woods till echo sent it back again.
               "Now, Tom, do behave—you'll skyur the horses!" gently remonstrated the bride. But
                  Tom, in his exuberance of spirits, heeded her not, and proceeded to sing, in a
                  stentorian, but not unmusical voice, 
                     
                        "If I was back in old Virginny,
                        I'd lead a different life;
                        I'd save my money, and buy a farm,
                        And take Susan for my wife!
                        Oh! carry me back to Old Virginny,
                        To Old Virginny's shore!
                        Oh! carry me back to Old Virginny,
                        To Old Virginny's shore!"
                     
                  
               
               The bride remonstrated no more, seeing it was useless, for Tom was in a perfect
                  "blaze of glory," and must give his feelings vent in some way. A very general and
                  noisy hilarity pervaded vaded the whole company, and the forest was vocal with the
                  echoes of the coarse guffaws of the men, and the clear ringing laughter of the
                  girls, diversified by an occasional faint 
                     cream
                     scream
                  , as the wheels, owing to awkward driving, passed over some stump or
                  stone in the road. The bridegroom, at regular intervals, would bellow forth his
                  favorite— 
                     "Oh! carry me back to Old Virginny,"
                   and then, turning his head, would open a brisk conversation with some one in
                  one of the rear carriages. The slow driving did not exactly suit me, and as my
                  travelling companion was quite sufficient to engage all my attention, I gave my
                  horse to the lash, and dashed ahead of the procession; not so speedily, however,
                  as to prevent me from hearing some one of the girls in the slow coaches remark,
                  "Well, I think Ellen's a-doin' it up brown!" and from some one else, "There'll be
                  another weddin' soon, I guess." We dashed on regardless of these remarks, and soon
                  left the rest of the company far out of sight and hearing.
               Oh! I tell you it was delicious, that ride in the country, in early summer, when
                  the birds warbled sweetest, and the fresh air of the woods expanded and
                  invigorated the frame, rendering the heart doubly susceptible to the rustic charms
                  of the merry damsel by my side! After we had got a good distance in advance, we
                  halted for the procession to come up, and spent the time in picking mulberries.
                  Presently, the approach of the slow train was announced by the well known, 
                     "Oh! carry me back!"
                   of the big bridegroom, ringing clear and musical through the woods. Then,
                  getting into our buggy, we dashed on again, and halted as before, and so on, until
                  my fair companion informed formed me that
                  we should stop until the procession came up, and then take our place in the rear,
                  so as to enter the village in proper order.
               Whilst waiting for the main body to come up with us, a deep black could made its
                  appearance in the firmament, and soon obscured the sun from sight. A summer
                  thunderstorm was coming, and we had a very fair prospect of a ducking. So I just
                  drove a little distance from the road, taking shelter under the trees, and made
                  every preparation to meet the coming storm, which was soon upon us in all its
                  fury. Heaven's artillery thundered forth its fiercest salvos, and the rain 
                     decended
                     descended
                   in unbroken torrents for more than half an hour. The shelter of the
                  trees, the cover of the buggy, and a good umbrella enabled my partner and I to
                  escape with nothing more than a slight sprinkling. The cloud cleared off and the
                  sun shone out once more; but he was rapidly nearing the horizon, and there was yet
                  no sign of the slow coaches. Impatience now began to possess me; but just as Old
                  Sol was sinking from sight, and leaving his last smile on the tops of the trees,
                  the loud and clear voice of the stalwart Tom came echoing through the wood,
                  bearing its usual burden— 
                     "Oh! carry me back!"
                   and soon he hove in sight, at the head of his procession, in as boisterous a
                  humor as ever. The carriages now presented a sadly begrimed and muddy appearance,
                  as also did some of their male occupants.
               "Halloo?" cried I, saluting the bridegroom, "what on earth kept you back so long?
                  I've been waiting here an hour and a half, at least."
               "Well, you see," he replied, with his impertuberable good humor, "we was gettin'
                  along purty fine, and didn't mind the rain at all, till we got to the branch,
                  about two miles back, whar you know the banks is mighty steep, and the ground all
                  yaller clay. We all slid down hill mighty easy, but as for coming up this side, we
                  couldn't come it, no how, the clay was so rotten and slippery. It kept on a
                  rainin', and the branch begun to rise, and was soon up to the hubs of some of the
                  carriages behind us. This won't do, boys, says I; we'd better take a ducking than
                  be drownded, for the branch is risin' mighty fast. So I just gathered Suse and
                  jumped out, and the rest of the boys did the same to the gals that was with them,
                  and we toted 'em up hill in a roundabout way, and set 'em down, and when we went
                  back for the losses and waggins, they had to come and no mistake!"
               
                  
                     "Oh, carry me back to Old Virginny!
                     To Old Virginny's shore!"
                  
               
               This adventure was food for much mirth, notwithstanding the ducking that most of
                  the party caught. I took my place in the rear of the procession, which entered the
                  village in stately order, at twilight. The population were all agog, and as we
                  passed through the main street, every house disgorged its inhabitants, young and
                  old, who stared to their heart's content. We soon arrived at the bridegroom's
                  house, a comfortable looking mansion, in the outskirts of the village. The house
                  was brilliantly lighted up with tallow candles, and every thing appeared to be
                  ready. A general disembarkation now took place, Mrs. Bailey, senior, receiving the
                  company with much good grace, and saluting her new 
                     daughther
                     daughter
                   with a hearty smack, as she was handed from the coach. Most of the
                  company dispersed to their respective homes, in quest of dry garments, but soon
                  returned, giving indications of a fierce determination to spend a jolly evening in
                  some style.
               The "infair," or wedding supper, was all ready and waiting; we were marshalled to
                  our seats and a most sumptuous feast it was. It is useless to attempt a
                  description of the edibles under which
                  the long table groaned, but as the country air and afternoon ride had given me a
                  ferocious appetite, I never enjoyed a feast more in my life. In the drinking line,
                  besides tea and coffee, the table was ornamented with famous pitchers of new milk,
                  buttermilk and lemonade. Nothing stronger, for teetotalism held sway in
                  Charlestown. The supper finished, all hands returned to the front room—it could
                  not well be called a parlor, for a heavenly looking bed, with a snow-white
                  counterpane, stood in one corner, serving as a repository for the hats, bonnets,
                  and other out-door gear of the company. At any rate, it answered the purpose of a
                  parlor to the very evident satisfaction of the company, as they "paired off" to
                  their seats, much to the admiration of a promiscuous crowd of idlers who collected
                  about the open door and windows, but who were invisible in the Egyptian darkness
                  that reigned without. The "merrie companie" were not long thus seated, before
                  various remarks, tending to the same point, began to be audible, such as "room not
                  big enough"—"take up the carpet"—"move the bed"—"who's the fiddler?"—"must have a
                  break-down," &c. In the midst of this chattering, I was startled beyond
                  measure, by not an "air from heaven," but something more like a "blast from hell,"
                  than e'er before smote mortal ear.
               "Ah! thur they ar—I know'd they'd be hyur!" said my partner of the buggy, with
                  whom I happened to be singled off on this occasion.
               "What!" said I, having recovered from my shock—for the blast had not yet ended—"do
                  you have shiverees in this little place?"
               "It's the Charlestown amatoor brass band," said she, not appearing to comprehend
                  my remark about shiverees; "they're all young men belonging hyur, and hav'n't been
                  practisin' more'n three months; they're a playin' 'Love Not,' now—listen!"
               Miss Ellen appeared so proud of this band, and so elated at the "suranade" that
                  politeness compelled me to turn an attentive ear towards the darkness, from which
                  proceeded a chaotic confusion of sounds that might have tested less refined nerves
                  than mine. A great wrangling amongst bugles, cornets, &c., was discernible,
                  but the great feature of the band was the trombone. It was perfectly deafening,
                  and it appeared as if the blower's object was to drown every other sound, in which
                  he nearly succeeded. I never heard half the noise from that noisy instrument
                  before, and began to feel some curiosity to see this tremendous performer, for the
                  darkness without engulphed everything. "Love Not" being ended, "Yankee Doodle" was
                  next assailed, and treated very roughly. During this last infliction, Tom Bailey,
                  Esq., made his appearance with a load of chairs, which he ranged in a straight
                  line from the front to the back door; then disappearing, entered with more, until
                  the row was completed. The band having finished up "Yankee Doodle," Tom stood in
                  the door, and called out in his happiest style:
               "Gentlemen, walk in and have something—thur's plenty room for you, and plenty
                  chicken fixins on hand!"
               Then arose a contest between the "amatoors" as to who should enter first. Each one
                  feeling conscious of having surpassed himself in the "suranade," felt a certain
                  modesty in first entering such a blaze of beauty and tallow candles.
               "Bill, go in fust; you know more of the gals than any of us," said one voice, just
                  above a whisper. "No, I'll be dang'd if I do; lead on yourself," answered Bill. A
                  slight scuffleing was heard in the darkness near the door, as of some one
                  endeavoring to push another forward, which of course was resisted. "Now, Bill, do
                  lead on," whispered another voice, "you're the best drest, and I think oughter go
                  fust." "I tell you again, I shan't do nothin' of the kind; why the d—l don't you
                  ax John Perkins? He's leader, and its his place to go fust."
               
               This appeared to settle the dispute, for in another moment Mr. Perkins entered,
                  hat in hand, took his seat in the first chair all confusion and perspiration.
                  After him came his trusty followers, all having a very heated and bashful
                  appearance; each one taking the first vacant seat, laying his instrument across
                  his lap, and depositing his hat on the floor behind his chair. As they entered my
                  curiosity heightened, and was gratified finally by the entrance of the trombone
                  man, who came last of all, and stumbled sadly over his companions' feet in making
                  his way to the farthest chair. They were in truth a motley crowd, both in manner
                  and costume, but the trombone man was the "feature." Scarcely less in size than
                  the bridegroom, his instrument, which he laid softly on the bed, was little more
                  than a penny-trumpet in his hands; and as he sat cross-legged—by this means
                  betraying the total absence of socks from his red legs—fanning himself with his
                  straw hat, and grinning recognitions around the room, he formed a picture worthy
                  of the best effort of any aspiring painter.
               Again our worthy host made his appearance, with a respectable sized platter in
                  each hand, on which were lemonade, sweet cake, raisins, and candy kisses, to which
                  our friends, the musicians, did ample justice. By this time the "ice had melted,"
                  and several of the corps betrayed an unmistakable desire for conversation; and
                  whilst "putting away" the good things, compliments poured upon them thick and
                  fast, with accompanying requests that they would play nearly every tune under the
                  sun before they left. Of course, they promised to gratify each request. One young
                  gentleman in a corner requested "Soapsuds over the fence," emitted a horse-laugh,
                  and relapsed into profound silence. The good things having entirely disappeared,
                  and the candy-kiss verses duly handed over to and circulated among the girls, Mr.
                  Perkins rose to his feet and said:
               "Gentlemen and ladies, I hope you'll excuse us, but we must be a-goin'. We wish
                  you all a very good night, and hope you'll have lots of fun." Saying which, he
                  ducked his head, and disappeared backward into the darkness. The corps followed
                  his example with military precision—each one marching straight to the door,
                  wheeling round, bobbing his head, and backing out of sight.
               "Rec'lect, now, Hail Columby!" cried a fat damsel; in yellow curls and pink
                  ribbons. "You said you'd play 'Love Not' again—now mind you do," added a
                  loquacious but good looking young widow. "Hold your hosses a minit, gentlemen,"
                  said the ringing voice of Tom Bailey, as that gentleman strode out after the
                  musicians. In a moment he returned, and taking his place by his blooming bride, a
                  breathless silence reigned. With difficulty I kept my fingers out of my ears, and
                  awaited the "music." And in an instant it came again—that infernal blast, which my
                  partner pronounced a "most delightful overchure." The trombone man let himself out
                  this time—his first appearance "wasn't a circumstance." "The overture"
                  concluded—then came—oh! horror! 
                     "Carry me back! oh, carry me back!"
                   and the bridegroom's interview with the band was explained. This fine air,
                  rendered tiresome even by the bridegroom's tolerable singing, was now perfectly
                  execrable; and after the band had murdered it, as they subsequently did "Hail
                  Columby," and departed after giving three boisterous cheers for Mr. and Mrs.
                  Bailey, I felt a relief that cannot be described.
               The "music" having been duly discussed, a desire to "trip it on the light
                  fantastic toe" began to manifest itself. At this juncture, the bridegroom rose and
                  proposed, before having the dance, to go to "the saloon, and have some ice
                  cream."
               "What!" exclaimed I, turning to Miss Ellen, "have you an ice-cream saloon
                  here?"
               
               "Well, I don't spose they'd talk about goin' to one if they didn't have one to go
                  to," responded she tartly, and giving me a look which there was no mistaking. I
                  was going too far; for a village only fifteen miles from a city cannot be reckoned
                  as entirely without the pale of civilization.
               Eight couple started forth, Tom and his bride leading; and after stumbling over
                  stones and into mud puddles, in groping our way through the darkness, we at length
                  arrived in front of a small shanty, with a barber's pole sticking from the door;
                  and into this Tom led the way with the air of a man who had been there before. An
                  idea possessed me that he was perpetrating a joke in entering a barber's shop; but
                  to my surprise he was followed by all, with perfect gravity, and of course, by
                  myself and companion. Squeezing round the end of a little counter, our jolly
                  bridegroom drew aside a calico curtain, and displayed the "saloon" in all its
                  glory.
               It was certainly a model establishment, that, and one which severely tested my
                  assumed gravity. The frosty wooled, solemn looking Ethiopian who presided over it,
                  was a genius in his way. He had divided a room of twelve by sixteen feet into
                  three compartments, in the first of which he carried on the business of
                  confectioner and dealer in varieties; in the rear of this were the other two
                  rooms, one used as a barber's shop, and the other as the "saloon." The furniture
                  of this delectable retreat consisted of two very diminutive pine tables. The board
                  partition was respectably papered, and ornamented with two prints—one the
                  "Soldier's Return," the other "The Proposal." On the opposite side was the
                  "window," a small square hole with a pane of glass in a frame, which was now
                  raised, the weather being warm; and through this opening came the mellifluous
                  notes of a small colony of frogs, croaking forth their evening anthem from a pond
                  that guarded that side of the shanty.
               Well, this "saloon" was found to be just large enough to accommodate the ladies,
                  four around each table; the gentlemen disposing themselves as best suited them, in
                  the confectionary and in the barber's shop, which latter also communicated with
                  the "saloon" by a door, over which another sumptuous calico curtains hung in
                  graceful folds. After a prodigious grinding in the ice cream tub, "Mr. Williams"
                  (as he was called by all the company) began to serve up the refreshments in very
                  small glasses. The cream was 
                     villianous
                     villainous
                  ; the first taste sickened me, but as Miss Ellen, who was within hailing
                  distance, pronounced it a great luxury, my fear for that young lady induced me to
                  finish my glass. Her answer to my question about the saloon, had put me on my
                  guard. There is no chance for a man in a country village, if he should happen to
                  do or say any thing having the semblance of putting on "city airs." I was making
                  myself as agreeable as possible with the young gentlemen in the confectionary,
                  whilst sipping away at our cream; a crowd, or the crowd of idlers, had assembled
                  about the door, indulging in mirth and criticism, and amongst other "telling"
                  remarks that were made loud enough to be heard inside, was the following, in a
                  mushy voice:
               "That city chap's been putting on ars considerable to-night, I
                  think!" A boisterous laugh rewarded this sally, the great humor consisting in the
                  certainty that I heard it. "Some barefoot brother of Miss Ellen's," thought I, and
                  preserved my equanimity. The only demonstration made by the bridegroom here,
                  worthy of record, was his squeezing himself into a corner of the saloon, and
                  bumping his head against the wooden ceiling, by rising on tiptoe, whilst eating
                  his cream, much to the amusement of the ladies and the indignation of the old
                  darkey. But as all bad things have an end, so had the cream, and soon we were
                  homeward bound, groping through the darkness and mud.
               
               Upon arriving at the scene of festivity, things wore an altered appearance. The
                  carpet had been taken up, the floor swept and sprinkled; a box was in the corner,
                  diagonally opposite the bed; on the box a chair; on the chair a greasy-looking
                  African, and in the African's hands a violin and bow—all rosined, tuned, and ready
                  for action. These preparations were greeted with delight by the ice-cream party;
                  the bed was in the road, to be sure, but it couldn't well be moved—so they would
                  get along as best they could.
               A cotillion was soon formed; the dancers took their stands; the negro laid his
                  left cheek on the breech of his instrument, and struck up "Jim Crack Corn;" and
                  then commenced one of those real, good old fashioned, jolly country dances, which
                  are not easily forgotten by one accustomed to the mincing steps and stately
                  distances of the city cotillion. The bed infringed somewhat upon the circle of
                  dancers, but they never heeded it, and jostled each other with the greatest good
                  humor in the world. "Forward two"—"ladies change"—"swing de corners"—"sashy all,"
                  etc, called the negro iu regular succession, beating time on the box with his huge
                  flat foot. The first cotillion over, a new one was formed, one of the pairs being
                  Mr. Tom Bailey and his bride. "Come, old feller, give us 'Carry me back!'" said
                  Tom, rubbing and bouncing his boots over the floor, preparatory to the dance.
                  "Can't play dat, Mr. Bailey!" said the negro. "Well, any thing'll do." So the
                  fiddler struck up "Rackensack," and away went the dance. In a short time Tom
                  became heated, then uproarious. An involuntary yell would escape him occasionally
                  as he whirled with his Susan through the dance, coming down on his heels till the
                  building trembled, and saluting his bride with a hearty smack as he brought her
                  back to their place. After a while came refreshments, and then again the dance,
                  which was kept up with great energy until the Yankee clock on the mantel struck
                  three, and the sconces on the wall had long tallow icicles suspended to them. Some
                  one now moved an adjournment. "Don't be in a hurry, gentlemen," said the
                  bridegroom; but it got whispered around that the nice looking bed in the corner
                  was the bridal bed, and as if by common consent, all the company
                  departed for their respective homes, after a great shaking of hands with the
                  bridegroom and kissing of the bride. I conducted the fair Ellen to her home,
                  promising to ride out and see her some Sunday—and finding my way back, was shown
                  to my quarters for the night. I betrayed my city raising by rising the last one in
                  the morning. At breakfast the newly married couple appeared in the plain
                  habiliments of every-day life; and "truly," tho't I, "they are an enviable pair."
                  Wishing them a hearty good-bye, I left for the city, with many regrets that
                  fortune had not gifted me with a country birth and home. It will be long, before I
                  forget the pleasure I enjoyed at this "Hoosier Wedding."
            
            
               
               A SAW LOG BLIND;
               OR, POKER OUT WEST.
               BY FRANK WEBBER.
               There is a retired village within the limits of Prariedom, well known to all who
                  have ever gazed upon the 
                     beautifel
                     beautiful
                   scenery amid which it lies cradled, like a pearly drop of dew in the
                  blushing bosom of the rose. Upon a bluff, gently rising from an island-dotted
                  river, it is built; a puffing, steam-driving saw mill is the only sound that rises
                  above the gentle plash of the pebble-kissing waters, and the bee-like hum of
                  business.
               But we cannot pause to feast the eye upon the beautiful in nature, for it is of a
                  stone ware-house that stands conspicuous in the aforesaid town, and of scenes that
                  are said to have transpired therein, that we would speak. Long this receptacle of
                  produce, freight, &c., remained unoccupied. and as its upper story was easy of
                  access, many a wanton boy has taken himself quietly from the shelter of the
                  parental roof, when the good dame with night-cap closely drawn over her well-saved
                  locks, was snoring a shrill treble to her better half's deep bass, and there
                  carefully perused the history of the four kings, illustrated with engravings, and
                  bound in fifty-two volumes. The young scoundrels, though, were sometimes detected,
                  when the blind was a boot.
               But others, also, are said to have then and there produced like documents, which,
                  by the way, are not admissible in evidence, and closely studied the parts thereof
                  that treat upon a certain science known by the unique name of "Poker;" report says
                  that even one of the patriarchs of the village, one Deacon ——, oft-times might
                  have been found there having a little game, with a long-visaged, not remarkably
                  handsome and moral friend of his, whom I shall call Ben, but that is not his name
                  by a long chalk. Now, both of these personages, and, to the scandal of the town be
                  it spoken, for circulating such stories, are, and ever have been, above reproach,
                  though not, if we credit the gossip, above taking a quiet set down. Both, also,
                  had long been engaged upon a public work that was then non
                     est, and one, the worthy Deacon, was the rightful owner of a large
                  stock of tools, to-wit: crow-bars, wheel-barrows, saw-logs, and an old dilapidated
                  pair of cumbrous truck-wheels.
               Well, one night, as the story goes, (for I tell the tale as it was told to me,)
                  the Deacon and his friend Ben, forgetting for a time their morals, and forgetting
                  each other other's funds, quietly proceeded to the old ware-house, and stealthily
                  crawled up stairs. Seated upon a box, one produced a candle, and the other a
                  greasy deck, and soon they were deep in the enjoyment and mysteries of the game.
                  Steadily they played at a dime ante, and a dollar better, till the funds of the
                  Deacon were all exhausted, and he was forced to bolt the game or ante up
                  tools.
               "A crow-bar ante!" shouted he, inwardly anathematizing his bad luck, and all the
                  card makers in the universe.
               On the cards were dealt, and the hands immediately raised.
               "A chip," was the response of his winning friend.
               "A crow-bar better than you."
               "I see that, and raise it a half."
               "A crow-bar makes it good, and I go a wheel-barrow better."
               "I call you."
               The hands were shown, and again the Deacon was minus. Still on, however, went the
                  game, and the cards were against him, and
                  his stock of bars and barrows had dwindled down till but few remained.
               Again the cards were being shuffled, when the countenance of the Deacon became
                  less frowning, and lit up with a new hope.
               "A saw-log blind!" shouted he, and rubbing his hands in the excess of his delight,
                  he seized the pictures and raised them.
               A moment both sat still, gazing at the cards, for both had splendid hands, and
                  then Ben, a quaint and usually silent one, whispered,
               "I see that blind."
               "I make it good and raise it a crow-bar," fairly hallooed the Deacon; he was
                  certain of success, and nervous with anticipation.
               "Two better than you."
               "Five barrows better than you."
               "Ten than you."
               "Twenty than you."
               How long the game would have progressed in this manner it is difficult to
                  determine, had not the Deacon's barrows given out. Still he was not to be foiled,
                  but he was bound to play his hand for all he was worth, and again shouted:
               "Forty saw-logs better."
               "Twenty barrows than you," quietly responded Ben.
               "Fifty logs than you."
               "A hundred bars than you."
               But at this exciting stage of the game the Deacon's logs had almost failed, and he
                  knew not what to ante up for a sight. Despair for a moment rested in his features,
                  turning them as dark as night. But a lucky thought forced itself upon his
                  over-heated brain at the moment, and a smile, bright as the noon-day sun, lit up
                  his face and he shouted.
               "Bars, barrows, logs, truck-wheels, and all, I call you."
               "What have you got?" queried the sober-faced Ben.
               "Four Kings!" replied the Deacon, triumphantly throwing down his hand, and holding
                  up his head with the air of a conquerer.
               "They aint good."
               "They aint good!" fairly screamed the thunder-struck Deacon, "What the—(and he
                  almost swore) have you got?"
               "Got? Only four little spots!"
               How the Deacon slept that night it would be hard to determine, and ever since,
                  when questioned, he dare not deny the truth of the story, but naturally drops his
                  head as he replies:
               "There must be some truth in it, for my barrows and bars are all gone."
               Report says he did not slumber well, however on the night in question, and that
                  during all the dark hours, his worthy spouse was awakened by a voice like thunder
                  bursting upon her ears, the words of which sounded like—
               "Ben, a saw-log blind, and a wheel-barrow better!"
            
            
               
               A TRIP TO TEXAS.
               BY FRANKLIN FOX.
               "What a splendid schooner!" said Tom Stacy (an old shipmate of mine,) pointing at
                  a vessel near us as we stood on the quay of New York, looking at the shipping, one
                  morning, after about a week's run ashore.
               "She is a pretty craft," replied I; "let's see where she hails from."
               "The 'Olivia' of Portland," cried Tom, moving so as to catch a sight of the gilt
                  letters on her stern.
               "Portland, eh?—she looks more like a Baltimorian."
               "So she does," said Tom. "She's as smart, though, as any clipper from that spot, I
                  warrant. Just look at her spars!—there's masts for you! Some scraping done there,
                  I guess.—What a rake, too! Well, she's a fine boat, surely."
               We walked down the pier close to her, to take a nearer survey, and certainly the
                  beauty of her appearance justified our 
                     enconiums
                     encomiums
                  , and would have arrested the attention even of an unnautical passer-by.
                  She was rigged as a topsail schooner. Her masts, which were very lofty, were all
                  scraped bright, and the sails neatly furled, with snow-white covers over them; a
                  large "burgee" was streaming out from the main top-mast head, whence a line would
                  have 
                     plummed
                     plumbed
                   the water under her stern, so great was the rake. All the fittings about
                  deck were beautifully neat, and looking down the open hatchway, we saw the beams
                  and knees were all varnished.
               "Plenty of rubbing and polishing!" ejaculated Tom.
               Her hull was well shaped-sharp as a knife at the bows, with a very fair
                     run. She had been newly painted on the outside, and sat as
                  daintily on the water, with her mooring war pshanging slack, as if conscious of,
                  and expecting, the admiration she excited. Altogether she was, as Tom said, "as
                  pretty a thing as you'd see in a day's walk."
               "Where are you bound to?" inquired I of one of the crew, who was leaning over the
                  side.
               "Texas," said he.
               "Have you got all hands?" said Tom.
               "No; I guess the old man'll want to ship a couple as soon as the freight comes
                  down."
               "How many hands do you carry?"
               "Five for'ard."
               "What's the schooner's tonnage?"
               "Well, I guess it's about one hundred and twenty-five as near as may be."
               "You've been in her some time?"
               "Yes, goodish spell."
               "Good old man?"
               "First-rate!"
               "Is he aboard now?" said Tom.
               "No," replied our informant; "he's gone up town—guess he'll be round here soon,
                  though, it's just dinner time."
               "Thank ye! Good day, matey," rejoined Tom, as we stepped onshore.
               "Well, Tom," said I, "what do you say? Shall we go to Texas?"
               "Yes if you like," replied Tom; "we may as well go there as any where else, as I
                  see. It's November now, and we ought to be out South somewhere, soon, to get clear
                  of the cold weather."
               "Very well, then,' said I, "we'll wait and board the old man when he comes
                  down."
               
               Tom and I sat ourselves down on some timber that was lying on the pier abreast of
                  the schooner, and presently saw a tall red-faced, elderly gentleman come striding
                  down towards us.
               "That's him," said Tom, "I'll bet a dollar."
               It was the Captain, and as he stepped on board his vessel, Tom and I walked after
                  him.
               "Want any men, captain?" said Tom, sticking his hands down into his pockets,
                  meaning thereby to show his American independence (not of very long standing
                  though, by the bye, for Tom had not been many months in the States,) and to
                  exhibit his contempt for the English fashion of touching the hat to a superior,
                  which conveys to American minds such a striking proof of the meanness of soul
                  existing among Britishers.
               "Well," said Captain Transom, surveying us, "I guess I do want two hands; but,"
                  added he, turning to me, "I'd rather have a heavier man than you are."
               "Little, but good," shoved in Tom.
               "However," said the captain, "may be you're smart enough to make up for it, so
                  come aboard, and go to work to-morrow morning both of you."
               "Aye, aye, sir! Good day!" and Tom and I took ourselves off.
               "That job's jobbed," said Tom, as we walked up towards our boarding-house.
               "And a good job too," said I.
               "That ain't quite so certain," said Tom; "however, if we don't like her we can
                  leave her. It ain't for life, you know, as the gal said."
               "No, that's one consolation," rejoined I. "But here we are at home. Let's put our
                  things in order after dinner."
               "Very well," replied Tom.
               This proceeding did not occupy much time, for Tom and I had been ashore a few
                  days, and what things we wanted for another trip were soon purchased, and stowed
                  away in our chests. Tom said he was always readier to go to work at the end of the
                  first week than the fourth, and in this instance, I agreed with him; so the next
                  morning we took up our quarters in our new home.
               The schooner was freighted by a gentleman, who, having some money to speculate
                  with, had invested it in a cargo of goods adapted to the wants of a young country;
                  he proposed going out with us himself, and disposing of them to the best
                  advantage. If variety in the selection of the articles for exportation could have
                  insured their sale, he was undoubtedly entitled to a speedy and profitable one,
                  for I think I never saw a more varied assortment. Every thing you could think of
                  was there, from a waggon to a wash-hand bowl, from a hatchet to a house-frame,
                  only wanting to be stuck in the ground to live in: axes, apples, sugar, soap,
                  shovels, potatoes, pickles, pickaxes, and boxes of pipes, came pouring in by cart
                  loads, and the Olivia's hold was soon filled up. Not content with that, the pretty
                  schooner's deck was lumbered up with four boats, two of them for sale, and a
                  parcel of light boards and shingles for roofing houses. At last everything was on
                  board, and we hauled out to the pier end, ready to start. By this time Tom and I
                  had become pretty well acquainted with the characters of those with whom we were
                  about to sail.
               To begin with the Captain. He was a first-rate "old man," as far as good treatment
                  and good living went; but he was getting old and fidgetty, and sometimes showed
                  more timidity than the occasion called for. The mate, whose name was Jasper
                  Bailey, was a protege of the captain's; he had
                  been apprenticed to a shoemaker, but abandoned the pegging awl and waxed ends for
                  the marling-spike and rope's ends. He was a bit of a carpenter and a bit of a
                  sailer, too much of both to be great in either; and stood in some awe of the
                  captain, with whom he tried hard to ingratiate himself, by flying with alacrity to
                  execute whatever command he might give; his haste was occasionally so great that, not waiting for the
                  conclusion of an order, he would rush off to get the first part of it executed,
                  and find out, when he had the thing complete, what he ought to have waited and
                  discovered at first, that the captain wanted it done in quite a different manner,
                  and that it must all be done over again. This was unpleasant; but, as Tom said,
                  "we were by the month; and it all went to a day's work," it was not of much
                  consequence. The remainder of the crew consisted of the steward and three young
                  Americans—hard working, sociable fellows, with whom we were soon on the best of
                  terms.
               'Twas a fine day, with a sensible dash of cold in it though, in the middle of
                  November, when, with our sails hoisted and flapping in the breeze, as if
                  impatient, we lay waiting the arrival of our captain and the passenger. They are
                  soon on board; and with her broad sheets of canvass trimmed to the wind, the
                  "Olivia" is cutting through the smooth waters of the harbor, and threading her way
                  among the crowded shipping. We are soon clear of them; and with fair wind and
                  tide, are making rapid progress on our way. Staten Island is passed, and the
                  distance to the hook is soon run. Then the pilot leaves us, and rounding the broad
                  sandy beach with its noble lighthouses, we stand out to sea. Night sets in, and
                  the Olivia dashes on with the noble sea before her, and the high landlights at the
                  back of Sandy Hook twinkling behind. Tom and I sat on the windlass and watched
                  them fading away.
               "Good bye, York!" said Tom; "it's only a week ago since we passed these lights the
                  other way; and I'll be hanged if I ain't glad to be at sea again."
               "So am I, Tom. It's no use to stop ashore when the money's gone."
               "No," said Tom, "that's a fact."
               "Slashing breeze!" said I, after a pause. "She's balling it off now."
               "Yes! this boat can walk, I tell you," said Tom. "I wonder der how she steers. Bad
                  enough, if one can judge from the way that fellow's working the tiller about."
               So it proved, for instead of having the purchase of a wheel to steer by, the
                  schooner had, like many small vessels, nothing but a long tiller inserted in the
                  rudder head; it was carved and polished and looked very well, but that did not
                  make the steerage easier; and with the schooner deeply laden, and a fresh breeze,
                  a man had to work hard to keep her within half a point each way of her course. The
                  wind from the nor'erd and west'erd was right after us, and held in that quarter,
                  blowing a fresh, steady breeze. On the second day we were nearly abreast of Cape
                  Hatteras, and the wind already as strong as we wished to see it, increased in
                  force, and the dark masses of clouds gathering astern, and the quick drifting scud
                  overhead, warned us to prepare for more; this was not altogether unexpected, for
                  the reputation of Cape Hatteras there, for bad weather, is equal to that of the
                  Bay of Biscay at home, and lucky is the passer-by that escapes without some share
                  of it. Before night came on, we shortened sail, and with three reefs in her large
                  fore and aft sails, we let the schooner run before the gale, which was gradually
                  increasing, and raising a tremendous sea. To steer the schooner at her increased
                  speed, and keep her before the heavy seas, was now the greatest difficulty. In
                  moderate winds and fine weather it was bad enough, and now three of us could
                  hardly manage her. At twelve o'clock {midnight) the fury of the gale appeared to
                  have reached its height. We lowered the sails down, till they bagged, nearly to
                  the water's edge; and the schooner, like a horse with a bit between his teeth,
                  foamed along her deck one sheet of water. Tom and I, and the mate, went to take
                  our turn at the tiller, and I never remember passing four hours of my life less
                  pleasantly. The schooner was almost unmanageable and every third or fourth wave
                  washed completely over us at the helm—not little clouds of spray, just sufficient
                  to wet one side of your face, but regular green seas come bouncing over us, drenching us from head to
                  foot, and making a tight and firm hold of the tiller a matter of some importance,
                  as the water swept down to leeward. In a hot summer's night, in the tropics, such
                  a shower-bath might not be attended by much discomfort, but when the drops of
                  water nearly froze upon one's clothes in the intervals of its coming, it was
                  dreadful; the great exertion that it required to work the tiller was the only
                  thing that prevented us, in that exposed position, from being benumbed, and swept
                  overboard. Captain Transom stood in the companion-way, the doors of which were
                  closed, and the slide drawn back only far enough to make room for his head, which
                  he popped down every time the sea came over, watching the waves as they came
                  chasing after us, now curling their heads high above the schooner's stern, and
                  bursting into foam under her quarters, or hiding every thing from sight for a
                  moment, as they swept over the deck. We, at the helm, had our backs to all this;
                  and the sight of those watery mountains, each one coming as it were in haste to
                  overwhelm us, was enough to fidget the nerves of one possessing a stout heart.
               "I'm almost afraid to run her any longer, Mr. Bailey," said the captain, "but it's
                  the quickest way to get out of the gale. Take care! take care!" shouted he, as an
                  immense wave broke on the quarter, and washing over us, swung the schooner's head,
                  despite the helm, up towards the wind.
               The shift of position caused the wind to catch the sails in the other way, and
                  with a thundering crash, breaking ropes and staunchions, the heavy booms and thick
                  wet canvass jibed across the deck. The schooner lay for a moment in the trough of
                  the sea, when another wave breaking over her a little before the beam, stove in
                  the bulwarks, forced her head off before the wind; and her sails, with an awful
                  slam that shook her to the centre, swung into their former place. The crew run aft
                  to escape the last rush of water, and, as we caught our breaths, of which the cold
                  immersion had deprived us, we looked up at the masts, in wonder that they were not
                  towing alongside.
               "We are all going to hell together!" cried the captain; "so let's make the best of
                  it."
               At these words he produced a flask of brandy, which was passed round, and helped
                  to revive us more than his allusion to such an unpleasant termination of our
                  journey. Invigorated by the stimulant we had taken, the tiller was worked with
                  renewed strength, and all our attention devoted to prevent a recurrence of the
                  late accident, as the least evil likely to result from it would be the loss of our
                  masts. We succeeded in keeping the vessel before the sea, and towards morning the
                  extreme violence of the wind abated, leaving us running with a fresh gale, too
                  strong though to allow the sea to subside much. This continued for three days, and
                  while it lasted, any attempt to keep dry on deck was useless; for the first two or
                  three times, after getting what rest below we might, we returned on deck in dry
                  clothes, but as we were generally greeted upon appearing above the fok'stle
                  scuttle by a slap in the face from a wave curling over us, and as it was nearly a
                  swimming matter to get from one end of the schooner to the other, we presently
                  desisted (the more so as a dry suit was becoming a rarity,) and merely changed
                  while we were below, donning a wet suit before emerging upon deck. We all 
                     suffured
                     suffered
                  , more or less severely, from the cold; and Tom and I cursed all schooner
                  sailing in general, and such boats as the "Olivia," that didn't go over the seas,
                  but through (I might almost say under) them, in particular. However, every medal
                  has its reverse; and nothing could be more delightful, than when, in a week's
                  time, by the help of a fine breeze—which, though it blew the water over us, blew
                  the schooner over the water—we got into West India latitude and warm weather, and
                  passing through the "hole in the wall,"*
                  
                     *The name given by sailors to the passage through the "wall" of islands, by
                        which the Gulf of Mexico is approached from the Atlantic Ocean.
                  
                   and across the Banks of Bahama, with a
                  clear blue sky overhead, a pleasant breeze and a smooth sea, the pretty "Olivia"
                  dances along on her way across the Gulf of Mexico; now coming up with, and
                  passing, some great lump of a cotton ship, bound into Orleans or Mobile, her crew
                  gazing down at us as if from the walls of some great castle, as we run up
                  alongside, and, hailing them, pass on ahead, wishing them a speedy passage and
                  good bye; or, exchanging greetings with some lumbering brig bound to the nor'erd,
                  leave her quickly far behind us, and keep merrily upon our course. This was the
                  very essence of sailoring; and the passenger, who had only come up to blow at rare
                  intervals before, now lounged about the deck, luxuriating in Havana cigars, and
                  chatting with us as we lay sunning ourselves on the fok'stle, or leant across the
                  square-sail yard, when "big Ben" (as the captain called it) was stowed; and Tom
                  and I concluded that, after all, schooner sailing was not so dreadful bad as we
                  had made it out at first.
               On the sixteenth day after our departure from New York we made the Texian land,
                  near Matagorda—its appearance, as far as we could make out, was not tempting, low
                  sandy flats bordered the sea, and further inland nothing was visible but marshy
                  ground or swamp, with an occasional herd of wild cattle trooping across. We
                  coasted along the shore, and next day anchored in an open roadstead, about a mile
                  outside of the bar which crosses the entrance of Aransas Bay, the place to which
                  we were bound. And what a place it was! The dismantled wreck of a vessel was lying
                  where she had struck on the bar, the position of which was indicated by a line of
                  broken water; inside, two or three small schooners were lying at anchor; all signs
                  of the cluster of huts that we afterwards discovered composed the town, were
                  hidden from our view by the sandy banks of the winding inlet by which it was
                  approached after crossing the bar.
               Before we anchored, a little schooner, which proved to be the pilot boat, stood
                  out and spoke us—the pilot asked how much water we drew, and then said he could
                  not take us in over the bar.
               "What am I to do then?" inquired Captain Transom, in answer to this announcement.
                  "This ain't a place for a vessel to lie in, if it comes on to blow."
               "Can't help that," said the pilot, "there's only seven foot of water on the bar,
                  and you draw over eight—can't take you in. You must lie here till the steamer
                  comes out to lighten you."
               So saying, he took his departure, not, however, before our passenger had agreed
                  for and taken passage with him for the shore, glad of any change from the cabin of
                  a small vessel, leaving our captain in no very good humor; he grumbled for a
                  while, and at last gave orders to come to anchor, which we did. Towards evening,
                  the wind, which was along the coast, freshened up, and blew strongly all night.
                  The captain, considerably alarmed, called us up in the middle of the night to
                  clear away another anchor, and kept a man constantly attending the lead to see if
                  the vessel dragged—we had, in reality, less to apprehend from that cause (for if
                  the anchors had not held, we could only have drifted along parallel with the
                  shore) than from the vessel's motion rolling some of her spars out of her. She
                  laid wallowing in the trough of the sea, and having nothing to steady her, dipped
                  her gunwale under nearly every roll; it was almost impossible for sailors even to
                  get about the deck. This lasted till morning, when we got every thing ready for
                  slipping our cable, (i. e. leaving it behind us, with a buoy
                  attached) for there was no appearance of either steamer or pilot boat coming out
                  to us, and as the gathering clouds in the S. E. indicated the approach of wind
                  from that quarter, the captain concluded to go to sea—to stay longer would not
                  have been prudent, for, in the event of a gale in that direction right towards the
                  shore, we should only have had the alternative of hanging to our anchors, or
                  beating off a lee shore; whereas, now we
                  gained a good offing before the storm broke. Accordingly, we put to sea, leaving
                  our anchor and cable behind, and for eight days were beaten and tossed about,
                  keeping as near as we could our position off the port, just out of sight of land.
                  On the ninth day the weather moderated a little, and the wind favoring us we ran
                  into the land, and, after cruising about a good while found our anchor buoy,
                  which, at the expense of some time and labor, we picked up; then, as the weather
                  began to look dirty again, we got out to sea as fast as possible. No sooner were
                  we clear of the land, than the wind rose again. The captain began to lose all
                  patience, as did the rest of us.
               "Blow'd if I think it means to leave off blowing at all," said Tom, after a long
                  conversation about the flying Dutchman, which he persisted in believing in.
               "What's the odds," cried one of the others, "as long as you're happy?"
               "Why the odds makes the difference," replied Tom, "and if it does leave off
                  blowing, and we get into the cursed place, it's a chance if we get out again."
               "Well then, we must stop there, I suppose," replied the other; "we shall have good
                  weather before long."
               So we had, but not until four or five days had elapsed, when the wind moderated,
                  and the weather appeared settled and fine. We had by this time been blown some
                  distance from the land, the captain did not exactly know how far, and as it was
                  near night before it became quite fine, he was rather dubious about running in for
                  the shore (for which the wind was fair) before daylight. However, while he was
                  hesitating, another schooner hove in sight; she was bound in, and running before
                  the wind, with all sail set; this sight of course decided him, and following the
                  stranger's example, we kept away for the land, though not until he was within
                  hail, when the two old men had some chat together.
               "What was your latitude to-day?" inquired Captain Transom.
               "Well, I reckon my latitude's 27° 40'," said the stranger; "what's yours?"
               "I make it only 27° 10'," replied our old man, "what did you stand
                  on?"
               "Why I forget what I stood on—but I guess I'm right."
               "Perhaps I mistook a nought for a nine," hollo'ed our captain, who began to feel
                  fidgetty at the stranger's indifference, as the vessels separated more.
               "Reckon you did," shouted the other, "good night."
               The captain went down below with the mate to overhaul their reckoning, and the
                  vessels windened their distance.
               "What do they mean by what they stand on?" said I to Tom, who, with myself, had
                  been listening to the previous dialogue: "I never heard of standing before, about
                  a ship's latitude."
               "No!" said Tom, in some surprise; "why it's what the Yankees say—it's what their
                  quadrant stands at when the sun's up."
               "Well," said I, "live and learn—that's an altitude in my
                  country."
               "Trim sails," cried the mate, interrupting us. The sails were trimmed, and the
                  captain, finding no error, shaped his course from his own calculation, leaving the
                  stranger to travel his own road; luckily we were right and the next day saw us
                  anchored once again outside the bar. In a short time our passenger came off to us
                  with the pilot, who had undertaken at his persuasion to take us over the bar as we
                  were. The schooner drew a few inches more than eight feet, and having levelled our
                  deck load, to bring her on an even keel, we made sail and stood in. The pilot told
                  us that owing to the late strong winds, there was a higher tide than usual;
                  luckily for us the sea was very smooth, not so smooth though as to still the
                  sullen roar of the large calm waves as they broke on each side of the mouth of the inlet, leaving a small still place
                  in the centre, which showed us the narrow passage where we had to pass.
               "Blow! good breeze, blow!" cried the pilot between intervals of violent whistling,
                  invoking the light and favoring air that swept us on toward the bar. As the
                  distance lessens, the dull thunder of the sea grows plainer every minute—now—we're
                  passed the wreck, round which the waves keep a continued sheet of foam, and now we
                  enter on the smooth unbroken water, that marks our path ahead; the sea curled and
                  broke in regular succession, and as we steer between the troubled water on each
                  side, the very. waves we are upon seem almost bending their heads to burst forth
                  into foam as we pass over them. Now good wind assist us; the breeze freshens and
                  the schooner bumps gently on the bar, between the long swells that help her over.
                  Another shock a little harder, the light air fails us, and we are hard and fast,
                  the sails flap idly with the schooner's rolling, as she bumps upon the bottom. Ten
                  yards further, and we shall be clear—come, gentle breeze, another puff; one little
                  puff to help us over—here it comes at last, rippling over the water. The sails
                  fill and the vessel's keel grits and grinds through the hard sand,—the bar is
                  crossed and we glide swiftly along the quiet waters of the inlet to our berth
                  among the other schooners, with the breaker's roar still faintly echoing
                  astern.
               The town, which we had now an opportunity of observing, is situated on the right
                  hand shore of the inlet, six or seven miles from the bar; it is composed of a
                  cluster of wooden huts, sufficient to supply the necessary shelter, and little
                  else, to a detachment of General Taylor's army, the head quarters of which were
                  some forty miles distant at Corpus Christi. Halfway between the town and the bar
                  stood the custom-house, a solitary detached wooden hut, looking like a melancholy
                  emblem of the "Lone Star," in the flag of independence that waved over it. That
                  star is now one of the cluster of small fry that adorn the Yankee "Gridiron."
               What they wanted with a custom-house, heaven knows, for the scarcity of the
                  necessaries of life was such as to make them glad to obtain them upon any terms,
                  and would preclude the idea, one would suppose, of a tax upon them—however, there
                  it stood, and it did not prevent the American traders from realizing large profits
                  by the sale of their goods.
               The left bank of the inlet (into which the Aransas river runs above the town) is
                  all marshy swamp; it is intersected by little muddy salt water streams, where in
                  the season plenty of capital oysters may be found. Turtles are seen occasionally,
                  and sometimes caught in the winter time, when numbed by the cold. These are, I
                  think, the principal recommendations in this part of the country, not much
                  certainly to compensate for the fever and ague which would probably visit a
                  settler there.
               Some days after our arrival, one of the crew of a schooner that had been lying
                  there some time came on board of us; he was quite astonished that we, in our
                  ignorance of the place, had brought nothing out with us for sale.
               "Why, what will they buy?" asked Tom.
               "Buy," returned the other, "they'll buy anything—your chest of clothes if you'll
                  sell it—whiskey and tobacco are the best things, they're sure to go off. I sold my
                  whiskey, that cost half a dollar a gallon in New Orleans, at fifteen drops for a
                  picayune (2 1-2d.); and the tobacco that I paid ten cents for at
                  fifty cents a pound."
               Tom and the rest of us opened our eyes at this, and were rather incredulous; until
                  some time after, when our passenger wished us good by, telling us that he had made
                  seventy-five per cent profit on his goods, said he was off to New Orleans by the
                  steamboat for another cargo; we then concluded that it was all true, and that we
                  were great fools not to have done the same.
               After we had discharged our cargo, which we put into an old tumble-down,
                  high-pressure steamboat that had come out
                  here from New Orleans, and which, after proceeding ten miles on its journey to
                  Corpus Christi, got ashore on a mud-bank and there stopped—the people on board
                  playing cards, and drinking, after they had got there, in perfect indifference—we
                  had a very monotonous time of it for the two or three weeks that we lay there.
                  Ashore there was nothing to be seen except lazy soldiers and half-bred Mexicans.
                  Seaward there was no variety except the temporary excitement occasioned by some
                  unfortunate schooner getting ashore. This occurred several times during our stay;
                  and, the first event of the sort we figured in, the pilot schooner got ashore one
                  foggy morning on the other side of the neck of sand that formed the lower part of
                  the right bank of the inlet. She was about two miles from where we lay in a
                  straight line; but to approach her by water, we must have gone out to the bar,
                  round the point in which the right shore terminated, and back again, the other
                  side. We had no boat fit to do this; and the captain, thinking there might be
                  somebody to save on board the schooner, over which we saw, the sea breaking as we
                  caught a glimpse of her occasionally thro' the fog, proposed that we should land
                  in a light boat that we had, and carry it on our shoulders across the sand;—we did
                  so—and a precious tramp we had of it; carrying a boat on our shoulders for two
                  miles across sand into which at every step we sunk knee deep was no light work,
                  and when we got there it was of no use, for the crew had come ashore an hour or
                  two before, so all we could do was to carry our boat back again, besides getting
                  laughed at by some people there, for our pains.
               Another schooner struck on the bar as a steamer was towing her out, and in half an
                  hour afterwards filled and went down just outside. These accidents, and more of
                  the same sort made our captain feel rather alarmed, and postpone starting for some
                  time. At length, after a month's stay, we took a few tons of sand on board for
                  ballast, and prepared te sail the next day. Accordingly, the next morning, when
                  the passenger boat that steamed to New Orleans twice a week came past us, and took
                  another schooner in tow, our captain determined to go too.
               "Can you take two vessels?" inquired he, hesitatingly, of the captain of the
                  steamboat.
               "Take two!" roared the other; "take a dozen. Be quick, get your hawser fast to the
                  other schooner if you're going."
               "I don't half like this fellow," said our old man to the master of the other
                  schooner; "he'll be leaving us on the bar I expect."
               "Are you going or no?" thundered the captain of the steamer.
               "Yes," said the old man at last, "must go some time or another—make the hawser
                  fast."
               "All fast, sir."
               "Go ahead," cried the captain of the boat, and away we went down the inlet behind
                  the other schooner.
               When we came within sight of the bar, the captain grew rather nervous; there had
                  been a strong breeze all night, which caused a heavy sea and a terrible commotion
                  at the mouth of the inlet—there was no stopping now—so on we went. The sea was
                  running so high that I almost expected to see the bottom between the waves. On
                  went the steamer, and on went pitching and diving after her; here we are, abreast
                  the poor old wreck, upon the bar again—and soon we felt it. Bang went the schooner
                  down upon the hard bottom in the trough of every sea. Bang, bump again, till the
                  masts shook like twig's.
               "Oh, my God! my God!" cried the captain running round the deck as pale as a
                  sheet.
               Still, we forged ahead with a heavy sea that lifted us. One thundering crash shook
                  the schooner to her centre, throwing us down on deck, and the "Olivia" sticks
                  fast.
               "Cast off your hawser," cried the captain of the boat, "I can't get you over."
               
               "Let go my hawser," roared the captain of the other schooner, "you'll have me
                  stuck too."
               "Go ahead for God's sake," cried our captain, not minding them; "tow me over and
                  I'll give you fifty dollars extra."
               "Well, I'll try you again," said the steamboat captain. "Go ahead."
               Ahead he went, and pulled and tugged; the hawser surged and cracked, and we lay
                  thumping down upon the bar. Now she moves again—another drag ahead like that, and
                  the next sea the schooner falls but lightly on the bar—the next one lighter
                  still,—and now we are across the bar again in safety.
               The steamer let go of us, and getting his cash, the captain went upon his way. We
                  started for Orleans, and in a few days were sailing on the placid waters of the
                  Mississippi, and in a few days more safe at New Orleans, when Tom and I, having
                  had enough of schooner sailing, left the "Olivia," resisting all the captain's
                  persuasions to stay, which he enforced by asserting that no amount of freightage
                  should ever again tempt him to undertake another "Trip to Texas."
            
            
               THE HANIMAL SHOW.
               The following sketch, taken from the Alabama Journal, of a "few" who really did
                  see the "Elephant," is by the graphic feather of Johnson J. Hooper, a native of
                  the old North, but now practising Law in Chambers and the adjoining counties, in
                  Alabama. We consider him, next to Longstreet, the best delineator of country life,
                  manners, and customs:
               The monotony of our village life was agreeably broken, on last Monday, by the
                  advent of Raymond's Menagerie. Not the juveniles only, but the whole adult
                  population, male and female within five miles of the Court House, were alive with
                  excitement. The North wind was cutting as a note-shaver, but in spite of that and
                  the supposed scarcity of coin, the "pavilion" was thronged. A more motley
                  assemblage I never saw—the animals were nothing in the comparison—and in point of
                  decorum, the spectators might have taken lessons from the Grizzly Bear. It was the
                  only public assembly that I ever heard of, in this country, which the presence of
                  ladies did not control into propriety of speech and manner. Even the professional
                  beast tamers themselves, Mr. and Mrs. Schaffer, failed to subdue the rampant
                  animals outside the cages.
               The elephant was the great point of attraction as usual. Many were the remarks
                  elicited by its immense size and docility.
               "I want his hide and frame for a corn crib," said a fellow from Pan Handle
                  Beat.
               "Save me his ears for skearts to my old wagin saddle," remarked another.
               
               "Goodness gracious," ejaculated a sallow girl, with a dirty blue ribbon around a
                  dirty yellow neck, "was it borned with that ugly
                     snake-thing stuck to its face?"
               "Its got a'most the least har to as much hide, that I ever seed," quoth Jerry
                  Brumbelow.
               "Whar do they raise 'em?" asked some honest searcher after knowledge.
               "Not here—not here in this (hic) country," replied Jim McGaffey with a knowing,
                  would-be-sober-shake of the head.
               "Whar then?"
               "That animal," said Jim, who was very drunk, "that animal wasn't raised in the
                  island (hick) of Ameriky. It come all the way from (hic)
                  Ireland."
               "Give us your hand, my friend," exclaimed old Tom Martin, with an ironical air,
                  "give us your hand for the true words ye're tellin' the boys. Don't you see the
                  creatur's fut? look at his fut? Sure 'twas made for the Bogs of the
                  ould country!"
               "This thing tho', is but a heifer, as ye may say. What would ye say, if ye could
                  see a giniwine grown up Airish Bull? Och?"
               "Satis! jam satis!" soliliquized a corpulent lawyer, as he walked
                  up; unconsciously latinizing the spirit of Tom Haines' remark on a similar
                  occasion, made to Tom Jefferson.
               The group adjourned to the vicinity of the Lion's cage.
               "Why didn't they shurr (shear) that critter's fore parts, as well as his hind
                  one?" asked some one.
               "You see," said his keeper, a man with huge whiskers, and a green blanket
                  coat—"he's got a breast complaint and we were afraid of increasing his cold."
               "Well, be granny, I did notice he was hoarse, when he hollered,
                  awhile ago."
               "Whar did he come from, Jim?" asked one of the crowd.
               "From Ireland, too, be Jasus," said old Tom the Irishman, taking the word out of
                  Jim's mouth—"Didn't he McGaffey?"
               "I judge (hic) he (hic) did," said Mack.
               "I'll take my corp'ral of it," returned Martin: "the grooves of
                     Blarney is full of 'em!"
               Presently the crowd was ordered back, and Mr. and Mrs. Schaffer entered the cage
                  with the lion, tiger and other animals.
               "That takes Billy's horns clean smooth off to the scull—now don't it?" said Tom
                  Hussey.
               "It's the first time I ever seed the likes, and I'm sixty-five come fall,"
                  remarked an old grey-headed man.
               "Is it a rail woman in thar?" asked a skeptical dirt-eater.
               "Why, you see," said Jim McGaffey, "It's a rail woman, but she's got great
                  sperets. Some people, tho', (hic) think these show people (hic) ain't regular
                  human, no how."
               "No more, and they ain't," said old Tom.
               "What are they then?"
               "Airish, to be sure!"
               "Well ain't the Irish human?"
               "Divil the bit of it!" responded old Tom, "they're all subjects of the Queen
                     of Great Britain." 
               "That's (hic) a fact," said Jim McGaffey; and the point was settled.
               Mrs. Schaffer shook her whip at the tiger, which dashed by her, and crouched in a
                  corner of the cage, growling furiously.
               "Take care, she-bar legs, the old boy's rattling his chain—as my old woman tells
                  Dick, when he cries," said John Davis.
               "I say, John," observed a half-worn out man in a slouched hat,—"I ain't no
                  objection to that woman showin' off her legs that way; but if Betsy was to."
               "Let Betsey's name alone you lazy good-for-nothin"—interrupted a sharp nosed
                  female, with one child in her arms, and another at her knee, "let Betsey's name
                  alone, goodness knows! she can get along without sich notice as that,"—'twas
                     the blessed Elizabeth herself—"and
                  come here and tote Jack.—Here they've been scrougin' and runnin' over the poor
                  child all day—and you a-jawin thar! and a talking about you know not what! Its
                  only the Lord's mercy the elephant didn't tromp on him, and squash him to death.
                  Come along!"
               The hen pecked meekly obeyed; took Jacob into his paternal arms; and I—ceased to
                  take notes.
            
            
               MRS. JOHN SMITH, JR., OF ARKANSAS,
               WHOM IT WAS HARD TO MAKE SCOLD.
               A gossipping correspondent of the New York Standard, who writes under the
                  signature of "John Smith, Jr., of Arkansas," tells the following story about his
                  better half:
               About six years after I had transformed Miss Mary Lopex Smith into Mrs. John
                  Smith, Jr., of Arkansas, I got into a habit of going down to old Billy Taylor's
                  tavern, in Helena county, and there I'd sit, hour after hour, and play
                     keards, as the Vermonters express themselves when they want to
                  talk about card playing, and sometimes got a little wrong in the upper story.
               Mrs. John Smith Jr., bore all this pretty well, for a long time; but I could see
                  that my folly and extravagance was a source of anguish to her; and though she'd
                  sit and weep in silence, when she thought I did not see her, she was too proud to
                  complain—loved me too well to tell me that I was an ungrateful fellow, and was
                  driving her to the tomb by my neglect and dissipation. I saw all; knew that I was
                  murdering the wife of my bosom, and yet, for the life of me, I could not conquer
                  my thirst for gambling and conviviality.
               A thousand times did I attempt to cut asunder the bands that bound me to a sinful
                  course of folly and madness; and I often prayed to my God, imploring him to invest
                  me with a resolution sufficiently strong to enable me to escape from the slavery
                  of vice and folly. But all was of no avail. At last it occurred to me, that if I
                  could get Mrs. John Smith, jr., waked up to anger, and compel her to scold me like
                  a virago, the end would be accomplished,
                  and I should be able to consummate the reformation I panted for in all sincerity.
                  At last I was successful.
               Christmas came round, and I flogged all my negroes; gave each of them a suit of
                  new clothes of Osnaburg, and a shilling all round, by the way of an annual
                  comforter; and away I went down to Old Billy Taylor's tavern, to play cards and
                  drink whiskey. I was gone three days and nights, and during the whole of that sad
                  period, Mrs. John Smith, jr., sat by the door of the log-cabin, and sighed and
                  wept for her truant and reckless husband. Her eyes had not been closed one moment.
                  She wept for me and my sins; and when her little infant would turn up its bright
                  eyes, and smiling try to lisp the name of father, my poor Mrs. John Smith, jr.,
                  would fall into all the agonies of mental and physical distraction! "Smile on,
                  sweet babe!" she would say; "smile on, be happy while you may, for the day will
                  soon come when this distracted heart shall burst, and I shall find repose, I
                  hope—not in the embrace of an unfeeling but beloved husband, but in the arms of
                  the God of Abraham. Smile on, sweet innocent! live, love, and be happy; and when I
                  am no more, then—oh then! thy father may learn to love and protect you."
               At a late hour of the fourth night of my carousal, I went home, and found Mrs.
                  Smith up waiting for me. She said nothing but wept most bitterly.
               "My love," said I, "I am very sorry you are crying; pray has anything happened to
                  make you unhappy?"
               "Mr. Smith," said she, "and is it possible that you can ask such a
                  question?—Anything happened, sir? Do you mean to add insult to injury?"
               I saw, for the first time in my life, that she had something of a woman's spirit
                  about her, and I rejoiced that there was now a chance to make her scold me. I
                  resolved to improve the golden opportunity. So, assuming a dignified and despotic
                  attitude titude, I looked at her with all the mock ferocity I could muster, and in
                  a stem voice exclaimed,
               "Mrs. John Smith; jr., of Arkansas, do you know, madam, that I am lord of this
                  manor, and master over you and your negroes?"
               "Mr. John Smith, jr., of Arkansas," she exclaimed in a dignified tone, and with an
                  air of majesty that reminded me of Mrs. Siddons, in Catharine of Arragon, "you are
                  unendurable; your conduct, sir, is infamous, and I shall not submit to it any
                  longer; you are a brute, sir; yes, sir, a brute, and I'll complain to your honored
                  father and to my brothers, sir, and I'll see if a remedy cannot be effected."
               "My honored father and your brothers may be hanged, madam," I returned; "I'll do
                  as I please, and you, madam shall submit to it!"
               "Mr. Smith," replied Mrs. John Smith, jr., "it is idle and unnecessary for us to
                  live as we now do. You supply me bountifully, it is true, with all I want to make
                  my life comfortable; you are kind and affectionate to my children, but sir, you
                  neglect me; and rejecting a wife's love and devotion, spend your days and nights
                  in a filthy pot house, and for aught I know, with bad and abandoned men and women,
                  too, sir. I cannot submit to this gross outrage on my repose and life any longer.
                  Mr. Smith, I must be provided with a separate maintenance."
               She was firm and determined I saw, and there was something in her eye that told me
                  that the hour of my repentance had come; and as Sir Harcourt Courtly says, "my
                     grashus!" how my heart did palpitate.
               "Provide you with a separate maintenance," I stammered out, "in the name of mercy,
                  Mrs. John Smith, jr., of Arkansas, what do you mean madam! You are not
                  serious?"
               "Yes, but I am, though," replied the highly exasperated lady; "I mean what I say,
                  and insist, sir, on its immediate consummation."
               
               If I had been shot, I could not have more suddenly fallen on my knees than I did.
                  I saw that ruin, a shipwrecked, blasted hope and eternal disgrace awaited me, and
                  there was no time to be lost in securing a reconciliation.
               "My love," said I, "I did but go to the camp-meeting—and did—"
               "Don't talk to me about camp-meeting; do not add the sin of falsehood to your
                  vices, Mr. Smith; you, sir, have left me three whole days and nights to suffer all
                  the pangs and pain of a distracted wife, in this wilderness; you have been far
                  more cruel than the beasts, of this forest, and I am determined to submit to my
                  wrongs no longer!"
               I seized her hand, and prostrate and penitent and heart-stricken, while a flood of
                  whiskey fell from eyes, ejaculated, "pardon me, Mary, dearest wife; speak not
                  these cruel words again about a separate maintenance, and I pledge my word and
                  honor that never again will I go to Billy Taylor's tavern to play cards or to
                  frolic. I'll quit every vice, join the teetotal society, and sell all my negroes
                  to furnish you with money!"
               "And will you be faithful to your promises?" she plaintively whispered. "Will you
                  not suffer yourself to get into bad company again?"
               "As I hope for happiness here and hereafter," I replied, "I will keep my promise,
                  and no temptation, no power on earth, shall ever induce me to prove recreant."
               Her soft black eye sparkled with joy, though clouded by tears, and as she pressed
                  my hand to her lips, she imprinted it with a burning kiss, and softly
                  ejaculated:
               "John Smith, jr., of Arkansas, you are forgiven."
               I rose like a man who had been prostrated on the guillotine, but who, whilst he
                  gazed on the suspended knife, and the bloody executioner, expected to see his head
                  tumble into the basket the next moment was pardoned, and clasping my Mary to my
                  bosom half suffocated her with kisses!
               "O dearest," said I, "do as you please; say what you please, and I'll never find
                  fault!" I then ran to my bed room, seized a pair of buckskin inexpressibles, that
                  I wore when I was a Sergeant in Sir George's army, of the Spanish Main, and
                  handing them to her, exclaimed in the ecstacy of my delight:
               "Take them, dearest wife; put them on, wear them, and hang me if you shan't be
                  master hereafter and forever. And if I on any occasion break my word, give them
                  back to me and pronounce me a scoundrel."
               She took the inexpressibles; did not put them on, but from that day to this, has
                  never had an opportunity to return them. Nor will she ever have. Now we are
                  happy—are blessed—have had four little John Smiths, jr., of Arkansas, at two
                  births, and I wish I had an army of them. No scolding now disturbs us; I go to
                  bed, every night, at nine o'clock, precisely; drink cold water, do not play cards,
                  but bite my thumb at old Billy Taylor and his log cabin tavern in Helena county,
                  Arkansas and strive to make every body happy. Scolding in my case has been
                  profitable.
            
            
               
               A NEGRO BEER DANCE IN OLD VIRGINNY.
               We have selected from the Farmer's Register, for the amusement of our readers, the
                  following graphic description of a Negro Beer Dance in "Old Virginny." The
                  cheerfulness and contentment which scenes like this evince, are unanswerable
                  arguments to the hypocritical cant of their false friends, the Abolitionists:
               Some years ago, I rode in the night to visit a patient, and as I passed the house
                  of Mr. Samuel Poe, in the lower end of Prince Edward, I heard the tone of a banjo,
                  and was told by the old gentleman, (Mr. Poe,) that his servants had brewed a
                  barrel of persimmon beer, and he gave them the privilege of having what they call
                  a "beer dance." Curiosity induced me to ride to the door, accompanied by Mr. Poe,
                  and the other gentlemen. And here we saw rare sport! "an unco sight!" Not,
                  however, such a sight as Tam O'Shanter saw when he peeped into "Kirk-Alloway," for
                  the dancers there were "warlocks and witches;" here they were
                  Virginia slaves, dancing jigs and clapping "juber," over a barrel of persimmon
                  beer. It occurred to me, that if Tam could have made his appearance about this
                  time on his gray mare Meg , the scene would have frightened Maggie more than the "bleeze" of "Kirk-Alloway;" and
                  Tam might have roared out, "well done Cutty Sark!" a thousand times, and the torch
                  lights would not have been extinguished.
               The ball was opened with great ceremony by singing a song known to our Virginia
                  slaves by the name of "Who-zen John, who-za."
                     
                        "Old black bull come down de hollow,
                        He shake hi' tail, you hear him bellow;
                        When he bellow he jar de river,
                        He paw de yearth, he make it quiver.
                        Who-zen John, who za."
                     
                  
               
               This was a sky rocket thrown out, as a prelude to the grand exhibition, and will
                  give the reader some idea of what is to follow. Those who could not get seats in
                  the house, took their stand outside, peeping in the door and through the log,
                  making re-marks on the dancers; and here I will observe, that there was a complete
                  Babel jargon, a confusion of the tongues!
               "Down the road, come show me de motion." 'Set to your partner, Dolly.—'Cut him
                  out, Gabe.'—'Sal does put her foot good.'—'Yonder comes de coal black
                  horse.'—'The yallow roan's up! hear how he lumbers! he's a rael
                  stormed, ring-clipper, snow-belcher, and drag-out.'—'Congo is a
                     scrouger; he's up a gum, and no bug-eater I tell you; he carries a
                  broad row, weeds out every thing—hoes de corn, and digs de taters.'—'Molly look
                  like kildec; she move like handsaw—see how she shake
                  herself.'—'Hello! in there, I wish you all sen' us out some simmon beer.'—'Lor!
                     see how Aggy shake her foot! she ken pull the whipsaw
                  down.'—'Nick, come here and see Ben cross hi' bow-legs! look at hi' mouf! when he
                  grin, hi' mouf and teeth like hen-ness full o' eggs.'—'Nick, I reckon if Tamar's
                  cat stay in there much longer, they will mash her guts out; her skin
                     'ont hold peas.'—'Come here, Gabe; come if you please; Johnson's
                  Dick is dancing with Ellington's Nance! see how she quivers! Now
                     Nance!—Try Nance!—She does but look pretty.—When she
                  sets and turns, she is like a picter—and she is fine form, back. Dick
                  shan't have Nance; Ill kick him high as the meat-house first.' [Sings.] 'She
                     bin to the north, she bin to the south, she
                     bin to the east, she bin to the west, she
                     bin so far beyond the sun, and she is the
                     gal for me. Dick had'nt
                  no business dancing with Nance; he ain't a man of gumption. I tried
                  him, and he can't be made to understand the duramatical part of the
                  function, the function of the fundamental, and the imperality of
                  ditrimental things. Gabe, Dick's a fool, and you may tell him Sambo says so: he is
                  knock-knee'd and ugly enough to eat Gumbo.' 'Well, I know that; sing
                  on Sambo.' 
                     
                        'I went from the great-house, down to the kitchen,
                        To get a knot of light-wood to see to go fishing,
                        To treat granny Dinah;
                        I went to the stable, I cotch master gray horse,
                        I clap the saddle pon him and he trot like
                              do'nk care;
                        He do'nk care he do'nk care."
                     
                  
               
               Having become tired of this out of door conversation, we concluded to view the
                  group in the house. Here the banjo-man was seated on the beer-barrel, in an old
                  chair. A long white cow tail, queued with red ribbon, ornamented his head, and
                  hung gracefully down his back; over this he wore a three-cocked hat, decorated
                  with peacock feathers, a rose cockade, a bunch of ripe persimmons, and to cap the
                  climax, three pods of red pepper as a top-knot. Tumming his banjo,
                  grinning with ludicrous gesticulations and playing off in wild notes to the
                  company. Before him stood two athletic blacks, with open mouth and pearl white
                  teeth, clapping juber to the notes of the banjo; the fourth black man
                  held in his right hand a jug-gourd of persimmon beer, and in his left, a dipper or
                  water gourd to serve the company; while two black women were employed in filling
                  the fire-place, six feet square, with larded persimmon dough. The rest of the
                  company, male and female, were dancers, except a little squat wench who held the
                  torch light. I had never seen juber clapped to the banjo before, and you may
                  suppose I looked upon such a novel scene with some degree of surprise. Indeed I
                  contemplated the dancing group with sensations of wonder and astonishment! The
                  clappers rested the right foot on the heel, and its clap on the floor was in
                  perfect unison with the notes of the banjo, and palms of the hands on the
                  corresponding extremities; while the dancers were all jigging it away in the
                  merriest possible gaiety of heart, having the most ludicrous twists, wry jerks,
                  and flexible contortions of the body and limbs, that human imagination can divine. 
                     
                        "The whole world is a ball we find,
                        The water dances to the wind;
                        The sea itself, at night and noon,
                        Rises and dances to the moon.
                     
                     
                        The earth and planets round the sun,
                        Still dance; nor will their dance be done,
                        Till nature in one blast is blended;
                        Then may we say the ball is ended."
                     
                  
               
               The rude ballad set to Juber, corresponds admirably with the music and actors in
                  this wild fantastic dance. While the clappers were laboring in the performance of
                  their office, they responded at the same time to the note of the banjo. 
                     
                        "Juber up and Juber down,
                        Juber all around de town,
                        Juber dis, and Juber dat,
                        And Juber roun' de simmon vat.
                        Hoe corn, hill tobacco,
                        Get over double trouble, Juber boys, Juber.
                     
                     
                        Uncle Phil, he went to mill,
                        He suck de sow, he starve de pig,
                        Eat the simmon, gi' me de seed,
                        
                        I told him, I was not in need.
                        Hoe corn, hill tobacco,
                        Get over double trouble, Juber boys, Juber.
                     
                     
                        Aunt Kate, look on the high shelf,
                        Take down the husky dumplin,
                        I'll eat it wi' my simmon cake,
                        To cure the rotten belly-ache.
                        Hoe corn, hill tobacco,
                        Get over double trouble, Juber boys, Juber.
                     
                     
                        Raccoon went to simmon town,
                        To choose the rotten from the soun',
                        Dare he sot upon a sill,
                        Eating of a whip-poor-will.
                        Hoe corn, hill tobacco,
                        Get over double trouble, Juber boys, Juber.
                     
                  
               
               When supper was announced, the banjo man, was first served; then the clappers and
                  beer bearer, and lastly, the beaux and their partners. Each had a huge loaf of
                  larded persimmon bread, with a gourd of beer.
               Thus ended the beer dance, and as I left the house, I thought Virginia slaves were
                  the happiest of the human race—and I still think so. 
                     
                        "The learned is happy, nature to explore,
                        The fool is happy that he knows no more."
                     
                  
               
               Solomon, the wisest man, says—"in much wisdom, there is much grief: and he that
                  increaseth knowledge, increaseth sorrow."
               The beer dance, I have attempted to describe, is a faint representation of what
                  actually occurred. It requires an abler pen to do it justice; I feel mortified
                  that I cannot give a more vivid and glowing description of these black beaux, who
                  acted so conspicuous a part with their partners in the persimmon junket. The broad
                  grin, the smile of the little squat wench, seen through her torch-light, the humid
                  lip, the twist of the tongue, the white teeth, the oblique look, the glance of the
                  eye, the tots of the head, the quaint bow, the curved shin, the bandy-leg, the
                  nimble jig, the affected air of the wenches, the profuse perspiration, the cloud
                  of dust, the lurid room, the phiz of the banjo man, the banjo's tum, tum,
                     tum, and Juber's song and clap, would call forth the combined talents
                  and lively imagination of a Wirt, an Irving, a Burns, an Addison, and Dryden. And
                  if a northern Abolitionist, with his pockets filled with inflammatory documents
                  and resolutions could have witnessed such a scene in Virginia, he would, in my
                  opinion, have consigned them to the flames; his great love for the blacks, to the
                  contrary notwithstanding.
               In conclusion, I offer no apology for introducing in your columns, and bringing
                  before your intelligent readers, such a novel, rude production, as the beer dance.
                  We are to derive from such scenes in this life, much useful instruction; the poet;
                  divine, statesman, philosopher, and allman kind, may be benefitted by looking down
                  in life, in order to explore the dark corners of nature.
               There is this consolation to be derived from the scene which I have described; the
                  pleasing recollection that God has placed us high in the scale of human beings;
                  and we should all appreciate its worth.
            
            
               
               THE MINIATURE.
               A LYNCHING SCENE IN CALIFORNIA.
               In the year 1850, during the hot month of August, I left Sacramento city with a
                  party of six, myself included, for the remote regions of Feather river. I had
                  tried several of the other rivers without much success, and as some friends whom I
                  met in town endeavored to convince me that this was the only true and legitimate
                  spot where the "pile" was to be made, I very unwillingly gave my consent to make
                  one of the party.
               We settled all the arrangements to our satisfaction, then bought provisions enough
                  to last six months, hired a six mule team, packed our stuff on their backs, and
                  one afternoon took up our line of march for the above named place, distant about
                  one hundred and fifty miles from Sacramento. One among our company played the
                  bugle decently well, and as the soul-inspiring notes rang out through the vallies,
                  we all imagined ourselves worth at the least calculation fifty thousand
                  dollars—or, soon would be.
               Alas! where are they and their hopes and expectations now? All but one have laid
                  their bones in a strange land. Famine, disease and murder have taken them one by
                  one until I alone am left, a monument of God's mercy.
               But I am digressing. Nothing worth noticing occurred on our route, and after four
                  days hard travel we arrived, with blistered feet and aching bones, very body
                  unhappy, and every body as disagreeable as any six men could very conveniently
                  have been.
               After unloading the team, and taking a good bath in the clear, cold waters of the
                  river, we pitched our tent, cooked supper, and, then, as men generally do in such
                  cases, felt better. All retired early, and enjoyed a good night's sleep, for upon
                  the next day we were to commence our search after gold, but somehow nobody seemed
                  to broach the subject of work, so we spent the day in visiting what few people
                  there were camped in the immediate neighborhood of ourselves. They did not talk
                  very encouragingly, and after surveying the different "bars," I came to the
                  conclusion that my fortune was some way from me yet. However, it would not do to
                  get discouraged so quick, and I took a stroll along towards the "store," as it was
                  called. The store consisted of a large brush tent, where they retailed every thing
                  that was likely to be wanted among a set of hard-working men, including a
                  plentiful supply of all kinds of liquors, retailing it at the rate of seven
                  dollars a bottle for brandy, and five for gin. By such rates as this the store
                  keeper managed to put up two-thirds of the miners' hard earnings in his own
                  pockets, and consequently was becoming enormously rich.
               When I arrived at the tent, I found some twenty or thirty people assembled,
                  drinking, smoking, and playing cards. Their day's labor was over, and they were
                  now spending what they had earned. I perceived some few were already in a happy
                  state, and were trying to kick up a row with somebody, no matter who. There were
                  one or two Frenchmen, one or two Chilians, two negroes, and the rest were made up
                  of overland and Oregon men.
               As I stood leaning against a barrel, watching the different expressions that
                  played upon their countenances, a young man of about twenty-eight years came up
                  and inquired what part of the country I was from. I informed him, and after a few
                  more words, he informed me that he was from New York City, and asked me to drink
                  with him, which I respectfully declined. He did not appear to relish my refusal very well, and
                  turned abruptly away, and commenced betting on monte.
               "What did that there fellow say to you, mister?" inquired a large broad shouldered
                  countryman, who went by the name of Jones.
               "Only asked me to drink with him!" replied I.
               "Well, stranger, I am from Oregon, and my name is Jones; I have been on the river
                  about five months, and some people call me the alcade of these diggings. But that
                  has nothing to do with him. Let me advise you as a fellow countryman to have
                  nothing to do with that fellow. I have had my eye on him for sometime, and if he
                  does ever come under my discipline, I will serve him out, I warrant you."
               "Of what offense has he been guilty?" I inquired, scrutinizing him more
                  closely.
               "Well, we have not been able to prove anything against him, as yet, but there has
                  been a good deal of the dust lost out of our tents whenever they have been left
                  alone, and you will never see this fellow at work, if you should stay here ten
                  years. He has not got it in him. Yet he is always got dust to lose at the gambling
                  table every night. Why, before that fellow came here, I could go out and leave a
                  dozen pounds of the real stuff in my tent, and come back and find it safe; but it
                  won't do to do it now," he said, sorrowfully, as though he was grieved to find so
                  much dishonesty in the world.
               Jones bade me good night and walked toward his tent, while I stepped nearer to the
                  suspected person, and had a good opportunity to examine him as he stood at the
                  card table.
               He was as I have said, twenty-eight years old, with small dark eyes, that never
                  seemed to be at rest, heavy beard and moustache, and very white teeth which he was
                  at considerable pains to show. He was about five feet eight inches high, and
                  rather strongly built, with a certain reckless appearance about him that denoted
                  the very lowest class of gamblers. He went by the name of Morgan. I finished my
                  examination of him, and then repaired to my tent, where, after smoking and
                  relating the news I had heard, I turned in, and was shortly dreaming of the dear
                  friends whom I had left in good old Massachusetts.
               The next day we put our "cradles" together, and commenced operations, opposite
                  Bidwell's ranch, but I cannot say that we made the amount daily that my sanguine
                  friends had anticipated. At any rate we worked easy, and managed to lay up a
                  little, but if we had been obliged to buy provisions at the rate they were selling
                  for at the store, we should have had to send home for money to pay our debts with,
                  or else take the benefit of the bankrupt act.
               All went on smoothly for a week. We made the acquaintance of most of the miners at
                  work in the neighborhood, and found them all to be pretty good fellows; their
                  worst fault appeared to be drinking, but then they worked hard, and pleaded as an
                  excuse that the climate was so bad that drinking was beneficial.
               One morning, just as day was breaking, our accustomed hour for getting up to
                  breakfast, we observed a large crowd gathered round the store, and curiosity
                  getting the better of us, we started to see what the matter was, leaving one to
                  cook the breakfast. As we drew near, I could see the tall form of Jones mingling
                  with the crowd, and gesticulating violently. I inquired of him what had brought so
                  many people together, thus early in the morning.
               "Matter enough," said he. "Here's that d—d scoundrel of a Morgan stole no less
                  than three thousand dollars from Dory, the store keeper."
               "Is he taken?" I asked, astonished at the robbery.
               "Yes, we have him safe enough, and the money too," chuckled Jones.
               After some inquiries, I found that about two o'clock in the morning Dory was
                  awakened by a slight noise inside of the tent. In an instant all was quiet, but thinking that everything was not right,
                  he took his revolver from under his bed, and commenced a march in the dark. All at
                  once his hand came in contact with a man's head.
               "Who is this?" he asked, and received for answer, a tremendous blow, which nearly
                  stunned him, but instantly rallying, he discharged his revolver repeatedly at a
                  form that darted past him, and then followed as swift as possible in pursuit,
                  shouting "stop thief."
               Some dozen or two turned out, gave chase, and succeeded in capturing Morgan, after
                  a desperate resistance, in which he used his knife very freely. About sixty yards
                  from the store he had thrown away the two buckskin bags that contained the dust,
                  and that was safely delivered to the owner. They were now about forming a jury to
                  try him for robbery, and twelve Americans were accordingly chosen with old Jones
                  as judge. The trial was soon over, and the jury were not out more than half an
                  hour before they returned and pronounced him worthy of death, leaving it to the
                  judge to decide in what manner he should die.
               "Well, boys, you have acted wisely, and as I am a merciful man, I decide that at
                  ten o'clock this forenoon, he be tied to a tree and six of our best marksmen load
                  their rifles and have a crack at him, and may God have mercy on his soul. Mr.
                  S——," Jones continued, "I appoint you, with as many assistants as you want, to see
                  the law carried into effect."
               I intimated to the honorable judge that I should like to be excused from
                  performing so disagreeable a duty, but with a savage look he ordered me to
                  "perform the task he had imposed upon me, and make no more words about it."
               Morgan had a fair trial. His guilt was too evident, and as he lay in the store
                  with his feet and hands bound with strong cords, looking dirty and ragged, with
                  the blood dripping from his arm, where a ball had lodged from the revolver of
                  Dory; I could not help pitying the poor wretch. He must have read compassion in my
                  face, for making an effort to sit upright, in which he was not successful, he
                  asked me for a drink of water. I instantly handed him some, and after drinking
                  heartily he appeared to be relieved. I asked him if there was anything else that I
                  could do for him. He remained silent for a moment and then said:
               "The judge has appointed you to see that the sentence is carried into effect, has
                  he not?"
               "I am sorry to say that he has, Morgan," I answered.
               "Well, never mind. I would rather it were you than some others here. But I have a
                  particular favor to ask of you. Perhaps you will laugh and think it a weakness,
                  but I can't help it. Have you a bible in your tent?"
               I told him that I never travelled without one, and that I would be happy to read
                  it to him.
               "Thank you," he said. "I have not looked into one for years, more shame to me; if
                  I had followed its precepts, I should not have been here."
               I left him and walked back to my tent. How I hated myself for the part I had got
                  to play in the murder, for I could call it no better. It was in vain that I
                  pondered plans to escape from my task. I could see no remedy, and the idea that I
                  must assist in the execution almost drove me frantic.
               It was now about nine. Morgan had one hour more to live. I went to the head of my
                  bed, and taking my bible, left for the store where the prisoner was confined. A
                  large collection of people had assembled from the different bars, and were passing
                  the time away in taking one or two drinks, to give them an appetite for the
                  tragedy that was soon to be enacted.
               "Make way for the sheriff;" shouted one or two noisy fellows, as I endeavored to
                  force my way into the presence of Morgan.
               "Looks a d—d sight more like a preacher. Don't you see his bible?" said
                  another.
               
               I passed into the store, where I found Morgan seated on a box. He looked pale and
                  thoughtful, but a smile illumined his countenance when he saw that I had brought
                  the book with me.
               "I had almost given you up," he observed as I seated myself by him. 
               I made no reply, but commenced reading a chapter in a low voice. In an instant
                  every head was uncovered within hearing, and all was still within the store.
                  Morgan listened with great attention, but by the time that I had finished the
                  third chapter, the loud voice of Jones called out.
               "Time's up, bring out the prisoner."
               I slowly closed the book and arose. Morgan also arose, and I cut the cords that
                  bound his feet and stepped towards the entrance of the store. He was now very
                  pale, whether from loss of blood or anxiety, I did not know.
               While I had been reading to him, they had drawn lots on the outside, and six of
                  the best marksmen had the chance of shooting at the poor fellow. Their rifles were
                  taken and loaded by a third party, two of them with nothing but powder, so that it
                  should not be known who shot him.
               We walked along with the prisoner to the spot that had been chosen. It was a high
                  plain just back of the store. I asked Morgan if he was ready.
               "Cut these confounded cords, and take my jacket off so that I can stand up like a
                  man," he answered.
               I unbound his hands, and commenced removing his jacket, when something fell to the
                  ground. I stooped to pick it up, and found that it was a miniature. It represented
                  a young and beautiful female; holding in her arms a babe, apparently only a few
                  months old. The mother was looking at the child with such a look as only a mother
                  can give, while the child appeared to be making a playful effort to reach a
                  ringlet of her hair, which fell in long curls about her neck. I looked upward and
                  asked, "Morgan, whose portrait is this?"
               He then, for the first time, observed that I had it.
               "That is the portrait of my wife and child, whom I left in New York," he said, and
                  burst into to tears. "Bury it with me, for it is all that I have now." 
               I felt as though a good crying spell would do me good about that time, and if a
                  drop fell upon the beautiful face, that was gazing so sweetly upon her child, let
                  me hope that it did not tarnish the bright color of the picture.
               In the meantime a large crowd had assembled and were gazing over my shoulder at
                  the picture, with evident delight. I passed it round to them, and every one of
                  those rough men appeared to have a spark of human feeling in their breasts that
                  only needed to be touched to produce good results. I had never made a speech in my
                  life, but a new feeling seemed to flow through may veins. Springing upon a large
                  log, I commenced a rambling address.
               I knew that a human being was in danger, and that I might possibly save him. I
                  alluded to his poor wife and infant child, their dependance on him for support,
                  and the anxiety and sorrow they must feel should they never hear from him again.
                  Before I had finished, I heard the loud voice of old Jones exclaiming:
               "Darn it all, boys, let the fellow go. I have got an old woman myself, and half a
                  dozen children, and I can kinder guess how they would feel, if I should pop
                  off."
               "Yes, let him go;" said a half dozen of the most influential men on the river.
               "Put it to vote, boys, put it to vote," said another.
               "To vote it is, then," said I, overjoyed at my success. "All those in favor of
                  letting Morgan go, will please signify it by saying yes."
               "Yes! yes!" roared nearly every voice in the crowd.
               
               I now turned to look at Morgan. He had sank on his knees when the result of the
                  vote had been declared, and I sincerely believe that he made a short
                  acknowledgment to Heaven for his wonderful preservation. He arose from his knees,
                  and taking my hand he thanked me with tears in his eyes for the interest I had
                  taken in his trial. I walked along with him, towards my tent, and observed that it
                  would be best for him to leave and go to some other mine at once.
               "I shall leave to-night," he replied, "but there is one thing that I should like
                  to obtain from you, and that is your bible."
               "Willingly," I replied, "and may it do you as much good as it has me."
               I gave him some supper, and when he rose to go, I put the bible in his hand. He
                  squeezed my fingers, and then taking his wife's miniature out he forced it on me,
                  saying, "keep that to remember me by," and was gone before I could reply.
               I have the miniature now. And each day when I gaze at it, a sweet smile seems to
                  play upon the lovely countenance of that young bride as though she thanked me for
                  helping the partner of her bosom to escape from such an ignoble death.
               As for Morgan, I never heard from him afterwards. Whether he is alive or dead, I
                  cannot tell, and my object in writing this sketch was to obtain, if possible, some
                  tidings of him.
            
            
               A NARROW ESCAPE.
               We make the following extract from a late English publication. The reader will
                  readily perceive that the "Hyenas" and "Tigers" referred to are the Regulators and
                  Lynchers of the South West. The Herod referred to had been, previous to the
                  adventure, a pirate. These lawless bands are now seldom heard of, though the early
                  settlements of Texas and the South Western States have been the theatre of
                  numerous instances of the most heart-rending tragedies:
               I was over in Washington county, arranging some business, connected with my
                  marriage with Lucy, when I heard that Herod had turned out with the Hyenas to
                  regulate the country. He announced that every man found with counterfeit notes in
                  his possession should be tried by Lynch law and hung. I put up at a small inn, one
                  night, near a wood yard. The hut of the wood chopper was within thirty yards of
                  the tavern I slept in. About daybreak I was awoke by a great noise, and, looking
                  out, I saw the Hyenas were upon us. They were all mounted and well-armed, with
                  Herod, in a green blanket-coat, at their head. I peeped cautiously through a loop,
                  and discovered about fifty prisoners, their hands tied with cords behind their
                  backs. One of the Hyenas knocked at the door of the wood chopper's hut, and called
                  out:
               "Jim Brown, turn up!"
               "Look out, you regulating scoundrels," was the only reply, followed by a rifle
                  shot, and the speaker fell dead beside Herod.
               
               Two pistol shots followed, and at a short interval, another discharge of a gun.
                  The wood chopper, aided by his wife, was defending himself against the Hyenas.
                  They flew to cover, and, unswinging their rifles set to work. But Brown kept
                  close, and while all his shots told, theirs were useless. Herod stormed with rage,
                  and, amid blasphemous oaths, bade his men break the woodman's door open. Two
                  advanced, cautiously, with heavy logs in their hands, and casting them
                  simultaneously, the door yielded. A general rush was made, and in five minutes
                  more the old wood copper and his wife were prisoners. Herod grinned a horrid
                  smile, and had the three dead Hyenas and the five wounded carried, into the inn,
                  in the room of which I now stood. I and the landlord submitted to be searched, but
                  as no counterfeit money was found on either him or me, we were not included among
                  the prisoners. But Herod bade me, in a fierce voice, stay to the trial, in order
                  that I might report to the Tigers how properly to regulate the country.
               Lots were drawn and Lynch's jury of thirteen were soon chosen, Herod being the
                  judge, and the trial at once commenced. Old Brown, of Sixty-six Island, as he was
                  called, was the first prisoner summoned, his wife being put at the bar beside him.
                  The sturdy old wood cutter boldly told them that they were a set of brigands and
                  thieves, worse than Merle, the Watno Pirate; and that he had every right to defend
                  his house against their invasion. The wife refused to answer a word. The jury
                  brought in a verdict of guilty, and Herod ordered them to be hanged. A tree stood
                  near the inn door, and over the boughs of this several ropes had been thrown. The
                  unfortunate couple made no resistance, and ten minutes later they had ceased to
                  breathe.
               Then took place one of the most fearful scenes I ever witnessed or heard of. The
                  scoundrels, under Herod's orders, took a log, nailed a board in the centre, and on
                  this fastened the several heads of the husband and wife; their bodies being
                  strapped to the extremities of the log. The whole was sent afloat in the stream,
                  to be picked up next day at Montgomery's Point, and make the whole world ring with
                  horror against Americans generally, because of the inhuman act of a band of
                  monsters.
               I need only add, that twenty-seven men were found guilty that day and hung, their
                  only crime being their incapacity to distinguish bad from good paper money. I was
                  grateful when Herod let me go with a message for Judge L——, to the effect that if
                  next day he did not turn out with the Tigers and regulate White county, the Hyenas
                  would come over and do it for him.
               "You may jist tell the old badger," he added, "that we'll pay him a visit to
                  morrow, and it will clear my score against him, his daughter, and the Britisher
                  who wants to marry her. He had better raise a good stake to buy me off."
               Though considerably startled, I intimated my readiness to carry his message, and
                  five minutes later I was on my road, mounted on a good horse, and moving along
                  towards a ferry some miles off.
               I had not got very far away, when I heard the galloping of horses behind me, and I
                  distinctly saw Herod and a half-a-dozen Hyenas in chase of me. Doubtless some one
                  had told him who I was. I looked to my pistols, primed my rifle, and then gave
                  whip to my horse, which was fresh and strong. I moved at a rattling pace, but
                  still I heard the vagabonds behind me, though I could tell they were not gaining
                  ground. My sole chance of safety was the ferry boat. If that was on the other side
                  I was lost. Still I resolved to sell my life dearly. Away I flew, keeping my good
                  steed up to the mark, and soon was in sight of the ferry. The boat was about to
                  start with several passengers and one horse. I now knew that if old Jerry saw
                  Herod in chase, he would be afraid to take me. I made a desperate dash, therefore,
                  down to the ford, entered the boat,
                  drew my horse after me, and then bade the ferryman strike out. "Quick! for your
                  life, man! I am a friend of Judge L——'s, Herod and his gang are after me, with
                  blood on their hands!"
               "The Regulators! I say, stranger, I can't convene to this. I couldn't take you for
                  a cord of money!"
               "Push back at the peril of your life!" I replied, drawing my pistols; and aided by
                  the three other men, I forced the unwilling ferryman to shove off.
               Two of the passengers were Englishmen, and entered heartily into my interests.
                  Scarcely were we twenty yards off, than Herod and his gang rushed up, reining in,
                  however, some distance from the shore at the sight of our levelled rifles. Jerry
                  was terribly alarmed, and did all he could to get out of reach; and when the
                  balked Hyenas fired it was too late. I then told my horrible story, which to all
                  present seemed almost incredible, though Herod's name had a sufficient reputation
                  to render any atrocity within the bounds of belief.
               When we reached the other side, the ferryman intimated his intention of not
                  returning to his post for some days, while the others offered to join in the
                  defence of Judge L——. I took them up, boatman and all, to the Judge, and at once
                  gave him the message of his daughter's former suitor.
               "He shall be well received," cried the Judge, after hearing my whole story, "but
                  as no man can say what will happen, you and Lucy shall be married to-morrow
                  morning."
               Lucy and I sat in the Judge's parlor, near an open window, about one o'clock,
                  watching the Tigers as they collected. They were farmers and wood choppers and
                  hunters; all sturdy fellows, devotedly attached to Judge L——.
               "Lucy," said I, taking her hand in mine, and gazing at her soft blue eyes, "I must
                  turn Tiger for one day."
               "James," she replied quickly, "you must. But be careful and wise. My life hangs on
                  yours."
               The look she gave me, as she spoke, proved that, quiet as she was, she could feel
                  deeply, and I felt my affection redoubled.
               "James," suddenly called the father, as the Tigers stood in good order under the
                  window, "tell the Tigers why I have called them out."
               I rose; and leaning against the bar of the opened window, addressed the assembly.
                  I was reckoned a good hand at a speech, and my feelings were deeply roused. A
                  dozen groans of horror interrupted me; and when I ended by offering to volunteer
                  with the Tigers, a shout of applause greeted me.
               L—— then made me come down and write out the necessary warrants for the arrest of
                  Herod and his gang, which he and five other magistrates signed. Scarcely had we
                  done so, when a horseman dashed up, with the news that Herod and his fellows were
                  close at his heels, as if expecting to effect a surprise. The Tigers fell in.
                  Judge L—— heading about a hundred of then, took up a position in front of the
                  house, while I with as many men, hid ourselves in the cypress grove.—Another
                  party, equally strong, were concealed in a plantation. About ten minutes later the
                  Hyenas came in sight, with Herod at their head. They reined up within twenty yards
                  of Judge L—— and the line of Tigers.
               "Well, Judge " cried Herod, "I see you've obeyed orders. You are going to regulate
                  the country."
               "I am going to regulate a murderous thief, called Herod," thundered the Judge.
               At the same instant we sprang forward, and the astounded Hyenas saw that they were
                  surrounded by six times their own number. Not a man ventured to offer resistance
                  save Herod, but his own people fell upon him, and the gang of ruffians were our
                  prisoners.
               Judge L—— made me pick out the thirteen members of Lynch's Jury, who were heavily
                  ironed, and marched away under der a
                  strong escort to the county prison. The rest were at once well flogged with
                  hickory switches and turned adrift, without horses or arms of any kind; and then,
                  all excitement and fear being over, we thought only of the more happy event of the
                  day. The principal Tigers remained; and a merry time we had of it. I can only add
                  that this, my marriage, was the commencement of a long series of happy days,
                  unclouded as yet by one cloud. I had found a good, noble, excellent girl for a
                  wife, and as I strove to be happy, so I was.
            
            
               SALLY MAGUS.
               THE WOMAN WOT KNOWS HOW TO MANAGE THE MEN.
               "Well, here I be; wake snakes, the day's a-breaking; now I'se set my eyes on a
                  good many strange things in my day, but this gettin' married business beats
                  everything I ever did see. It goes ahead of Sam Fling, when he wanted to buy one
                  of my cheeses to make a grindstun. When I had a husband—Devil's whiskers!—if he
                  only said beans to me, I made him jump round like a stump-tail cow in fly
                  time.
               "But, there's Mrs. Fletcher, she's three parts a natural born fool, and t'other
                  part is as soft as biled cabbage. A woman that don't stand up for her rights is a
                  disgrace to my sect.—How any man should ever want to marry such a molasses-candy
                  crittur as she is, is one of the secrets of human nater. And as to
                  handsome—handsome never stood in her shoes. For she looks as if she'd break in two
                  if she tried to lift a pot of potatoes. I suppose her fingers
                     were made to play the pianny.
               "Now, it's my notion, when a woman gives a man her hand it
                  ought to be big enough to hold her heart at the same time. Such a hand as mine is
                  worth giving, for I can stop a bunghole with my thumb, and I've done it too.
               "I went into Fletcher's this morning, and true as I am a vartuous woman, he was
                  'busing on her like a dog for lending his receipt book to Miss Brown, who's fond
                  of reading. I 'spose he didn't keer for the receipts that was written in the book,
                  but it was the receipts that wasn't there, and ought to be, that stuck into his
                  crop. And Miss Fletcher hung down her head, and looked for all the world like a
                  duck in a thunderstorm. I jest put my
                  arms agin my sides, and looked her man right in the eye till he looked as white as
                  a corpse. It's always a way everybody's got when I fixes my eyes on 'em. And the
                  way my looks white-washed his brazen face, was better than slaked lime. There,
                  says I to Miss Fletcher, says I, your husband had ought to had me for a wife. When
                  my man was alive, he'd no more think of saying nothing imperdent to me, than he'd
                  take the black sow by the tail when she's nursing her pigs; and you must larn to
                  stick up to your man jest like a new hair-brush.
               "I never found any debility in managing these he critters, for I always teached
                  'em what's sarce for the goose is sarce for the gander. There's no two ways with
                  me; I'm all of size, stub-twisted, and made of horse-shoe nails. I'm chock full of
                  grit and a rough post for any one to rub their backs agin; any gal like me what
                  can take a I bag of meal on her shoulder and tote it to mill, ought to be able to
                  snake any man of her heft. Some thinks I ought to get married, and two or three
                  has tried to spark it with me, but I never listens to none of their flattery.
                  Though there was Blarny Bob come flatterfyin' me like a tub of new butter. For
                  I've no notion of being trammelled up in their halters of hymens. I likes my
                  liberty, and wants no halters or bridles put upon me.
               "Sam Mooney was shinin' up to me too; and then there was Jim Sweetbread, the
                  butcher; but he didn't find me half enough for his market. It isn't everything
                  that sticks its legs through broadcloth that's going to carry off a gal of my
                  sperit. My charms ain't to be had for the bare axing.
               "Gettin' married is a serious thing, as I telled my old man when I was walloping'
                  him with a leg of mutton, because he took my shoe-brush to clean his teeth with.
                  Wherever there is a nose, there is a mouth not far off and that proves that nater
                  has given woman her rights as, well as man."
            
            
               THE KENTUCKIAN IN HAVANA.
               On a certain Twenty-Second of February, not many years ago, there
                  was seated at a dinner-table, at Cuney and Fulton's, Havana, a party of about a
                  dozen Americans, principally sea-faring men, who had gathered there for the
                  purpose of celebrating, in a quiet way, the anniversary of the birth of the
                  immortal Washington. As a matter of course, "patriotism" was all the go that day.
                  There was not a man in the crowd whose heart failed to overflow with American
                  feeling. As the apostle Johnson had not then visited the West Indies, tee-totalers
                  were rather scarce among the shipmasters in port. Consequently, early on the
                  morning of the anniversary, commenced their libations—they took occasion to
                  foreswear "their potations," in the outset, and when the dinner hour arrived, no
                  one "came to the scratch" who would answer for a particular pattern of sobriety.
                  The most uproarious of the collection was an out-and-out Kentuckian, who, by some
                  strange operation, had made the "deep, deep sea" his home, and was then in command
                  of a Baltimore schooner, which happened to be in the harbor. In no man's breast
                  did the fire of amor patriæ beam with a steadier
                  or. stronger flame. He was chuck full of Kentucky glory, Kentucky valor, as well
                  as Kentucky fun. Yet another of the party was a young captain of an English
                  merchantman, who had been urgently pressed to partake of the feast, by some
                  acquaintance at the table not particularly mindful of the consequences. The
                  Englishman evidently found himself in a bad box—the set was not such an one as he
                  had been accustomed to, and the tone of conversation, and the behaviour of the
                  Republicans, seemed to be of a very novel character. He watched the motions of
                     the Kentuckian with some degree of
                  apprehension, for his ideas in regard to Kentucky and its inhabitants were of a
                  very peculiar character, and he thought he saw in the sample opposite him at the
                  table all that wildness and ferocity which he had been led to believe
                  characterized the barbarians of the "Dark and Bloody Ground." The Kentuckian was
                  not long in perceiving that he was attracting a good share of the Englishman's
                  attention, and silently determined to make the most of the joke. The eyes of this
                  man wore a singular expression; one of them was a light blue, and the other a dark
                  hazel; on the bridge of his nose, near the corner of his right eye, was a small
                  wart, which he had attempted to destroy with some sort of lotion and which had
                  thereby been dyed quite black. These peculiarities gave his face a queer and
                  sinister appearance.
               The first toast offered, from the head of the table, was, "Mary, the Mother
                     of Washington!". The Kentuckian seized a decanter, swallowed at least
                  one-fourth of its contents, and rising from his chair, deliberately dashed the
                  bottle into fifty pieces. "That's the way to drink that toast," said
                  he, and calmly took his seat. The Englishman turned pale, for he began to think
                  the next decanter would be broken over his head.
               "I say, Thompson," observed the Kentuckian, winking to a person next to the
                  Englishman, on the opposite side of the table, "do you know that the man who
                  gouged my eye out the second time is now in this very city?"
               "No, is he?"
               "Yes, he is, I met him yesterday on the Paseo, and he sunk like a
                  mud-turtle into his shell."
               "Did you speak to him?"
               "Devil the word, but I watched where he went to, and I am determined to fix him,
                  spite of the consequences."
               "I think you had better not," said the other, who seemed fully to comprehend the
                  Kentuckian's desire for a little fun.
               "Perhaps you don't know all the circumstances of that fight," said the other,
                  drawing himself up, rather proudly.—"The way it begun, you see, was rather queer.
                  That man's cattle used to get into dad's pasture, and one day I caught"—
               "Fill up for the second toast, gentlemen," called out the President.
               "All charged."
               "The Star Spangled Banner!"
               The Kentuckian contented himself with a wild and startling "hip, hip, hurra!" over
                  this toast, and quietly resumed his story.
               "One day I caught a favorite Durham short-horned bull, cut off its tail and right
                  fore-leg, tarred and feathered it, and sent it home, in all its glory."
               The eyes of the Englishman were fixed upon the narrator with a glassy stare. The
                  Kentuckian continued his tale.
               "There were three brothers of them; two came to me the next day to give me a
                  flogging. I killed one, by throwing him three rods over a stone-wall with a
                  pitch-fork. The other run and jumped into a horse-pond, where I pelted him to
                  death with squashes. The jury acquitted me, on the ground that I had merely acted
                  in self-defence. A few days after, the third brother—the one now in Havana—and
                  myself, went out a training, and fought until we were completely tuckered out.
                  When we got through we compared notes. He had got my right eye, and I had chewed
                  off both of his ears, and we made an even swap; that was the way I got my eye
                  back. A celebrated eye-doctor came along a day or two after, and fastened my eye
                  into my head again. Do you see that?" (pointing to the black wart in the corner of
                  his eye,) "that is the head of the screw by which he fastened the eye to my
                     nose, in order to hold it."
               It would be difficult to paint the various expressions of disgust, terror and
                  alarm, which chased each other across the face of the Englishman during this
                  recital. When "Old Kaintuck" pointed to
                  the "screw" the Englishman could stand it no longer, but leaped from the table,
                  seized his hat and made for the door. At one bound, the Kentuckian jumped over the
                  table, and with a perfect Choctaw yell, rushed after the fugitive. The last that
                  was seen of the Englishman he was racing down the street as though Old Nick was
                  after him, while our friend from Kentucky had coolly resumed his seat at the table
                  and filled his glass for the third toast.
            
            
               FANNY MOORE,
               THE FEMALE HUNTER OF THE WEST.
               The father of the singular heroine we are about to sketch, was Kentucky
                  backwoodsman. Her mother died while she was an infant, and when she arrived at the
                  age of fifteen, her father also died, leaving her a poor friendless orphan. It is
                  not surprising, then that, at this tender age, she married a Missouri hunter, (an
                  acquaintance of her deceased father,) double her years as to age, but just her
                  equal in poverty. Her whole fortune was composed of one cow, an old feather bed, a
                  rusty frying pan, a broken set of tea-cups and saucers, ditto of knives and forks,
                  with horn handles, two large pewter plates, and a wooden bowl of Indian
                  manufacture. Such was the legacy bequeathed by her surviving parent. Her husband's
                  wealth might mate well enough with such a portion brought into matrimonial
                  partnership by his wife. A black, bob-tailed pony, a large wolf dog, and a long,
                  heavy rifle, constituted the sum total of his goods and chattels. So far, the
                  nuptial contract might seem fair, without extravagant odds on either side. There
                  were other considerations, however, which made the bargain, one might say,
                  fraudulently unequal. She was a pretty, rosy-cheeked, ruby-lipped, healthy lass,
                  with sky-blue eyes, golden ringlets, and a cheery laugh; slender in frame, but of
                  wiry elasticity, and a constitution of the most tenacious vitality. He, on the
                  contrary, was a pale, lean, hungry-looking hypochondriac, who might be supposed,
                  from the wry faces he displayed when forced to any exertion of his limbs in profitable labor,
                  to regard work as an unpardonable sin. The entreaties and example of his young
                  wife, it is true, did for a while, stimulate him to just sufficient effort, in the
                  way of deer-hunting, to keep them from starving. The couple then lived in Western
                  Missouri. Fanny, with her own delicate white hands, cleared out, and cultivated a
                  small field and managed her domestic economy with so much thrift, that
                  notwithstanding the laziness of Tom, they began to accumulate slowly.
               But an event occurred, in the sixth year of their wedlock, that changed the
                  present current of affairs, and startled her in her wild schemes. A "great
                  revival," under the guidance of the "Cumberland Presbyterians," swept over the
                  West.
               
               It seems that one Sunday the Cumberlander discussed the passage of Scripture,
                  "Take no thought of the morrow," etc. Tom swallowed the text but rejected the
                  comment, and, misinterpreting the sentence, literally came to the deliberate
                  conclusion "that it was sinful to provide for the wants of the wicked body," and
                  resolved to act accordingly.
               It was in vain that the industrious wife debated the theological question with her
                  slothful, infatuated spouse. Her tears, arguments and remonstrances all ended
                  alike in his usual spasm of jerking; but as to any other sort of exertion he would
                  not budge a peg.
               Fanny's case was now critical in the extreme, for, strange to say, she still loved
                  her husband with a love that, in spite of every imaginable damper, continued to
                  burn ardently in her affectionate heart till death. Hence she could not make up
                  her mind to leave him. Besides, they had now five children, and it was absolutely
                  impossible to support a family on the produce of their paltry, stony farm. In this
                  emergency, that weak woman suddenly developed an energy and invincibility of lofty
                  purpose which the annals of the world cannot surpass.
               With indefatigable patience, she practiced and learned to shoot, till no marksman
                  in all Missouri was her match, and then, as a solitary huntress, took to the
                  forest, and soon supplied her husband and babies with abundance of meat. It is not
                  recorded of Moore that he manifested any aversion toward the venison feasts which
                  his better half provided with so much labor, however much he had been opposed to
                  the use of such worldly means himself, as the expenditure of one needful thought
                  for the morrow.
               The wild region of the Missouri at last settled up. Sunny fields, waving with
                  golden grain, stood in the place of the old green woods which had furnished
                  shelter and sustenance for the copious game. The buffalo fled farther off, deeper
                  into the grand prairies, nearer to the Rocky Mountains. The moonbeams fell broad
                  and bright on the open bottoms where the brown bears used to nestle among the
                  matted canes. The red deer had been scared away by the sharp sound of Collins'
                  axes. It became necessary that Fanny should move. She sold her slender
                  "improvement" on the banks of the silver Osage, for a cart, a yoke of oxen, and a
                  small sum of ready money; and loading the crazy vehicle with six children and her
                  "jerker" believing Tom, she started for Arkansas. In this new country, then a
                  territory, she selected a locality fifty miles from any settlement. Here wild
                  animals roamed in the greatest plenty, and her rude board table groaned beneath
                  (to them) heaps of savory luxuries. This wonder of a wife now added rapidly to
                  their humble property. Her care-worn, wasted figure grew rounder; her step, as she
                  saddled the black pony, more elastic; and the whistle blither by which she
                  summoned her wolf dog to the daily hunting foray. Even the laugh sometimes rang
                  out as in the merry thoughtless hours of her early youth, long, loud and clear as
                  the sweet tones of bell metal.
               One thought of a most gloomy character alone disturbed the calm flow of her joyous
                  reflections. Her children were growing
                  ing up with the rapidity of hasty summer weeds, and utterly without education, or
                  even the prospect of any opportunity to obtain it. The idea haunted her day and
                  night. She turned it over in her mind in every conceivable way, but still could
                  find no solution for the torturing problem. She had learned to spell, when a
                  child, at an old field school—that is to say, she had gone as far in Dillworth as
                  three syllables, which, by the way, was nearly the extent of her lame teacher's
                  accurate information in the 
                     pedigogical
                     pedagogical
                   art. But her memory had long ago lost in the inverse ratio of its
                  acquisitions, till she could scarcely be said to know her letters. Often did she
                  bitterly regret her idleness in the early school-house, and exclaim, as she fondly
                  kissed her children, on returning at night from the toilsome hunt,—"If I had only
                  learned to read then, I could now teach you, my dears." And her tears would drop
                  like rain.
               At length an incident occurred, that brought with it a suggestion shaping itself
                  into a fixed plan, which enabled her finally to vanquish the perplexing
                  difficulty. The author cannot do better than give the anecdote in her own artless
                  words, as related to him, in Texas, some twelve months ago:
               "I used to cry about it every night," she said, "before going to sleep, and then I
                  would dream it all over again; for, indeed it was sad to think of. I knew that by
                  hard work we would, after a while, be well enough off to move into the
                  settlements, where decent people live; and then I thought how shocking it would
                  seem for my young ones to have no more learning than the wild Indians. The boys
                  were getting more than half as tall as their father, and Peggy's pretty head was
                  even as my shoulders. It was enough to make a fond mother cry. I was then in the
                  habit of going every two or three months to Little Rock, with a pack of peltries,
                  to buy salt and other things that we could not get along without. One time I
                  brought back some bunches of raisins for the baby. They were wrapped up in a large
                  newspaper, which contained a number of curious pictures. The sheet was gazed at
                  with wonder by the poor creatures, who had never seen such an object in their
                  lives. Little Tommy asked me, with sparkling eyes, if it were not a bird. I tried
                  to explain the matter to him; told him what it was; that it contained a tale about
                  the whole world; and that when persons learn to read it, they could know all
                  affairs which were going on across the blue mountains, and the big rivers, and
                  away over the sea, as well as the sights they saw every day before their own
                  doors.
               "Oh! ma, won't you learn us to read, so we can hear from our old play places in
                  Missouri?" said Peggy, who was then almost a woman.
               "The question liked to have broken my heart. I remembered how, lazy I had been
                  when a girl, and the idea was a sharp shooting pin, splitting my side into my very
                  soul. I wept like a child, till even my own children strove to comfort me.
                  However, my tears did me good. Tears always relieve the heart; they commonly clear
                  the head also. A sudden thought struck me—a great plan—I might say a holy purpose.
                  It seemed impossible, but I resolved to try it. That night I hurried the young
                  folks off to bed, and having kindled a good pine-knot light, picked up the
                  newspaper and sat down to see if I could make out anything in it. I smiled with
                  unspeakable delight on discovering that I still knew all the letters, except the
                  capitals. But I soon had cause to weep again, for, after doing my best, and
                  sitting up till day-light every line remained a riddle—I could not spell out the
                  meaning of a single sentence. About sunrise a new notion entered my head. I
                  determined to go again shortly to Little Rock and purchase some primers and
                  spelling-books, which I afterwards did. I then began to learn in earnest. It was
                  very hard for a while; but I sat up late, after Tom and the children were all
                     asleep, and took my primer along
                  with me when I went to hunt. I could study it as I rode, especially when the woods
                  were open, and before I got within rage of game; and then, when I was resting,
                  after lifting a heavy deer upon my pony, or walking up a steep hill, I would pull
                  it out of a pocket which I had prepared on purpose in the side of my dress, and
                  run over the pages till I at last could almost repeat the whole from memory. I
                  then commenced on my large spelling-book, and mastered it in the same way. All the
                  while I wanted, to be teaching the children, but was afraid of teaching them
                  wrong, intending first to make myself perfect, because I thought that it was not
                  of any use to know any thing at all unless one could know it right.
               "While thus engaged, a lost hunter stopped a few days at our cabin, and
                  discovering my studies, kindly offered to assist me. I then found that I had done
                  well in not beginning to instruct the boys and Peggy sooner. I had to unlearn the
                  pronunciation of a great many of my words that sounded frightfully when compared
                  with the correct mode. After I got it straight, I bought a primer for each one of
                  the children, and collecting them all together one Sunday morning, told them that
                  I was going to teach them how to read. It would have done your heart good to see
                  them! They appeared to be running mad with joy, for they still remembered what I
                  had said about the newspaper, and had teased me much on the subject. Night after
                  night they would sit up till twelve, studying their primers and spelling-books;
                  and all day on the Sabbath they tried more industriously than ever I had done in
                  the school room, until at last they were through both books. But I was still ahead
                  of them—for long before then I had obtained a Testament and the Life of Marion,
                  and had gone over both several times. In this way I taught my dear young ones to
                  read, having first of all taught myself."
               May we not well be permitted to doubt whether the annals of the globe, and all the
                  ages of time present, a parallel to this almost miraculous case? The biographies
                  of the self-educated teem, to be sure, with noble examples among the softer and
                  among the stronger sex. But did any one ever before, either man or woman, go
                  through the patient, painful process of voluntary self-culture, with the same
                  definite and settled objects?
            
            
               
               MR. SAMSON'S HOUSE.
               "Once upon a time" a queer old fellow named Smith, started from a Southern city
                  upon a pedestrian excursion of about one hundred miles. He was not a very old
                  fellow either. 
                     H
                     He
                   was about forty years older than he was when born. This Mr. Smith was
                  not connected with the John Smith family in the most remote degree—was a man of
                  many peculiarities. If absolute stupidity did not form a trait in his character,
                  it was a quality very much resembling stupidity, and might easily be mistaken for
                  it, by at least one half the world. He had always manifested a singular
                  abstraction, generally described as absence of mind, and would frequently roam
                  about the streets an entire day without recognizing one of his numerous friends,
                  apparently without being aware of the nature of his movements.
               This was Mr. Smith. We were saying that Mr. Smith started upon a journey, on the
                  "ten-toed machine" spoken of in John Bull. After travelling a few miles, our
                  pedestrian felt somewhat thirsty, and called at a small establishment—which looked
                  as though it was just half a tavern—for a drink. A good natured young fellow
                  waited upon him, brought his brandy and water, and, in addition, furnished him
                  with a bit of bread and cheese. All this was decidedly welcome and refreshing.
                  After Mr. Smith had quenched his thirst and satisfied the slight cravings of
                  appetite, he recommenced his travels. As he left the city tolerably early in the
                  morning, he thought he might walk two or three hours longer before he stopped for
                  dinner. His road seemed to be very level, and was skirted on one side by an
                  uncommonly high fence. On he footed it for about three hours longer, until a
                  glance at the position of the sun satisfied him he had better secure his noonday
                  meal. He called at a small dwelling by the roadside, and the following dialogue
                  ensued between him and a boy standing in the door way:
               "Who lives here, my son?"
               "Mr. Samson, sir."
               "Do you keep tavern?"
               "Why, sorter, and sorter not; we accommodate people sometimes."
               "Can I get dinner here?" 
               "Yes, sir—walk in."
               Our traveller walked in, and in the course of half an hour, a nice comfortable
                  dinner, smoking hot was set before him. He ate, drank, paid his moderate bill, put
                  on his hat, took his walking stick and proceeded upon his journey. Before he
                  renewed his labors, however, he took the precaution to fill his pipe carefully,
                  and light it. Fresh and vigorous as ever, he then pushed ahead. As the sun crept
                  down the horizon, Mr. Smith began to feel some degree of weariness stealing over
                  him, but he nevertheless persevered until it was quite dusk. Finding himself
                  opposite a small house by the roadside, he enquired of a youth seated upon the
                  threshold:
               "Who lives here, my son?"
               "Mr. Samson, sir."
               "Can I get supper and lodging here to-night, by paying for it?"
               "Certainly, sir—walk in."
               Mr. Smith crossed the threshold, laid aside his hat and cane, drank a cup of tea
                  and ate two or three slices of toast—read four chapters in "Fox's Book of
                  Martyrs," which he found upon the mantelpiece, and went to bed. When he awoke in
                  the morning, the sun was just showing its broad red disc above the tree tops. He
                  found the breakfast upon the table waiting for him. He finished the morning meal, settled his
                  account, and commenced his travels the second day. One thing, simply, attracted
                  his observation—the road was exceedingly uniform—but the fact excited no surprise.
                  At noon, he called at a snug little house, and asked a lad who was gazing out of a
                  window—
               "Who lives here, my son?"
               "Mr. Samson, sir."
               Our traveller paused a moment, reflected and seemed to be conning over some name
                  or circumstance in his mind; at last he said—
               "Are there many of the name of Samson on this road, my son?"
               "A good many," said the boy.
               "I thought so. Can I get dinner here?"
               "Certainly, sir—walk in."
               Mr. Smith stepped in, swallowed his dinner, and once more took to the road. When
                  night came on, he of course stopped at the first house in his way. A youth sat
                  upon a wheelbarrow at the door, whittling.
               "Who lives here my son?"
               "Mr. Samson, sir."
               "Mr. Samson! By Jupiter! I should think they were all Samsons on this road. I got
                  dinner at one Mr. Samson's yesterday, slept at another Mr. 
                     Samsom's
                     Samson's
                   last night, and here I am at Samson's again to-night. Besides, the
                  houses I have seen upon this road all look alike—it is very queer."
               "Very queer," replied the boy, with a leer which seemed to say, "you can't fool me
                  old fellow."
               "Can you give me supper and lodging?" said the traveller.
               "Certainly—walk in."
               "I'm darned if this is'nt a queer country," said the old man as he went to bed,
                  "this looks exactly like the room I slept in last night—but I suppose it is all
                  right."
               It was full two o'clock the next day, when, after travelling briskly at least six
                  hours, Mr. Smith stopped at a comfortable small dwelling with the intention of
                  securing his dinner. A boy stood in the door.
               "How d'ye do?" said the boy.
               "Nicely, my son. Who lives here?"
               "Mr. Samson. I have told you that half a dozen times already."
               "The devil you have—I haven't been here before, have I?"
               "I reckon you have—but aint you travelling on a bet?"
               "Travelling on a bet!—no—what put that in your head?"
               "Why you've been walking round the race course here for two days and a
                     half and I didn't suppose you were doing it for fun."
               For the first time, now, Mr. Smith took a survey of things, and to his
                  astonishment discovered that the boy had been telling the truth. He drew his hat
                  over his forehead and started for home—determined never to venture upon a
                  pedestrian excursion again.
            
            
               
               A CLEAN BACK OUT.
               In a flourishing village, not more than three hundred miles from Mobile, Alabama,
                  live two individuals, whom we shall call Jim and Joe. The latter is a quiet,
                  good-natured, inoffensive sort of a chap—one of those who will stand "running
                  upon" as long, if not longer, than the most of men, but who is a perfect "Bengal
                  tiger" when his passions are once aroused.
               On the other hand, Jim was a blustering, bullying braggadocio—one of that
                  particular class of men whose voice is always loudest in a brawl, but whose feet
                  have a wonderful nack of carrying them out of the way of hard knocks. For a great
                  length of time the latter had made a butt of Joe—had, time and again, by dint of
                  much blustering and swaggering, completely cowed him. An opportunity finally
                  occurred, however, of showing the two men up in their proper colors.
               In the course of a warm dispute, Jim let out some offensive remark which produced
                  a more than ordinary caustic rejoinder from Joe. The former tried the "bluffing"
                  system at once; but Joe, as he himself remarked, had "stood enough," and would
                  "put up" with no more insults from his bullying neighbor.
               "Perhaps you want to fight," said Jim, buttoning his coat, and looking pistols and
                  bowie knives at the calm but determined face of his opponent.
               "Fight I will," rejoined Joe. "You have been in the habit of crowing over me for a
                  year past, and I intend putting a stop to it at once."
               Jim could not for a moment believe that his neighbor had the least disposition to
                  carry out his threats, and accordingly went at him louder than before. "Well,"
                  said he, "I've been trying to get a fight out of you for the last six months,"
                  and, slapping his hands together, and commencing to square off, he concluded with,
                  "At last there is a small chance of making something out of you."
               "Walk with me out of the corporation limits, where we can avoid the law, and you
                  shall be gratified. I'm not in the habit of bragging, Jim, but it is my candid
                  opinion that in about ten minutes you'll be so badly licked your own mother won't
                  know you. Come along."
               There was an air of determination about Joe that rather staggered his adversary,
                  but he still thought he could frighten him out of a fight, and with that intention
                  started off down the street that led out of the village.
               "Whoo!" said Jim, "I feel so much like fighting, I can hardly hold myself."
               "Glad to hear it," coolly rejoined Joe.
               They had now nearly reached the corporation limits, and Jim's courage, like that
                  of Bob Acres, was oozing out at every pore. He had tried to frighten
                  Joe out of the notion of fighting, but finding himself disappointed, he now tried
                  to creep out of the scrape on another tack. They were passing the last grocery in
                  the village, and an open lot which had been chosen by Joe as the field of combat,
                  was in plain sight.
               "Joe—a-hem—Joe," said Jim, nervously, "can't we compromise—a-hem—can't we settle
                  this thing somehow, Joe?"
               "No."
               "Well—a-hem—a fair show—that's all I want, Joe—a fair fight."
               "Never you fear—you shall have a fair show."
               They were now upon the ground. Joe commenced taking off his coat with a provoking
                  coolness and self-possession.
               
               "A-hem—Joe, can't we come to some understanding—can't we, as I said before,
                  compromise this little matter without—a-hem—a fight, eh?"
               "I am here to fight," rejoined Joe, throwing down his coat, and commencing rolling
                  up his shirt sleeves.
               "You will—a hem—you will fight Joe?"
               "I will, Jim."
               "Well, here's a clean back out! I shan't fight, its all
                  nonsense."
               It is almost unnecessary to say that, from that time out, Jim has been one of the
                  quietest and most peaceable citizens in his neighborhood, and the severe lesson
                  Joe gave him will not soon be forgotten. What a pity that every "Jim" has not his
                  "Joe!"
            
            
               THE VIRGINIA REGIMENT.
               The following, from the inimitable pen of Captain Tobin, will not be without
                  interest to the Virginia Regiment.
               
                  FROM TOBIN'S KNAPSACK.
                  
                     Parras, Mexico, March 20, 1848.
                  
                  
                     Editors Delta:—I am again in "dear, delightful
                        Pawas."*
                      The
                     Camanches have made another descent, and made another clean sweep of horses and
                     mules. Don Manuel y Ibarra tells me he has lost 4000 head. The Indians were
                     only a small party, but the Peons, or rather serfs, had no arms to fight them
                     and even if they had, they don't know how to use them. Such is the policy of
                     the Mexican government. The Rancheros are a splendid looking set of men; and
                     when this country is annexed, they'll make capital Sepoys, if led
                     by American officers, with a few companies of white men sprinkled in amongst
                     them.
                  
                     *The dear, delightful Pawas is
                     a joke, well understood among the Virginia Regiment here.
                  Captain Adams, with his company of Texas Rangers is here, and four companies of
                     the Virginia Regiment—all under command of Capt. Harper, one of the most
                     gentlemanly officers I have ever met with. You may believe me when I tell you
                     so, and I am not inclined to flatter him, as he has wounded me in the most
                     delicate point, by dancing all night with a lady, who they say, is going to
                     marry me; but its doubtful, 'cos she hasn't asked me yet, although it is leap
                     year.
                  
                  The Virginia Regiment is a splendid one; no wonder Col. Hamtramck is so proud
                     of it. It is the best I have ever seen, always excepting the "Washington
                     Regiment, Louisiana Brigade," of which said regiment the Mount Zionites,
                     company D., commanded by myself was the flower, as Lieutenant Colonel Forno,
                     used to say. Give him my love, and kiss him for me, if he will permit you. Ask
                     him, too, if he remembers the day he swore he'd be d—d if he'd let me go over
                     the Rio Grande to Matamoras; and also how I blarneyed him out of it, by taking
                     a testament out of my pocket and reading him a verse. The testament was given
                     to me by the Rev. Arthur Maister, British Chaplain at Rio Janeiro, when I was
                        lyeing-in sick in the hospital there. If this should meet his
                     eyes, I wish him to accept the thanks of one to whom he was very kind, when the
                     object of his kindness was very poor and friendless. But, if I talk sentiment,
                     you'll put it down for the emblem of German Literature, viz: a big butcher
                     blubbering over the calf he has just killed. The verse I read to Colonel Forno,
                     was from a letter written by a gentleman named Paul, to a gossoon
                     called Tim something. It's in the first Epistle, 5th chapter, 23d verse, and
                     runs thus: "Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake
                     and thine often infirmities." The Colonel then told me to go to the realms
                     reigned over by Lucifer, but to be back for the evening parade; I did'nt go to
                     the place directed, but I was back for the evening parade.
                  Writing of Paul puts me in mind of a dispute between two sailors, when I served
                     on board the war schooner "Invincible." One of them, said Paul was a saint; the
                     other asserted that he was not. The matter was referred to the boatswain, an
                     old Englishman, from the Hard in Portsmouth. He decided that Paul
                     was not a regular commissioned saint, but that he had a brown
                     paper warrant.
                  Two of the Virginians have just come in, cut up into sausage-meat by the
                     Mexicans. They had been missing some days, and as they were known to be
                     excellent men and not deserters, a search was made for them; and Captain Harper
                     himself brought in their bodies beautifully mangled with knives. They had been
                     buried a day or two.
                  I had a narrow escape here from an inebriated virgin heifer I bought from Don
                     Manuel. Lieut. McGowan, of the Virginians, and myself, were watching the
                     operation of tying her down, and when the Vaccheros had fixed her so that she couldn't move, she got up and
                     made a tilt at us; we both ran at a quarter-horse speed, and I had only time to
                     close the door of the corral, or yard, when she came butt on to it, within an
                     inch of Mc's posteriors. "How do you feel, Mc?" said I. "That showed some
                     presence of mind in you; come down to Campo's and take a drink," said he. When
                     we returned, I shot the lady; and on disembowelling her, I discovered a fine
                     little masculine calf, which I soon skinned, and I made a pot-pie of the little
                     gentleman. That trick I learned from a Seminole Indian.
                  An express has come in, stating that Captain Adams, of the Rangers, has had a
                     brush with the Camanches, and had seven of his men killed, and that he had
                     killed five of them. I don't know how true it is, but if we learn any thing
                     more before the mail closes, I shall let you know. The incarnate fiends
                     actually came (a fresh band) within one league of us, but vamosed the ranch when they learned that we were
                     here. Captain Adams, and all the Virginia officers who could obtain leave,
                     started after them. I could not go, but I loaned all my horses except one, to
                     the Virginia officers, and my double-barrel gun to Lieut. Garnett. I hope none
                     of them are among the killed, or I shall be minus my gun and horses; and I'd
                     rather lend my wife than my horse—that is, if I had a wife. I wonder how I'd
                     look, walking down Chartres street, with a Mrs. T. on my arm, and a dozen
                     little small T.'s toddling on after us. If I did lend her, I'd only follow the
                     example of an ancient philosopher:
                     
                        
                           "Heroic, Stoic, Cato the sententious.
                           Who lent his lady to his friend Hortensius."
                        
                     
                  
                  Some of Gonzale's people stole my fine horse "Bezebub," and shot another; the
                     one that I now bestride has two eyes, but one of them's out—however, he has
                     speed and bottom. On St. Patrick's Day he tried to eat the Shamrock out of my
                     cap, and I had to get on the blind side to mount him. He is most angelically
                     wild, and when we get together, there's a pair of us, the boys say. He has
                     received Christian baptism, and bears the euphonious name of "Rip Van Snout."
                     The boys are bothering me, and that will account for all the scratches and
                     mistakes. We gave one fellow fifty lashes this morning for stealing—he was a
                     greaser; and I'm going out now to look for another, who cheated me out of one
                     dollar. If I catch him I'll break half the bones in his body, as certain as
                     that the Lord made small apples.
                  We have just buried the murdered Virginians; their names are Peck and Hurt. If
                     I be not much mistaken, our people mean to immolate a hecatomb to their manes. A Hecatomb used to be 100 oxen, from Hecatos (100) and
                     Bous, (a ox,) but the modern ancients, (when beef grew scarce,) interpreted it
                     into Hecatos, (100,) and Tombos, (1 foot,) making altogether twenty-five
                     cattle; thereby whipping the devil round the stump and cheating "Jove high
                     thundering," out of the smoke and incense of seventy-five beeves.
                  In this isolated place, I have no newt, and must make up this letter by a joke
                     or two. Gen. Urrea, (they say,) is coming down on us, and is within one day's
                     march, with 10,000 men; and as the fighting must be done from house to house,
                     (we are but 300,) we'll have "bloody deliteful" times.
                  I caught Lieut. Coleman, Virginia Regiment, in a beautiful fix, making an
                     unique tableau, composed of himself and a calf and a cow, and a little girl.
                     The cow was spankled by the hind legs, the calf engrossed two tits, (have tits
                     two T's or three? The Lord help me, I'm forgetting how to spell,) Coleman had
                     one and the girl had the other, and both were milking into one pot, except the
                     calf, who was milking into his own, and Coleman's mustache was saturated with
                     the milk and looked like a fresh flake of snow. I should have wished a
                     daguerreotype of the group, taken by Mr. Maguire, and for the trouble of taking
                     it, I should willingly have given him my note, payable twenty-one days after
                     convenience, Coleman asked me what his friends at home would think if they saw
                     him? Please ask them.
                  There's a true joke about Major Ben McCulloch: The day after the battle at
                     Buena Vista, I went into Saltillo with him, and stopped at the Great Western's.
                     I was then Orderly Sergeant of his company, and had on the frock coat I wore
                     when Captain, with the straps, however, taken off. We asked the Great Western
                     for supper; the Major had not a ball dress on; she told me I could have it, but
                     as to the Major, she kept no home for teamsters, although he might eat after
                     the gentleman got through. I roared and laughed, and the Major was leaving when
                     Colonel May came in, and invited him to supper. Master Ben declined, and the
                     madame asked Colonel May who he was. On learning that he was Major Ben of the
                     Rangers, she ran out, brought him back, gave him supper, charged him nothing,
                     opened a monte bank, and took eighteen dollars off him. Next morning I caught
                     Ben adjusting a shawl round her shoulders. Ben's a sly one.
                  This is prehaps the last time you'll ever hear from me, as General
                     Urrea is close by, according to Mexican accounts; and if he attacks us I shall,
                     as a matter of course, be in the thick of it, and I don't intend to be made
                     prisoner of, because I've served so long on horseback, that it would be mighty
                     inconvenient to circum-perambulate on foot, through all the country. between here and Mexico, and be
                     displayed like a wild beast, instead of the quiet, bashful christian I am.
                  
                     Yours,
                     G. H. T.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—The lady says she'll have me, if I get baptised by a priest and become a
                     legitimate good Catholic. I dont like the idea of abjuring the trifle of
                     religion my mother taught me, and if the lady persists, I'll grow desperate, go
                     out and turn regular Turk, and then I can marry every body, (wot's
                     willing.)
                  
                     G. H. T.
                  
               
            
            
               INCIDENTS ON BOARD A STEAMBOAT.
               To some of our readers the following incidents may appear a little too strange to
                  be true—bordering somewhat upon fiction, or at least, our account of it a little
                  exaggerated; but we assure you the whole affair actually occurred on a
                  steamboat.—We will call no names, but give the boat the title of "Tobacco Plant"
                  for the present occasion.
               It is known to those who "have travelled," that generally there are persons
                  travelling on board a steamboat, who may be termed green," and although at home
                  they appear to possess good common sense, yet when they go aboard a steamboat,
                  there are so many strange sights, curious machinery, &c., they appear to be so
                  much out of their element that (to those on board who are daily accustomed to
                  every thing pertaining to a boat,) they make themselves really foolish and
                  troublesome. They are generally very inquisitive—ask ten thousand questions, and
                  become extremely annoying, especially to the officers of the boat, and sometimes
                  the strangest kind of answers are given to the different questions propounded, as
                  the following scene will show:
               The steamer Tobacco Plant was on her downward passage on the Missouri river.—She
                  landed at one of the towns, where several passengers came on board, among them a
                  stout athletic man, who observed as he came on board:
               "Wal, I've got on tu one er these swimming allegators at last. I've hearn tell a
                  good deal about these critters, and seen 'em running, but this is the first one I
                  ever travelled on."
               
               This speech and the manner it was spoken created a little curiosity among the crew
                  and passengers, and every one appeared anxious to explain to him the different
                  curiosities of the boat. At last the customer thought he would like to command a
                  boat—yes, he believed he "would make a first rate captain," and some mischievous
                  wag told him that the Clerk was anxious to employ a commander, the
                  one then commanding not suiting. Upon this intelligence the stranger forthwith
                  accosted the Clerk:
               "I'm told you want a Captain, sir, and as I have nothing perticlar to do, I reckon
                  I'd as soon be a Captain as any thing else."
               The Clerk, perceiving the game, followed suit, and answered as follows:
               "Yes, sir, I want a Captain. I am about to discharge the one I now have—he don't
                  suit me; and if you and I can agree, as you have applied before any body else, you
                  shall have the situation—'first come first serve.'"
               "Wal, now," said the stranger, "I'm not much acquainted with a steamboat, but take
                  me on land and I am thar—I've seen a good deal of the world—have been
                  to Kentucky several times, and once to New Orleans, but I always went by land. But
                  I suppose being a Captain is like every thing else—requires bravery, attention and
                  a good understanding of human natur. Now, I've seen a good deal of
                  the world and men—I driv stage wunst, and was a long time overseer on
                  Col. Wheaton's plantation, but, Mr. Clerk, you must tell me a little about what a
                  Captain has tu du, I want to know my duty thoroughly 'fore I commence you
                  know."
               "Yes," said the Clerk, "you must understand your duties well. The first thing a
                  Captain—that is, my Captain—must do is, in the morning to see that the beds are
                  well made, the berths well swept, and then call the roll of all the stewards, deck
                  hands and servants, in order to see if any have been killed, or thrown overboard
                  during the night, or if any are sick. Then he must consult me about breakfast and
                  dinner—that is, if I am up and shaved—and if we have chickens or turkies in the
                  coop, to count them and see that they are well fed, and see that every man on
                  board does his duty, and never, when in port allow the chambermaid to go on shore
                  without first leaving a lock of her hair, which must be deposited in the iron
                  safe."
               The stranger listened to this yarn with the greatest attention, believing it all
                  gospel truth, and promised most sacredly strictly to comply with the rules.
               It was not long before all on board, officers, passengers, and deck hands, were in
                  the secret, and all played well their parts. Every hour the poor would-be-Captain
                  grew more impatient to take command, and if he saw the Captain of the boat idle,
                  or doing what appeared to him a little out of the way, he was sure to
                  report the same to the Clerk, and urge his immediate discharge. The Clerk would
                  apparently get in a great rage, curse the negligent Captain, and threatened to
                  discharge him the moment he arrived in St. Louis.
               "Wy, Mr. Clerk," said the stranger, "I seen that lazy, good-for-nothin' Captain of
                  your'n sittin' up thar on the roof of the boat, laughing' and talkin'
                  with that tother man in the glass box, turnin' a wheel, and when I told him that
                  his time was short, and that if he didn't look sharp he'd run on a log, and the
                  boat would be tipped over,—he told me to 'go to the devil.'"
               "He did!" said the Clerk. "Well, if that's the way he conducts himself—if that's
                  the way he insults his is-to-be-successor—and if that's the way he neglects his
                  duty, zounds! I'll have him put ashore instantly—the scoundrel."
               "Soon after this, the boat 'rounded to' for wood, and, as usual, the Captain went
                  on shore to see if every thing was right. The stranger watched him close, and
                  seeing that he did not assist the hands in 'toting' the wood on the boat, thought
                  it was great negligence; and, to show the Clerk that he would not be negligent in
                  his duty, off with his coat and commenced 'lugging ging' in the fuel in good earnest. This of course
                  created a great laugh, which enraged the hero to distraction—he cursed the
                  Captain, the mate, and all hands.—The Clerk of course kept out of sight, and when
                  the boat was again under way, the faithful candidate for the captaincy took
                  particular pains to relate the whole proceedings to his supposed employer, urging
                  at the same time the immediate discharge of that "rascally-captain."
               The Clerk, perceiving the poor man was getting highly excited, and that if the
                  joke went much further that serious consequences might ensue, thought he would
                  continued the gamely with the passengers, and accordingly, with as grave a face as
                  possible, said to his afflicted friend:
               "Well, Captain, (by this time every body on board called the poor devil
                  "Captain,") I can see but one way for you to manage now; you must call the
                  passengers together, state to them your cause, and then request them to sign a
                  petition recommending you to the captaincy of the Tobacco Plant; don't be afraid
                  now—take a bold stand and demand your right."
               "Wal," said the stranger, "I reckon that it is the best course but how shall I get
                  them together?"
               "O; tell the steward to ring the dinner bell."
               "Steward! steward! you black rascal, ring the bell, and call the passengers
                  together. Capt. —— wishes to consult them on important business," vociferated the
                  stranger in a very commanding tone.
               "Hush up, old Snoodlepup," replied the steward, in a significant tone.
               "What, you scoundrel, do you know who you are talking to; you scoundrel, I'll let
                  you know who I am;" and collaring the steward, was about to flog the rascal, when
                  the mate came up, and a general battle ensued, in which the poor "Captain" got a
                  bloody nose, black eye, and his coat nearly torn off from his back. The clerk made
                  it convenient to step up about this time.
               "Why, Captain, is it possible that I see you fighting? Have you so soon lost sight
                  of the dignity of your station? What will the passengers think?" said the Clerk in
                  a very solemn tone.
               During this controversy, most of the passengers assembled, and all were making
                  anxious inquiries if "Capt. —— was injured?"
               The word was now whispered about for passengers to be seated, when all obeyed,
                  when the Clerk informed the Captain that it was expected that he
                  would then give the passengers a true history of his genealogy and of his life,
                  and to be particular in stating all he knew about Fulton, steamboats, and steam
                  saw mills, &c., and then ask them to sign a petition recommending him to the
                  responsible station of master of the Tobacco Plant. Accordingly, he mounted a
                  chair, and commenced his speech, and although the passengers interrupted him by
                  asking foolish questions, and would break out in a roar of laughter, &c.,
                  still the infatuated Captain continued supposing the passengers were pleased with
                  his remarks. After having repeated the tale some half a dozen times, the Clerk
                  getting tired of the harangue, whispered to him, "You have said enough now—the
                  passengers expect you to treat them, and then they will sign your 
                     petion
                     petition
                  ." So elated was he, that he called for wine, and soon ran up a big bill,
                  and the passengers had a glorious time of it. It was not long before the Captain
                  got quite merry—in fact, dead drunk, and he was taken to his berth, where he lay
                  till the next morning, when the Clerk waited upon the Captain, and apparently very
                  sorry at the unfortunate affair, addressed him thus:
               "Captain, are you aware of your behaviour last night? You were drunk, sir, yes
                  sir, beastly drunk—and it becomes my painful duty to inform you that I can't have
                  a drunken Captain on my boat. Good morning, sir."
               At this intelligence, the stranger, much chagrined—begged, apologized, and even
                  cried—but all to no purpose—his prospects were blasted forever.
               
               By this time the boat had nearly reached St. Louis, and one of the passengers, out
                  of kindness to the stranger, went to him, and told him the whole secret—the game
                  that had been played upon him, and advised him to go into his berth, and there
                  remain till after the boat landed, and then leave the boat with all convenient
                  despatch.
            
            
               THE DUEL IN THE DARK.
               A TRUE INCIDENT IN THE ANNALS OF VICKSBURG.
               Every traveller who has descended the Mississippi within the last twenty five
                  years, must remember Vicksburg, so singular is its situation for a town, on the
                  shelving declivity of the high rolling hills, with its houses scattered in groups
                  on the terraces. Every reader of American newspapers during any one of the last
                  twenty-five years must remember Vicksburg, so rich has been the fund of material
                  it has supplied for the circulating libraries of "horrible murders," duels,
                  affrays and executions, by all sorts of "summary process." The public will not
                  likely soon forget the hanging of the gamblers and steam doctors. In fine, every
                  body knows that the place has been noted since its earliest settlement, for the
                  belligerent character of its inhabitants, and the number and atrocity of the
                  violent deeds which may be asserted, with literal truth, to have stained its very
                  streets with the blood of human hearts.
               It is not our purpose, however, to sketch any of these celebrated brute battles,
                  that prove nothing beyond the wilful wickedness of the respective combattants. But
                  we will select, for the sake of its mournful moral alone, a solitary tragedy,
                  which was briefly chronicled by the press of the day, and then faded from the
                  recollection of all save one from whom the writer received the story in all its
                  particulars. She of course, could never forget. The wife of the
                  murderer hero wept at the sad reminiscence twenty years after the date of the
                  catastrophe.
               In the year 1827, a young lawyer, (whom we shall call John Thomas, to avoid harrowing the memory of some
                  relative or friend who might chance to skim over these 
                     colums
                     columns
                  ,) emigrated from Worcester, in Massachusetts, to the State of 
                     Missisippi
                     Mississippi
                  . He was poor, had recently married a beautiful, accomplished woman, who
                  had renounced wealthy parents for his sake, and hence was anxious to better his
                  fortune in as little time as possible. This consideration determined the legal
                  adventurer to locate at Vicksburg, then considered through the west as the
                  paradise of the bar.
               In a very short time the new lawyer had ample reason to congratulate himself on
                  the choice of his position. His bland demeanor, studious habits, and more than
                  all, his eloquence in debate, won him patronage; and he rose, almost at a single
                  bound, to the first place in his profession. He was employed in all the land
                  suits, and in most of the still more numerous and equally lucrative cases of
                  homicide, so that in the brief period of two years after his advent he had cleared
                  the round sum of thirty thousand dollars. Let no skeptical disciple of Lord Coke
                  deem this statement incredible. S. S. Prentiss, now of New Orleans, realized, cash
                  in hand, forty thousand dollars by his opening speech in Vicksburg.
               During his career thus far, young Thomas was remarkable in one respect—he never
                  went armed, and although in the fierce and fiery altercations of the forum, he
                  necessarily made some enemies, no attack had hitherto been adventured upon his
                  person. The 
                     athletecism
                     athleticism
                   of his noble form, and the look of invincible determination in his keen
                  blue eyes, had doubtless warned the desperadoes that the "Yankee orator," as he
                  was generally termed, could hit as hard blows in the court yard as he did in the
                  court itself. However this may be, two years elapsed, years too of eminent success
                  before the peaceable attorney was even insulted. Alas! this Halcyon period was
                  doomed to a change alike sudden and terrible.
               There resided at that time in the town a notorious duelist, by the name of
                  Johnson, whose matchless powers inspired universal fear. He had slain half a dozen
                  foes on the public "field of honor," and as many in private encounters. All the
                  members of the "bloody fancy club" spoke of Mike Johnson's feats with rapturous
                  enthusiasm. But all good men, when the "brave wretch" passed, turned pale and were
                  silent.
               At the May term of the District Court, 1829, the Grand Jury, mustering
                  extraordinary courage, returned a true bill against Johnson for the murder of
                  William Lee, an inoffensive youth, whom he had shot down in a drunken frolic,
                  under circumstances of peculiar aggravation. Thomas was retained by a friend of
                  the deceased to aid in the prosecution, and notwithstanding the earnest advice of
                  his well wishers to the contrary, appeared on the trial of the cause—one of the
                  most exciting ever argued at the bar of Vicksburg. On the last evening of the
                  session, after adjournment, Thomas rushed into the presence of his wife with looks
                  of such evident agitation as to fill her soul with overpowering alarm.
               "My love, tell me, in the lame of heaven, what has happened!" she cried, as pale
                  as a corpse, and shaking like a leaf in the wind.
               "Nothing," answered the husband, thinking to conceal the most fearful part of the
                  intelligence. "Nothing, only the murderer, Mike Johnson, after his acquittal,
                  grossly insulted me in the court-yard, and I knocked him down."
               "And he challenged you to fight him with pistols!" almost shrieked the wife,
                  anticipating the rest, with the quickness of woman's keen common sense.
               "It is even so," replied the lawyer, mournfully.
               "Oh! say that you will not meet him. Oh! swear that you will not turn duelist in
                  this Sodom of the South," implored the wife throwing her arms around his neck, and
                  sobbing like a child on his bosom.
               
               "There, do not weep now. I will not turn duelist, dear Emma, although I much fear
                  that the consequences will be my ruin."
               "God will protect you from the bold bad man."
               The next morning it was known in Vicksburg that the "Yankee orator" had been
                  challenged and refused to fight. Accordingly, he was generally denounced as a
                  coward—a word, which at that day, and even now, might be considered as expressing
                  far deeper scorn than either robber or assassin. As he
                  passed through the streets, he was astonished to witness the coldness manifested
                  by his old acquaintances, and professed friends, while the great mass of people
                  seemed to regard him with ineffable contempt. "Yankee white-liver," "boaster,"
                  "poltroon," were the sounds most frequently rung in his ears, especially when near
                  the groceries, and there was one on every terrace of the broken hills.
               The matter grew still worse. About a week afterwards, Johnson met his victim in
                  the public square, presented a cocked pistol at his heart with one hand, and
                  belabored him unmercifully with a cowhide which he grasped in the other.
                  Resistance at the moment was altogether out of the question, for the slightest
                  motion would have been the signal for immediate death. He thought of Emma and her
                  sweet babe, and bore the castigation in silence.
               After this clients deserted his office and gentlemen refused to recognize him or
                  return his salutes in the thoroughfares of business, or during his morning strolls
                  over the hills. Had his touch been contagion, or his breath pestilence, he could
                  not have been more carefully shunned.
               Another week passed, and the degraded lawyer was in a state of mind bordering on
                  insanity, and yet all the while he concealed the mental torture from his
                  affectionate wife. One evening, in a more than common bitter and gloomy mood, as
                  he walked through the public square, he was again accosted by Mike Johnson, with
                  his cocked pistol in one hand and uplifted cowhide in the other. The assault was
                  the more aggravating as the place was thronged with spectators.
               "Coward and villain," exclaimed Johnson, "did I not tell you that I would cowhide
                  you every week, until I whip the courage of a man and gentleman into your yankee
                  hide?"
               "I am not a coward," retorted Thomas in a hollow tone, so unearthly fierce and
                  wild, that it caused every hearer to start. At the instant, his lips were livid,
                  and clenched between his teeth till the blood ran. His eyes were red as a mad
                  dog's, and the muscles of his face quivered; but his body and limbs seemed to have
                  the rigidity of marble.
               "He will fight now," rung in an eager whisper through the crowd, as they saw the
                  terrible tokens of the fiend aroused—the fiend which lurks at different depths, in
                  all human nature.
               "If you are not a coward, why will you not fight?" asked the duelist somewhat
                  struck, in spite of his thorough desperation, hardened in the hot gore of a dozen
                  murders.
               "I will fight if you wish it," was the loud ringing answer.
               "Then you accept my challenge?"
               "I do. Will any one present be so good as to act at my second?" inquired the
                  lawyer, addressing the spectators.
               For a minute or two no one spoke, so great was the dread of the arch duelist Mike
                  Johnson.
               "Will no one, in such a mass of generous men, be my second?" repeated the lawyer
                  in a louder tone.
               "I will," said a shrill trumpet like voice, in the outskirts of the crowd, and a
                  tall commanding form, with bravery written on his brow, and the eagle's eye
                  beneath it, made his way to the centre of the scene of contention, and stood close
                  fronting Johnson, with a smiling glance, before which the latter for an instant
                  quailed.
               The question, "who is he?" circulated among the lookers on, but no one could
                  answer; no one had ever seen him before, and yet everybody would have sworn to his courage, so
                  bold yet tranquil was his bearing.
               "Who are you?" inquired the duelist, recovering his presence of mind.
               "A stranger, from Texas."
               "But who will vouch for your respectability?"
               "I can give you vouchers, sufficient," replied the stranger, frowning till his
                  brows looked frightful; and then stooping forward, he whispered something in
                  Johnson's ear, audible alone to him.
               "I am satisfied," said the duelist aloud, and trembling perceptibly. "Colonel
                  Morton will you serve as my 
                     freind
                     friend
                  ?"
               The individual last addressed gave his assent.
               "Now let us adjourn to some private room to arrange preliminaries," remarked the
                  stranger; and the principals and seconds left the crowd, then increasing every
                  minute, and excited nearly to madness by the thick crowding events of the
                  hour.
               The meeting took place the following night, in a dark room, with the door locked,
                  and the two seconds on the outside. The principals were placed in opposite corners
                  of the room, which was twenty feet square, and each was armed with a large Bowie
                  knife, nothing more. It was midnight, a night without moon or stars. Black pitchy
                  clouds enveloped the sky, and a slight sifting mist rendered the shadows of the
                  earth more intense. Hence the room where the duel was about to begin was wrapped
                  in rayless darkness. The combattants could not even see the blades of their own
                  knives.
               At first they both stooped and stealthily untied and took off their shoes, so as
                  to make the least possible noise in walking over the floor. The same thought had
                  struck them both at the same time, to manoeuvre for the vantage ground.
               Thomas moved in a circle, softly as a cat, around the apartment, till he got
                  within a few feet of the corner where his enemy my had first been placed, land
                  then paused to listen. For four or five seconds he could hear nothing in the
                  grave-like silence, but the quick beats of his own busy heart. Presently, however,
                  there crept into his ear a scarcely audible sound, as of suppressed breathing in
                  the corner of the room which he had previously left; and then he knew that his foe
                  was trying the same stratagem. The ruse was repeated thrice and with
                  a like result. At length Thomas concluded to stand perfectly still and await
                  Johnson's approach. Motionless now himself, and all ear, soon he could distinguish
                  a soft rustling noise, like the dropping of flakes of wool, circling around the
                  door and gradually approaching him.
               At last when the sound appeared within about three feet of the lawyer's position,
                  he suddenly made a bounding plunge with his knife, aimed in the dark air, where he
                  supposed his foe to be. His blade struck against that of the other, and sparks of
                  fire rolled at the fierce collision, and fell expiring to the floor.
               And then, for an instant, the seconds without the door heard a sharp ringing of
                  steel, a groan, a fall, and all again was silent as the tomb. The duel at midnight
                  had ended; but how? They were appalled, at the horrible question.
               Waiting some minutes, and hearing nothing more, Colonel Morton and the stranger
                  prepared a light, unlocked the door and entered. The spectacle was most affecting.
                  There lay the bloody corpse of the duelist Johnson, mangled dreadfully, and above
                  it stood the erect form of the lawyer Thomas, unhurt, not a cut on his skin, or a
                  rent in his clothing, but weeping as if his heart were broken.
               He started back as the flashing light dazzled his eyes; and growing pale as the
                  dead at his feet, exclaimed in accents of immeasurable anguish: "Oh, God! how
                  shall I endure to meet my dear Emma with this murderous gore on my hands! Such stains would defile the very gates
                  of heaven, and blacken the floor of hell itself!"
               He did, however, afterwards meet Emma and her babe; but we shall not try to paint
                  the scene. A week subsequently, he was shot to pieces in his own office, while
                  employed in writing after night. The assassin was not known, but supposed to be a
                  younger brother of the duelist Johnson.
               The stranger who acted in the combat as the second of Thomas, was indeed as he
                  said from Texas, and then travelling through Mississippi, and was the bravest man,
                  perhaps, that ever drew the breath of life, James Bowie, who fell only with the
                  fall of the Alamo, when his red knife was drunk with the blood of the
                  Mexicans.
               
                  Reader.—But the moral. You promised us a moral.
               
                  Writer.—The same moral which lies at the bottom of all true stories,
                  if they be read rightly. I give you this, and can give you no more—that the
                  circumstances which make men, make also their actions, as the history of many a
                  New Englander besides poor Thomas, in the South can attest. Therefore never
                  strongly condemn the deeds of the common humanity, until you shall have realized
                  their material and spiritual situation in all its mathematical and moral
                  dimensions. This lesson, studied well, will render you wiser and probably happier
                  men.
            
            
               BACKING OUT A STRANGER;
               OR, THE TENNESSEE JOCKIES BADLY SOLD.
               Jim Borland and Tom Rice were a couple of the B'hoys; some on a race track, and in
                  a rough-and-tumble-pitch-in fight, always thar. Sworn friends and
                  companions, nothing destroyed their flow of spirits but being tuk in on a quarter
                  race. That, however, was seldom; for when they pronounced a horse the real
                     grit, the fact might be sworn to.
               Borland had a beautiful claybank quarter nag, that could rather lick anything in
                  the western district; and as for getting a race on him, where he was known, that
                  was an impossibility. Rice lived just across the Tennessee line, in Kentucky, and
                  owned Cub. In those days, for a Kentuckian to say that Cub was entered for a race, was equivalent to his telling you that he had bet
                  his pile. He was, in reality, a splendid animal, black as night, heavy muscled,
                  and limbs as clean and beautifully moulded as those of the belle of a fashionable
                  ball room. Singular as it may seem, the two horses had never met on the same
                  field, but it may be shrewdly suspected, that the owners knew full well which was
                  the fastest.
               On a certain occasion the cronies met at a campmeeting, where, as usual, they were
                  hand in hand. There was evidently something on Borland's mind, he had not had a
                  race for three weeks, and was getting rather low in funds. Taking Rice aside he
                  said to him:
               "Tom, this is the last kick-up among the preachers this year, and I have bantered
                  every man on the ground for a race, and
                  can't get it. This wont do. I must and will have some fun, let who will pay for
                  it. Now suppose we try the plan I spoke to you about some time ago?"
               "But will that be exactly fair?" replied Rice.
               "Don't talk about fairness with them fellows. After you have been there a week, if
                  you don't think they would steal their grandmother's spectacle, you can take my
                  skin for a drumhead. Don't you recollect how they swindled Sam Kendal out of all
                  his money, and then came near beating him to death, because he didn't have more
                  for them; and then, not three weeks ago, they made old Ben Wheeler drunk, won his
                  horse, and the old man had to walk thirty miles home without a cent in his
                  pocket?"
               "That's sufficient, as Tom Haynes said when he saw the elephant. Jim, I'll
                  go."
               "I know you are of the right stripe," said Borland, his face brightening. "Mind
                  now, keep your eyes skinned, stop at the grocery close by the quarter path, and be
                  certain to slip your knife down Cub's legs, to cut away cords they may have tied
                  there over night."
               They separated. Jim's face wore a peculiar smile, that could have been interpreted
                  by a physiognomist to mean, there is fun ahead, and I'm in.
               In those days, every neighborhood had its quarter path and grocery, and certainly
                  not the least celebrated was that of Holly Fork, in Henry county, Tennessee. At
                  that place any one could be accommodated. Cards or chuck-a-luck, old corn or
                  cider, a fight or foot-race, mattered not, it was to be had at a moments notice.
                  As for a quarter race, all that was necessary to get one up, was a mere banter.
                  Such was the place our Kentuckian drew up at for a time.
               Weeks passed away. Accounts from the "Fork" stated that Cub was
                  carrying every thing before him—had beat their brag nags, won their money, and
                  things were getting dull for want of opposition. Borland might have been seen,
                  after the above news reached him, to tack some heavy leaden shoes to the
                  right-fore-foot and left-hind-foot of his horse; it is called cross-shoeing. Early
                  next morning, with his boy Bob, Claybank, four horses, and all the money he could
                  raise, he was off for Holly Fork. He stopped at Jess Gainer's, a little distance
                  from the grocery, and after resting a short time, he and host walked down to the
                  stamping ground. The boys were there as usual, ready for anything. After taking a
                  drink and looking found, he began:
               "Gentlemen, don't some of you want a tip-top saddle horse? I've got five as good
                  ones as were ever wrapped in so much hide."
               "I don't know what these gentlemen may want," said Rice, "but I'll tell you what,
                  stranger, if you have got any thing that can run, I'd like to make a race, just to
                  pass the time this evening."
               "I've got a claybank pony with me that I got from old squire Freeland, up near
                  Eddyville, and he said he could run like the devil. I tried him once myself, and
                  he did go right pert, but I don't want to run him—he's for sale."
               "We don't want any horses but what can run," said a little fellow. "Come," said
                  Jim, "let us all liquor; you will think better of my horse when you see him."
               They drank several times, and Borland was getting to use his tongue quite freely,
                  discoursing upon the superior qualities of his horse.
               "Now, stranger," said Rice, "if your horse is such a d—d fine one, why don't you
                  back him? I'm almost freezing for a race."
               "Gentlemen," replied Borland, "I ain't got much money, and I'm no racer, but my
                  horse is no scrub by a d—d sight, as you would all find out if he was to run. I am
                  not going to bet to-day, for I'm
                  getting tolerably tight, but I'll be here to-morrow."
               After a few words more, Borland and host started for the house of the former
                  seemingly 
                     
                        "Glorious,
                        O'er a' the ills of life victorious."
                     
                  
               
               A beautiful moonlight night it was, the air calm as the quiet breathing of a
                  sleeping infant, just the night wanted for a purpose that had entered more heads
                  than one. Gainer, after putting his guest to bed, stole round to the stable to
                  take a look at claybank. He found several of the boys already there, Rice with
                  them. It was suggested to try the horse with Cub, just to see if he
                  could run. Rice objected, saying, however, his horse was at their service, but he
                  would not have any thing to do with it, as it would not be exactly fair. They did
                  not stand on such niceties, and the horses were soon on the path, but the trial
                  was a one-sided business, for the claybank, encumbered with the leaden
                  cross-shoes, was easily beaten. They were satisfied he was no "bite," and the
                  discomfitted Claybank was thrust ignominiously into his former quarters. Through a
                  crack in the log cabin, Jim saw it all, and muttered through his clenched teeth,
                  "d—n you, you'll be fooled this time."
               After breakfast, Borland and host returned to the grocery. It was full, news
                  having got wind that another Sucker was to be fleeced.
               "Well, stranger, how did you rest last night," said one.
               "Not well, I have an all-fired headache."
               "How is Claybank; you aint afraid to run him, are you?"
               I was drunk or d—d nigh it, or I would not have said anything about running
                  him."
               "Come now," said Rice, "we want a race mightily. Gainer says your horse aint no
                  small things, and he is a judge of horse flesh, you may depend on it."
               "That he is a fine horse," said Gainer, "I believe in him so much that I would
                  almost be willing to go halves on him, but I don't know anything about his racing
                  qualities; however, Mr. Borland, the boys say they want a race; and though they
                  dont bet high, it being contrary to their principles, as an inducement to you,
                  they offer a hundred to fifty, that the black can beat your horse, if your horse
                  runs as you say; and if he don't deceive his looks, I advise you to take the
                  bet."
               "I see how it is," said Borland, pretending to become extremely excited, "because
                  I'm a stranger, you expect to back me out, but I'm d—d if you do; I'll take your
                  bet, Mr. Rice, and run in three days."
               "Agreed," said Tom.
               "Come plank up the tin, I'll show you that Jim Borland aint agoing to be backed
                  out, by mere bragging."
               From the time the money was staked, Borland was surrounded—offers of bets poured
                  in upon him, at odds even greater than the main stake. Appearing to become more
                  and more excited, at what he said was their desire to back a stranger out, soon
                  his money, his horses cash notes, (then a circulating medium,) his saddle and
                  bridle, every thing was bet at tremendous odds. Finally, to divert suspicion, the
                  ownership of the contending animals was to depend upon the result of the race.
               Great, indeed, was the excitement throughout the settlement on the morning of the
                  race, it being known, though kept as a profound secret, of course, from Borland,
                  that the horses had been tried; they looked upon him as being already used up—he
                  knew they were. So both parties laughed in their sleeves at the verdancy of the
                  other. Time arrived. The moment Bob mounted Clay, he seemed as if transformed into
                  another animal, ears erect, nostrils distended, eyes seemingly emitting sparks of
                  fire from the protruding balls, and as he came to the starting place, spurning the ground with his
                  elastic tread, it is impossible to conceive a more exciting object than that of
                  the noble animal. Nor was the Black unworthy of such an adversary—faultless in
                  form and appearance, as the rays of the sun glistened along his velvet coat, his
                  beautiful neck curved, and veins distended, there is no Kentuckian but would have
                  proudly 
                     acknowled
                     acknowledged
                   him an honor to his sired State. After much seeming jockeying, and
                  sundry oaths at the unfairness of the positions assumed by each other, the horses
                  were turned loose. Swift as arrows shot from Norman cross-bows did the noble
                  animals bound on their lightning-like journey; for a moment did the thin lips of
                  Borland become compressed, and his cheek pale, as he witnessed the mighty strides
                  of the Black; it was but for a moment, for his own darling horse, as if knowing
                  how much depended on his exertions, with a bound that the mountain stag could
                  scarce have equalled, shot ahead. Breathless silence reigned throughout the motley
                  crowd, as they came thundering down the track; nearer and nearer they approach.
                  Claybank still in the advance. Not a word was spoken or whisper breathed, until,
                  swift as thought, the horses passed. The goal was won, and Claybank declared
                  winner by sixteen feet!
               Such expressions of disappointment were probably never so plainly depicted in the
                  countenances of individuals before; and well there might be, Holly Fork was, for
                  the first time, emphatically broke.
               The booty was turned over to Borland, and after treating all hands, and raising
                  them in future not to try and back out a stranger, he prepared to start. At this
                  moment came up Rice, the tears trickling down his cheek, and begged the loan of
                  "Cub" to ride home.
               "No," said Borland, "you can't ride him; but here is one you may, as our roads
                  lead in the same direction."
               Every thing being arranged, they left, and after a goodly distance from the York,
                  they dismounted, divided their winnings, and separated—Rice taking the road to
                  Kentucky, and Borland for his home. * * * * * *
               The thing leaked out, it was too good to keep, and coming to the ears of the
                  fleeced, the payment of the cash note was resisted on the ground of fraud. On the
                  trial, however, it was proven that Borland's horse had been stolen from the
                  stable, and run with the Black for the purpose of swindling Borland; so he
                  obtained judgment and recovered his money.
            
            
               
               A CHIP FROM A SAILOR'S LOG.
               It was a dead calm—not a breath of air—the sails flapped idly against the masts;
                  the helm had lost its power, and the ship turned her head how and where she liked.
                  The heat was intense, so much so that the chief mate had told the boatswain to
                  keep the watch out of the sun; but the watch below found it too warm to sleep, and
                  were tormented with thirst which they could not gratify till the water was served
                  out. They had drunk all the previous day's allowance; and now that the
                  scuttle-butt was dry, there was nothing left but endurance. Some of the seamen had
                  congregated on the top-gallant forecastle and gazed on the clear blue water with
                  longing eyes.
               "How cool and clear it looks," said a tall powerful young seaman; "I don't think
                  there are many sharks about—what do you say for a bath, lads?"
               "That for the sharks" burst almost simultaneously from the parched lips of the
                  group: "We'll have a jolly bath when the second mate goes to dinner." In about
                  half an hour the dinner-bell rang. The boatswain took charge of the deck; some
                  twenty sailors were now stripped, except a pair of light duck trowsers; among the
                  rest was a tall, powerful coast-of-Africa negro of the name of Leigh; we used to
                  joke and call him Sambo.
               "You no swim to-day, Ned?" said he, addressing me.—"Feared of sharks, eh? Shark
                  nebber bites me. Suppose I meet shark in water, I swim arter him; him run like de
                  debil."
               I was tempted, and like the rest was soon ready.
               In quick succession we jumped off the sprit sail yard, the black leading. We had
                  scarcely been in the water five minutes when some voice aboard cried out, "A
                  shark! a shark! In an instant every one of the swimmers came tumbling up the
                  ship's side, half mad with fright, the gallant black among the rest. It was a
                  false alarm. We felt angry with ourselves for being frightened, angry with those
                  who frightened us, and furious with those who laughed at us. In another moment we
                  were all again in the water, the black and myself swimming some distance from the
                  ship. For two successive voyages there had been a sort of rivalry between us; each
                  fancying that he was the best swimmer, and we were now testing our speed.
               "Well done, Ned," cried some of the sailors from the forecastle. "Go it Sam,"
                  cried some others. We were both straining our utmost, excited by the cheers of our
                  respective partisans. Suddenly the voice of the boatswain was heard shouting, "A
                  shark! a shark! Come back, quick, for God's sake!"
               "Lay aft, and lower the cutter," then came faintly on our ears. The race instantly
                  ceased. As yet, we only half believed what we heard, our recent fright being still
                  fresh in our memories.
               "Swim, for God's sake!" cried the captain, who was now on deck, "he has not yet
                  seen you. The boat, possible, will get between him and you. Strike out, for God's
                  sake!"
               My heart stood still; I felt weaker than a child as I gazed with horror at the
                  dorsal fin of a large shark on the starboard quarter. Though in the water, the
                  perspiration dropped from me like rain; the black was striking out like mad from
                  the ship.
               "Swim, Ned, Swim!" cried several voices; "they never take black when they can get
                  white."
               I did swim, and that desperately; the water foamed past me. I soon breasted the
                  black, but could not head him. We both strained every nerve to be first, for we
                  each fancied the last man would be taken. Yet we scarcely seemed to move: the ship
                  appeared as far as ever from us. We were both powerful swimmers ners, and both of us swam in the French way called
                     la brassa, or hand over hand in English.
                  There was something the matter with the boat falls, and they could not lower
                  her.
               "He sees you now!" was shouted;—"he is after you!"
               Oh, the agony of that moment! I thought of everything at the same instant, at
                  least so it seemed to me then. Scenes long forgotten rushed through my brain with
                  the rapidity of lightning, yet in the midst of this I was striking out madly for
                  the ship. Each moment I fancied I could feel the pilot-fish touching me, and I
                  almost screamed with agony. We were now not ten yards from the ship; a dozen ropes
                  were thrown to us; but as if by mutual instinct, we both swam for the same.
               "Hurra! they are saved! they are alongside!" was shouted by the eager crew.
               We both grasped the rope at the same time; a slight struggle ensued—I had the
                  highest hold. Regardless of everything but my own safety, I placed my feet on the
                  negroe's shoulders, scrambled up the side, and fell exhausted on the deck. He
                  followed, roaring with pain, for the shark had taken away part of his heel. Since
                  then I have never bathed at sea; nor, I believe, has Sambo been ever heard again
                  to assert that he would swim after a shark if he met one in the water.
            
            
               THE HEROINE OF WHEELING.
               Though we may sing of and tell about the hardy and true men who fought so bravely
                  and suffered so greatly to establish the principles of that government under which
                  we now exist, we must not forget those heroic women who, as mothers and wives,
                  sent forth with eager hearts and cheering words their sons and husbands to the
                  bitter fields of strife, or as sisters aided to clothe and equip their brothers.
                  Their aching hearts were silent, their burning tears were brushed away, as with
                  smiles they embraced them at parting, and with high words of trustful faith, like
                  the women of Sparta, bade them turn no back upon the conquering foe.
               The records of all ages bear no slight testimony to the devoted courage of woman;
                  and were our own history more perfectly known, instances of female courage would
                  be found to parallel the most wonderful of ancient chronicles. We have now to
                  record an act performed by a young woman during our revolutionary struggle, which,
                  for nerve and desperateness, is scarcely to be matched.
               In the year 1778, Wheeling, Virginia, was besieged by a large force of British and
                  Indians. At this time the fort, with an insufficient force, was under the command
                  of Colonel Silas Zane, a brave and meritorious officer. Distant from this about
                  eighty yards, and outside the wall, was situated a block-house, in which was
                  Colonel Ebenezer Zane, a brother of Silas, and the senior officer, with a few men.
                  There were several women in the fort,
                  and among them at the time was Elizabeth Zane, a sister of the Colonel. She was a
                  young woman of extraordinary beauty, having a tall and finely-formed figure, with
                  a head like Juno; a black eye, mild and firm in its expression; a voice soft and
                  musical as a lute; and with an expression of countenance as bland as Italian
                  skies, though beneath it might slumber passions as warm as the fires of Vesuvius.
                  It may be supposed that many a soldier's eye followed her wistfully, as in days of
                  quiet she roamed about the fort, or strolled for a walk in company with one of her
                  brothers. Many a proposal had been made in vain. Officers of high rank had sued
                  for her, and many a gallant emprise as undertaken in her name, but all to no
                  effect, so far as winning her affections went. She was not one of those
                  light-witted women to be caught by fine show and fine professions. As far as the
                  heart went, she placed no difference between high-nodding plumes and the last man
                  in the ranks—the last man, not the least. She was above that age when young women
                  are the most apt to be caught by fine compliments or dashing appearances; but,
                  plain and, direct in her manner, it was her study to give no encouragement to the
                  attentions of her numerous suitors. Yet from this description the reader must not
                  infer that she was not susceptible to the softer passion of love. Far from it, for
                  her troth was at that time plighted; nor could the most ambitious thought in the
                  world have tempted her to swerve from the sanctity of vows made to the lover of
                  her choice—made, as all lovers' oaths are, in the quiet evening hour, and
                  witnessed by the moon, that lovers' planet, and "all the starry hosts of
                  heaven."
               Among the soldiers in the fort at this time, none was a greater favorite with
                  officers and men than Ashley Harper. Bold, adventurous, and generous almost to a
                  fault, no hazardous expedition was projected in which he was not always ready to
                  volunteer; and many a desperate adventure, and many a forlorn hope, had seen him
                  face the savage foe with odds against him; and while powder flashed and bayonets
                  gleamed, he was sure to be found in the hottest of the fray. On two occasions had
                  he saved the life of his superior officer, when the uplifted tomahawk glittered
                  with the fearful expectation of its victim's blood. He had enlisted in the service
                  a year previous, as a private; and although promotion to the rank of a
                  non-commissioned officer had been offered him on account of his good qualities as
                  a soldier and intelligence as a man, he had refused its acceptance, declaring
                  that, as his only desire was to serve his country, he was willing to serve through
                  the war as a private, leaving all conditions above that to soldiers more competent
                  and more ambitious. He was the son of a respectable farmer, whose industry had
                  enabled him to raise up and respectably educate a large family—a man of severe
                  discipline, whose watchful eye detected youthful faults in time to prevent their
                  maturing to crimes. He had been intimate with the family of the Zanes, and, when
                  Ashley expressed a desire to enlist, the old man easily prevailed upon Colonel
                  Silas to enrol him among his own men.
               Now we will not pretend to say that there had been any particular understanding
                  between Miss Elizabeth and the young gentleman above spoken of previous to his
                  becoming a soldier, though such a thing might possibly have been in a mute way.
                  Verbal declarations certainly had not been made; for an owl told how, one
                  moonlight evening, while he was sitting in the shady branches of a chesnut that
                  stood but a few yards from the fort, 
                     
                        ——"Considering, as well he might,
                        Ways and means for a supper that night"
                     
                   he looked about with a solemn scowl, and beheld coming from the shadow of the
                  fort a lover and his mistress—he knew it was a lover and his mistress, they spoke so tenderly to one another.
               They came out from the fort stealthily, and stole softly over the green sward to
                  the foot of the chesnut, and sitting down upon one of the 
                     knarled
                     gnarled
                   roots, said kind things, uttered sacred vows and breathed fervent sighs
                  one to the other. They sat there an hour—a good hour by the march of
                  Saturn—talking and sighing all the while, when, calling upon all the stars to
                  witness their oath, and sealing their vows with a kiss, they retired.
               It was but a short time after this occurrence that the siege of Wheeling was
                  commenced by the British and Indians; and although the place was defended with
                  zeal and an unlimited amount of courage, the hopes of the besieged grew somewhat
                  dim as they looked forth upon the masses that surrounded them. A scarcity of
                  provisions was not what alarmed them, for of those at present they had a
                  sufficient supply; but alarm became almost consternation when it was announced, on
                  the second day of the siege, that their powder was short. Several desperate
                  assaults had been made by the enemy to break into the fort, but Colonel Zane and
                  his men repulsed and drove them back as vigorously as they assaulted. The Indians
                  on two or three occasions attempted the destruction of the fort and block-house by
                  fire; but in each instance they were shot down ere the faggot and the burning
                  brand could be applied. But ultimately those in the fort began to fail in their
                  hopes of a successful defence, when the word was passed around that they were in
                  the possession of a few charges of powder only. There was an abundant supply in
                  the block-house, which they had been prevented from removing by the suddenness of
                  the assault; but how was it to be gotten now? Surrounded by the most inveterate of
                  foes, what possible method could be adopted to procure them a supply of
                  ammunition? Their condition must be known to the enemy the moment their fires
                  slackened, and then they could easily be destroyed without the least show of
                  defence.
               The second day of the siege had well nigh worn away—it was in the middle of the
                  afternoon. The last shot had been fired—the last grain of powder was exhausted.
                  Now, what was to be done? Make terms of capitulation, or, despairing, submit to
                  fate? They in the block-house still held out bravely, and a little longer concert
                  of action might save them, for the enemy already began to show symptoms of
                  wavering. At this crisis Colonel Zane called his men around him, and after
                  describing to them the situation in which they were placed, he desired to know if
                  there was any one among them desperate enough to attempt a passage through the
                  enemy to the block-house. He added that it was indeed a forlorn hope, but at the
                  worst could not be more disastrous than to remain in their present condition. No
                  answer followed the appeal. The men gazed at their commander and into the eyes of
                  each other with the most complete despair, and with faces blank with any ray of
                  hope. Elizabeth stood by the side of her brother, silent, but that silence was
                  more eloquent than the words of the Colonel. Perhaps, though, a slight pang might
                  have fluttered her pulse to hear no one speak. Was there not one brave enough to
                  peril life for the salvation of the whole? Ammunition was all that was wanted. One
                  keg of powder, and they were free! At this moment a young man stepped modestly
                  forward and said:
               "Colonel, I will attempt the passage. If I fall, remember me; if I succeed——"
               His eye caught the expression of Elizabeth's features, as they glowed upon him
                  with unutterable fondness and pride, and fell to the ground. Colonel Zane stepped
                  forward, and taking the young soldier's hand, said—
               "You are the man I expected would volunteer for this enterprise; Go, and God
                  protect you! If they see you from the
                  block-house, they will try to cover you with their fire. Self-possession is your
                  only hope. Now away, while the enemy are partially withdrawn."
               But here Elizabeth stepped forward, and, addressing her brother, said—
               "Silas, let me undertake this enterprise."
               "You!" replied her brother, viewing her with astonishment. "Impossible! Do you
                  know the danger of the attempt?"
               "Perfectly," she answered. "You have no men to spare. Every one is needed in
                  defence of the fort; and this is the only service I can render."
               "But a man would be more fleet, Elizabeth, and more certain of success," said her
                  brother.
               "Still you have no man to spare; and a woman would not run the same danger in
                  passing through the enemy. Besides, if I fall, I shall not be so much missed, nor
                  your forces weakened."
               The Colonel was affected to tears, and, embracing his sister, exclaimed—
               "Then go! God's will be done, and may He protect you!"
               A dozen men now sprang forward, prompted by the devotion of this heroic woman; and
                  Ashley Harper, more urgent than the rest, insisted that it was his right, as he
                  was the first to propose. But Elizabeth would hear no objections, and at once
                  began to make preparations for the enterprise. Partially divesting herself of her
                  clothing, in order that her speed might be less impeded, she was let out at the
                  gate of the fort, followed by the prayers and blessings of all within; while, from
                  one of the embrasures, the anxious eyes of Ashley Harper followed her, as she fled
                  like a young roe through the lines of the enemy. Now she falls! Twenty muskets are
                  raised by the savages to stop her progress, but a cry of "Squaw! Squaw!" saved
                  her. She reaches the block-house in safety, and is admitted!
               A period of awful suspense awaited them in the fort. The men were anxious for
                  relief, the Colonel was regretting that he had permitted his sister to go, and
                  Ashley Harper was breathing prayers for her safety.
               In the block-house the excitement was equally as great, and astonishment was
                  expressed by every one at the intrepidity of the maiden. Her brother there
                  endeavored to persuade her to stay with him, offering to send one of his own men
                  to the fort with the powder. But she overruled his arguments with the same logic
                  she had used with her brother Silas, and at last was permitted to return. A keg of
                  powder was poured into a table-cloth, and she again sallied forth to run that
                  desperate gauntlet.
               In the fort, every heart was beating with the utmost anxiety; and as the dusky foe
                  was seen gathering around, scarcely a 
                     vestage
                     vestige
                   of hope was left for the safety of the heroic maiden. Still watched her
                  lover from the embrasure, and still prayed her brother silently. Forward she sped
                  on her return with her precious burthen, as though her feet were winged, while the
                  enemy, at length suspicious of her errand, were pouring showers of lead after her.
                  Yet onward she came unharmed—apparently unharmed—preserved by an Omnipotent power;
                  and at length reached the gate of the fort, which was thrown open with eagerness
                  to admit her. As it closed in safety upon the little band within, it was assaulted
                  with a hundred bullets, while the savages around made the air peal with their
                  demoniac yells of disappointment and rage. The brother welcomed her with tears.
                  All pressed around her to thank her for her bravery—all but Ashley Harper: his
                  heart was too full for expression. The result of this adventure was the successful
                  defence of the fort 
                     againt
                     against
                   the besiegers. But ere the war of the revolution was ended, Ashley
                  Harper slept with the dead heroes of our country, having fallen at the battle of
                  Saunder's Creek, in North Carolina, August 16, 1780.
            
            
               
               THE FATAL JOKE.
               I was once present where a small party of young persons were warmly discussing the
                  subject of practical joking. After a long and interesting debate, the question
                  seemed to be decided in its favor, when a gentleman, whose singularly melancholy
                  and dejected air at once attracted our attention, related the following story:
               In my younger days I was remarkable for my fondness for practical joking, even to
                  such a degree that I never allowed a good opportunity to pass unimproved.
               My orphan cousin, Robert, to whom I was fondly attached, was of a different nature
                  from this. He was sober, sedate, and grave almost to a fault, very thoughtful, and
                  very bashful. This stupidity, as I called it, was often a check upon my natural
                  gaiety, and it was seldom that I could induce him to join my boyish sports, though
                  he sometimes did, merely to gratify me. Poor Robert! the green turf of his native
                  valley, on whose bosom the fairest flowers that New England could boast of, have
                  blossomed, and withered, and passed away to eternity, leaving behind them a
                  lasting impress of their loveliness, now cover his mouldering ashes, Yes, Robert
                  is dead, and I am the unhappy cause of his untimely end, the circumstances of
                  which will serve to convince you of the folly of "practical joking."
               It was late one evening early in September, that Robert and myself retired to our
                  room to talk over the exciting scenes of the day, for it was the night after the
                  election, and a fine holiday it had been to us. I had just returned from a visit
                  to some friends in the city, and had, of course, brought with me many curious
                  things which Robert had never seen, nor heard of. Among them was a mask, the use
                  of which I explained to my unsophisticated cousin, who laughed and wondered why
                  people could wish to look horrid enough to wear one.
               I was in my gayest mood, just ready for an adventure, and seeing he was disposed
                  to make fun of my mask, I proposed an experiment.
               "What!" exclaimed my cousin, "you do not intend to wear it to bed, do you?"
               "Far from it," I replied; "it is you who should wear the mask, not I. I am quite
                  ape enough without it."
               "A very just remark, indeed," he observed gravely.
               I had never seen him in better humor, and I thought it best to unfold my plan at
                  once. At our next door lived a worthy gentleman with whose daughter my bashful
                  cousin was already smitten. That very night as we passed by, on our return from
                  the village, he had called and bade her good night, and had received, in return,
                  one of the sweetest smiles from the happiest eyes and most charming lips I ever
                  beheld. I was his bosom friend, and to me he always entrusted his secrets, (alas!
                  how little have I deserved such confidence,) yet he always blushed when I spoke of
                  Julia.
               Some evil spirit—I know not what else it could have been—prompted me when I
                  proposed to have a little sport, at her expense. My plans were these: He was to
                  dress himself in a suit of clothes to correspond with the mask, which, by the way,
                  was the most frightful looking thing I ever saw, repair to the dwelling of his
                  love, and call her to the door by rapping. I was to stand near to witness the
                  result, and participate in the joke.
               
               He blushed, hung his head, and, of course, refused. I had expected this, but
                  flattered myself that I could easily persuade him to the contrary. It was,
                  however, a harder task than I had anticipated, for his unwillingness seemed
                  greater than ever; the reasons I readily understood.
               I poh'd and p'shaw'd, and finally threatened to expose to all the boys his
                  cowardly disposition, as I pleased to term it, and tender feelings toward Julia,
                  which, as yet, none of them had discovered. This last argument proved more
                  successful than the other, for he well knew that I never suffered the idlest
                  threat to remain unfulfilled; and the fear of being laughed at, besides betraying
                  that he most wished to conceal, conquered, and he yielded, though reluctantly, his
                  consent. At that moment I even exulted over my triumph, though I have often since
                  wished my lips had been struck dumb before I had uttered those words that sealed
                  the fate of two pure beings. But in my thoughtlessness, I rushed heedlessly on in
                  whatever I undertook, regardless of consequences. My wild, reckless spirit had
                  never been tamed.
               Finding that there was but one alternative, and that to submit cheerfully to my
                  whim, he suffered himself to be arrayed as my fancy suggested, with good grace,
                  and even laughed quite heartily, as I added garment after garment, in order to
                  make him look as frightful as possible; yet, after all, I could see that his mind
                  was ill at ease; and I half condemned myself for being the cause of his
                  unhappiness.
               When at length all was arranged to my satisfaction, I placed the horrid mask over
                  his face, and led him to the mirror. He started back and involuntarily placed his
                  hand to his head, as if to take it away, but my interference prevented. He even
                  plead that the penalty I had threatened to inflict, in case he refused to go,
                  might be spared him. But I was inexorable. I was anxious to see the result, and
                  the delay caused by his unwillingness vexed me.
               A renewal of my threats of exposure succeeded in removing all obstacles, and we
                  immediately set about our adventure. Cautiously as thieves, we crept through the
                  yard, and each took his station, Robert at the door, and I at the window nearest
                  him.
               The curtain was partly drawn aside, so that I could easily distinguish every
                  object in the room. As I had anticipated, she was alone. The domestics had
                  retired, and I knew her old father too well to believe that he was any where but
                  in the arms of Somnus; for he was one of those sensible persons whose maxim
                  is—"Early to bed, and early to rise."
               Julia—and I never shall forget how lovely she was—sat beside a small table in the
                  centre of the room, apparently deeply absorbed in a book. Her fair hand supported
                  her head, and her hair fell gracefully down upon her neck in beautiful natural
                  ringlets. She was a delicate wild-flower, that had budded and blossomed under the
                  shelter of a father's roof and the sunshine of gladness, and the dews of affection
                  had ever lighted and cheered her way.
               At length I gave a signal, and a loud rap was given. She paused for a moment,
                  listened attentively, and then, laying down her book, arose and approached the
                  door. As she opened it, the mask stepped boldly in, according to my directions.
                  How shall I describe the scene that followed? Even now I shudder to think of it!
                  Instantly all earthly hue fled from her face, and, with a piercing shriek she
                  staggered back a few paces, and fell heavily upon the floor. Quicker than
                  lightning, I sprang through the doorway, and knelt at her side. I grasped her
                  wrist; its pulsation had ceased! I placed my hand upon the heart. That also was
                  still. She was dead! * * *
               I can recall but little else that took place that night. The domestics, who slept
                  in an adjoining room, had been awakened by that terrible shriek, and came rushing
                  in to learn the cause of the uproar. I could not have spoken, even had
                     explanation been necessary. I was
                  overwhelmed with grief and self-condemnation. I could only point at the lifeless
                  form of poor Julia, and the mask, which Robert had torn from his face, and dashed
                  to the floor. He stood gazing at me with a cold, vacant stare, that I but too well
                  understood. More I cannot remember.
               
               Ten days passed, and I awoke from a raving delirium.—My first inquiry was for
                  Robert. They led him to my bedside; but, oh what a change! I stretched out my
                  clasped hands, in an agony of grief and remorse, to implore his forgiveness. He
                  neither moved nor spoke; but that same unmeaning stare drove home to my heart the
                  fearful conviction. Alas! he was a hopeless idiot!
               
               Fifteen years have elapsed since that never-to-be-forgotten era of my life. I
                  never have, I never can, forgive myself for having been the cause of so much
                  misery, though I have sought and hoped for forgiveness from on high. I never can
                  look upon a mask without a shudder, or hear its use denounced, without alluding to
                  my experience. And you, my young friends, when you are tempted to play tricks upon
                  others I am sure, will stop to consider, that what seems to you so innocent and
                  harmless, may, perhaps, in the end, prove a "fatal joke."
            
            
               "DODGING THE GAMBLER,"
               OR THE MAN WHO BOUGHT THE TICKET.
               O. E. Dodge, the violinist, who paid $625 for the first choice of a seat at Jenny
                  Lind's Boston concert, appears to be a man of infinite wit; and the New York
                  Spirit of the Times tells a laughable story of his taking in three Mississippi
                  gamblers. Some years ago, Dodge came aboard the boat, pretending to be a half
                  witted Yankee rustic, whereupon the confederates resolved to fleece him; and
                  accordingly, upon some circumlocution, they induced him to play at a game called
                  "Changing Jack." The Spirit of the Times thus gives the story denouement, which is
                  all we have room for:
               "I say, yeou! look yere," says Dodge, moving slowly and sideways up
                  to the table, "I say, yeou, I don't know nothing about keerds, but I'm killing to
                  risk a heap of money on that 'ere game."
               "Very well—I'm with you, stranger," exclaimed Strong, snapping his fingers;
                  "there's plenty more money where this came from, and I'm willing to risk all I've
                  got in the world that I can, by repeating a few short sentences in swine Latin,
                  change the Jack of Spades, while under your hand, into the Jack of Clubs, and that
                  you can't tell, by the sense of feeling, when the Spade takes its departure."
               "Look a' here, old flax head," exclaimed Brown, another of the confederates,
                  swelling out his large form to its fullest dimensions, and bristling up to Dodge
                  as if for a fight. "Look a' here, Mr.
                  Philgarlic, you are interfering in other people's business! I have set to that
                  man's pile myself, and I don't want no man to interfere."
               "I ax your pardon, if I intrude," says Dodge.
               "Very well, you may jest bet once!" says Brown, looking at Dodge very
                  closely, "for I see you are not a sporting man. You may bet once, if you wish;
                  mind, only once! as it's my game; but hereafter, as a general thing
                  you had better not interfere with stranger's games, for you might get into a
                  muss!"
               "Wal, yeas, it 'pears to be—so now go on with the show, for I want
                  tew make some money all-fired bad," says Dodge, taking hold, with both hands, of
                  what appeared to be the leg of the Jack of Spades.
               "Very well, then," says Strong, turning the pack over—"now pull the card, and keep
                  it bottom side upward."
               Dodge pulled the apparent Jack of Spades out on the table, holding his left hand
                  over it, while with the right he took off his bell-crowned hat, and sweeping the
                  card off between the palm of both hands, had the appearance of placing the drawn
                  card into the top of the old beaver, but in fact, only into the folds of the old
                  bandana, upon which he placed his doubled fist, remarking at the time—
               "By ginger! ef you kin git that ere Jack of Spades out of that ere hat by way of
                  yeour Latin I hope I may be stuffed to death with biled unyuns!"
               While the party were in the highest state of frolic and excitement over the
                  verdancy of the victim, Dodge took from his pocket a jack-knife, and, opening it
                  with his teeth, held it over his hat, and taking out the bandanna, which held the
                  card he had drawn from the pack, he jabbed the blade of the knife clear through
                  the other card, hat, and into the table, exclaiming—
               "Dang my buttons ef I keer for the hat—I'll jab her any how! cause, if I make a
                  hull lot of money, I kin buy a new hat, can't I."
               While Dodge was holding on to the knife, and looking as if he expected every
                  minute that the hat would take wings, the trio could hardly keep in, but it was
                  too good to spoil, so they only winked to one another, as much as to say—
               "A sure thing of it! Got him on the dead!! What an excellent thing to tell!!!
               The crowd, smoking something extraordinary rich, gathered around the
                  party, and revealed, by their anxious faces, that every one aboard had now become
                  deeply interested in the result of the professional skinning.
               "Now, then," says Strong, looking the victim sharply in the eyes, and holding up
                  his right arm, while he repeated in slow and measured tones, as solemn as the High
                  Sheriff at a public execution—"now then, my friend, prepare for the miracle— 
                     
                        "Now look out for tricks that's strange—
                        Hocus—pocus—presto, change!"
                     
                  
               
               "I'll be ker-walloped to death with cabbages, old feller, if that ere keerd is
                  changed anyhow!"
               "I'll go a thousand dollars that it did!" says Strong—"and that the
                  card that your knife is now sticking through, is the Jack of Clubs!"
               "Wal, I comed eout West here for to buy a considerable of a farm, and ef I kin
                  make a thousand dollars in one pile, I s'spose I might as well dew it, but mind,
                  neow, I don't call it bettin, for that would be wicked, and I only take this 'ere
                  thousand dollars for a benevolent purpose, but as fa-ather use to say—'in for a
                  pence, in for a pound'—so here goes."
               Suiting the action to his word, Dodge deliberately drew from an inside vest pocket
                  an old greasy wallet, and taking therefrom from ten one hundred dollar bills, on a
                  Philadelphia bank, held them in his hand, and exclaimed—
               "Well, neow, yeou feller! ef yeou're determined to throw away your money where you
                  don't stand no chance a winning why just pull out your dough!"
               Dodge had meanwhile been gazing intently in the hat, and a person not acquainted
                  with the peculiar twinkle of his large eyes, would have sworn that he had seen
                  nothing else for the last five minutes.
               "Captain, I want you to hold these 'ere thousand dollars, and as a
                  man of honor, in the presence of these 'ere passengers, see that fair play is did
                  tew a stranger."
               "I would rather have nothing to do with the affair," replied the Captain—"but if
                  you wish for me to hold the stakes I will do so, and call upon my passengers to
                  see that everything is honorable."
               "Well, Captain," exclaimed Strong, in a voice loud enough to be heard by all
                  present, "there's a thousand dollars in current bills and gold to cover the
                  Yankee's pile."
               "See that it's genewine, Captain, and no geouging."
               "All right," replied the Captain, "and now, gentlemen, please inform me, loud
                  enough for all present to hear, the precise character of the bet."
               While Dodge's attention was thus drawn off by the perspective fight, Strong cut
                  the Jack of Spades directly through the centre with his jack knife—hid the legs,
                  and placed the head part evenly over the head of the Jack of Clubs, crossing his
                  thumb over the cut edge, so to all appearances, the legs of the Jack of Clubs
                  belonged to the head of the Jack of Spades.
               "You see that is the Jack of Spades," said he turning to Dodge.
               "Is that ere spot genewine?" says Dodge, wetting his finger and touching the spade
                  at the head of the Jack.
               "You find it so, don't you?" pressing it close with his thumb to prevent its
                  moving.
               "Well, that ere chap there, what's got red whiskers and watch chain, and my own
                  self, what don't want to hev it called bettin' puts up in your hand, one thousand
                  dollars each, and if that ere keerd in that ere hat with that ere knife jabbed
                  through it, is the Jack of Spades then the hull tew thousand dollars is mine, but
                  if that keerd in that ere hat, with that ere knife jabbed through it, is the Jack
                  of Clubs, then the tew thousand dollars is his'n—ain't that right, yeou
                  feller?"
               "This is perfectly right, gentlemen," replied Strong, drawing his hand across his
                  mouth to hide a laugh, and edging around sideways, for he could hardly keep
                  in—"Yes, Captain, the Yankee's statement is correct."
               The idea of a verdant nutmeg Yankee putting up a thousand dollars on the cut
                  throat game of "Changing Jack," was so extremely ludicrous, that the crowd could
                  only by the greatest exertion, refrain from yelling.
               Strong and Brown very slyly performed a few mysterious gyrations with the fingers,
                  such as imitating the cutting of the throat, a rope around the neck, and a dive
                  into the river, three very common ways of committing suicide, and too often
                  adopted by young adventurers from the North and East, who blindly stake their all
                  after falling into the hands of these Western river chaps.
               Smiling at the earnestness and unbounded confidence of the heartless cut-throats,
                  whose slightest movements had not escaped his eagle eye, Dodge merely
                  remarked—"Let them laff that wins; there's tew sides to all jokes, tew sides to
                  the keerd and tew sides tew to all of yeour mouths tew laff out of, so here she
                  comes."
               Drawing out the knife and turning over the card, to the astonishment of the entire
                  crowd, it was the Jack of Spades!
               
               As the Captain passed the money over to Dodge the lower jaws of the disappointed
                  sharpers fell about a feet, and almost simultaneously exclaimed—
               "Jewed!"
               "Yankee'd!"
               "Bit!"
               The crowd who were bound to have a good time any way; and more especially now that
                  the joke was so much richer than was expected, were in a collapsed state—they
                  yelled, cheered, and shouted until the cabin fairly shook again.
            
            
               YANKEES ABROAD;
               OR, THE VERMONT SCHOOLMASTER.
               The most contemptible and cowardly species of affectation that ever came under oar
                  observation, is that which leads a man born in the North or East to disclaim his
                  birth-place or even attempt to conceal it, lest he should be called a "down
                  Easter" or a "Yankee." Much more entitled to scorn are those who have sprung from
                  a dunghill in some New England State, emigrated to the South, and then encourage
                  the belief that they sprouted into existence on Southern soil, expressing at all
                  times a thorough contempt for the "land of wooden nutmegs," as they are pleased to
                  term the land of Lexington, Bennington, and Bunker Hill. One of this latter class
                  of renegades was very pleasantly rebuked not long since, and so very effectually
                  withal, that he will not be likely to forget the lesson for many years.
               A gentleman of New Orleans was travelling North by the regular stage through
                  Alabama and Georgia. At a town in Georgia the coach stopped for the purpose of
                  giving the passengers a chance to swallow a hasty dinner. On leaving the table and
                  lighting his cigar, preparatory to resuming his place in the coach, our friend
                  found that a new passenger, belonging to the town, had taken the seat he had
                  occupied ever since starting. The inside of the coach was thus completely filled.
                  A drizzling rain had just set in, which promised to increase, in due time, to a
                  very respectable shower. Sundry upsets of the stage, at no time very agreeable, and the fatigue of travel
                  without sleep, had considerably encroached on the good nature of our worthy
                  traveller, and he did not feel at all inclined to surrender what he thought to be
                  his right. It scarcely needed the rather arrogant air of the stranger, therefore,
                  to bring him to a determination to make no concessions.
               "My friend," said he, "I am sorry to disturb you, but that seat is mine."
               "You're positive of that, are you?" replied the stranger with a rather
                  contemptuous smile.
               "Pretty positive, sir," said the other, surveying the interloper coolly.
               "I regret to say that I can't help it," answered the stranger; "I have paid my
                  fare to Augusta, and there is a strong probability that I shall go to Augusta, and
                  in this seat too."
               Our friend hesitated, for he was a cautious man. His first impulse was to try his
                  own strength, in illustration of the doctrine "might makes right;" but an
                  indisposition to quarrelling, united with the consideration that the stranger was
                  the stronger man of the two, and might prove victor in a personal contest, induced
                  him to make application first to the stage agent, who stood in the vicinity.
               "I believe I have a right to that seat," said he, "to Augusta. I have occupied it
                  so far, and by the comity existing between the sovereignties of that little world,
                  a stage coach, it ought not to be taken from me now. What is your opinion?"
               "You have a right to the seat, and shall have it," said the agent.
               He was about to invite the usurper to take an outside passage, when a rough,
                  good-humored and intelligent countryman, who could see but little difference
                  between an inside ride and the wind and rain with the congenial company of the
                  driver, tendered the new-comer his own seat, which he immediately vacated.
               If there were symptoms of a storm outside, there were likewise symptoms of a storm
                  inside, as the stranger gave way to the necessities of his situation, surrendered
                  his first seat, and took the one so generously offered him by the countryman. As
                  he assumed his new seat, a muttering about "d—d Yankee" was easily distinguished.
                  A few auxiliary jolts of the stage aided in arousing his temper, and at last he
                  broke out in a regular tirade against the universal Yankee nation.
               "I hate the whole essence peddling set," said he to an easy tempered fellow by his
                  side, "and always did; and I never could sufficiently thank my stars that I was
                  born and brought up south of the Potomac. They send out their meanest specimens to
                  the South," continued he, "and in the proportion to their numbers, they always
                  remind me of the vermin which overrun Egypt. One of the first and most useful
                  lessons I ever learned was to damn a Yankee."
               It would have been amusing to have watched the face of our traveller from New
                  Orleans. He had very carefully surveyed the features of the stranger as he settled
                  into his seat, and a smile gathered upon his lips which seemed to say he knew his
                  man. He listened quite patiently to the denunciations of the other, and finally
                  said, in a pleasant tone—
               "You don't seem to like the Yankees?"
               The stranger looked at him very closely before he answered, for he scarcely liked
                  the expression of his countenance; it might be friendly, or might not; for beneath
                  its placidity there was something which slightly resembled a sneer. He replied
                  briefly,
               "No sir, I do not."
               "People's tastes will differ; there is no accounting for them. Your fee,—pardon
                  me, sir,—seems not unfamiliar to me. If the request be not considered too
                  impertinent, I should like to be favored with your name."
               "My name is Jones. sir."
               "You are ——"
               
               "Cashier of the —— Bank."
               "Exactly, I remember, and ——"
               "Alderman in the same town."
               "Ay, come to remember," said our friend, scratching his head as though endeavoring
                  to bring to memory something he had forgotten; "I recollect having heard of you.
                     Did not you once teach a district school in the town of Pomfret, State of
                     Vermont?"
               "Eh? Pomfret? No! yes, hey?"
               "Yes, you remember," pursued his tormentor, as if not noticing his disturbance,
                  "the old red school house up there on the hill, close by the big rock; the
                  butternut woods in the rear. I taught in the district adjoining you know. Let me
                  see," said he, in a slow and thoughtful tone, and with imperturbable gravity, "I
                  think our pay, that winter, was ten dollars a month, wasn't it. There was a
                  proposition, you remember, to drum you out of town for ——"
               Our Alderman and Cashier could stand it no longer, but leaning forward to our New
                  Orleans traveller, said fiercely,
               "Who are you any how?"
               "Nobody in particular; merely one of those "d—d Yankees," of whom you spoke a
                  minute ago."
               There are those besides Falstaff who have considered "discretion the better part
                  of valor." Long before the stage reached Augusta, there was not a more agreeable,
                  social fellow in it, than the quondam Vermont Schoolmaster.
            
         
      
      
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               Rev. Peter Cartwright the Methodist Presiding Elder, A genuine Portrait from
                  Life in Illinois, PAGE 6
               
               Uncle Bill, 19
               
               Drawing a Chalk Line, or reserving the right of passage, An incident founded on
                  fact, 24
               
               A Scene in Florida, 27
               
               How Mick Shouter came very near "walloping" Arch Coony. A Yazoo Sketch. 30
               
               Rousing a Hoosier. Scene at a Steamboat dinner, 38
               
               Speculation in Whiskers, or shaving in a Broker's office, 42
               
               The Volunteer Counsel. A tale of John Taylor. 47
               
               A Hoosier Wedding, 54
               
               A Saw Log Blind, or Poker out West, 68
               
               A Trip to Texas, 72
               
               The Hanimal Show, 89
               
               Mrs. John Smith, Jr., of Arkansas, whom it was hard to make scold, 93
               
               A Negro Beer Dance in Old Virginny, 98
               
               The Miniature. A Lynching Scene in California, 104
               
               A Narrow Escape, 113
               
               Sally Magus. The Woman wot knows how to manage the men, 119
               
               The Kentuckian in Havanna, 121
               
               Fanny Moore, the Female Hunter of the West, 125
               
               Mr. Sampson's House, 132
               
               A Clean Back Out, 136
               
               The Virginia Regiment, 139
               
               Incidents on Board a Steamboat, 145
               
               The Duel in the Dark. A true incident in the annals of Vicksburg, 151
               
               Backing out a Stranger, or the Tennessee Jockies badly sold, 159
               
               A Chip from a Sailor's Log, 166
               
               Heroine of Wheeling, 169
               
               The Fatal Joke, 176
               
               Dodging the Gambler, or the man who bought the ticket, 181
               
               Yankees Abroad, or the Vermont Schoolmaster, 187
               
            
         
         
            
            RICHMOND BOOKSTORE:
            J. W. RANDOLPH, Publisher, Bookseller, Stationer AND DEALER IN MUSIC,
               121 MAIN STREET, RICHMOND, Va.
            In addition to the best assortment of Law, Medical, Theological, Historical,
               Classical, Agricultural, School and Miscellaneous Books in Virginia, offers the
               following for sale in any quantities:
            
               Quarterly Law Journal, 8vo. paper, per year, $5.
               Wythe's Virginia Reports, new and only complete edition, 8vo. sheep, $4.
               Jefferson's Virginia Reports, 8vo. half calf, $2.
               Hening and Munford's Virginia Reports, new edition, 4 vols., 8vo., sp.
                  $20.
               Munford's Virginia Reports, 6 vols. 8vo. sp. $30.
               Randolph's Virginia Reports, 6 vols. 8vo. sp. $24.
               Gilmer's Virginia Reports, 8vo. cf. $2.
               Leigh's Virginia Reports, 12 vols. 8vo. cf. $48.
               Grattan's Virginia Reports, 11 vols. 8vo. cf. $44.
               Cases, criminal, etc., by Judges Brockenbrough and Holmes, new edition, with
                  notes, 2 vols. in 1, 8vo. sp. $6.
               Acts of Assembly of Va., various years, 8vo. hf. sh. 75 to $1 25.
               Hening and Shepherd's Statutes of Va., 16 vols. 8vo. sp. $18.
               Hening's Lawyer's Guide and American Pleader, 2 vols. 8vo. sp. $8.
               Hall's Digested Index to the Virginia Reports, 2 vols. 8vo. sp. $3.
               Mathews' Guide to Commissioners in Chancery, 8vo. sp. $2 50.
               
               Rules of the Court of Appeals of Va., 8vo. pa. 12c.
               Mayo's Magistrate's Guide, 8vo. sp. $3.
               Virginia Laws on Corporations, 8vo. pa. 50c.
               Trial of T. Ritchie, Jr., for killing J. H. Pleasants, 8vo. pa. 25c.
               Justice's Record Book of Judgments, cap, hf. sp. $1 and 1 50.
               Tucker's Lectures on Natural Law and Government, 12mo. muslin, 75c.
               Tucker's Lectures on Constitutional Law, 12mo. mus. 75c.
               Virginia Pay and Muster Rolls, 2 vols. in 1, 8vo. sp. $15.
               Virginia House of Delegates Journals, various years.
               Journals of Virginia Conventions of 1776, 4to. hf. sp. and 1850, 8vo. hf. sp. 2
                  50.
               Journals and Debates of Virginia Convention of 1829-30, 8vo. cf. $2.
               Debates in Virginia Convention of 1788, 8vo. sp. $5.
               Virginia Debates and Resolutions 1798-9, 8vo. hf. cf. 1 50.
               Statistics of Virginia to 1850, 8vo. cf. 2 50.
               Constitution of Virginia, 1851, 8vo. pa. 12c.
               Progress of the United States, with Census of 1850, 4to. mus. $6.
               Statistics of United States Census of 1850, 4to. mus. 1 00.
               Smith's History of Virginia, 2 vols. 8vo. sp. 5 00.
               Smith's News from Virginia, 8vo. pa. 25c.
               Campbell's History of Virginia, 8vo. mus. 1 50.
               Beverley's History of Virginia, new edition, edited by C. Campbell, with
                  Plates, 8vo. mus. 2 50.
               Martin and Brockenbrough's History of Virginia, 8vo. sp. 2 00.
               Jefferson's Notes on Virginia, new edition, with map and plates, and new matter
                  never before printed, 8vo. mus. 2 50.
               Virginia Historical Register, 6 vols. 8vo. pa. at 1 00.
               Virginia Historical Society Addresses, 8vo. pa. at 25c.
               Jefferson's Memoir, Correspondence and Miscellanies, 4 vols. 8vo. boards, 5
                  00.
               Lee's Remarks on the Writings of Jefferson, 8vo. mus. 1 25.
               Byrd's Westover Manuscripts, 8vo. bds. 1 25.
               Bland's Papers and Memoir, 8vo. hf. sp. 1 25.
               Dr. Moorman's Guide to Virginia Springs, 18mo. mus. 1 00.
               Dr. Burke's Guide to Virginia Springs, 12mo. mus. 1 25.
               Dr. Goode's Guide to Virginia Hot Springs, 48mo. pa. 12c.
               Maury's Gulf Stream and Currents of the Sea, 8vo. pa. 25c.
               Smith's View of British Possessions in America, 48mo. sp. 25c.
               Southern Literary Messenger, 20 vols. complete, a handsome set bound, 75 00,
                  any year or number supplied.
               Life and Sermons of Rev. Wm. Duval, by Rev. C. Walker, 12mo. mus. 1 00.
               Sermons by Rev. J. D. Blair, 8vo. sp. 75c.
               Fletcher's Studies on Slavery, 8vo. sp. 2 00.
               Dew's Essay on Slavery, 8vo. pat 50c.
               Lays of Ancient Virginia, and other poems, by J. A. Bartley, 12mo. mus.
                  75c.
               Gertrude, a novel, by Judge Tucker, 8vo. pa. 37c.
               Southern and South-Western Sketches, Fun, Sentiment and Adventure, 12mo. pa.
                  37c.
               Uncle Robin in his Cabin in Virginia, and Tom without one in Boston, by J. W.
                  Page, with plates, second edition 12mo. mus. 1 00.
               Garnett's Lectures on Female Education, 32mo. sp. 50c.
               Vaughan's Speller, Reader and Definer, No. 1, 12mo. sp. back, 18c.
               Vaughan's Speller, Reader and Definer, No. 2, 12mo. sp. bk. 25c.
               Life of the Hon. Nathaniel Macon, of North Carolina, 12mo mus. 75c.
               Rogers' Virginia Geological Reports, 8vo. pa. 1 00.
               Winckler's Hints to Piano-Forte Players, 12mo. bds. 25c.
               Laws of Trade, by Charles Ellett, 8vo. mus. 1 50.
               Industrial Resources of the South, 3 vols. 8vo. mus. 6 00.
               Family Receipt Book, 12mo. pa. 25.
               A collection of the Early Voyages to America, by Conway Robinson, 8vo. mus. 3
                  00.
               Edgar's Sportsman's Herald and Stud Book, 8vo. sp. 1 50.
               Plantation and Farm Book, Record, Inventory and Account Book, by a Southern
                  Planter, 4to. hf. sp. 2 00.
               Ruffin's Farmer's Register, 10 vols. 8vo. hf. sp. 30 00.
               Ruffin's Essay on Agricultural Education, 8vo. pa. 12c.
               Ruffin's Essay on Calcareous Manures, 12mo. mus. 1 25.
               Ruffin's Agricultural Essays and Notes, 12mo. mus. 1 25.
               Ruffin's Agricultural Works, 2 vols. library binding, 12mo. 3 00.
               Transactions of Virginia Agricultural Society to 1853, 8vo. pa. 50c.
               Randolph's Pocket Daily Memoranda, 24mo. sp. bk. 87c.
               Cottom's Edition of Richardson's Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland and
                  District of Columbia Almanac, 24mo. pa. 6c. each; 25c. per dozen, or 2 50 per
                  gross.
               Flavel's Balm of the Covenant, View of the Soul of Man, &c., 8vo. hf. sp.
                  50c.
               Williams and others on Water-Cure and Bathing, with notes by J. H. Timberlake,
                  12mo. bds. 50c.
               Dove's Masonic Constitutions, 12mo. mus. 75c.
               Dove's New Masonic Text Book, 12mo. mus. 1 25.
               Dove's Virginia Royal Arch Text Book, 12mo. mus. 1 25.
               Robinson's Description of the Oregon Territory, 8vo. pa. 50c.
               Prose and Verse, by St. Leger L. Carter, 24mo. mus. 50c.
               Com. Elliott's Address to his Early Companion, 8vo. pa. 37c.
               Arator, by John Taylor, of Caroline, 12mo. sp. 1 00.
               Taylor's Constitution Construed, 8vo. hf. sp. 3 00.
               Virginia State Directory, 8vo. bds. 50c.
               Edith Allen, or Sketches of Life in Virginia, by Lawrence Neville, 12mo. mus. 1
                  00.
               Laws of Etiquette, 12mo. pa. 12c.
               Self Instructor, or Learning Made Easy, 16mo. pa. 12c.
               Hunnicutt's Doctrine of the Union Baptists, 12mo. pa. 12c.
               Select and Classified Latin Words, 8vo. pa. 25.
               Riego, or the Spanish Martyr, a Tragedy in five Acts, 12mo. pa. 37c.
               Magruder and Orvis' Debate, 12mo. mus. 125.
               Grigsby's Sketch of Virginia Convention, 1776, 8vo. mus. 1 25.
            
            
            
               NEW BOOKS NOW PRINTING.
               Matthews' Digest of the Laws of Virginia, 8vo. sp. $10.
               Grigsby's Sketch of the Virginia Convention of 1776, 8vo. mus. 1 25.
            
            
               BOOKS IN PREPARATION.
               Hopkins', Sir John Randolph's and Barradall's Virginia Reports: Book of Forms
                  and Practice adapted to New Code.
               Randolph's Gardening.
               Stith's, Keith's, Burke's, Jones' and Gerardin's Histories of Virginia.
               Wirt's Old Bachelor.
            
            J. W. RANDOLPH has published a Catalogue of his stock of Books, (amounting to
               $20,000,) with size, binding, and price of each, which may be had without charge.
            Books sent by mail, post-paid, to all who remit the price in money or stamps.
            Gentlemen or societies forming or adding to their libraries will save money by
               sending their orders to 121 Main Street, Richmond, Va.
            Rare old Works bought and sold.
            
               Blank Books made to order.
            Book-Binding in every style, equal in quality and finish to any work done North or
               South.
            English and American Periodicals furnished to subscribers.
            Books imported to order.
            HANDSOME BINDING. At J. W. RANDOLPH'S may be seen a BIBLE, bound in his establishment
               by one of his workmen, which, in point of neatness of finish, beauty of style and
               durability, cannot be excelled. Our citizens will do well to bear these facts in
               mind, and have their books bound at home, instead of sending them to the
                  North.—Richmond Republican.
         
         
            WYTHE'S VIRGINIA REPORTS.
            
               Decisions of Cases in Virginia, by the High Court of Chancery, with
               remarks upon decrees by the Court of Appeals reversing some of those decisions, by
               GEORGE WYTHE, Chancellor of said court. Second and only complete edition. With a
               Memoir of the Author, Analysis of the Cases, and an Index, by B. B. MINOR, L. B. And
               with an Appendix, containing references to cases in Pari
                  Materia, an Essay on Lapse, Joint Tenants and Tenants in Common,
               &c., &c., by WM. GREEN, ESQ. 8vo. sheep, $4.
            Judge LOMAX, in the second edition of his Digest, (vol, 1, p. 613, note*,) says:
               "See, in the Appendix to Minor's edition of Wythe's Reports, a most learned and
               elaborate consideration of the origin, and nature, and principles of the doctrine of
               survivorship in joint-tenancy, and the extent to which, unrepealed by the Virginia
               statutes, it remains still applicable in practice, by Wm. Green, Esq., of the
               Virginia Bar." Other notices of the same Appendix occur ibid. 432, note
               G; 527, note *; 536, text and note.
            "This Appendix, from the pen of Wm. Green, Esq., of Culpeper, contains, among other
               useful essays, a learned, elaborate, and thorough discussion of the subject of
               foreclosure of mortgages in Virginia."—Sands' Suit in Equity, 493.
            Chief Justice TAYLOR, in Orr's heirs v. Irving's heirs and devisees, 2
               Carolina Law Repository, 465, delivering the opinion of the court, says: "To these
               [English] cases may be added a decision made by the late Chancellor Wythe, in
               Virginia, which may be cited as equal in point of authority, if not superior, to any
               of the British decisions, from the luminous and conclusive reasoning on which that
               upright and truly estimable judge founds it—clarum et
                  venerabile nomen."
            Mr. WALLACE, Editor of "The Reporters Chronologically Arranged," says, in his third
               edition of that work, page 346: "A very greatly improved edition of Wythe, edited by
               B. B. Minor, Esq., of the Richmond Bar, with a memoir by the editor, and an appendix,
               containing many very learned notes, by Mr. Green, appeared in 1852. No American
               Reporter has ever been so learnedly and carefully edited."
            All of the old editions of this work are imperfect, and yet copies have been sold at
               auction as high as $10, such has been the demand for it.
            New and only complete edition.
            Published by J. W. RANDOLPH.
         
         
            
            MATTHEWS' GUIDE.
            
               A Guide to Commissioners in Chancery, with practical form for the
               discharge of their duties; adapted to the new Code of Virginia, by JAMES M. MATTHEWS,
               Attorney at Law, author of "Digest of the Laws of Virginia." 8vo. sheep, $2 50.
            "Mr. Matthews has in this publication furnished a valuable addition to the small
               stock of Virginia Law Books. The work is not only of essential service to the
               Commissioner, it is also a valuable vade mecum to
               the Chancery Lawyer. The following opinion is expressed of it by a legal friend: 'I
               have had occasion to use Mr. Matthews' Guide to Commissioners as a book of reference
               in the course of my practice at the bar. I have uniformly found it to be correct, and
               it materially aided me while attending the settlement of accounts before the
               Commissioner.'
            The following table of contents may be acceptable to our legal readers in the
               country:
            Chapter I. Of the origin of Commissioners in Chancery, their appointment, the
               reference of accounts to them, and the proceedings thereupon.—Chap. II. Of
               fiduciaries generally, and the settlement of their accounts by Commissioners in
               Chancery.—Chap. III. Of Guardians and Wards.—Chap. IV. Proceedings under decrees and
               orders in the Commissioner's Office, and herein:—Of References and Reports; The
               examination of parties upon interrogatories; Admissions of parties; Of the onus probandi; The examination of witnesses upon
               interrogatories; Enquiries as to heirs-at-law, next of kin, &c.; Production of
               documents; Of scandal and impertinence; Of the principles on which accounts of
               executor or administrator should be stated; When interest not to be involved in
               administration account; When account of executor or administrator should be closed;
               What payments not to enter into the general account; When annual rests are to be
               made; Formula in stating account of executor or administrator; Principles on which
               guardians' accounts should be stated; How to state the account of one who is in name
               an executor, but is in fact a guardian or trustee; How to ascertain value of
               life-estate or annuity; Table of longevity; Adjournment by Commissioner; Report and
               exceptions; Review of report.—Chap. V. Of surcharge and falsification.—Chap. VI. Of
               notices.—Chap. VII. Of evidence.—Chap. VIII. Of means for compelling debtor to
               discover and surrender his estate.—Chap. IX. Of fees of Commissioner in
               Chancery.—Chap. X. Of descents and distributions.-Chap. XI. Of the payment of debts
               according to their priority.—Chap. XII. For preventing Commission of crimes.
            Every Commissioner should have a copy of this work."
            [Republican.
            Published by J. W. RANDOLPH.
         
         
            HENING AND MUNFORD'S VIRGINIA REPORTS.
            New edition; 4 vols. 8vo. sheep, $20.
            Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia,
               with select cases, relating chiefly to points of practice decided by the Superior
               Court of Chancery for the Richmond district; by WM. W. HENING and WM. MUNFORD. A new
               edition, with memoirs of the judges whose decisions are reported; the present rules
               of the Court of Appeals, and of the Chancery Court in Richmond; references to
               subsequent decisions of the Court of Appeals, and to existing statutes in paria materia, with the points herein reported, and a
               list of the cases over-ruled, edited by B. B. MINOR, L. B. Published by J. W.
               RANDOLPH.
         
         
            RULES OF THE COURTS.
            Rules of the Court of Appeals from its establishment to the present time. Also,
            Rules of the District Courts of Fredericksburg and Williamsburg. 8vo. paper, 12c.
            The only complete edition. Published by J. W. RANDOLPH.
         
         
            NORTH CAROLINA AND VIRGINIA.
            The Westover Manuscripts, containing a History of the Dividing Line betwixt Virginia
               and North Carolina; a Journey to the Land of Eden; A. D. 1733; a Progress to the
               Mines; written from 1728 to 1736, and now first published; by WILLIAM BYRD, of
               Westover. 8vo. boards, $1 25. For sale by J. W. RANDOLPH.
         
         
            
            RUFFIN'S AGRICULTURAL ESSAYS.
            Essays and Notes on Agriculture. By EDMUND RUFFIN. 12mo. muslin. $1 25.
            Containing articles on the Theory and Practice of Draining (in all its
               branches)—Advantages of Ploughing Flat Land in Wide Beds—on Clover Culture and the
               Use and Value of the Products—Management of Wheat Harvests—Harvesting Corn Fodder—on
               the manner of propagation and habits of the Moth or Weevil, and means to prevent its
               ravages—Inquiry into the causes of the existence of Prairies, Savannas and Deserts,
               and the peculiar condition of Soils which Favor or Prevent the Growth of
               Trees—Depressed condition of Lower 
                  Virgini
                  Virginia
               —Apology for "Book Farmers"—Fallow—Usefulness of Snakes—Embanked Tide
               Marshes and Mill Ponds as Causes of Disease—On the Sources of Malaria, or of Autumnal
               Diseases, and means of prevention—On the Culture, Uses and Value of the Southern Pea.
               (Ruffin's Prize Essay of November, 1854,) and especially as a Manuring Crop.
            This volume consists of didactic and principally, also strictly practical pieces, in
               part selected from the Farmer's Register, or still more that have either not been
               published in Virginia or entirely new matter, in addition to and extensions of former
               publication, and the recent Prize Essay on the Pea Culture, &c.
            "The essays of no man of this day in Virginia, upon the subject of Agriculture, can
               command the attention that will be paid to those from the pen of the venerable
               farmer, Edmund Ruffin; a man whose long experience, whose close observation and
               incessant efforts to improve the system of Agriculture, have placed him at the head
               of that noble profession—Tiller of the Soil."—Richmond Dispatch.
            "In a country like ours, the pursuits of Agriculture are the foundation of
               prosperity, and their improvement is connected with every step of its advancement.
               Its study is, therefore, of prime importance, and every contributor is a benefactor.
               It is one of the blessings of the age, that this department of industry has commenced
               a new epoch, from the applications of science and the systematized results of
               observation and experience. For this latter class of improvements, Mr. Ruffin stands
               pre-eminent. He is deeply and enthusiastically versed in all the questions of
               practical farming, and with a generosity which entitles him to the highest credit,
               gives the benefit of his enlightened views to the world. The volume, before us,
               comprises his most matured convictions on a variety of agricultural topics of
               acknowledged importance to all who cultivate the soil. It is a treasury of that kind
               of information of which thousands in the country stand in need, and for want of which
               their actual labor does not receive half of its reward. Buy Mr. Ruffin's book,
               gentlemen, and the earth herself will return the compliment with a
                  smile."—Quarterly Review.
         
         
            RUFFIN ON MANURES.
            An Essay on Calcareous Manures, by EDMUND RUFFIN a practical Farmer of Virginia from
               1812; Founder and sole Editor of the Farmers' Register; Member and secretary of the
               former State Board of Agriculture; formerly Agricultural Surveyor of the State of
               South Carolina; and president of the Virginia State Agricultural Society. Fifth
               edition, amended and enlarged. Fine edition, 8vo., printed on good paper, and
               strongly bound, library style, $2; cheap edition, 12mo., muslin, $1 25.
            A large proportion of this publication consists of new matter not embraced in the
               preceding editions. The new additions or amendments serve to present all the new and
               important lights on the general subject of the work, derived from the author's later
               observation of facts, personal experience, and reasoning founded on these premises.
               By such new additions the present edition is increased more than one-third in size,
               notwithstanding the exclusion of much of the least important matter of the preceding
               edition, and of all portions before included, that were not deemed essential to the
               argument, and necessary to the utility of the work.
            Prof. JOHNSON, of London, author of "Agricultural Chemistry," "Chemistry of Common
               Life," and many other valuable Works, speaking of the influence of man upon the
               productions of the Soil and the application of Marl to worn-out Lands, says, "for
               examples of both the results, see Essay on Calcareous Manures, by Edmund Ruffin, the
               publication of which in Virginia, marks an epoch in the Agricultural history of the
               Slave States of North America."
            "Mr. Ruffin with an ingenuity, an energy and a logic, which belong only to the order
               of great intellects, has demonstrated, both by analysis and synthesis, the disease
               and the cure; the disease, the want of Carbonate of Lime in our soils, and their
               consequent acidity and sterility; the cure, the application of this necessary element
               of all good lands, in the form of marl, which is generally diffused. throughout the
               tide-water section of this State and the adjacent States."—Richmond
                  Whig.
            The Southern Planter says: "We commend it to every farmer in the State. To the
               tide-water farmers it is a necessary of agricultural life."
         
         
            
            PLANTATION BOOK.
            Plantation and Farm Instruction, Regulation, Record, Inventory and Account Book, for
               the use of Managers of Estates and for the better ordering and management of
               plantation and farm business in every particular. By a Southern Planter. "Order is
               Heaven's first law." 4to. hf. roan, $2.
            This Book is by one of the best and most systematic farmers in Virginia, and
               experienced farmers have expressed the opinion that those who use it will save
               hundreds of dollars.
            "This is a most admirable work, one which every planter and farmer should not only
               possess, but carry out its objects and aims, both in the letter and in the spirit,
               for they all tend to the introduction of system in the managment of landed estates.
               The Book purports to have been gotten up as a guide to overseers and managers; but is
               so filled, so arranged, that the proprietors of such estates would themselves be
               equally benefited by personally carrying out its numerous plans, hints and
               suggestions; for after carefully looking through and studying its details, we most
               conscientiously say, that they are founded in wisdom, and, if practiced upon, would
               be promotive alike of economy and humanity—economy in the management of the farm or
               plantation—and humanity in providing for the comfort and health of slaves, as well as
               stock.
            It contains a chapter explanatory of the manager's duty—shows how his journal or
               daily record should be kept. Upon this head, as well as upon the employment and
               treatment of negroes and management of the plantation, the remarks are alike copious
               and judicious; so also are those upon the manner in which the stock of all kinds are
               to be cared for. Its observations upon the saving and application of manure, the
               cultivation of the plantation or farm, as well as upon the proper rotation of crops,
               are sensible, and show an acquaintance with the several subjects on the part of the
               author. The tables, illustrative of the three, four and five field system of
               rotation, are full of instruction, and may be studied with decided advantage.
            It also contains many useful 'tables,' showing the number of spaces contained in an
               acre of land at various given distances, which will be found useful in fixing the
               proper distances to place marl, lime or other manure, so as to give any desired
               quantity to the acre," &c. Besides which, there are ruled blanks for recording
               all the details of farm and plantation duties, from the beginning to the end of the
               year, so arranged as to make the labor so plain and easy, that if anything can induce
               farmers and planters to record the operations of their estates, this work will lure
               them to it. That it may find a ready sale we most fervently wish, as it is pregnant
               with much good."—American Farmer.
         
         
            JEFFERSON'S NOTES.
            Notes on the State of Virginia. By THOMAS JEFFERSON. Illustrated with a Map of
               Virginia, Maryland, Delaware and Pennsylvania. A New Edition, prepared by the Author,
               containing many Notes and Plates never before published. 8vo. muslin, $2 50.
            It is printed from President Jefferson's Copy (Stockdale's London edition of 1787) of
               the Notes on Virginia, with his last additions (they are numerous) and corrections in
               manuscript, and four maps of Caves, Mounds, Fortifications, &c.
            Letters from Gen. Dearborn and Judge Gibson, relating to the Murder of Logan,
               &c.
            Fry and Jefferson's Map of Virginia, Maryland, Delaware and Pennsylvania—very
               valuable on account of the Public Places and Private Residences, which are not to be
               found on any other map.
            A Topographical Analysis of Virginia, for 1790—a curious and useful sheet for
               historical reference.
            Translations of all Jefferson's Notes in Foreign Languages, by Prof. Schele de Vere,
               of the University of Virginia. 
            "The recent publication of Mr. Jefferson's well known and interesting Notes on the
               State of Virginia, renders a special and most acceptable service. The work, which was
               nearly out of print, has been enriched with the manuscript notes of the illustrious
               author; and where these have been quoted from foreign languages, they have been
               translated in the Appendix by the learned Prof. Schele de Vere. It is unnecessary to
               praise a book which has always been highly esteemed,"—Richmond
                  Examiner.
            "As the production of one of our most eminent statesmen and writers, abounding in
               profound thoughts and philosophical deductions, it will ever be deemed an
               indispensable volume in a well chosen library."—Religious Herald.
            "A new edition of the famous work has just been published. The paper, print and
               binding are all in excellent taste, and do credit to Mr. R. This edition has the
               advantage of the author's last notes and emendations, and has been carried through
               the press with great care and caution, by a gentleman every way equal to the task,
               who is, moreover, a near relative of the author. Every Virginian who wishes to know
               as much as possible about his own State, will of course buy it, for Mr. Jefferson was
               by many degrees the best Virginian antiquary that has yet been known to the
                  public."—Richmond Dispatch.
         
         
            
            CAMPBELL'S VIRGINIA.
            Introduction to the History of the Colony and Ancient Dominion of Virginia, by
               CHARLES CAMPBELL. 8vo. muslin, $1 50.
            "CHARLES CAMPBELL, ESQ., of Petersburg, a gentleman better informed upon the history
               of Eastern Virginia than any one we have met in the course of our investigation, and
               to whom we are indebted for much valuable information." [Henry Howe, Editor of
               Historical Collections of Virginia.
            "We do not doubt that this is the most authentic History of Virginia, as a Colony,
               which has yet appeared."—Petersb'g Intelligencer.
            "We take great pleasure in giving our cordial recommendation to the
                  work."—Watchman and Observer.
            "No work in Virginia, we will venture to say, has appeared for many years, which has
               been enriched and illustrated with so many original facts and
                  explanations."—Literary World.
            "We are of those who love a straight forward and unvarnished chronicle; we,
               therefore, like Mr. Campbell's book." [Princeton Review.
            "No one can even glance at the work without imbibing the conviction, that its author
               has been a long and loving student of Virginia History, and has his mind embodied
               with the result of his extensive experience and ripe discrimination, in a style at
               once terse, vigorous and pleasing."—Literary World.
            "You have presented the outline of early Virginia History in an unusually attractive
               form, and one well fitted to lead the reader to pursue more fully its minuter
               details." [Professor Gammell, of Brown University.
            "The book will be a very useful compend for the inhabitants of Virginia, as well as
               for general readers in other parts of the country."—Jared Sparks.
            "Mr. Campbell's History of Virginia is presented to the public in a very unpretending
               form, and is written in a clear, agreeable and manly style, without affectation, with
               new and elaborate conceits of expression, and defaced by no ambitious and deliberate
               flights of rhetoric. The subject is a good one, and it is treated as if the author
               felt assured of its intrinsic attractions. He has evidently scrutinized the
               appropriate evidences in their sources, and the reader may repose with confidence in
               his statements."—North Amer. Review.
         
         
            BEVERLEY'S VIRGINIA.
            The History of Virginia, in four parts. I. The history of the settlement of Virginia,
               and the government thereof, to the year 1706. II. The natural productions and
               conveniences of the country, suited to trade and improvement. III. The native
               Indians, their religion, laws and customs, in war and peace. IV. The present state of
               the country, as to the polity of the government, and the improvements of the land, to
               10th of June, 1720. By ROBERT BEVERLEY, a native of the place. Reprinted from the
               author's second revised London edition of 1792, with an introduction by CHAS.
               CAMPBELL, author of the "Colonial History of Virginia." 8vo. muslin, $2 50.
            "Mr. Randolph deserves the thanks of the people of Virginia for rescuing her early
               literature from the oblivion into which it is so rapidly falling. His recent
               re-publication of Jefferson's Notes, with the author's latest autograph corrections,
               was not more gratifying to the. Virginia scholar and statesman, than the
               re-publication of this rare volume—as precious in Virginia history as any genuine old
               painting of Raphael or Rembrandt in Art—will prove to the Virginia historian and
               student. Beverley is the very best authority of all early Virginia writers upon the
               particular subjects delineated in his quaint and agreeable pages; and his work
               affords the most vivid, comprehensive, instructive and entertaining picture of
               Virginia at the date of his writing that is to be found. The reprint is illustrated
               precisely after the manner of the original, by engravings executed in lithograph with
               remarkable truthfulness and beauty. The typographical execution of the book is very
               chaste and neat. We are sure that no Virginia gentleman of taste and learning will
               fail to add so valuable a volume to his library."—Richmond
               Examiner.
         
         
            MARTIN AND BROCKENBROUGH'S VIRGINIA.
            A Comprehensive Description of Virginia and the District of Columbia, containing a
               copious collection of Geographical, Statistical, Political, Commercial, Religious,
               Moral and Miscellaneous information, chiefly from original sources, by JOSEPH MARTIN;
               to which is added A History of Virginia, from its first settlement to the year 1754,
               with an abstract of the principal events from that period to the Independence of
               Virginia, by W. H. BROCKENBROUGH, formerly Librarian at the University of Virginia,
               and afterwards Judge of the United States Court in Florida. 8vo. sheep, $2.
         
         
            
            VIRGINIA DEBATES OF 1798.
            The Virginia Report of 1799-1800, touching the Alien and Sedition Laws, together with
               the Virginia Resolutions of December 21, 1798, the debate and proceedings thereon in
               the House of Delegates of Virginia, and several other documents illustrative of the
               Report and Resolutions. New edition. 8vo. half calf, $1 50.
            "We have received a neat and well printed copy of the 'Virginia Report on the
               Resolutions of '98-'99, concerning the Alien and Sedition Laws.' We were struck with
               the truth of the remark of the editor of the first mentioned volume, that this
               'report had been more praised than read.' Every statesman should be familiar with its
               contents. It is certainly a valuable commentary on the Federal Constitution, and both
               parties may find here some of the strongest arguments in support of their several
                  theories."—Richmond Republican.
         
         
            DEW ON SLAVERY.
            An Essay on Slavery, by THOMAS R. DEW, late President of William and Mary College,
               Williamsburg, Va. Second edition. 8vo. paper, 50c.
            "This Essay has peculiar claims to the attention of the Virginian, and is not wanting
               in interest to the statesman every where. We do not think we err in saying, that it
               is the clearest and ablest defence of the institution to be found in the English
               language. The writer views that institution in its historical and its scriptural
               aspects, and discusses at large the plans for the abolition of negro slavery. While
               we cannot accord with all the views he has expressed in regard to the colonization
               movement, we yet think the facts he arrays, and the principles he urges, are entitled
               to the gravest consideration, as the results of unwearied labor, and of a mind well
               balanced. and well trained. We believe that all parties are agreed as to the evil of
               emancipation, without removal. The painting of the scenes which would ensue such an
               event, is drawn with a master hand.—Republican.
         
         
            DOVE'S MASONIC TEXT BOOK.
            The Masonic Text Book. Containing a History of Masonry and Masonic Grand Lodges, from
               the earliest times; together with the constitution of Masonry, or Ahimon Rezon, and a
               Digest of the Laws, Rules and Regulations of the Grand Lodge of Virginia; also, a
               complete compilation of the illustrations of Masonic work in the degrees of Entered
               Apprentice, Fellow Craft, Master Mason and Past Master, as drawn from Preston, Webb,
               Read and others. Also, a History of the Grand Lodges of Virginia. By DR. JOHN DOVE,
               G. Secretary of the G. L. of Virginia. Second edition, with plates. Just published by
               order of the Grand Lodge of Virginia. 12mo. mus. $1 25—morocco bk. $1 50.
            Notice from Morris' American Free Mason.
            "When we saw what you had done in the preparation of this excellent work, one of the
               very best, the very best, so far as arrangement, &c., are concerned, we have ever
               seen; we felt as we hope often to feel, when others yield the fruits of long thought
               and care for our institution. In the name of our ten thousand subscribers, in the
               name of the American craft, we thank you for this volume, and when the acacia has
               crumbled upon your coffin, and the marble yields to the elements and falls, and men
               forget where the veteran was laid, may this monument prove, like Horace's, more
               enduring than brass.........
            "Though this book was first issued in 1846, it has only recently, through the
               enlarged and improved edition before us, come out prominently before the public. We
               hope its advancement will be as successful as its merits justly demand. The estimate
               in which the volume is held in Virginia, where it is used to the absolute exclusion
               of all others, and the character of its author, a Brother of not less intellectual
               ability than long Masonic experience, excite many to place it upon their
               shelves.........
            "To answer the last, first, we say, without hesitation, that taking into
               consideration the subjects of Masonic History and Jurisprudence as essential portions
               of a Masonic Manual, irrespective of the monitorial portions, we give the palm over
               all others to Brother Dove. His book is rich—rich—crammed full of gold in History and
               Jurisprudence. It is a model of systematized Masonic literature, and that of the most
               valuable description, and we wish every Lodge and Mason in the Union possessed a
               copy.
         
         
            
            GUIDE TO THE SPRINGS.
            The Virginia Springs. Containing an account of all the Principal Mineral Springs in
               Virginia, with remarks on the nature and medical applicability of each. By J. J.
               MOORMAN, M. D. Second edition, greatly enlarged, with a synopsis and maps of the
               routes and distances, and plates. Also, an appendix, containing an account of the
               natural curiosities of the State. 18mo. muslin, $1.
            "Visitors to the Springs, for health or relaxation, will find it greatly to their
               advantage to procure such a valuable vade mecum as
               this; and those who, like ourselves, remain at home, can also appreciate the work, if
               they can appreciate anything which bears upon Physical Geography in its combination
               with the healing art. The work is gotten up in capital style, and the public may be
               assured that it is no catch-penny production."—Watchman and
               Observer.
            "The work contains much valuable information to persons in search either of health or
               pleasure, presented in an agreeable shape. The more celebrated of the watering places
               are lithographed, and maps of the various routes and localities
                  furnished."—Lynchburg Virginian.
            "The author of this publication was for many years resident physician at the White
               Sulphur Springs, Virginia, and from his knowledge and experience of the mineral
               qualities of the various springs in that region, is amply qualified to give a correct
               description and accurate analysis of their several waters. This is an admirable
               directory for the use of visitors and invalids who resort, during the summer season,
               to the invigorating and healthful waters of the Virginia mountains."—Journal
                  of Useful Knowledge.
            "Every person visiting the Virginia Springs should be supplied with this little
                  volume."—Fredericksburg Democratic Recorder.
            "It is just such a book as the public have needed much for some time, and supplies a
               desideratum which is every year becoming more necessary................Dr. Moorman's
               book is written in-an agreeable style, and his long and intimate experience at the
               Springs making him thoroughly acquainted with the subject he treats, renders it
               valuable to the searcher after health."—Cotton Plant.
         
         
            SOUTHERN SCHOOL BOOKS.
            Vaughan's Spellers, Definers and Readers.
            First Book, for beginners, 19c.
            Second Book, for more advanced pupils, 25c.
         
         
            BURKE'S VIRGINIA SPRINGS.
            The Virginia Mineral Springs. With remarks on their use; the diseases to which they
               are applicable, &c., accompanied by a Map of Routes and Distances. A new work.
               Second edition, improved and enlarged. By WILLIAM BURKE, M. D. 12mo. muslin, $1
               25.
            "The description of mountain scenery is sufficiently brilliant to tempt the searcher
               after pleasure, as well as the invalid, to visit the health-inspiring springs of the
               Old Dominion. We see enumerated here near twenty different springs, some of which
               have been celebrated from time immemorial for their healing influence. We should like
               to give the analysis of the waters, but find that even a brief synopsis of their
               peculiar characteristics would occupy so much space that we must refer the enquirer
               to the book itself, which, besides, its valuable medical information, abounds with
               fine, animated descriptions, both of character and scenery."—American
                  Courier.
            "No portion of the world is more favored by Providence in Mineral Waters of great
               value and undoubted virtue, than the mountains of Virginia. A Scientific and Digested
               Account of their Qualities and Effects, with directions as to their Use, by a
               competent medical gentleman, is here offered to the public; also, a Map of the
               Routes, by which the several watering places are reached. To invalids especially, who
               are directing their attention to Nature's remedial agents, we commend this as a
               traveling companion; it will direct their choice and guide their journey, in search
               of the dearest boon on earth. They will here obtain more information respecting these
               Fountains of Health, than from any other source whatever." [Methodist
                  Quarterly Review.
         
         
            Cottom's Edition of Richardson's Almanac. 24mo. paper, 6c Per dozen 25c, per gross $2
               50.
            Containing, besides the twelve calendar pages and astronomical calculations; a Jewish
               Calendar, Gardner's Monthly Instructor, List of the Virginia Senators, Members of
               Congress, Senate and House of Delegates; Virginia and North Carolina State
               Governments, State and Federal Courts of Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland, and the
               District of Columbia; Conjectures of the Weather, Equation or Time Tables, Receipts,
               Anecdotes, &c.
         
         
            
            CITY MISSIONARY.
            The Memoir and Sermons of the Rev. William Duval, City Missionary. By the Rev. C.
               WALKER, with a portrait. 12mo. muslin, $1.
            "We noticed the Memoir of the Rev. Mr. Duval, at the time of its publication, but we
               are induced again to refer to it, from the interest which a more careful perusal than
               we are generally able to give to the favors of publishing houses, has afforded us. We
               had feared, upon first opening it, that it might prove one of those common-place,
               stereotyped religious eulogies, with which the world is so often bored, when good men
               die, and with which the shades of the good men themselves, if they are aware of what
               is going on in their old haunts, must be purgatorially afflicted. But having glanced
               at a few chapters in this memoir of young Mr. Duval, and having known the man, we
               were tempted to read farther, and found in the simple and unambitious record of a
               simple and unambitious life, and in the extracts from the diary of the subject of the
               memoir, a delineation of character which is well culculated to awaken more interest
               in the mind than the most eloquent formal eulogy."—Richmond
               Dispatch.
            "For the subject of this memoir we entertained a high personal regard—esteeming him a
               zealous and faithful herald of the cross. His connection was with the Episcopal
               church; and at one time he was the Editor of a Temperance paper in this city. He had
               been in the Ministry only a few years when called to his rest; but these were years
               of unceasing activity. As to the mechanical execution of the work, we can say it is
               well done, and when we say well done, we mean, as well as similar works are usually
               gotten up at the North." [Watchman and Observer.
            "Wm. Duval, one of the most efficient, as well as devoted among the younger clergy of
               our own day, graduated at the Alexandria Theological Seminary in 1845 ..........In
               the beginning of 1849, he died, in the full assurance of Christian hope, and the
               fruition of Christian exertion. And if his life teaches no other lesson, it teaches
               this: the immense influence which even four years entire devotion to the Christian
               cause can bring to bear. In point of literary merit, the biography with which Mr.
               Walker has presented us, stands very high, both for grace of style, for loveliness of
               spirit, and for discrimination of thought."—Episcopal Recorder.
            "The subject of this Memoir was a most excellent man, a devoted self-sacrificing
               christian and an ardent and zealous philanthropist. The records of a life, such as
               are here related of Mr. Duval, cannot fail to be interesting to every one who has a
               sympathy for the poor and the frailties which are often attendant upon poverty."
                  [Charlottesville Jeffersonian.
         
         
            SCHOOLER'S GEOMETRY.
            Elements of Descriptive Geometry.—The Point, the Straight Line and the Plane—Samuel
               Schooler, M. A., instructor in Mathematics at Hanover Academy, Va. 4to. hf.
               roan,.$2.
            The Paper, Type and Plates are in the finest style of the arts, and the book
               altogether has been pronounced equal if not superior to any English, French or
               American work on the subject.
            From ALBERT E. CHURCH, M. A. Professor of Mathematics in the U. S. Military Academy,
               West Point:
            "MY DEAR SIR:—I have examined your work with great interest and pleasure. The
               detailed explanations of all the elementary principles of this useful branch of
               mathematics are so lucid, and the illustrations so beautiful and correctly drawn,
               that, with this book in his hand, I do not see that any pupil familiar with the
               elements of Geometry, can find difficulty in acquiring a knowledge of the fundamental
               principles of Descriptive Geometry. The work does you great credit, and I trust that
               you will find sufficient encouragement in its success, to carry out your design of
               publishing further on the subject. I admire much the manner in which the plates are
               gotten up, and have seen no work in which the printing of figures on a black ground
               has been so successful."
            From Lieut. M. F. MAURY, Superintendent of the National Observatory, Washington:
            "DEAR SIR:—Pray accept my thanks for the copy of your work on Descriptive Geometry. I
               am glad to see you are moving in this direction with school books, and congratulate
               you heartily. I hope you will meet with the encouragement, and your work with the
               success which it deserves; for all your demonstrations, as far as, from a hasty
               examination one can judge, are neat, clear and mathematical."
            From Wm. B. ROGERS. LL. D., late Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of
               Virginia:
            "MY DEAR SIR:—Yours is the first original publication of a systematic kind, on any
               mathematical subject, which has yet emanated from Virginia, and I take pride in the
               thought that its author is an alumnus of the University, and one of my own esteemed
               pupils. It is no common merit, to have pursued with ardor the difficult mathematical
               studies in which you were initiated at the University, and to have thus early shown
               the fruits, not only of enlarged reading, but of original thought upon such subjects.
               From what I have seen of your work, I am much pleased with its clearness and
               conciseness of statement and demonstration, and I think that it must prove a valuable
               text for students."
         
         
            
            UNCLE ROBIN.
            Uncle Robin in his Cabin in Virginia, and Tom without one in Boston. By J. W. PAGE.
               Second edition, with plates. 12mo. muslin, $1 00.
            "Its object appears to be to disprove statements made in Northern romances, touching
               the evils of Slavery, as well as to show that whatever ills attend the life of a
               Southern Negro, their ills are produced by the imprudent sympathy of self-styled
               philanthropists like Garrison, Pillsbury, Abby Kelly, and Beecher Stowe. We have
               examined the volume but cursorily, and are inclined to think it well worth a perusal.
               It is written in a plain, substantial style, and with an earnestness, though in the
               shape of a colloquy among the characters introduced, which is strongly
                  marked."—Church's Bizarre, Phila.
            
            "The author is a pious and intelligent layman of the Church of Virginia, who, for
               many years has sustained the relation of master with Christian fidelity and
               benevolence. His opportunities of observing the actual condition of slaves in
               Virginia, have extended through a long life and over a large portion of the State.
               The book is called forth, as many similar productions have been, by that clever, but
               false and pernicious work, Uncle Tom's Cabin. Unlike some others, however, it
               presents the subject with great calmness and moderation, presenting slavery as it is
               known really to exist in the Southern States. Its evils, and even its horrors, are
               faithfully portrayed; whilst the institution is successfully defended against the
               calumnious reproaches with which Northern abolitionists have assailed it. The
               principal negro characters are such as we occasionally meet with among slaves, whilst
               the diversity of conduct on the part of masters, faithfully and truly represent that
               much vilified class of Southern men. The style of the book is very modest and
               unpretending, and perhaps would suffer under the criticism of a severe reviewer. It
               is, nevertheless, neat and perspicuous, conveying much sound argument and truthful
                  history."—Southern Churchman.
            "I have looked over Mr. Page's book lately. It is an excellent little work. Too much
               cannot be said of its true and correct picture of the slave holders of Virginia. The
               design and influence of such a book are good; and it is worthy a place on every
               book-shelf in the State. The appetite of the age seems to require something
               marvellous and exciting, not to say a vivid and indelicate exhibition of crime, and
               books of an opposite character seem flat and stale. But I trust a new era has
               commenced, when wholesome truth will be received in place of the highly spiced and
               inflammatory nonsense which has for years poured like a flood upon
                  us."—Winchester Virg.
            
         
         
            RUFFIN ON EDUCATION.
            Premium Essay on Agricultural Education, submitted to the Executive Committee of the
               Southern Central Agricultural Association. By EDMUND RUFFIN. Second Edition. 8vo.
               paper, 12c.
            "Like every thing emanating from the author, it is able and practical. He advocates
               the establishment of 'Agricultural Institutes,' with model farms attached. 'Manual
               Labor Schools,' he says, have failed."—Home Paper.
         
         
            GARNETT'S LECTURES.
            Lectures on Female Education, by J. M. GARNETT. To which is annexed the Gossip's
               Manual. Third edition. 18mo, sheep, 50c.
            "His precepts appear to be drawn from deep and accurate observation of human life and
               manners, and to be admirably well calculated to improve the understanding and the
                  heart."—John Marshall.
            "The Lectures of Mr. Garnett breathe a spirit of Christian purity. They point out to
               females the high road to character and distinction, and the more they are studied the
               more they will be esteemed. [Bishop Moore.
         
         
            RICHMOND BINDERY.
            "BOOK BINDING.—Mr. J. W. RANDOLPH exhibited a Sketch Book at the Agricultural Fair,
               the entire binding and finishing of which was done by men in his employ, which was
               inferior in no particular to the finest fancy work we have ever seen imported from
               Europe. The binding is in pannel style, of Turkey morocco, beautifully gilt and
               colored, and is really worth seeing. His specimens of Journal and Ledger work, the
               ruling, binding and all made by his employees, are splendid."—Richmond
                  Enquirer.
         
         
            
            TALES OF THE SOUTH.
            Southern and Southwestern Sketches; Fun, Sentiment and Adventure. Edited by a
               gentleman of Richmond. 12mo. paper, 37c.
            It is believed that the present volume contains as great a variety of mirth-moving
               and interesting matter as any like work which has ever been published. The peculiar
               humor of the South, and its characteristic qualities of reckless daring and profuse
               generosity are happily illustrated in many of these Sketches. Those who love that
               innocent mirth which leaves no pain, and relish the honey of wit, without the poison
               which it sometimes leaves, will find in these pages ample sources of
               entertainment.
            "The Book is a collection of Tales, which had their origin chiefly in the South and
               Southwest. We most heartily commend it to the attention of the public. The selections
               are very judicious, and as it is Southern in character, and in every respect home
               made, it is particularly deserving public encouragement. We trust it will meet with a
               wide sale. There are many stories in it that are alone worth the price of the
                  book."—Dispatch.
         
         
            A GOOD PEN.
            The best Pens made, are RANDOLPH'S Circular Pointed Pens, at 121 cents per dozen, or
               75 cents per gross, and Randolph's Albata Pens, at 12½ cents per dozen, or one dollar
               per gross.
            "Very Superior Steel Pens.—We have tried one, and it performs remarkably
                  well."—Petersburg Intelligencer.
            Ink Drops.—A friend wishes to know if we still regard Randolph's Pens with as much
               favor as heretofore. Answer: We consider his Circular Pointed Pen the best ever used
               by us."—Southern Era.
            "J. W. Randolph has sent us a budget of excellent Steel Pens—the 'Albata,' and the
               'Circular Point.' We prefer the former.—Richmond Enquirer.
            "Steel Pens.—The best article of this kind that we have yet seen was furnished us by
               Mr. J. W. Randolph, No. 121 Main Street. He has had a quantity of them manufactured
               to his order, from whom clerks and others should call at once and procure a supply.
               Unlike most of the steel pens offered for sale in our market, they possess a
               sufficiency of elasticity to make them glide smoothly over the paper, while they are
               perfectly free from the spattering and blustering that usually attend quill
                  pens.—Richmond Republican.
         
         
            BARTLEY'S POEMS.
            Lays of Ancient Virginia and other Poems. JAS. AVIS BARTLEY, of Virginia. 12mo.
               muslin, 75c.
            "Your sonnets are graceful and musical."—Wm. Gilmore Simms.
            "They breathe the spirit of true poetry."—George M. Everhart.
            "Our readers need no editorial commendations of Mr. Bartley's Poems."—Southern
               Repertory and College Review.
            "Mr. Bartley is known in his own immediate circle, as an elegant lyrical writer, and
               we are glad that he has made up his mind to give his compositions to the public."—N.
               Y. Herald.
            "By critics they are said to possess a sweetness and originality which will place the
               author at once high upon the roll of American authors."—Richmond Penny Post.
            The lines are very pretty.—Home Journal
         
         
            LITERARY CURIOSITY.
            J. W. RANDOLPH has for sale, at $100, President Jefferson's Copy (Stockdale's London
               edition of 1787) of the Notes on Virginia; with his last additions
               (they are numerous) and corrections in manuscript, and four Manuscript Maps of Caves,
               Mounds, Fortifications, &c.; Manuscript letters from General Dearbon and Judge
               Gibson, relating to the murder of Logan, &c. This copy also contains Fry &
               Jefferson's Map of Virginia, Maryland, Delaware and Pennsylvania, and is very
               valuable on account of the Public Places and Private Residences, which are not to be
               found in any other map.
            A Topographical Analysis of Virginia for 1790, a curious and useful sheet for
               historical reference. Manuscript Translations of all Jefferson's Notes in foreign
               languages, by Professor Schele de Vere, of the University of Virginia.
         
         
            SUPERIOR BLANK BOOKS.
            The Penny Post, speaking of the Virginia State Fair, says:
            "At the same place we saw specimens of exquisite binding, done by Mr. J. W. Randolph.
               It consisted of a Merchants' Day Book, in pannel work, and a Journal in Russia
               leather. They are the most superb specimens of the art we have, yet seen; and as we
               know not how to describe them, we call attention to them most particularly. The work
               was also, done here by Mr. R.'s employees, without any extraneous assistance."
         
         
            
            A QUARTERLY LAW JOURNAL.
            Edited by A. B. GUIGON, of the Richmond Bar.
            Contributors:—WM. GREEN, of Culpeper; Judge J. W. BROCKENBROUGH, of Lexington; Prof.
               J. B. MINOR, University of Virginia; W. T. JOYNES, author of "Essay on Limitations;"
               J. M. MATTHEWS, author of "Guide to Commissioners in Chancery," and "Digest of the
               Laws of Virginia; A. H. SANDS, author of "History of Suit in Equity," and other
               professional gentlemen of well-known ability and learning, have agreed to contribute
               to the columns of the Journal.
            The undersigned will commence, on the 1st of January, 1856, the publication of a Law
               Journal.
            It is designed to furnish reports of decisions made by the Federal Courts held in
               this City—by the District and Circuit Courts of the State, and reports of decisions
               made by the Special Court of Appeals, and by the Supreme Court of Appeals in cases of
               interest and importance. The earlier numbers will contain also a complete digested
               index of the reports of Grattan. Tate's Index of the cases decided in the Court of
               Appeals of Va., reaches the 2d volume of Grattan, and since that time nine volumes
               have already been published, which the lawyer must burrow through when searching for
               any of the decisions contained in them. This supplement to Tate's Analytical Index
               will relieve the professional man of this labor, and this part of the contents of the
               Journal will be so printed and paged that it may be bound up in a separate form.
            Each number of the Journal will contain a chapter or more of the Revisors' Reports,
               with their notes, and such alterations of the Code of Va. as have been made by
               statutory enactments since the year 1849. This companion to the Code will also be so
               paged and printed that it may be bound up uniform with the Code. The importance of
               these Reports is well known by members of the profession who have had occasion to
               consult them, as shedding light upon the provisions of the Code.
            There will be occasionally introduced forms, of utility to practitioners, Clerks of
               Courts, Conveyancers and others.
            For the rest, the Journal will contain the usual matter of such publications:—the
               latest reports of now and important decisions in other States, (especially the
               Southern and Western,) essays on interesting legal subjects, and occasional
               biographies of those distinguished members of the bar, now deceased, who, in their
               day and generation, won for it merited distinction and honor, and whose memories,
               culpably neglected by their descendants, live only in tradition.
            The work will be published QUARTERLY, on good white paper, each number containing
               over 125 pages, 8vo.
            All who are disposed to favor this enterprise, will please forward their names
               immediately.
            New books, when forwarded to the Publisher, will be noticed according to their
               merits.
            TERMS—$5 per year; six copies for $25. Liberal commission allowed to all who will act
               as agents.
         
      
   
