
    ----CITATION----
        Burk, James H.. First Quarrels and First Discords in Married Life .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5951 wright2-0425
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
                  THE DELUGE.—See page 52.
               
            
         
         
            
               FIRST QUARRELS.
            
         
         
         
            
            
               FIRST QUARRELS AND First Discords in Married Life:
               TO WHICH IS ADDED A MATRIMONIAL PEACE-OFFERING.
            
            EDITED BY JAMES H. BURK.
            
            
               
                  
                     "Quarrels cluster; rare and hurtful quarrels,
                     They love a train; they tread each other's heels."
                  
               
            
            
               
                  "Happy are they who learn from the experiences of others."
               
            
            
               CINCINNATI:
               APPLEGATE & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS,
                  
                     No. 43 Main Street.
                  
               
            
            1864.
         
         
         
            
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year eighteen hundred and
               fifty-nine, BY APPLEGATE & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of
               the United States for the Southern District of Ohio.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            FIRST quarrels in married life are the pioneers that prepare a sort of macadamized
               road for the easy ingress of succeeding ones, and it must be admitted that any
               endeavor calculated to increase the caution of those who are liable to such errors is
               a laudable one. A strong determination, which, I think, had its origin chiefly in a
               desire to do good, led me a few months ago to undertake the preparation of the
               present volume, hoping it would, in some measure, promote connubial happiness.
               Perhaps the reader who has examined its title-page is ready to ask, "What do you call
               a quarrel and a discord in married life, and what is the distinction between them?" I
               answer, according to my view, a dispute between a man and his wife, when both are
               angry, constitutes a quarrel, and when only one member of the pair becomes enraged it
               is simply a discord. But discords may exist without anger. Mere dissatisfaction with
               one's marriage state, though it be unexpressed, amounts to a discord. All quarrels
               are discords, but all discords are not quarrels; yet they tend very much thereto, and
               should be avoided with equal care. They are as clouds to rain, and as a deep, wide
               channel to a river.
            To any who may think that in the succeeding Quarrels and Discords the wife is,
               oftener than the husband, represented as being first to blame, I would offer this apology: From
               some mysterious cause I have found it three-fold easier to obtain sketches involving
               the wife in the aggression than those in which the husband appeared first in fault. I
               mention this fact, and leave it for others to speculate upon the probable reasons of
               its being a fact. I guess, however, it is because wives, in their long
               forbearance, refrain from telling on their husbands as often as they might; whereas,
               husbands are rather forward to tell.
            I tender devout thanks to the numerous friends who have thus far encouraged me in my
               undertaking, and, indeed, I will thank the few who have tried to discourage me. Such
               negative influences are sometimes useful as stimulants to a man's lagging efforts,
               and are almost as necessary to the accomplishment of some purposes as fire is to the
               success of the steam engine.
            I am especially under obligations to Rev. Erwin House, Assistant Editor of the
               Western Christian Advocate, for his frequent kind and valuable suggestions concerning
               the literary finish of this volume, the materials of which at my request, he
               consented to review before they were placed in the printers' hands.
            Should the appearance of this unassuming book induce somebody else to furnish a
               better relating to like follies, and accomplish nothing more, I shall consider that
               my effort has not been in vain.
            
               SOUTH OF GREENSBURG, IND., Nov. 1st., 1859.
               J. H. B.
            
         
         
            Contents.
            
               Quarrels and Discords.
               THE FIRST QUARREL, 11
               
               THE HOLE IN THE CARPET, 19
               
               FIRST A HUSBAND, THEN A WIFE TO BLAME, 25
               
               MARRYING FOR MONEY, 32
               
               SELFISHNESS; OR PLAINTIFF AND DEFENDANT, 39
               
               THE DISASTROUS CUPS OF COLD WATER, 51
               
               MONEY IS NOT LOVE, 54
               
               NAMING THE FIRST-BORN, 58
               
               WHITE HANDS AND MUDDY COFFEE, 62
               
               THE BOILED EGG AND THE TESTY BRIDE, 67
               
               THE INTIMATE FRIEND, 70
               
               IMPROPRIETIES WITH A SERVANT, 98
               
               TRIFLES, 100
               
               THE JEALOUS WIFE, 118
               
               THE JEALOUS HUSBAND, 128
               
               A THRILLING SKETCH, 136
               
               CONFESSIONS OF AN UNYIELDING WIFE, 154
               
               A MISTAKE, 160
               
               A HUSBAND'S CONFESSION, 180
               
               A STORY FOR YOUNG HUSBAND, 182
               
            
            
            
               Matrimonial Peace-Offering.
               BUILDING ON THE SAND, 193
               
               "ONLY A FEW FAULTS," 193
               
               TAKING A WIFE, 195
               
               BEST PLAN AFTER THE CHOICE IS MADE, 196
               
               HOW TO KEEP DWELLINGS FROM BEING HAUNTED, 197
               
               THE EVER-PRESENT "IF," 199
               
               HOME HINTS TO A HUSBAND, 200
               
               A LADY'S ADVICE TO A BRIDE, 201
               
               MUTABILITY OF THE HUSBAND'S AFFECTION, 202
               
               DON'T EXPECT TOO MUCH, 204
               
               RULES FOR HUSBANDS, 204
               
               RULES FOR WIVES, 206
               
               GENERAL RULES FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES, 209
               
               TO YOUNG HUSBANDS, 210
               
               HOW TO ASSIST IN CURING A HUSBAND'S BAD HABITS, 213
               
               THE MARRIAGE ALTAR, 214
               
               THE WIFE'S APPEAL, 216
               
               WHISPER TO A HUSBAND, 218
               
               HINTS TO WIVES, 218
               
               "IT'S NOBODY BUT MY HUSBAND," 219
               
               THE SECRET OF SUCCESS, 220
               
               A HAPPY HOME, 221
               
               NO GOOD FROM PASSION, 221
               
               REMEMBER THIS, 222
               
               THE FOLLY OF FRETTING, 223
               
               THE BRIDE COUNSELED, 224
               
               SELF-GOVERNMENT, 225
               
               LITTLE THINGS FEARFUL, 225
               
               A HINT ON THE PREVENTION OF QUARRELS, 226
               
               INSIGNIFICANCE OF DISPUTED POINTS, 226
               
               A LITTLE WORD, 228
               
               "OUT OF HEART," 228
               
               PRAISE YOUR WIFE, 233
               
               A RIFT IN THE CLOUDS, 235
               
               COMPLAINT OF A MERCHANT'S WIFE, 240
               
               THINK NOT LIGHTLY OF YOUR WIFE, 240
               
               HOME POLITENESS, 241
               
               JEALOUSY, 242
               
               JUSTICE AT MEAL-TIME, 243
               
               BE GENTLE TO THY WIFE, 245
               
               STINGINESS OF HUSBANDS, 246
               
               EXTRACT FROM A SERMON ON MARRIAGE, 247
               
               LET US LOVE EACH OTHER STILL, 249
               
               HUSBANDS AND WIVES BELONGING TO DIFFERENT CHURCHES, 250
               
               TREATMENT OF A WIFE, 251
               
               BEAUTIFUL SUGGESTIONS, 253
               
            
            
               INCIDENTS.
               A REMARKABLE RECONCILIATION, 255
               
               MARRYING WITHOUT AFFECTION, 256
               
               AN IMPRUDENT JEST, 256
               
               BEST WAY TO SCOLD, 257
               
               REMARKABLE FIDELITY, 257
               
               THE DEATHLESS LOVE OF WOMAN, 258
               
               WIFE OF THE IMPRISONED IRISHMAN, 261
               
               AN ANOMALY, 261
               
               A FORTUNATE HUSBAN, 262
               
               "IS THAT ALL?" 262
               
               WHAT TO DO IN MISFORTUNE, 263
               
               ECCENTRIC ILLUSTRATION, 263
               
               A WIFE'S INFLUENCE, 264
               
               
               A BEAUTIFUL LESSON, 266
               
               TOUCHING SIGHT IN A RAIL-CAR, 266
               
               "A CROWN TO HER HUSBAND," 267
               
               BEAUTIFUL INCIDENT IN THE LIFE OF MRS. PHELPS, 268
               
               JOINED IN THE BETTER COUNTRY, 268
               
               LAST MOMENTS OF POSTMASTER-GENERAL BROWN, 271
               
            
            
               MORSELS.
               MORSELS FOR HUSBANDS, 273
               
               MORSELS FOR WIVES, 278
               
               MORSELS FOR ALL THE MARRIED, 282
               
            
         
      
      
         
            First quarrels and first discords in married life
            
               First Quarrels and First Discords.
               
                  The First Quarrel.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Oh! man may bear with suffering; his heart
                              Is a strong thing, and god-like in the grasp
                              Of pain that wrings mortally; but tear
                              One chord affection clings to, part one tie
                              That binds him to a woman's delicate love,
                              And his spirit yieldeth like a reed.
                           
                        
                        —N. P. WILLIS.
                     
                  
                  "TO think he would have said that; in such a tone, too, and I have
                     not been his wife but six little months!" And a deeper shadow drifted over the
                     beautiful face; the small, rosy fingers tossed back with a petulant motion the
                     brown curls that flowed over the cheeks, and a fresh flood of tears poured from
                     the soft eyes.
                  Those bright bitter tears, they looked strangely out of keeping with all the
                     surroundings of the young wife. The pale light of the winter day came through
                     the damask curtains, and filled the tastefully furnished room with its
                     spring-like glow. The fire curled with its thousand bright serpentine tongues
                     up the black mouth of the chimney, and as Ellen Howard sat there in its shrine,
                     it seemed as if only happy thoughts could find a nestling place in a heart
                     around which so many of earth's blessings clustered.
                  
                  But that day for the first time a shadow had drifted across her married life;
                     it had originated in some trivial matter, but the inclination of
                     the wife and the opinion of the husband had been brought in
                     collision, and after considerable pouting, and an angry remark from Ellen,
                     which she would the next moment gladly have recalled, Henry Howard had spoken
                     peremptorily—almost angrily—to his young wife, and left the house.
                  She was the only "hearth-flower" of the home whence he had transplanted her,
                     and she had been nurtured in an atmosphere of love and kindness, such as little
                     strengthens the spirit for the trials and the strife which, sooner or later,
                     all must encounter.
                  Henry Howard loved his young wife with an intensity of affection which strong,
                     proud natures, such as his, can only feel; but she never dreamed when her brown
                     head rested against the heart whose every pulse throbbed with a love for her
                     which it is seldom the lot of woman to receive, that a strong will, and
                     resoluteness of purpose, which no circumstances had evolved to her perception,
                     might for a time hold in subjugation even love for herself.
                  "He shall not see how this remark pained me; I will wipe away these tears, and
                     he shall never dream I have shed any," said Mrs. Howard, rising and pacing her
                     parlor with flushed cheeks and an unsteady step. "I will meet him with cold
                     politeness on his return, and he shall learn that Ellen Howard is not a child,
                     whom he can order at his will. Oh! Henry; Henry! how changed!" and the tears
                     were dashed away, and the rising sob hastily swallowed, but a very bright
                     vision in the past had evoked them.
                  "Well, I suppose I did speak rather hastily to Nellie, this noon,
                     and I feel half like calling myself a scoundrel for it," soliloquized the young
                     merchant, as he paced a small room situated at one end of his large building,
                     that afternoon, with an abstracted air and rather troubled brow. "I dare say,
                     the poor child sits there all alone, feeling as if her heart was almost broken,
                     but—hang it! her remark touched my feelings at a point where they are most
                     sensitive, and the words had passed my lips before I was aware of it. I ought
                     to remember, too, how I took her (bless her sweet little self!) from a home
                     where never a stern or angry word had met her ear, and how I said, on that
                     night when she lifted her blue eyes so trustingly to me, and laying her little
                     hand in my own, promised to be mine, that I would guard her from the very
                     shadow of evil, that her happiness should be far dearer to me than the life
                     which would be nothing without her.
                  "And now, when she has been the sunshine of my home for only six months, I
                     have——Henry Howard, you're a rascal, and there's no use of denying it, and you
                     don't deserve that little jewel of a wife you have, any more than some other
                     persons you thought didn't."
                  The heart of Ellen Howard beat quickly that night as the sun went over the
                     house-tops, for her ear caught the sound of a well known footfall in the
                     hall.
                  Then a quiver of pride rippled over the red lip, and when her husband entered
                     the room, instead of springing forward, as she had always previously done, to
                     receive his caress, she quietly remarked, lifting her eyes from the pages which
                     she had been for the last two hours perusing, "You are late this evening,
                     Henry."
                  The voice, the manner, chilled the tide of warm feeling which had been gaining
                     depth and strength all the afternoon, for Henry Howard had returned with the
                        intention of making full
                     concessions to his wife for all that was hasty or unkind in his conduct at
                     noon.
                  But the words he was about to speak died on his lips, as he met the cool,
                     almost ironically courteous reception, and simply remarking, "Yes; I was
                     unavoidably detained," he seated himself by the fire and took up a book.
                  In a little time they went out to supper. How unlike it was to former ones! The
                     lamp still poured its soft, silvery shine on the white china, and the
                     glittering urn; but the smiles which had sweetened the tea, and the loving
                     words which had given a richer flavor to the muffins were no longer there.
                  But a shadow on two loving hearts, and a breach widening continually between
                     them—these were there.
                  And so ended the meal. Alas! it was but the type of others.
                  Two days had passed away, and the coldness which had sprung up between the
                     newly married pair still continued.
                  "I can bear it no longer; this very night I will go to him, and lay my cheek
                     against his, just as I used to, and say to him, Henry, put your arms around me,
                     and call me your own Nellie once more, or my heart will break."
                  "I can't bear it any longer—I've got so I dread to go home: I don't believe
                     Nellie loves me as well as I thought she did," said the young merchant, as he
                     made his way homeward with a weary step, very unlike his former quick, joyous
                     gait.
                  And they met again, and the old demon, pride, came back to both hearts, and
                     neither dreamed of the bitterness which each was meting out to the other.
                  "I am going out a little while to-night, Ellen; I shall return early."
                  She bowed her head—that was all, for the tears were coming, and she would not
                     that he should see them.
                  "And he could leave me thus—all alone, without one kind word," murmured the now
                     really wretched wife, as she heard the door close, and the footsteps grow
                     fainter in the distance.
                  Then she threw herself on the lounge, and burying her brown head in the crimson
                     cushions, wept long and bitterly, and between the sobs that convulsed the
                     figure of Ellen Howard, came the self-accusing words, "Oh, if I had only told
                     him!"
                  At last, exhausted with violent weeping, the lids closed over her eyes, and
                     Mrs. Howard sank into a heavy slumber.
                  She started up quickly, for the silvery-voiced time-piece had broken in with
                     its story of ten o'clock, on the hush which filled the room.
                  "And he has not come yet! He who never left me alone an evening before! Oh, if
                     harm should have befallen him!" And a pang shot through the heart which had
                     been very heavy before with its weight of shadows.
                  She went to the window, and looked up at the clear, cold stars. She went to the
                     door, and listened for his footsteps; then she went to the grate, and stirred
                     up the glowing bed of anthracite, until a golden light filled the room; but
                     still he came not.
                  Eleven o'clock came, and he was not there.
                  Twelve o'clock!—what pen shall record the sufferings, which, during those two
                     long hours, had been the portion of Mrs. Howard.
                  The bell rang—it was a loud, startling peal; she sprang up, and hurried to the door, for all the
                     domestics had retired.
                  There were two gentlemen there—she recognized them as acquaintances, but the
                     third—one glance, and she grasped the door handle, or she would have
                     fallen.
                  "Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Howard," said one of the gentlemen, "your husband has
                     not experienced any injury, and a good night's rest will restore him. He was at
                     a supper given by one of our club this evening, and, unfortunately, drank
                     rather freely." They carried him in, his wife leading the way with faltering
                     steps; laid him on the bed and immediately departed. She alone was with him,
                     and the scales had fallen from her mental eyesight.
                  She saw then how truly he had loved her; how the pride of both had driven him
                     from his home that evening, and to the sin of which he had been guilty, and she
                     shuddered at the brink to which both had been drawing nigh.
                  She put back the thick hair from his broad, burning forehead, moaning all the
                     time over the unconscious man, words of love and tenderness, which, had they
                     been spoken earlier, would never have found him there; and, at last, when he
                     had fallen into that heavy slumber, which is too frequently the accompaniment
                     of inebriety, she went into the parlor, and, kneeling down in the fire-shine,
                     prayed the Great Father to forgive her sin, and grant unto her that "meek and
                     quiet spirit" which is the chief ornament of woman.
                  During all that long night she hung over his pillow, bathing his forehead, and
                     watching his restless movements in his troubled slumber. The woman's heart was
                     awakened now, and the pride had all gone before its holy whisperings.
                  The gray dawn was streaking the east, when, weary with her night's watching,
                     Mrs. Howard once more repaired to her parlor, and, throwing herself on the
                     lounge, was soon in a heavy slumber.
                  The sunlight laughed brightly through the muslin curtains that draped the
                     window, and Henry Howard opened his eyes a moment—the story of the by-gone
                     night flashed into his mind—he closed them; "I shall never be able to look
                     Ellen in the face again," he murmured.
                  At last he arose, and went into the parlor. She was lying there, her check
                     pillowed on one white hand, and her long, luxuriant curls sweeping the
                     carpet.
                  He bent down and kissed her very softly; a tear fell on her forehead—she opened
                     her eyes.
                  "Oh! Henry," and the soft arms were wrapped around his neck, and the white
                     cheek laid on his own, "I have been so wretched. You do not
                     know—you can not dream of all I have suffered during the last two days, and
                     last night, Henry, it seemed as if it would kill me!"
                  "And I deserve that it should me, Nellie. You see, I was very desperate last
                     night, when I left you, for a terrible fear has been haunting me, ever since I
                     made that cruel speech to you—a fear that you did not love me. It was this that
                     drove me to that dreadful act last evening. And I feared you would never
                     forgive me for this; look up, my sweet wife, and tell me, with those dear blue
                     eyes, that you do?"
                  "And now, Henry," said Mrs. Howard, as her husband was leaving home very late
                     that morning, "we have promised that the past shall be forgiven and
                     forgotten—will you promise me one thing more? it would make me so very
                     happy."
                  
                  "Well, what is it Ellen? I am willing to do anything for your happiness."
                  "It is that you sign the pledge this very day."
                  He did so, and when an angry thought came to the heart, or an angry word would
                     try to get through the lips of Mrs. Howard, she thought of that pledge, and it
                     was a bond of peace between her and her husband.—
                  
                     Virginia F. Townsend.
                  
               
               
                  The Hole in the Carpet.
                  "I THINK this is the result of burn," said Mrs. Wilson, pointing to an injury
                     lately discovered in a new carpet. "It appears to me as if some careless
                     servant had let fall a red-hot poker upon it."
                  "O dear, no; it is not a bit like a burn; it is a cut, most assuredly," said
                     Mr. Wilson, stooping to re-examine it.
                  "A cut!" repeated the lady, with some energy and surprise.
                  "A cut, my dear!" reiterated the husband; "it has been done with a knife, and,
                     most likely, while splitting wood, or perhaps cutting sand-paper for polishing
                     the bars of the grate."
                  MRS. W. "Why, my dear, the edges of the hole do not meet, as they would do if
                     it were a cut; there is a space where the piece has been burned out. Look
                     again, and you will see what I mean."
                  MR. W. "So far from it, the edges have been raveled out by the action of the
                     broom in sweeping, and they positively wrap over. If you will give yourself the
                     trouble to look carefully, you will find what I say is true."
                  MRS. W. "As to trouble, Mr. Wilson, I am not generally very
                     sparing of my trouble; and as to carefulness, I only wish every
                     body in this house was equally careful. But you are always saying these unkind
                     things. Umph! a cut, indeed! why, I can almost smell the singeing now."
                  MR. W. "That is quite impossible."
                  
                  MRS. W. "I suppose you will charge me with falsehood next. Do you mean to say
                     that I tell you an untruth?"
                  MR. W. "I mean to say that it is a cut, and nothing but a cut. It is utterly
                     impossible that that kind of hole should result from a burn. Ah! you may look
                     as angry as you please. I say again it is a cut."
                  MRS. W. "Angry! did you say angry, Mr. Wilson? I really wish we could see
                     ourselves. You are extremely ready to charge me with being angry. Now, the
                     truth is, I do not care that [furiously dashing a plate of
                     nutshells, which she had been cracking, behind the fire] whether it is a cut or
                     a burn; but I do care to be spoken to in this shameful manner.
                     Angry, indeed! it was not always so—you never used to bring such charges
                     against me."
                  MR. W. "Well, you are not angry now, I suppose? Why, your very eyes flash fire,
                     and your face is red with rage."
                  MRS. W. "Not quite so red as your's, sir, nor from the same cause. I think you
                     have no stones to throw about red faces, A man that can drink a bottle of port
                     at a sitting—at least with very little help—may well have a red face, and a hot
                     temper too, for that matter, as I pretty well know to my cost."
                  MR. W. "You know to your cost! What do you mean, madam?"
                  MRS. W. "O! nothing, sir—nothing at all, I mean nothing, and I care for
                     nothing."
                  MR. W. "Then be silent."
                  MRS. W. "I shall not; I shall say just what I please, and talk as long as I
                     please."
                  MR. W. "Then quit my presence, madam, and talk to yourself, for I will not put
                     up with your insolence; and I wonder how you dare act as you do."
                  MRS. W. "Dare! Mr. Wilson, did you say dare? I say, then, in answer, that I
                     wonder, when you take certain circumstances into consideration, I do really, I
                     say, wonder at you. Recollect, sir, my position; you forget
                     yourself."
                  MR. W. "I do not know what you mean."
                  MRS. W. "Ay, ay, it is all very well to pretend you do not know what I mean.
                     Whose money was it that enabled you, when you were—?"
                  MR. W.—Interrupting—"And who was it that raised you from a
                     tradesman's back parlor to the rank of a lady? I am a gentleman, madam—was born
                     such, you will please to remember. Position, indeed! as if money gave
                     position."
                  MRS. W. "A gentleman born! ha, ha! And pray who would be clear-sighted enough
                     to select the gentleman born from the beggar, if money were out of the
                     question? A fine sort of figure your gentlemanly birth would have made without
                        wealth, sir—my wealth—my wealth, bestowed upon
                        you."
                  MR. W. "Silence, madam, [much excited,] hold your venomous,
                     rattling tongue. You are a disgrace to your sex, and to the name of wife."
                  MRS. W. "Thank you, Mr. Elisha Wilson, I thank you; and am glad you have at
                     last given me to understand exactly the esteem in which you hold me. This is
                     your gratitude to my father for the thousands he threw away upon a poor
                     gentleman, and this comes of all your fine promises. I tell you what, sir, I
                     will not put up with it. I will have a separation, if it takes every farthing
                     of my fortune; I will have a separation, I say."
                  
                  MR. W. "Do so; do, do, I advise you; better set about it now, directly."
                  MRS. W. "You think I dare not; but I will show you that I have a spirit. I will
                     go where you shall never discover my abode, and then, perhaps, you may wish you
                     had behaved differently, or perhaps you will be ten thousand times happier
                     without me."
                  MR. W. "You choose to say so, you know, not I."
                  MRS. W. "Yes, and I repeat it—I dare affirm that you would rejoice to be rid of
                     me; and if once I did separate from you, I would never return to you again; I
                     would die alone, [sobbing hysterically,] and never plague you
                     with my hateful presence—no, not if you were to go on your knees and beg of me
                     to do so; I would spurn you." [Suiting her action to the
                     words.]
                  MR. W. "You would have no occasion to apprehend my going on my knees, I assure
                     you; I should view your conduct then, as I view it now, with calm
                     contempt."
                  MRS. W. "A very calm state, indeed, you are in just now."
                  The father of Mrs. Wilson, a wise and venerable man, had recently entered the
                     garden near the open window of the room where this dispute took place; and
                     having caught some of the speeches of both wife and husband, the reasonable
                     conclusion he instantly formed was that some dire catastrophe had happened—that
                     one or the other had committed some disgraceful fault, or, at least, had given
                     some serious ground of suspicion. The worthy man's courage began to give way,
                     when he considered how thankless an office it generally is to interfere between
                     man and wife; but they were his children, and he ventured in, pale with
                     apprehension.
                  Mrs. Wilson was sitting at the extreme end of the room, her chair pushed close
                     against the wall where it had arrived by successive jerks backward, at every
                     fresh ebullition of passion, while Mr. Wilson was cutting his nails to the
                     quick, seated at the utmost opposite side of the apartment, each casting at the
                     other an occasional glance of vengeance or contempt.
                  "My dear daughter," the old gentleman began, with an air of deep concern, "what
                     has happened?"
                  "Ask him," said Mrs. W. pointing to her husband, with spiteful
                     looks.
                  The old gentleman turned to Mr. W.
                  "Your daughter threatens to leave me, sir," was the reply.
                  "But what for?" demanded the father; "where lies the offense?"
                  Each now began simultaneously to repeat the aggravated expressions which had
                     been used on both sides. "He said so and so." "She said so and so."
                  "Stay, my children, stay," said the father; "set aside all that has been
                     elicited in anger during your quarrel—I do not want to hear that—and allow me
                     to ask you again, what is the offense, and which of you is the aggressor?"
                  Both were silent.
                  "This is strange," said the father; "surely you can tell me how this
                     disgraceful scene commenced. There must have been some great fault
                     committed."
                  Silence still prevailed. The simple process of common sense, which the old
                     gentleman had set to work, carried the infatuated couple back to the frivolous
                     origin of their quarrel. Nothing could appear more ridiculously absurd than the
                     reply which was at last elicited; "We quarreled about a hole in the
                        carpet."
                  
                  "A what?" said the old gentleman, lifting his hands, shrugging his shoulders,
                     as with staring eyes he looked aghast, and turned on his heels. "What a pair of
                     simpletons," said he; "I am ashamed of ye both; go to school again and learn to
                     put off childish things! Truly, as said the wisest of men, 'The beginning of
                     strife is as when one letteth out water; therefore leave off contention, before
                     it be meddled with.'"
               
               
                  First a Husband, then a Wife to Blame.
                  "I SHOULD think, Ettina, we might have some toast, or warm cakes once in a
                     while, for breakfast; I am sick of this plain living!" said Mr. John Weston,
                     with a fretful look, as he leaned back in his chair, at the conclusion of the
                     morning meal.
                  "I did intend to bake both pies and cake yesterday, but baby was so very cross,
                     and a number of persons calling in the course of the day, took my leisure
                     time;" was the prudent apology of his wife.
                  "Always some excuse!" was the mean exclamation of Mr. W., "I begin to think I
                     shall have to hire a cook, or live like a Grahamite all the rest of my days. I
                     think it is a pity one woman can't provide decent food for two. I believe
                        I could, even if I had three babies to take care of;" and with
                     these ungracious words, he took up his hat, and without a pleasant look,
                     departed to his work. This was enough to wound the feelings of any wife, and we
                     are not surprised at the sensation produced upon the mind of Mrs. W.
                  "Oh! dear, that is too bad!" very justly thought she, as his words sank deeper
                     and deeper into her heart, and stirred up some of its bitterness; "I can't do
                     everything. Willie cried all the time I was getting dinner yesterday, until my
                     heart ached for him; and then, those tiresome callers! I believe I will never
                     go away from home again, and then no one will come here, and I can live like a
                     hermit, and work all the time!" Thus the seething ing waters rose higher through the outlet of
                     hard thoughts, until they swept over nearly all the remembrance of the patient
                     forbearance that he had repeatedly exhibited toward her, in the three years of
                     their uninterrupted married life.
                  "But it won't do to sit here; I have these dishes to wash, and pies to make,
                     and dinner to get, and Willie to take care of, too!" And Mrs. Weston wiped her
                     eyes, and began to clear up the table, but every thing went wrong. The tears
                     that brought no relief, kept blinding her, and hindering her in all she
                     attempted to perform. One plate was broken from a valued set; a large
                     grease-spot was made on the floor; the fire wouldn't burn, and there were no
                     kindlings. "I should think husband ought to remember some of his own
                     shortcomings," said she, almost audibly, as she took up a knife and tried to
                     whittle a few shavings. "I guess I could complain, too, if I pleased," and then
                     she sobbed quite aloud.
                  But the dreariest hours will drag away at last. At a quarter to twelve the
                     table was set, the ham and the eggs ready, the puddings and potatoes were
                     baked;—for she had said to herself a dozen times in the course of the forenoon,
                     that he should not have reason to complain of his dinner—the pies were baked,
                     and she was ready to receive him in very becoming attire.
                  "I am sorry I spoke so," thought Mr. Weston, as he walked away, "for Etta is a
                     good wife, and I really had no sufficient reason to complain; but I
                        did want a good breakfast this morning, and I felt cross about
                     it. However, I'll try and not do so any more. I wish I was not so quick to find
                     fault. I'll buy her that book she was speaking of the other day, and make her a
                     present of it, and I hope it will make amends for my unkindness." And with that
                     comforting resolution, he threw aside the slight rankling remorse that had
                     disturbed him, and whistled and sang at his work as cheerfully as usual,
                     forgetful of his grieved wife, who was pondering over his harshness with a
                     bleeding heart. Ah! if he had only acted the manly part at once, and
                        told her he was sorry he had spoken so, instead of merely
                     thinking it, it would have saved much of this "vexation of spirit," and made
                     amends for his wrong better than all the presents in his power to bestow. He
                     was the first to blame. He saw his fault, and should have hastened to confess
                     it to her, who was waiting to "abundantly pardon."
                  "Here is the book, Etta, that you were speaking about;" said Mr. Weston, as he
                     stepped into the dining room punctually at twelve. "I know it is an interesting
                     one, by the looks of it."
                  "Thank you!" said Etta, rather coldly; "dinner is ready." And she seated
                     herself at the table, poured out the hot, fragrant coffee, kindly passed the
                     bread and butter to her husband, and commenced eating in silence.
                  "Etta,"—the tone was very different from the morning one—"Mrs. Neal sent word
                     by me to you, that Mrs. Carson and Mary are coming there to-morrow afternoon,
                     and she would like to have you come over. What shall I tell her?"
                  "Tell her I have no time to visit. I have enough to do at home."
                  "Why shall I give her that answer, Etta? Is it true?"
                  "Yes; I try to work hard as I ought, and still am found fault with; and I have
                     come to the conclusion that I had better stay at home all the week, and not
                        spend any time visiting. If I had
                     some one to provide kind-lings, or dry wood, or was willing to eat a plain meal
                     when the baby was so cross I could hardly get him out of my arms, perhaps I
                     might go out, but as it is, I think I had better make a slave of myself at
                     once, and always stay at home and work."
                  "I am sorry you have such a hard time;" was the cool remark of Mr. Weston,
                     "perhaps you wish you were a girl again; do you?"
                  "I wish I had a husband that thought I had done right sometimes. Perhaps I
                     might have had such a one if I had chosen Mr. J——," was the unwife-like reply,
                     and indeed, it was a sentence too much. Mr. Weston was exceedingly sensitive on
                     that point, and he left the room with a feeling toward his wife entirely new to
                     him.
                  "I hope he will find out I won't bear everything," thought Etta, as his
                     footsteps died away on the walk. But after Willie was hushed to sleep, and the
                     noon's work done, and the house all still, with the restlessness of an unquiet
                     spirit, she walked out into the garden, and down the lane to the clear, pebbly
                     brook, and laved her hot brow in its cooling waters.
                  The wind sighed softly in the branches and rustled the glossy leaves, then
                     swept far away among the forest trees, with voice like the murmuring ocean
                     waves that carelessly beat against the shore. Such a sweet peace seemed
                     brooding over all nature's works, that, gradually, it soothed Etta's perturbed
                     mind, and she wandered back to the house with a few wild flowers wreathed in
                     her hair. Her lip had forgotten its compression and firmness.
                  "I must finish Willie's dress," thought Etta, as she ran softly up stairs to
                     get the materials. They had been somehow mislaid, and after searching in all
                     the drawers, she opened John's desk, thinking they might have been laid in
                     there by some mistake. A number of loose sketches were scattered about, and
                     carelessly she took up and opened one after another, until a soft ringlet of
                     her own hair fell out of one paper. One brief sentence—"My own dear Etta's"—was
                     all the writing the paper contained, but rushing back like a flood, came all
                     the recollections of the hour when she gave it to him. Again and again she
                     pressed it upon her cheek, as memory opened wide her book, and brought the past
                     close to view. The wakeful night-watches amid the howling storm; the fitful
                     dreams of a watery grave for him she loved better than words could tell; the
                     anxious waiting for letters, and the joyful re-union after months of
                     separation, all rose before her with the vividness of life. And had this
                     cherished earthly treasure turned to dross, a worthless thing ready to cast
                     away? No, no; it could not be thus disregarded.
                  The reaction had come, as it always will, and as Ettina leaned her head low
                     over the note, hot, blinding tears fell again, but they were not tears of
                     anger. Her own harsh words sounded in her ears, and her injustice to one who so
                     seldom erred, filled her heart with penitence. Could not she, who so often
                     needed forgiveness, forgive, or bear meekly, one instance of blame? Oh! if she
                     had only governed herself in the morning, and guarded her soul and not let the
                     turbulent waters overflow, what a day of misery would have been kept out of her
                     experience.
                  Willie's cry called her down stairs. She took him up, clasped him in her arms,
                     and the smiles came back to her face,
                     in answer to his smiles and playful caresses. But few stitches were sewed that
                     afternoon, for the walk, and musings, and attentions to Willie, took up most of
                     the time till five, the hour to prepare supper, and then he was placed in the
                     cradle, with the nondescript playthings of a whip, a tin pan and a spoon—the
                     fire was kindled, and the kettle filled for tea. The table was set again, and
                     the toast made and covered up close by the fire, and warm cakes baked—all done
                     as the clock struck six.
                  "How will he meet me?" was her thought as she went to the window to watch his
                     return. Five—ten minutes passed by, and she saw him coming on the walk; but his
                     step was not as light as usual, and his head was bowed down as if weary in body
                     and mind.
                  Etta stepped into the hall as the door opened, she reached out her hand, and
                     the words, "I am so sorry I grieved you!" burst from her lips.
                  "And I am sorry, Etta, I did not say the same to you, after my unreasonable
                     fault-finding; for I was sorry, dear Etta, before I left the room. Next time I
                     will strive to watch and guard against petulance; but if I forget myself, I
                     will try to make amends before I go from home, and not leave you to ponder over
                     my unkindness in tears, till hard thoughts throng in and affect you with
                     bitterness toward me."
                  "I will not tell you, John, what I have resolved, for fear I may break my
                     resolution; but I hope God will forgive this sinfulness of mine, and give me
                     strength to overcome all evil passions, that I may henceforth do right in every
                     act of life."
                  Colton says, "The slightest sorrow for sin is sufficient, if it produce
                     amendment: the greatest is insufficient if it do not." Therefore, when a
                     husband or wife says, "I am sorry!" if he or she is sound in mind, we
                     reasonably expect that fruits "meet for repentance," will be brought to view.
                     We should remember, too, that to cure a vice, is greater than to punish
                     it."
               
               
                  
                  Marrying for Money.
                  THERE is a grey-haired gentleman in New York, a retired merchant, whose bland
                     and hearty countenance may be seen every fair day in Broadway, through the
                     window of his carriage, as he takes his airing. There is nothing ostentatious
                     about his equipage—none of that labored display, unfortunately characteristic
                     of too many in New York. He does not ape the habits of a foreign aristocracy,
                     by attiring his servants in liveries; and his carriage, though evidently of
                     costly manufacture, is so barren of tinsel, and of so unpretending a
                     construction, that the passer by, as his eye falls upon it in the midst the
                     ambitious "turn-outs" so numerous in Broadway, would never suspect its occupant
                     to be the master of unbounded wealth—capable of buying up nine hundred and
                     ninety-nine of the bedizened and bewhiskered aspirants, who dash by him as he
                     leisurely rumbles along, in their flashy vehicles.
                  He is often accompanied by his wife and daughter; the former preserving, in the
                     wane of life, traces of loveliness; the latter in the dawning of lustrous
                     beauty. The dress of these ladies corresponds with the elegant simplicity—that
                     test of true elevation and real gentility—which we have remarked upon as
                     distinguishing the husband and father. The jewels they wear are few and
                     tasteful; and, in their plain and becoming attire, they do not make their
                     bodies locomotive milliners' signs, nor tell a tale, by extravagance or outreness of display, that, conscious of deficiency in mental
                     superiority, they would make a parade of the gaudiness of their dress atone for
                     the emptiness of their minds.
                  This gentleman came to the city when a young man, a poor adventurer. He left
                     his father's humble fire-side in the country, with a blessing and a little pack
                     of clothes; and with a five dollar note in his pocket, all he was worth in the
                     world, he turned his steps toward New York—ignorant of mankind—of the world's
                     guilt and crime—of the thousands seeking, like himself, a livelihood, who
                     congregate in this moral whirlpool; but full of expectation—of hope—of
                     determination—of energy. It was distant several days' travel, but he did not
                     greatly diminish his scanty funds, for the farmer's door at which he applied at
                     nightfall, was ever open to receive him, and a few hours of labor the
                     succeeding day requited (for he would have scorned to accept of charity) the
                     hospitality extended to him. He sought a cheap lodging-house, when at last he
                     trod, with eager foot, the streets of the city; and, although wondering
                     curiosity was awake, he wasted no time in idleness, but sedulously employed
                     himself in seeking occupation. Appearances are deceitful, and it is dangerous
                     to put faith in them; but the merchant who listened to Jacob Flagg's story,
                     and, taking the honesty depicted in his face as an endorsement of its truth,
                     made him his porter, never had reason to regret it.
                  For four years he was a faithful servant: diligent, industrious, honest,
                     frugal. Closing his duties soon after nightfall, his evenings were his own; and
                     by the light of his lamp, he devoted them to the improvement of his mind. At
                     the end of the four years, with what he had saved from his earnings, and some
                     little assistance from his employer, he opened a small retail shop in an
                        obscure street, wherein he vended a
                     small stock of dry goods. From the beginning he succeeded; slowly indeed, yet
                     he was successful. And the majority may succeed in precisely the same way.
                     Whatever one's income may be, however trifling, let him live within
                        it, and he is even then prospering and to prosper. In a great city,
                     frugality never finds itself at fault. Subsistence and a home may be procured,
                     meeting to any quality of means; and he who casts false pride out of doors, and
                     indulges rather in that more ennobling satisfaction, the consciousness that he
                     is wronging no fellow-being by unjust self-indulgence, is laying a foundation
                     for prosperity that nothing can shake; for though the goods of earth may gather
                     slowly, the soul will be heaping up treasures. Extravagance is a comparative
                     term; and he who, with an income of a few hundreds, exceeds its bounds in his
                     expenditures, is more extravagant than the possessor of millions, whose lavish
                     hand scatters thousands upon thousands from his revenue. Jacob Flagg had a
                     little something left of his first year's gains, and a yet larger sum at the
                     close of the second—tenfold after the third.
                  As his condition improved, he cautiously and advisedly improved his mode of
                     living. He removed to a more genteel boarding-house—and then a better
                     still—ever careful, however, not to deceive himself and run ahead of duty. The
                     second change was rife with momentous influences upon his destiny; for there
                     boarded in the same house a widow and her pretty daughter, the last an heiress,
                     worth a thousand dollars. This widow, whom we will call
                     Watkins—was not overstocked with wit, and piqued herself as much on her slender
                     jointure and the thousand dollars Helen was to possess on her wedding day, as
                     though her hundreds had been thousands, and her daughter's thousand a million.
                     Helen was sensible—very sensible, and resisted, in a good degree, the unhappy
                     influences of her mother's weakness; but most women, not being conversant with
                     business, do not appreciate the true value of money; and it is not amazing that
                     Helen, when it was so constantly a theme of exultation and pride with her
                     mother, should imagine at least, her thousand dollars a fortune.
                  Flagg, after a time, loved her—loved her with his whole heart, and was as
                     tenderly loved in return. He had always determined with an honest pride, never
                     to fall in love with a woman possessing money; "it should never be cast in his
                     teeth by his wife's grumbling relatives that he was supported by her"—and there
                     are few who will accuse him of swerving from his principles, although he did
                     love Helen Watkins, and she had a thousand dollars.
                  He married her; and on the wedding day, pursuant to her father's will, the
                     thousand dollars were placed in Flagg's hands. Doing as he thought best for the
                     mutual advantage, he invested it in his business, and instead of dashing out
                     with an establishment, remained at the boarding-house. For a time all went
                     well. A loving bride thinks little, for months, of any thing but love and
                     happiness, and Helen never spoke of the thousand dollars. Flagg furnished her
                     with money sufficient for her wants, and indeed for her desires—the engrossment
                     of her thoughts otherwise limiting her wishes. But when a year had gone by, she
                     often asked for articles of dress or luxury—luxury to them—which her husband
                     could not afford to give, and gently but resolutely denied her. "It's very
                     strange," thought Helen to herself, "that when he has got all that thousand
                     dollars of mine, he won't let me have what I want." Her mother fostered
                        these complaining thoughts, and on
                     an occasion when she had set her heart on something which he refused to
                     purchase, she ventured to vent her disappointment in reproaches; and referred
                     to the thousand dollars, which she was sure she ought to be at liberty to
                     spend, since it was all her own. Flagg was astonished, indignant; but
                     restraining himself, kindly reasoned with her, and represented to her how
                     paltry a sum, in reality, a thousand dollars was, and how long ago it would
                     have been exhausted, had it been in her own possession, by the procurement of
                     half the articles she had solicited. But her pride prevented her from listening
                     with calmness; and she only gathered enough of his explanation to excite, in
                     her warped judgment, the suspicion that it was only given to excuse himself for
                     his meanness.
                  In a short time the thousand dollars came up again, and again; the last time,
                     immediately after breakfast. Flagg could bear no more. Without a rejoinder, he
                     suddenly left the house. His wife saw that he was more than ordinarily
                     moved—that his face wore a startling expression; and regretful, penitent, and
                     alarmed, she called earnestly and tearfully to him to return, but it was too
                     late. It was stormy and wintry, when Flagg left his home that morning; it was,
                     too, at the very climax of one of those commercial crises when the rich feel
                     poor and the poor, beggarly; and Flagg, breasting the storm bravely thus far,
                     had congratulated himself that in a few days more he should be safe, and his
                     fortunes golden forever. How bitter were his sensations as he came down
                     Broadway that morning, plashing through the rain! He loved Helen dearly—he knew
                     that she loved him. Their days were all happiness, save when marred by this one
                     foible; and let come what would, he determined to give her "a lesson that
                     should last her the rest of her life."
                  He did not return to dinner. Helen waited for him, and robbed of her appetite
                     by anxiety and remorse, she would not go down herself, but sat all the
                     afternoon looking from the window into the deserted and dreary street; weeping
                     sometimes as though her heart would break. When daylight had nearly gone, and
                     she began to strain her eyes to distinguish objects without, she discovered him
                     approaching. She could not—she dared not—go to meet him, but when he opened the
                     door, she could not repress a shriek at the haggardness of his countenance. He
                     came to her side, and taking her hand, said, in a voice broken by exhaustion
                     and emotion, while he extended with the other a roll of bank notes:—
                  "Helen, there are your thousand dollars. I have had toil, and anguish, and pain
                     enough to get them for you, in these dreadful times, but I had resolved, and
                     would not be disappointed. Take them, do with them as you like, and we will be
                     wholly happy; for you can never reproach me more!"
                  "No, no, not for the world!" sobbed Helen, sinking on her knees for shame; "oh!
                     husband, forgive me, forgive me! I shall never be guilty again!" and she tried
                     to make him accept the notes.
                  He was, however, resolute; and well knowing from his character, that what he
                     had determined on as a proper course, he would not swerve from, she dismissed
                     the subject, and they were afterwards, indeed, happy. He never asked her to
                     what purpose she devoted her thousand dollars, but it was plain enough she
                     expended them neither for dress nor ornament. If any thing, she was more frugal
                     than ever; and he was compelled to question her of her wants and wishes, when he was
                     disposed to gratify them; as he was, liberally and freely, so soon as his
                     prosperity would authorize it.
                  Reader, this Flagg is the same hale old fellow whom we have spoken of as riding
                     in his carriage in Broadway; and that wife is this same Helen. That
                     daughter—ah, I can tell a story of her! She is to be married next week to a
                     young man not worth a penny—but who loves her, and cares not a pin for her
                     father's money, confiding, as he does, in his own energies, which the old
                     gentleman took care to make sure of before he gave his consent. As to that
                        thousand dollars, it has been accumulating this twenty years;
                     has been added to constantly by the mother, and now, a good round sum—we have
                     it from sure authority—at least twenty thousand, will be a gift to her daughter
                     on the marriage day; but we warrant you, she will hear the whole story of "the
                     thousand dollars," and be warned not to suspect an honest, high-minded, loving
                     man, of marrying for money!
                  
                  
                     
                        "It's not in titles nor in rank;
                        It's not in wealth like London bank,
                        To purchase peace and rest.
                        
                        It's not in making more and more;
                        It's not in houses, lands or store,
                        To make us truly blest.
                        If happiness have not her seat
                        And center in the breast,
                        We may be wise, or rich, or great,
                        But never can be blest."
                     
                     —H. F. Harrington.
                  
               
               
                  Selfishness; or, Plaintiff and Defendant.
                  MANY a marriage has resulted in unhappiness, not so much because the husband
                     and wife were unadapted to each other, as because a certain undefinable
                     something, perhaps best named selfishness, came in between them, and checked
                     the communion of their confidence, and divided the oneness of their lives. It
                     may be deemed a trifling thing for lovers to speak sharp words now and then;
                     they may make up at their next meeting; but for those whose hearts have come
                     for lifelong to one home, it is not a trifling thing: cold looks then, unkind
                     words then, however lightly given, however lightly spoken, are full of danger,
                     and may be of destiny. How often has one chilling glance, one cutting word,
                     prompted by nothing, perhaps, but this unaccountable flattery of self,
                     separated those whom affection had united, and made home a hated spot, instead
                     of a heart-place!
                  When Gordon Wilber and Fanny Clifford were married they would not have believed
                     that one harsh word could make their hearts cold toward each other; nay, they
                     would not have dreamed that the one harsh word between them even could be
                     uttered. Yet it was uttered; and that one harsh word was mother to many more
                     that were harsher and harsher still, till a cloud of gloom thickened at-their
                     hearth-stone, and shut out heaven.
                  "Fanny, I would rather not go to-night, if it will not disappoint you too much,
                     I am so tired."
                  "If you were kept at home as closely as I am, Gordon, I presume you would be disappointed
                     at such a promise-breaking as that."
                  Little Fanny Wilber was thus plaintiff; and more in the manner in which she
                     said it than in what she said; it was a tone of pettishness, a look of
                     vexation; and Gordon, who had a spirit no less fiery and impetuous than it was
                     generous and forgiving, became defendant at once.
                  "I should like to be 'kept at home' a little more, Fanny; but our living must
                     be earned, you know, and it is I that must be kept away to earn it. I want a
                     little rest once in a while, shouldn't you think?"
                  "Mr. Wilber, you needn't ask me to go out with you any more! I—"
                  "Fanny!"
                  The pretty name of Fanny had never before been uttered in that
                     home with such an emphasis; it was as if a clap of thunder had miraculously
                     pronounced it, so unexpectedly and shockingly it came. It was past love's
                     belief; Fanny could not credit her ears. But when her astonished eyes, looking
                     Gordon full in the face, saw the wild passion come up there like the rush of a
                     tempest, her sick heart knew that he had said Fanny as he had
                     never said it before, no, never!
                  And what was little Fanny Wilber's first emotion? It was a thrilling, torturing
                     anguish, which made her breath come quick and gasping, and her brain throb and
                     reel. O, if she had only yielded herself to her heart then, and done its
                     bidding, how many a bursting ache might she have spared it in the future! But,
                     just as she was about to fling her arms round her husband's neck, and let her
                     tears plead with him for his harshness, that vague something—false
                     pride—obstinacy—call it selfishness—rose and rebuked the woman in her soul, and
                     froze it to calmness ness in a moment. Her lip quivered once or twice; her eyes
                     moistened, but that was all: the fount of tears was suddenly iced over by the
                     one breath of selfishness. She thought of nothing but her wrong; felt nothing
                     but resentment.
                  And her husband, who, when he saw on her face the shadow of that tearful cloud
                     in her heart, had been ready to catch her to his breast and implore her
                     forgiveness, was now checked by selfishness answering selfishness. He beheld
                     unforgiveness in her countenance; and presently he believed it was as much her
                     fault as his own that he had spoken so sternly; and then, come to think of it,
                     he had said nothing but Fanny, after all: what was
                        Fanny, that he should beg forgiveness for that one word? No;
                     she should rather ask him to forgive her for her vexatious spirit toward him,
                     who devoted his whole life to her comfort and happiness. Well, he would not be
                     the first to speak, though she looked icicles at him for a twelvemonth.
                  With such an impassable gulf between them, there they sat, at the same
                     hearth-stone, in silence, plaintiff and defendant, each justifying self, each
                     accusing the other. The evening—O, how wearily long!—wore away, but brought no
                     compromise, no reconciliation. Neither spoke, and their faces, averted from
                     each other, were overclouded with a cold, obstinate dismalness, which was a
                     shadow of the gloom of their spirits. Their customary pleasant occupations of
                     the evening—reading, singing, mutual assistance in study, and the like—were
                     omitted, while they sat silently cherishing that cold viper, Selfishness,
                     giving it life to sting their affection to death. Painfully still they sat till
                     late bed-time; for each felt it would be a concession to make the first
                     movement; then, finally wearied out,
                     they retired, one after the other, without the interchange of a word. They had
                     never before gone to sleep without saying good-by; but now they could not speak
                     even the words of common courtesy; and how could they take upon their lips so
                     sweet a word as that? Perhaps they did not sleep, and, therefore, had not need
                     to say the word of separation. Perhaps they slept, and dreamed all night of
                     sorrow, because they had not charmed their slumber with the spell of that dear
                     word, uttered in love.
                  But, whether they watched or dreamed, in the morning they were both very, very
                     unhappy; for they found themselves more unyielding and farther apart than ever.
                     No friendly greeting, no accustomed kiss, no word, no look for each other: all
                     chilly silence and sullen aversion. Breakfast was dispatched like a prison
                     meal, and Gordon started off to his business with a proud step and in silence.
                     How far he proceeded with that haughty bearing may be left for conjecture;
                     suffice it, that he went out of sight of his home with it, and never once
                     looked back to see how proud and unbending his little Fanny, too, appeared, as
                     she pursued her morning occupations, without noticing his departure.
                  But when Fanny felt sure that her husband was too far off to hear her, now
                     alone with her heart, it got the better of her directly; and she leaned her
                     face down on her two hands, and sobbed aloud. She wept till her own sweet blue
                     eyes were swollen and bloodshot; till her heart ached in her throat; till her
                     brain throbbed almost to bursting; and yet no thought of blame did she
                     entertain toward Fanny Wilber. No, she was too selfish for that. She had been
                     the "little Fanny" of the paternal home, loving and petted; she had been the
                     "fair Fanny Clifford" of society, amiable and flattered; she had till now been
                     the "dear Fanny" of Gordon Wilber's new life, fond and loved; and what, what
                     had she done to deserve such treatment as this? O, Gordon! thought she, what
                     devoted love you have insulted, what feelings you have outraged!
                  Ah, selfish Fanny Wilber! Better you had never entered the sacred state of
                     matrimony at all, than to have entered it without better understanding the
                     necessity of compromise in it, of concession, of reciprocal charity, and of
                     mutual self-denial. The married should not be two selves, Fanny; not myself and
                     thyself; but they should be only ourself; and you should think that, in blaming
                     your husband, you are blaming this one self that you both are.
                  Had Fanny regarded it thus, she could have gone down into her own soul, and,
                     looking from it, have seen her poor husband, as soon as he was out of sight,
                     losing his haughty air, and seeming to grope along the street, as if it were
                     all dark from the center of his life every way to the very heaven. His heart
                     was lead, lead. He felt that he had done very wrong; that he had spoken as, had
                     he stopped one moment to reflect, he would not have spoken for the world; and
                     he condemned himself without mercy. But then his wife ought to have considered
                     his impulsiveness, and forborne to exasperate him. Why should she have chosen
                     his weakest point, and tempted him there? Must she not have designed to provoke
                     his temper? If she did, then she was even more in fault than he. And if she did
                     not, she was as much so; for she became angry with him as well as he with
                     her—and first, too!
                  Thus did Gordon Wilber defend himself to his reason; but his heart would not admit the plea. Several
                     times before he reached his place of business he was tempted to return home,
                     and tell Fanny how sorry he was, how remorseful, how repentant. But as often as
                     his heart prompted him right, his selfishness prompted him wrong; and all day
                     the latter whispered his spirit full of evil, and held him away from his duty.
                     He did not go home at noon as usual, but dined at a hotel. If, while he was
                     gloomily seated at this meal, he could have seen the interior of his home, the
                     table spread, and his little wife waiting for him, pale and haggard with the
                     long forenoon's anguish, and pressing back the tears from her sad eyes, that
                     she might meet him proud—had he seen all this, could the wind have borne him
                     home to repentance as swiftly as he would have longed to go? He came very nigh
                     seeing it once, soon after he had seated himself at dinner, and he half rose
                     from the table with the impulse to fly and atone for all; but suddenly right
                     before him appeared the face of his wife, with its haughty, forbidding look of
                     the preceding evening, and utterly shut out the scene. He would have his
                     revenge!
                  Let lonely, watching, weeping Fanny Wilber say how well he had it; how one of
                     the clock struck upon her heart; how two brought a double pang, dull, deep,
                     deeper than tears; and how each added hour, ticked off more slowly than ever
                     hours had gone through clock before, alarmed, thrilled, agonized her more and
                     more. What if he had been taken very sick? Yet that could not be, or else she
                     would have been informed. But what if he had fallen into the river—mind,
                        fallen—and drowned?
                  One—two—three—four—five—six! Supper was ready, supper was waiting. Six o'clock,
                     and he not come! Fanny could not bear another hour: one more stroke of the
                     clock, and he away, would break her heart. She would go and seek—but supposing
                     she should meet him, what could she say? Her graceful little figure straitened
                     up haughtily at this thought, and her lip slightly curled for a moment; but her
                     poor, loving, bleeding heart could not be held back any more by such a pride as
                     that, and she began to put on her out-door apparel; when all at once a noise
                     was heard at the gate. Suddenly wrapping all day's sorrow in her selfishness,
                     she hurriedly put away her things, and stood ready to meet rebuke with rebuke,
                     sternness with sternness, silence with silence. When Gordon opened the door,
                     and beheld his wife looking so cold, so distant, so unyielding, he well-nigh
                     forgot the resolution he had formed on his way home, and was about to seat
                     himself at the supper-table in silence, when the pale, haggard look of her face
                     caught his eye, and smote upon his heart like a stunning blow. He advanced to
                     her, saying, in a faltering voice,
                  "Fanny, Oh, how I have wronged you! Can you not forgive me, darling, for"—
                  He choked upon that word, caught his wife in his arms, and cried like a child.
                     And Fanny, who thought she had long ago wept her tears all away, leaned her
                     face upon his breast, and sobbed with him. Long did they mingle their tears
                     without speaking; and at length, when he had recovered himself so as to talk
                     coherently, he told her how much he had suffered for his harshness toward her,
                     how sincerely he repented of it, and how earnestly he desired her forgiveness.
                     How noble and magnanimous he was, thought Fanny, as she smiled to him through
                     her tears; and she forgave him with all her soul, and almost wished she had
                     tenfold more to forgive. And yet it was enough; for, as her heart was,
                        he had poisoned
                     twenty-four hours of two loving lives, and caused one to suffer
                     innocently. She loved her husband more than ever for his generous spirit in
                     confessing his fault; yet, she thought, he did no more than his duty. If she
                     herself had acted so wrongly, she would have done the same.
                  That was what she thought; but what thought her husband? When he had
                     acknowledged his offense, and obtained her glad pardon, he expected she would
                     criminate herself and beg forgiveness of him, and then he should have the sweet
                     pleasure of gratitude in pardoning her for having pardoned him. But she never
                     once alluded to her own share of the blame. Could it be that she had forgotten
                     it? Did she not remember how she had acted and what she had said? It seemed
                     even so; and for the first time Gordon Wilber perceived how blind is
                     selfishness.
                  But the two were quite happy again, notwithstanding Gordon felt as if there
                     were an incompleteness in their reconciliation, a something lost, which his
                     heart failed to find. The evening glided away swiftly and pleasantly; and not
                     till very late in the night did they say good-by.
                  For many weeks again their happiness was uninterrupted. Both carefully shunned
                     all approaches to misunderstanding, and were very charitable toward each other.
                     If they had known their enemy, perhaps they never would have wrangled any more.
                     Or if Fanny had been as generous as Gordon was at their first quarrel, this
                     enemy would have been vanquished, and the danger removed. But, as it was, under
                     somewhat similar circumstances another disturbance, deeper than the former,
                     divided them for several days, when Fanny was plaintiff again, and her husband
                     defendant. He at length asked and received pardon as before, though not till he
                     had freely indulged that unconscious spirit in himself, which he now so plainly
                     perceived and so greatly deprecated in his wife.
                  This second quarrel, so made up, rendered the next more readily approachable;
                     and the next, compromised in like manner, was but a mild precedent to the one
                     that succeeded it; till finally Gordon and Fanny Wilber's home—with the little
                     boy now, that should have been to it a charm of harmony—had only glimpses of
                     clear sky between great clouds of storm. Fanny would thoughtlessly say some
                     taunting thing, and Gordon's impetuous nature, growing daily more
                     uncontrollable, would thoughtlessly rise to resent it; bitter words would
                     follow; and long days of sullenness would succeed, terminated at last by his
                     acknowledgment in words or actions, that he had done wrong.
                  Thus the suit of selfishness was prosecuted, and plaintiff and defendant became
                     less and less reconcilable as the suit went on. She never doubted that he was
                     blame-able, because he generally confessed it; and he deemed her so, because
                     she never confessed. How soon this state of affairs might have severed the ties
                     of home, and estranged man and wife forever, had it not been for the simple
                     prattle of a little child!
                  "Mamma," said little Frank Wilber one morning to his mother, after she and
                     Gordon had quarreled, and the latter had gone out, "don't you love papa?"
                  "Yes, my darling;" and Fanny colored scarlet, to such a question, even in the
                     presence of her little boy.
                  "Well then," continued he, why do you say ugly words to him?"
                  
                  "Because he says ugly words to me, my child," answered Fanny, filling up with a
                     strange emotion.
                  "But he never says them to me, mamma; and I am sure he couldn't;
                     for I love him so well that I should keep kissing him when he tried to; and
                     then he wouldn't say any thing but 'My own little boy,' and kiss me back again,
                     you know, mamma."
                  Fanny took the pretty child to her bosom, and almost smothered him with kisses,
                     and wet his face with her tears, weeping all the while aloud. Poor child, he
                     cried, too; but he did not know for what; and if he had asked his mother twenty
                     times more earnestly than he did, she could not have told him. At length, with
                     the great drops chasing down her cheeks, she fixed him for school, kissed him
                     again and again, and sent him away. Then, shutting herself in her room, through
                     all her blinding tears she saw herself as she really was; she saw her husband
                     irritable and violent, but generous and yielding; she saw how all the
                     concessions had come from him, and how almost all the provocations had
                     proceeded from herself, trivial though they were, yet enough to rouse so
                     impulsive a temperament as his; and she saw how a little disinterested love
                     might have prevented all their inharmony and unhappiness, and how it might yet
                     bring back peace to their home. To see all this, with so affectionate and truly
                     good a heart as Fanny Wilber's, was to resolve to be better and do better.
                     Fanny brushed away her tears, and looked glad, as she formed the resolution.
                     Then, with the sweet resolve in her heart, she bathed her face, and cheerfully
                     set about her household duties.
                  When, at a late hour, Gordon returned for dinner, far from mollified from the
                     mood of the morning by the unpropitious business transactions of the forenoon,
                     Fanny and little Frank were at dinner, as it was nearly the hour for him to go
                     back to school. Gordon's selfishness came uppermost, and this, added to the
                     memory of the morning, fired him instantly.
                  "After the first table have done, I suppose I may be permitted to
                     eat my dinner," he began. "I can wait. Vulgar people
                     who marry above their condition in life must 'learn to labor and to wait,' I
                     presume Longfellow meant. I have labored and I have waited; but I am used worse
                     and worse every day; and, Mrs. Wilber, if you imagine I will put up with this
                     state of things much longer, you shall soon find you are laboring under a grand
                     mistake. My patience is about exhausted. I don't intend to endure your
                     pettishness and insulting behavior any more. Now Fanny, I don't want to hear
                     one word from your lips, and I won't."
                  While Gordon, leaning forward in his chair, with burning face and flashing
                     eyes, was thus pouring out his passion as rapidly as his breath would permit,
                     Fanny felt the hot blood rush up and throb in her cheeks; but the sweet,
                     imploring look of her boy, whose eyes were swimming in tears, bade it back; and
                     then she sat, as meek as her little child, and waited till her husband would
                     let her speak. He, fresh from his excitement, and sullen with the aversion he
                     felt toward his wife, had no disposition to eat; and he turned his chair to the
                     window, and sat gazing out in silent bitterness. Now Fanny rose and noiselessly
                     glided to where he sat with his back turned toward her. Without giving him any
                     other warning of her presence, she softly stole round to his side, and, putting
                     her arm gently round his neck before he knew she was there, laid her soft cheek
                     against his, and murmured, in a tremulous, broken voice,
                  
                  "Dear husband, won't you forgive your own Fanny, and love her as
                     you used to do?"
                  The man, whose heart but an instant before had been cold iron giving out sparks
                     to flinty selfishness, turned to his wife with a look of astonishment, and
                     then, leaning his head against her bosom, gave way to a loud and uncontrollable
                     burst of anguish. His spirit was subdued to the tenderness of a babe's; she
                     could lead him now to the end of life with a single thread. "O, my dear Fanny,
                     how could I be so cruel!" was all he could speak for a long while. The
                     defendant was utterly lost; both were plaintiffs now; not plaintiffs of each
                     other any more; plaintiffs of self now.
                  When they could find voice again, with little Frank between them on the
                     sofa—glad little Frank, who had now learned what he and his mother were crying
                     about in the morning—Gordon and Fanny Wilber told each other all how willful,
                     how wicked, and how unhappy MYSELF had been; and resolved all how forgiving;
                     how harmonious, and how peaceful OURSELF should be; and repeated, and could not
                     stop repeating, all how they loved each other now more fondly than before, how
                     each would live for the other always thereafter, and how selfishness should be
                     banished from their hearts forever. And now there is not a better husband, a
                     better wife, a happier family in all the land, than you may find at the
                     pleasant home of Gordon and Fanny Wilber.—Coates-Kinney.
               
               
                  The Disastrous Cups of Cold Water.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Time to me this truth hath taught,—
                              'Tis a truth that's worth revealing—
                              More offend from want of thought,
                              Than from want of feeling."
                           
                        
                        —CHARLES SWAIN.
                     
                  
                  A YOUNG pair who were married in Pennsylvania, for the first two or three
                     months after their union appeared to be extremely fond of each other. The wife
                     was one of those individuals, who are sometimes easily intoxicated with
                     sportfulness, and after they once commence a participation in its somewhat
                     dangerous delights, know not when to say, "So far shalt thou come, and no
                     farther." The husband was quite of a sober, candid habit; but he came so near
                     being an uxorious man at first, that any means which his wife employed for the
                     sake of "lots of fun" was generally tolerated, and even sanctioned by him,
                     without hesitation.
                  But, "the last feather," it is said, "breaks the camel's back," and one of
                     those little efforts at sport, at last overpowered the husband's endurance.
                     They often chose to manifest their mutual affection in childish ways, and one
                     of their diversions was, at unwary times, to throw cups of cold water upon each
                     other. The wife began the sport; the husband retaliated, and when he did so,
                     she practically adopted one of Solomon's proverbs, which says, "He that
                     watereth shall be watered also himself;" and so the watering process was
                     continued at intervals for considerable time. Whenever Mr. S. would come about the house from his shop, in an
                     unsuspecting moment he was apt to be considerably dampened by the discharge of
                     a pint or so of the excelsior fluid from the hands of Mrs. S. Then, if
                     possible, he would snatch up a tin cup, or china mug, and by a series of
                     dextrous manœuverings, endeavor to return the treatment. Meanwhile there would
                     be vociferous laughter on both sides, though he laughed more because she did,
                     than because of his real delight in the sport.
                  But long-continued fun, over which Madam Prudence does not preside, is sure to
                     bring a snare. One day when Mr. S. was unusually serious from some cause, he
                     came to the house to get a drink of water, and being very thirsty, and seeing
                     no cup near, he took up the bucket, which was of moderate size, and commenced
                     drinking out of that. Mrs. S. was still on the alert, and thinking this an
                     opportunity too good to be lost, cautiously stepped up before him and tilted
                     the entire contents of the bucket into his bosom. This water deluged their
                     happiness almost as much as Noah's flood did the earth.*
                      A loud laugh upon her part ensued, but it did not long endure. Coloring
                     with rage, Mr. S. sat the bucket down, and proceeded to inform her "that it was
                     now time to stop;——that such 'capers' as that, he could not, and would not put
                     up with;" and that, "if she had any mind of her own, he hoped she would not
                     always be acting so foolish." The wife felt that such rude language from her
                     husband was more than she could bear, and she replied in terms equally warm.
                     Spirited rejoinders were reciprocal for a short season, and when Mr. S.
                     departed to his work,—when the smoke of the conflict began to disperse, and
                     they began to see the numbers of their pleasures and hopes that were slain,
                     they both realized that their first quarrel had been one of
                     monstrous size. Nor was this the last altercation. They have "stood thick
                     through all the ground" of their connubial experience, and many more are likely
                     yet to come.
                  
                     
                     *Solomon says, "Many waters can not drown love," but Saxe says, 
                        
                           
                              "Love once was drowned, though reckoned water-proof,
                              By the mere dripping of a leaky roof!
                           
                        
                        —EDITOR.
                     
                     
                  
                  The foregoing fully attests the truth of an English proverb that says,
                     "Over-doing a matter is under-doing it." Wedded love is of a delicate texture,
                     and is far more liable to injury from practical jokes and heedless jests than
                     mere friendship. Silver coins may be jingled together considerably, without any
                     very perceivable effect. So may the sports of mere friends. But the pure gold
                     of conjugal love, thus exercised, will be apt to have some of its lustrous
                     impressions worn off.
                  Young husbands, young wives, "be wise as serpents and harmless as doves" when
                     you jest with each other, and in all your married life, 
                        
                           "Let no fiery fun
                           Rise to a scorching noon."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  Money is not Love.
                  WE were sitting at our window, a few days since, conversing leisurely with a
                     friend, who, in a somewhat complaining spirit was contemplating the shady side
                     of life, and mourning the little success he had met with in his pecuniary
                     enterprises. We endeavored to cheer him as much as possible; said that the
                     future might have much in store for him, and that even then his condition was
                     far preferable to that of many who might seem to be more blest,
                     more fortunate, more successful in the ways of the world. But no; the moody
                     spirit was upon him, and he appeared to be determined to despond. At the
                     moment, an individual of some distinction passed—one of the richest residents
                     of a neighboring city; and known by name and character to both of us, but more
                     particularly to the writer of this sketch.
                  "Ah!" said our companion, "there goes a fortunate man. He is to be
                     envied among mortals. He is not only rich; he not only can count his wealth by
                     thousands and tens of thousands, but he has position and influence in society,
                     and possesses the means as well of enjoying himself and those immediately
                     around him, as of contributing, in a liberal spirit, to the necessities of the
                     poor, the suffering, and the meritorious. Would that I were in his
                     situation!"
                  "Alas!" we exclaimed, "how limited are human judgment and foresight! The
                     individual who has just passed, and whose circumstances of fortune have so
                     excited your envy, is far better entitled to your pity. True, he is rich—is one
                     of the wealthiest in the land; but you have yet to learn, perhaps, that wealth
                     by no means constitutes happiness. You would readily change places with him,
                     and he, perhaps, would readily yield all his treasure, could his mind be made
                     easy upon one point; could he have removed from his heart a withering, an
                     eating grief, which, despite the smile which sometimes flits across his
                     features, is the dark demon of his life, and renders him one of the most
                     unhappy of his kind."
                  Colonel S., at the death of his father, became heir to a fortune of $500,000.
                     He possessed many excellent qualities of head and of heart, and was disfigured
                     by few vices. He mingled freely with the highest moral, intellectual, and
                     fashionable circles of the commercial Emporium, and his society was sought with
                     avidity. At the age of twenty-five, fascinated by the charms of one of the
                     loveliest daughters of our land, he visited her frequently, paid court to her
                     in the earnest spirit of a devoted lover, and, in the course of a few months,
                     won and wedded her. The bridal was most brilliant. No expense was spared.
                     Thousands were lavished with a prodigal hand upon the preliminary arrangements,
                     and for months after the honey-moon, the young Colonel—for he is now only
                     thirty—was steeped in visions of bliss. All this was natural. His taste was
                     refined, his sensibilities were acute, his mind was well stored, his fortune
                     was immense for this country, and his wife was young, gentle and lovely. Then,
                     indeed, was he the object of envy in many a circle.
                  The bride and groom visited Europe, and were absent about a year. There new
                     scenes arrested and excited attention, and the gaieties and glories of the Old
                        World, of such cities as London,
                     Paris, and Vienna, engrossed all their thoughts, and afforded them time
                     scarcely sufficient to study each other's tastes and dispositions, and to
                     realize that harmony of soul and of spirit which each, in the hour of festival,
                     excitement and romance, had fancied would constitute the great charm and spell
                     of after existence. But, at last, both became weary of the world abroad, and
                     turned their thoughts and faces homeward. They were welcomed back by troops of
                     friends; they established themselves in a splendid mansion in the great
                     metropolis of the Empire State; and then, in their quiet hours, their moments
                     of thoughtfulness, of calm and of inquiry, they reviewed the past, the present,
                     and the future. The first flush of excitement had gone by. The wildness of that
                     delicious dream of young existence had, in a measure, subsided, and the mind,
                     the heart, the thoughts, the tastes, and the feelings became matters of closer
                     scrutiny. Then it was that slowly, but steadily, the conviction forced itself
                     upon the mind of the Colonel, that he had committed a frightful error—that he
                     had wedded a gentle, susceptible, and confiding creature, had possessed her
                     hand, but had never subdued and conquered her heart.
                  For a long time he resisted this conclusion. It was too appalling to be
                     entertained. His wife, too, was every thing that she should be, in propriety,
                     in virtue, in attention, and in respect. But he felt, nevertheless, that he was
                     not loved as he had hoped and believed; that she had deceived herself as to the
                     nature of her own feelings, and that he also had been deceived. And yet he
                     loved her—how madly, how blindly, how tenderly, language is inadequate to
                     describe. The very struggle which she daily and hourly imposed upon herself,
                     with the object—laudable under the circumstances—of removing from his mind any
                     doubt as to her affection, or at least, her utter devotion to his honor and
                     happiness, seemed at one and the same time to increase the strength of his
                     attachment, and to render him more miserable, because he felt it was not
                     returned voluntarily and from her heart, but rather as a duty, and as the
                     virtue of a gentle and tender nature. Time and again has this rich man
                     attempted for his own sake, to persuade himself that his doubts are unjust;
                     that he does possess the whole heart of his wife, and in the spirit in which he
                     covets that possession. But a look, a word, a tone from her, and though meant
                     to soothe and to satisfy, only serves to strengthen the suspicion, and render
                     him more incredulous and more wretched. This secret grief, this deathless
                     wound, is the poison of his life; wealth can not compensate for it. The
                     countless millions of Crœsus could not restore the confidence which was once
                     felt and enjoyed; could not bring back that delight of reciprocal affection
                     which formed the heaven of his existence during the first few months of his
                     marriage. "To doat yet doubt, under these circumstances—ah! my friend," we
                     continued, "your unhappiness is light and trivial compared to that of the rich
                     man whose whole existence is embittered by the cause to which I have so briefly
                     alluded. His is a sorrow which money can not soothe."
               
               
                  
                  Naming the First-Born.
                  DULY in the "course of human events," John M——, and Jane, his wife, were
                     blessed with what Tom Hood calls a "dear nursling of the Hymeneal nest," and
                     one morning, several weeks thereafter, the father resolved that the time for
                     naming their first-born should not be longer deferred; for though a little had
                     been several times said to visitors concerning the matter, there had been no
                     particular consultation between the parents on the subject.
                  The morning above mentioned, the husband sat down in the room where his wife
                     and child were, and introduced the matter by saying, "Well, Jane, it certainly
                     devolves upon us now to give this little 'know nothing' a name; especially
                     since it has been his due so long, and you and I have both had sufficient time
                     to cull the list of names fixable to boy babies; so, 'come let us reason
                     together,' and give our boy a name that shall be at once substantial,
                     euphoneous, and judicious. In the absence of anything better, he is continually
                     saluted with a string of nonsensical titles, which, were a proper name given
                     him by us, he would, in a great measure, escape. I deprecate such
                        clishmaclaver*
                        about a house of mine."
                  
                     
                     *Clishmaclaver is the Scotch name for silly talk.—EDITOR.
                  
                  "I'm sure, John," said the wife, "I'm perfectly willing to give our babe a
                     "judicious name" as you call it, and, of course, I have thought some about the
                     name I would prefer, but then, as you seem to be particular
                        abouteuphony, etc., I'll say nothing about my choice till I
                     hear yours, lest I should offend your musical ear. I suppose I have employed
                     the "nonsensical titles" which you so much hate, about as frequently as anybody
                     else; so now, as you have told me what you don't like, please tell
                     me, also, what you do like."
                  "One thing I like, is to have a wife talk sensibly to her first child, as well
                     as to other people."
                  "It was a name for this boy, John, that I asked you about; I thought you wanted
                     to talk about that," were the pointed words of the wife; for the captious,
                     unfeeling speech of the husband was already beginning to pain her.
                  "Certainly, certainly!" said the husband, scarcely repressing another sarcastic
                     thrust.
                  "Well, what is your choice?" asked the wife.
                  "O, I hardly know. I've no very particular choice, though I was thinking some
                     of calling him Alpheus Marion."
                  "Alpheus Marion?"
                  "Yes; Alpheus Marion!"
                  "Why, John, that's for your father and one of your brothers, I believe?"
                  "Yes; and it's none the worse for that, either."
                  "How would it do to call him Francis Marion? then part of the name would be for
                     one of my brothers, and part for one of yours, and
                     the whole of it for the old Revolutionary-General, Marion. I think his name was
                     Francis."
                  "Pshaw! Jane, that would never do at all. So far as the old General is
                     concerned it might, but as for your brother Frank, I could never name a child
                     for such a conglomeration as he is."
                  
                  "You couldn't, eh? I should like to know what you could have against him?"
                  "Nothing in particular; only you know he's a harum-scarum, scatter-brained sort
                     of an imp, and besides that, he hasn't got any too good a character, at
                     best."
                  "I guess he's got a better character than some of your brothers,
                     John, especially your brother Alph."
                  "O no! Janie; O no!"
                  "Why, Alph is too lazy to work; he gambles and swears, and occasionally gets
                     drunk; and once came very near being sent to the penitentiary, as you very well
                     know."
                  "Come, Jane, you've now said enough of slang about my kin. They're a flamin'
                     sight better than yours, and, I guess I might as well add, better than
                        you, too."
                  "Oh! John, what do you mean by this? How can you talk to me so?"
                  "I mean that whenever a wife of mine gets to throwing out insinuations about
                     her betters, she might as well 'keep her breath to cool her broth.' The way the
                     streets of Jerusalem were kept so clean, everybody cleaned his own doorway. So,
                     Mrs. M., you'd do well to have some respectable kin yourself, before you get
                     quite so smart in abusing mine!"
                  Here the first dispute subsided, so far as the tongue was concerned, but the
                     heart of the excellent wife was now floundering in its gore, and," as a sheep
                     before her shearers is dumb, so she opened not her mouth" in reply. Her vocal
                     organs were of too refined a texture to convey the burden of her heart's
                     distress, but it was uttered fluently in the language of bitter tears. She
                     thought of the hopeful time when she left the paternal shelter, a trusting,
                     blushing bride, to meet the chances of life with one whose thorough heart she
                     thought an impregnable tower of manliness. She had scarcely thought of anything
                     but "for better" in her nuptial vows; but alas! now everything seemed "for
                     worse." Though she had long seen that her husband was inclined to be
                     unreasonable when angry, she had never dreamed that he could have talked to her
                     as he had just done. She had hoped that the advent of the little nameless
                     member of the family would give new zest to their uninterrupted delights, and
                     forever secure his parents' hearts from the danger of an alienation of
                     confidence. But her hopes had now perished; and the language of a western
                     poet—Rev. Sydney Dyer—was peculiarly expressive of her own sentiments:— 
                        
                           "Hopes once gone, are gone forever,
                           They return not to the heart;
                           Though we seek them, yet they never
                           Will again their life impart;
                           Thus if love's first vows are broken,
                           Every dream of bliss is o'er:
                           Truth once sullied is the token
                           That the heart can trust no more."*
                        
                     
                  

                  
                     
                     *The foregoing suggests the following considerations: 1st. That nearly every
                        married person is related by consanguinity to ignoble kin. 2nd. That every
                        married person, having such kin, is apt to exercise more charity for them
                        than the one who is merely related by affinity. 3d. That every husband
                        should be very guarded about speaking disrespectfully of any of his wife's
                        kin, whom he may judge unworthy of esteem, especially, if he does not know
                        that her opinion of them is similar to his own; and vice versa.—EDITOR.
                  
               
               
                  
                  White Hands and Muddy Coffee.
                  HENRY —— had been married just two months. He was proud of his wife's glossy
                     ringlets, her brilliant eyes, and, last of all, her small white hands. He never
                     asked himself if these same hands could iron a shirt, make bread, or mend a
                     pair of socks. Not he; it was enough for him to know that they could make
                     trills on the piano, work worsted dogs and horses on crickets and ottomans, and
                     paint something styled a landscape. She was not literary, either. Henry
                     couldn't tolerate that kind of absurdity. In his opinion, a woman had much
                     better be asleep than putting her thoughts on paper. He thanked fortune, too,
                     that she never took to dry disquisitions, tedious essays, or egotistical
                     criticisms on egotistical books. Besides, his Helen didn't care about politics:
                     being a regular "Know Nothing" in regard to the item of who stood the best
                     chance of becoming the next President. As to the war in the East, she could not
                     tell, positively, whether Sebastopol was up or down; or whether it was in the
                     hands of the Allies or Russians. Reformation topics she never broached.
                     Temperance was only fit for drunkards' wives to talk about. So, it will be
                     perceived that Helen was not a "strong minded" female; a fact upon which her
                     husband felicitated himself not a little.
                  We have said that two months comprised the married state of the latter. It
                     would be gratifying to add that his happiness was complete; that he had nothing
                     to wish for. But candor compels me to say that he had discovered a little alloy
                     in his gold. To be sure, it would pass for pure metal, but close examination
                     disclosed the fact. In a word, his coffee had been exceedingly muddy for more
                     than a week, and when he cautiously dropped a hint to the effect that if her
                     personal attention were given to the matter, the evil might be remedied, she
                     rather tartly responded that "coffee-making was not her business;" moreover,
                     she shut herself up in her chamber in a miff, thus depriving him of her
                     precious company the rest of the day. A kiss and a new scarf set the matter
                     right next morning, however; Henry throwing in, gratis, an apology for his
                     ill-timed suggestion. He remembered that all mankind (and we may as well
                     include woman-kind,) fail to attain to perfection; that roses always grow in
                     the immediate vicinity of thorns, and that rainbows and black clouds are often
                     seen together.
                  It is a very curious fact, but no less true, that love scarcely ever outlives
                     bad bread, smoky tea, thick coffee, hard boiled eggs, discolored silver and
                     spoiled table linen. After all the romance and rhapsody laid to his charge, the
                     little gentleman deals in practicabilities. He likes bread and butter, and he
                     wants the bread light, and the butter sweet. He is a little exacting, too;
                     insisting that gaiters look better neatly laced than when open and flapping at
                     the sides, with the strings trailing on the ground. He was even known once to
                     take an abrupt leave of a lady on the ostensible plea of dissimilarity of
                     disposition; but shrewd people suspected that the true reason was because she
                     wore dirty collars. He may be whimsical, flighty, and extravagant sometimes,
                     but he is just as sure to leave his air castles and settle down to three meals a day, as a feather is to obey the
                     laws of gravitation. He writes tender poetry, too; but, generally, inspiration
                     seizes him after eating prudently of roast beef and other choice edibles. The
                     sly rogue knows that an empty stomach is not favorable to smooth rhyme, or soft
                     sentiment.
                  The honey-moon had just expired, or rather, the time allotted to that period;
                     for it has been ascertained that that season can be protracted, by
                     proper means, to an indefinite length of time. The twain were seated at the
                     breakfast table. Henry looked dubiously at the burned and dried steak on the
                     platter before him, made a wry face at his cup of coffee, took one mouthful of
                     the clammy, leathery toast and then spoke:
                  "My dear Helen."
                  "Well, Henry."
                  "Did you ever eat any of mother's bread?"
                  "No—why do you ask?"
                  "Because she makes the best biscuit I ever saw."
                  "Undoubtedly! A man's mother is generally his wife's superior in every thing. I
                     only wonder you was ever persuaded to leave her!" responded Helen, dryly.
                  It was the first time she had ever spoken sarcastically, and Henry was
                     puzzled.
                  "I merely referred to my mother because she superintends the bread-baking
                     herself. I wish you could be induced to do the same."
                  The lady lifted her taper finger:—
                  "Do you really wish me to putty my hands with pie crust, and bury my arm in
                     dough, Henry?"
                  "No—not that exactly, my love; but you could overlook Biddy, and teach
                        her to make better stuff than this," he added, pointing to the
                     toast.
                  "I don't know how; besides, Biddy don't want me in the kitchen, and I am not
                     particularly attracted there. I don't mean to spend my life doing housework, or
                     fretting about servants. I'm not able to do anything more than wait on the
                     table, and entertain visitors."
                  The bride sighed, and leaned back in her chair
                  "But your cousin Mary keeps no help, and still gets time to—"
                  "My cousin Mary is very foolish for doing so much more than she needs to. And
                     then her hands are as brown as a gypsey's."
                  "I never happened to notice them. I only remember that she makes delicate
                     pastry, and plays the piano nearly as well as yourself," rejoined Henry,
                     soothingly.
                  "I wish you wouldn't quote cousin Mary. I don't like comparisons. She's a
                     drudge and a blue. You said you didn't like
                     blues."
                  "I don't; blondes are my favorites, and you are as pretty a blonde as I ever
                     saw."
                  "She's an advocate of woman's rights, too. How often you've said you were glad
                     that I don't interfere with subjects which don't concern my sex! And now you
                     are finding fault with my house-keeping."
                  "That's the very idea, my love. I'm only regretting your non-interference in
                     matters that do concern your sex."
                  But Helen "defined her position" immediately. She didn't design burying herself
                     in the kitchen, or attaching herself to Biddy. She had married for a home and
                     maintenance, and not to spend her time in rolling piecrust, or molding
                     bread.
                  Henry looked surprised, and no wonder, for he felt surprised. That his adorable
                     Helen could be perverse when it suited
                     her, he well knew; but that she should "put down her foot" so resolutely, set
                     him to thinking. The young husband did not wish his wife to perform the duties
                     of a domestic; but he hoped she would take the general supervision of matters.
                     He was a clerk, with a moderate salary, and prudence was indispensable to his
                     situation.
                  The story need not be lengthened. Waste and improvidence in the kitchen soon
                     brought pecuniary embarrassment, while in the parlor, incapacity, and ignorance
                     of what constitutes a true woman and real lady, laid the foundation of much
                     discord, which time did not lessen. The charm of the "white hands" had
                     departed.
                  Mere personal beauty, without intellectual attainments, a fund of common sense,
                     and moral worth, can not prove long attractive. Think of this ye unmarried, who
                     are in search of connubial felicity. Imagine each other's state when beauty
                     shall fade, and see what is left besides to admire. And ye married, make the
                     best of your situation by learning and practicing all you can that will
                     contribute to its usefulness and enjoyment.
               
               
                  The Boiled Egg and the Testy Bride.
                  A YOUNG couple had passed the first weeks of their marriage at the house of a
                     friend. Having at length occupied their new home, they were taking their first
                     meal at a table of their own, when the following scene occurred:—
                  The young husband was innocently opening a boiled egg in an egg cup. The bride
                     observed that he was breaking the shell at, what she thought was,
                     the wrong end. "How strange it looks," she said, "to see you break your egg at
                     the small end, my dear! No one else does so; and it looks so odd."
                  "O, I think it's quite as good, in fact, better than breaking it at the large
                     end, my love; for when you break the large end the egg runs over the top,"
                     replied the husband.
                  "But it looks so odd, when no one else does so," rejoined the wife.
                  "Well, now, I really do think it is not a nice way that you have
                     got of eating an egg. Dipping strips of bread and butter into an egg, certainly
                     is not tidy. But I do not object to your doing as you please, if you will let
                     me break my egg at the small end," retorted the husband.
                  "I am quite sure my way is not so bad as eating fruit-pie with a knife, as you
                     do, instead of using the fork; and you always eat up the syrup as if you were
                     not accustomed to have such things. You really do not see how very bad it
                     looks, or I am sure you would not do so," added the wife.
                  
                  "The syrup was made to be eaten with the pie, and why should I send it away in
                     the plate?" asked the husband.
                  "No well-bred persons clear up their plates as if they were starved," said the
                     bride, with a contemptuous toss of her little head.
                  "Well, then, I am not a well-bred person," replied the bride-groom,
                     angrily.
                  "But you must be, if we are to be comfortable together," was the
                     sharp answer of the fastidious lady.
                  "Well, I must break my egg at the small end, so it does not signify; and I must
                     also eat the syrup."
                  "Then I will not have either fruit-pies or eggs at the table."
                  "But I will have them," petulantly exclaimed the husband.
                  "Then I wish I had never been married to you," cried the little wife, bursting
                     into tears.
                  "And so do I," added the now incensed husband, as he arose and walked out of
                     the room.
                  This domestic quarrel was followed by others equally trifling in their origin,
                     and disgraceful in their character, until the silly couple made themselves so
                     disagreeable to each other that their home became unendurable, and they
                     separated.
                  The following very sensible remarks are appended by Rev. Dr. Wise, of New
                     York:
                  "I doubt not, the reader is ready to pronounce this quarrel about the opening
                     of an egg, a very foolish affair. It was so; and yet I seriously question if
                     the first quarrel between a newly married pair ever has a much more elevated
                     beginning. Little things do great mischief, and are to be watched with
                     suspicious care.
                  "I repeat my caution. Beware of the first quarrel. Whatever
                     dissimilarity of habit, taste, or feeling you may discover in each other, be
                     resolute in enduring it; be determined to reconcile yourselves to it, or seek
                     its modification by the gentlest attempts of love. Remember that, however
                     unsuited to each other you may be, the irrevocable covenant has been uttered.
                     You are bound to each other for life; and both prudence and duty demand the
                     concealment of your dislikes, and the strongest efforts to conform to each
                     others' tastes. It will be far easier, in case of such dissimilarity, to
                     crucify your feelings and tastes, than to indulge in useless regrets and bitter
                     quarrels. Begin your married life, therefore, with a stern and fixed resolve to
                     avoid the first quarrel."*

                  
                     
                     *I have heard it said—and, no doubt, very correctly, too—that when a married
                        pair sit down, for the first time, to eat at a table of their own, they are
                        apt to experience feelings of awkwardness.
                     O, how superlatively awkward must those have felt who have thus seated
                        themselves and quarreled! Two loving doves, with their
                        characteristic innocence, would certainly feel extremely awkward after they
                        had angrily pecked at each others' eyes.—EDITOR.
                  
               
               
                  
                  The Intimate Friend.
                  
                     CHAPTER I.
                     CHARLES LANE had been established in a prosperous business eight years, and
                        was nearly thirty years old when he first proposed to himself to win a wife
                        to brighten his home. He had so resolutely remained single while one after
                        another of his young associates had soberly settled down in life, as the
                        head of a family, that people had ceased to calculate the chances for this
                        or that suitable young lady ever becoming Mrs. Lane; and his gallant
                        attentions to the fair sex had come to be regarded by them in the light of
                        common property. And it is not at all improbable that he would have passed
                        quietly down into the vale of cheerless old bachelorhood, had he not become
                        acquainted with Miss Catherine Hamilton, the sister of a beloved friend and
                        former classmate.
                     She was not quite eighteen when he married her, and the disparity in their
                        ages for a long time kept him from regarding her in a different light from
                        that in which she stood to his friend's family—a household pet, bright,
                        merry, and affectionate, used to all sorts of indulgence and flattery, but
                        not spoiled by it. But the fresh charm of her manner, and the untutored,
                        artless expression of her thoughts, as yet uncorrupted by the intercourse of
                        fashionable city life, had a graceful loveliness in the eyes of the wearied
                        man of the world, superior to all that he had hitherto found in female
                        society, and so he brought her from her country home, and established her in
                        a fashionable city residence, and introduced her as his wife to his critical
                        associates, with the firm conviction that they would be almost as much
                        delighted as himself with his choice.
                     For her sake, so young and so gay hearted, he renounced at once those habits
                        of study and retirement which had become almost a second nature. For years
                        he had preferred a quiet evening with his book, to the gay parties to which
                        he was constantly invited, and had asserted his bachelor privilege of
                        remaining at home whenever he chose; but now there was no end to the
                        invitations that poured in upon them, and which were unhesitatingly accepted
                        for the sake of the young wife, and for a time he enjoyed the change. He
                        observed, with pleasure, the effect of Kate's simple beauty upon the idle
                        crowd, to whom a new face was nearly as attractive as a new bit of gossip.
                        To her, every thing was novel and charming. At her age she was not likely to
                        observe the artificial smile, the studied intonation of affected interest in
                        conversation; to her, the tinsel glare was a delightful reality, and she did
                        not once dream that there could be insincerity in the professions of
                        affection that greeted her at every turn. There are many, older and more
                        experienced than Kate Lane, who have yet to learn the hollow-heartedness of
                        mere fashionable society.
                     Charles soon became wearied of the endless round of amusements, and often
                        excused himself on the plea of business, when a suitable female chaperone
                        could be found for Kate. "She is young, and needs all this society," he
                        would say, often, as the carriage, containing his wife and her particular
                        friends, drove away; "but when she gets older, she will tire of it, as I do,
                        and then we will have a home together."
                     
                     Kate, on her part, often wondered at his persistence in
                        sending her so often abroad, when it would be so much pleasanter to remain
                        with him at home, but she was too much occupied by the succession of
                        pleasures to which she was introduced, to reflect very deeply upon the
                        subject. There was a Miss Bryant, to whose particular friendship Charles had
                        himself recommended her, soon after her marriage, who had by rapid degrees
                        gained her confidence, and an influence over her, which promised no good.
                        The few hours that were not claimed by general society, were not free from
                        the familiar intrusions of the intimate friend, and the frequent repetition
                        of "Dearest Fanny," and "Darling Kate," soon jarred upon the husband's ear
                        more than he would have freely confessed.
                     There was another thing that began to trouble him. There was a great change
                        in his wife's taste in dress, and the becoming simplicity that had so
                        attracted him as a lover, was fast changing into a close attention to the
                        ridiculous requirements of fashion. It seemed to him that the important
                        shopping expeditions upon which his wife and friend were so often absent,
                        made up too much of a woman's existence, and he soon learned to consider a
                        call from Miss Bryant as a signal for the appearance of milliners and
                        dress-makers. But only on one point did he place any restriction upon Kate's
                        unbounded liberty. He insisted that she should, on no consideration, ever
                        incur debts that she was unable to pay. With an earnestness that greatly
                        impressed her, he pointed out the easy path to ruin, that so many pursue,
                        and made her promise, that, in all her dealings with others, the only
                        honorable course of prompt payment should be practiced.
                     At first it seemed to Kate that it was needless caution, and she laughingly
                        asked him how she was ever to dispose of one half the sum that he had placed
                        at her command; but in a little time, as Miss Bryant's influence over her
                        increased, she began to wonder how she should contrive to pay the
                        sewing-girl's bill, or get the new bonnet that Fanny assured her was so
                        charmingly adapted to her complexion. The little purse, that was so plump
                        and round for six months after her marriage, was often empty before a year
                        was out, and Kate's little head was frequently harassed by the most
                        intricate calculations.
                     "You will have to learn our city ways, and buy on credit yet," Fanny said to
                        her one morning, as they were looking over a new style of shawls, in a
                        fashionable shop. "It will never do to let such bargains as these slip by,
                        because you have not the money ready at the moment required. Why, there is
                        scarce a lady among all our friends, who pretends to pay up promptly, and
                        some of their bills run a long time. But you country folks are so afraid of
                        trifles! It's the way you are educated, I suppose."
                     "It's not that, Fanny. You know as well as I do, that Charles has a horror
                        of debt."
                     "Well, this would hardly be called a debt, even by him. You will be able to
                        pay within a month, I dare say."
                     "Yes, in less time."
                     "And yet you can hesitate, when this is such a chance to buy
                        cheap! There are only two shawls of this pattern, and I shall take one at
                        any rate, though when it will be paid for I can't say. Mr. Brown is sure of
                        getting the money from father if I fail, so he will be easy, and so shall I.
                        Come, Kate, buy the other, and we can dress alike. Just try it on. Now look
                        at yourself in that mirror. Does it
                        not look splendidly, Mr. Brown?" she asked of the merchant, who had been
                        standing silently by, quite willing to be assisted by Miss Bryant in driving
                        a good bargain.
                     "Yes," he replied, "the style is peculiarly adapted to her, as you see. It
                        is not often that what we call 'fitness' in costume is so well represented.
                        Turn round, if you please, Mrs. Lane, so that the light can fall directly
                        upon you. Is it not a beautiful sight, Miss Bryant?"
                     "Charming! Do, Kate, darling, be once persuaded by me, and not suffer this
                        rare opportunity to slip by."
                     "Let me have the pleasure of sending it to your house this morning," said
                        Mr. Brown. "I can not answer for its remaining on sale an hour, madam, or I
                        would not urge the matter; but it is seldom that we have any thing so
                        charming in the market, and it will not be possible to keep it long."
                     "I can not pay for it this morning," hesitated Kate; "I should prefer
                        waiting till I can pay for it;" and she began reluctantly to take it off.
                        The delicate compliments of the merchant had so enhanced its value in her
                        eyes, that she felt it quite a sacrifice to give it up.
                     "I should be happy to trust you, Mrs. Lane, to any amount. I have the names
                        of many ladies of your acquaintance on my books. We hardly look upon these
                        little transactions as debts; they are only temporary accommodations, the
                        necessity for which will often occur in a lady's experience, and which it is
                        really a pleasure to us to render. You are not used to our customs yet, and
                        allow a trifling matter to be an inconvenience to you."
                     Thus persuaded, Kate finally yielded, and the shawl was purchased and sent
                        home. But it was a heavy heart that Kate now began to carry about into all
                        her scenes of pleasure. Other bills became due, and were paid; but they
                        seemed suddenly to have acquired great magnitude, and to drain more deeply
                        than ever the purse that was to save the money for the shawl. Other debts,
                        too, were added to the first; it didn't seem to matter so much if the
                        original sum were increased a little, if present ease could be secured.
                        Charles tried in vain to find out the cause of the cloud that now shaded her
                        brow. The merry, careless laugh of other days, sounded hollow and unnatural,
                        and she, whom he had begun to fear was never to arrive at the years of
                        serious reflection, had frequent fits of sadness that were wholly
                        unaccountable. He began to think that he had neglected her, and he again
                        accompanied her to each party of pleasure; but the gloom still remained; for
                        into the brightest of those gay assemblies would steal the remembrance of
                        her weakness and fully, and she was ready to weep as she sought vainly some
                        way to escape from the coming evil. She tried hard to appear unconcerned and
                        happy, for she had learned to dread, as a means of detection, the watchful
                        love of her husband; but her forced gaiety did not deceive him, though he
                        imagined every cause but the right one for her prolonged melancholy.
                     "O, dear!" said Kate, one day, to her friend, "if Charles
                           should ever know about those stolen goods, I should never be
                        happy again."
                     "Stolen, Kate!"
                     "I feel as if they were. They are not mine, at any rate. I have no right to
                        them, and when they will be paid for I can not tell. Sometimes I think I'll
                        tell Charles all about it, and let him despise me. It would be better than
                        this continual fear of being suspected."
                     
                     "No it wouldn't." Fanny had her own reasons for keeping Charles in
                        ignorance. "You know, darling Kate, his horror of debt. It is a morbid
                        feeling, to be sure, and perfectly unreasonable, so far as your little
                        embarrassments are concerned, but I suppose he can't help it. Do you know
                        what makes him so particular?"
                     "It is because he is honest and upright. O that I were worthy of him!"
                     "Nonsense! You have a fit of the dumps, Kate. Mr. Lane, being an orphan, was
                        brought up by his uncle, who somehow became greatly embarrassed in business,
                        and in a fit of despair shot himself."
                     "Dreadful!"
                     "Yes, it was very shocking. His dying did not mend the matter or pay the
                        bills, so he was not overwise, I think. But being a near relative, it made a
                        great impression upon Mr. Lane. It's a pity, for you would be much happier,
                        dear, if he were not so precise."
                     "If he were less honorable, you mean. No, Fanny, I should be happier if I
                        were honorable, too."
                  
                  
                     CHAPTER II.
                     ONE fine morning in early autumn Miss Bryant came to her friend's house in a
                        great hurry.
                     "Come, Kate," she exclaimed, "come go with me to Brown's. He has a lot of
                        new fancy silks, and we'll have our pick of them before the whole town gets
                        a chance to overhaul them."
                     "I don't need a silk now, Fanny. You know it was only last month that we had
                        those expensive brocades. Charles calls me his little spendthrift."
                     "In fun."
                     "In fun, of course. But you see he is in business, and father says he needs
                        a great deal of money for capital, and mother whispered to me as I took
                        leave of her the last time I was at home, that she was afraid I had yet to
                        learn how to economize."
                     "I hate the very word economy, don't you? It has such a vulgar sound, so
                        countrified, you see. As if we were obliged to look at a cent on both sides
                        before spending it. It does for old folks to preach of economy. I dare say
                           we shall do it in our turn. But I am all impatience to get
                        to Brown's. What are you waiting for? Isn't the husband willing for Kate to
                        go out?"
                     "What nonsense! You know, Fanny, that Charles never interferes with my
                        actions in any way. He never even inquires what becomes of all the money
                        that he places at my disposal. I wish he did though," added Kate, sighing
                        deeply.
                     "Now, you ought to thank the generous stars who gave you to a man not
                        disposed to meddle. No woman likes to have her affairs too curiously looked
                        into, even by her liege lord; and you, Kate, would not be particularly
                        charmed to have your husband study out the sum total of your
                        liabilities."
                     "You are hardly fair, Fanny. It was your persuasion that induced me to buy
                        that last hat."
                     "My persuasion!"
                     "Yes, indeed. Did you not say that you knew Charles's taste so well, and
                        that he would be delighted with it? Well, he thinks it a fright, and I have
                        wished over and over again that I had never seen it, but it is too late to
                        wish about it. I gave it to Maria, the daughter of our laundress, and a
                        pretty figure she cuts in it."
                     "Well, well, that has nothing to do with the new silks at Brown's. You can go with me and look
                        at them, I suppose, if you do not purchase."
                     "Yes, I should like the walk. I feel so dull and low-spirited."
                     "Meditating on mamma's whisper of economy is what has caused it. Now, Kate,
                        if only the thought of economy produces such troubled looks and
                        faint spirits, what would the practice of it do?"
                     The two ladies were soon busily engaged in the inspection of the new goods,
                        and the morning hours slipped by unperceived. Kate was soon, as Miss Bryant
                        said, herself again, and mother's wise suggestion was forgotten. Again Kate
                        yielded to the influence of her friend, and before they left the shop each
                        had purchased a fancy silk, to be worn at a large party that was to be given
                        the next week. It is true that a few misgivings crossed the mind of Mrs.
                        Lane as she selected the rich trimming, but the lively, piquant remarks of
                        her friend drove away the gathering cloud, and she listened with a pleased
                        look to the sugared compliments of the polite merchant.
                     It was, however, only for a short time that she forgot the real state of her
                        affairs, and now, for the first time, she asked Mr. Brown to favor her with
                        the amount of her bill. She put it in her pocket without looking at it, and
                        really vexed with herself for her easy compliance with Fanny's wishes, and
                        half angry with her friend for interfering so readily in her affairs. She
                        began to retrace her way homeward in so sad and silent a mood that Miss
                        Bryant, who had been exulting in the success of her plans for her, was quite
                        ready to take leave at the door and hurry off to call on other
                        acquaintances. Kate hurried up stairs to her own room and sat down almost in
                        despair.
                     "It was only this morning," she said to herself, "that I sat here and
                        resolved so sincerely that I would never buy on credit again. And here is a
                        costly dress that I do not need or want added to the rest, because I am so
                        weak and foolish that I dare not act for myself. I am a mere tool that Fanny
                        uses as she pleases. I am certain," she continued after a pause, "that
                        Charles does not know her. He would not, I am sure, trust me so often with
                        her if he did. He is too open and unsuspecting himself to observe the fatal
                        influence that she exerts over me, I must break with her, or she will ruin
                        me. But, then, a reason for it must be given, and so the whole truth will
                        come out, and what shall I do when Charles knows how little I am to be
                        trusted? Is there no other way?"
                     She mechanically pulled out the merchant's account and looked it over. The
                        amount startled her. "Eighty dollars for laces only! O me! I could not have
                        believed it. Six hundred dollars in all, and then I owe two hundred more to
                        Fanny, who would ask it of Charles directly if I offended her. I know what I
                        will do. I will go home to mother and tell her every thing. She will love
                        her poor Kate just the same, and though she can not help me to pay this
                        money I shall feel better if she knows all. And this last silk, why, it will
                        do for sister Clara. Mother wrote for me to send out such a dress for her,
                        and I, in my trouble, quite forgot it."
                     Kate's face brightened perceptibly as she took up her mother's letter and
                        read it over the second time. "How fortunate!" she exclaimed. "It seems that
                        I have bought exactly what mother requires."
                     Another piece of good fortune was in store for Kate. A visitor was
                        announced, an unwelcome visitor, too; a lady who was particularly disliked
                        in society because of her vulgar
                        attempts at costly and especially gorgeous display; often setting all rules
                        of propriety at defiance in her efforts to outdo others. It was, therefore,
                        with feelings little akin to pleasure that Kate met her in the parlor.
                     "Ah, Mrs. Lane, how charmingly you look! A little pale, to be sure, but that
                        is becoming to you. My Augusta tells me that a lily complexion is now quite
                        the fashion. It is thought so interesting. But Augusta is so
                        rosy naturally, and is so disgusted by her own color, that she suffers
                        dreadfully. You would hardly believe me, Mrs. Lane, if I should tell you of
                        the quantity of chalk and cloves that she has taken to destroy the red in
                        her cheeks, but it is of no use, she is as flowery as a milk-maid. Mr.
                        Larkin, dear good soul, advises her to try grave-stones. What do you think
                        of it?"
                     "I don't know, indeed," replied Kate, laughing at the idea.
                     "But I have another trouble this morning, Mrs. Lane, and how I am ever to
                        meet Augusta I don't know. The poor girl will be in despair."
                     "What has happened?" asked Kate, becoming serious as she saw the evident
                        perplexity of her visitor.
                     "Nothing has happened, but Augusta, dear girl, went to Church last Sabbath,
                        and Miss Fanny Bryant wore a shawl that so captivated her fancy, that she is
                        sure she shall never be contented again without a similar one. I have been
                        over the whole city in vain. There are some very much like Miss Bryant's at
                        Warren's, but nothing short of the exact pattern will do. Augusta is
                           very particular, and Miss Bryant is her model in dress."
                     Kate could hardly help laughing again as she remembered Fanny's vexation at
                        being so exactly copied by the young lady in question, and once the plan now
                        suggested to her mind would have been discarded as treacherous to her
                        friend, but she began to see things in their true light and replied without
                        hesitation:
                     "There were only two shawls of that pattern. They were sold at Brown's. Miss
                        Bryant took one and I bought the other. I have worn mine only once, and as I
                        have no particular preference for the pattern and can easily suit myself
                        with another, Miss Augusta can have it if she chooses."
                     The calm tones of Kate's voice hardly corresponded with the quick throbbing
                        of her heart as a prospect of materially lightening her embarrassments thus
                        opened before her.
                     "Now, will you really be so obliging? I declare it must have been Providence
                        that sent me in here," said Mrs. Parker, suddenly becoming pious as her
                        troubles vanish, "and truly, as the Scripture says, 'A friend in need is a
                        friend indeed.' Augusta will fairly die with delight. Let me take the shawl
                        to her myself, Mrs. Lane, if it is not making too much trouble. I shall
                        never forget your kindness. But it is like you, Mrs. Lane. Every body is
                        speaking of your goodness; even poor Mrs. Churchill—whose baby you dressed
                        so prettily after it was dead—says she shall never be contented till
                           she does the same for you. What is the price of this shawl?"
                     Kate had sent for it and Mrs. Parker had been unfolding it and gazing
                        admiringly upon it while speaking.
                     "Two hundred dollars, ma'am."
                     "Indeed! And Miss Bryant paid that for her's?"
                     "Yes. The price was the same."
                     "Well, it seems a great sum to pay, but Augusta would not wear a
                        lower-priced one. So here is the
                        money, and thank you too. Let me know if I can oblige you at any time. You
                        will excuse me if I hurry home. I want to see her try it on. Won't she be
                        pleased, though?"
                     And the really thankful mother hurried off with her prize, leaving Kate in a
                        still more grateful frame of mind.
                     "How angry Fanny will be when she sees that shawl worn!" she thought as she
                        went back to her room; "but it is not so unfair as it is for her to take
                        such advantage of my inexperience as she does. It seems sometimes as if she
                        really contrived ways to get me involved in debt; but she could have no
                        interest in doing that, and so I will not wrong her. But I
                           will, in future, act for myself, and no more unnecessary
                        articles will I buy till these are paid for. I am resolved on that, at any
                        rate."
                     There was a lurking doubt and trembling at the bottom of her stout
                        resolutions, a little of irresolute dread in her heart, as she thought how
                        frequently she had yielded to temptation; but her face wore a happier
                        expression than it had for months, and she met Charles with something of the
                        old confident smile when he came to dinner. He, hailing it as an omen of
                        future content, became in his turn unusually cheerful.
                     "I want to go home this afternoon, Charles."
                     "Is not this home?" he asked, his face growing serious as he attributed her
                        restored spirits to her anticipation of meeting her friends.
                     "Yes. This is the dearest, the best home, and I shall hurry back to-morrow.
                        I shall not take you away from all the business that you so love to worry
                        over, and you will hardly miss me before the morning train brings me back
                        again."
                     "You must bring sister Clara back with you. Is it not time for another visit
                        from mother? Tell them to come directly. My pet is getting lonesome. Ah!
                        that smile does not deceive me, Katie; I've seen it for a long time."
                     "You are certainly mistaken, Charles."
                     "And you are certainly happy, Kate?" he asked. "Can you say that?"
                     Her cheek crimsoned and she hesitated painfully as she strove to answer
                        gaily.
                     "Ah, Kate, what shall I do to make you happy?"
                     "Nothing. Indeed, Charles, I have all I want, and if I am sometimes a little
                        out of spirits, it is not your fault. I'm getting old and steady, you
                        see."
                     "Well, well, bring back some of the folks with you. I will go to the station
                        and see you safely off, and I shall come out myself in the evening
                        train."
                     Her smile of pleasure on hearing this assured him that whatever might be the
                        cause of her unhappiness, it was not a want of affection for him.
                  
                  
                     CHAPTER III.
                     IT was on the morning preceding the expected party that Charles Lane called
                        at the house of a gentleman in another part of the city to transact some
                        business. The gentleman was out, but the servant who opened the door said
                        that he would be back soon; so he concluded to go in and wait for him. He
                        was shown into a back parlor that communicated by folding doors with the
                        common sitting-room of the family. One of the doors happened to be slightly
                        ajar—not enough to afford a distinct view of the occupants of the room, but
                        sufficiently so to give him the benefit of their conversation.
                     Too polite to listen, he took up a book, and, seating himself as far from
                        the door as possible, he tried to forget both the conversation and his
                        business in looking over its pages, when his attention was arrested by the
                        familiar voice of Miss Bryant, who seemed to be in the best spirits possible
                        as she chatted and laughed by turns. "She is at her usual employment," he
                        said to himself, resuming his book; "ridiculing some of her friends, I dare
                        say."
                     "It seems strange, Fanny, said a voice that was new to him, "that she does
                        not tell her husband. If she is as confiding and affectionate as you
                        represent her, I should think she would naturally do so."
                     "There is not the least danger of it; I have talked too much to her about
                        his horror of debt."
                     Charles started and leaned forward, now listening attentively.
                     "I verily think," continued Miss Bryant, "that the little puss believes he
                        would discard her forever if he knew the truth. There is no danger of her
                        telling him; she would die sooner than to risk the loss of his love."
                     "Well, after all, Fanny, as she has never injured you, I can hardly
                        sympathize in your pleasure in urging her to do wrong."
                     "She is Charles Lane's wife, Louisa, and that is injury enough."
                     "I remember your disappointment, Fanny, but she had nothing to do with
                        it."
                     "No, and does not dream of it. Do you not understand? If I could not strike
                           him through her, do you suppose I would take
                        such pains?"
                     "Does he love her?"
                     "Yes, he adores her. In his eyes she is perfect, and will be for the
                        present. But the future, when concealment becomes impossible, when the fated
                        bills are really sent home at last, and discovery and the loss of his esteem
                        become inevitable, that future, full of triumph and satisfied revenge, will
                        be mine, Louisa."
                     "Well, I don't envy you the possession of it. In my opinion, you are working
                        very hard for very small pay."
                     "You may think what you please if you do not betray my confidence. You can
                        not imagine the trouble I had, or the pains I took before I could get her to
                        buy on credit. It was only when she was sure of having funds directly that I
                        at last prevailed. I should hardly have succeeded then but for Brown, who
                        helped me nobly; only thinking, however, of feathering his own nest."
                     "Well, she paid that bill, I suppose."
                     "No she didn't; I knew better than she how to calculate, and I had not
                        studied her affairs so closely without finding out what claims upon her
                        purse were likely to be made. I shall never forget her look of terror when
                        she found that she could not pay that first debt. I almost felt it in my
                        heart to pity her, but she mentioned her husband's name, and I was
                        granite."
                     "I believe you."
                     "But she nearly betrayed all that evening."
                     "How?"
                     "You must know it was a stormy evening, and, for a wonder, there was no
                        party, no concert, no any thing to go to, so I went there. Kate had been
                        playing a favorite piece of her husband's, and still sat by the piano, idly
                        striking its chords, when he mentioned Mr. Browning's failure, which had
                        just got abroad. As men usually do,
                        he attributed the misfortune to the prodigality of the unfortunate wife. It
                        seems that when Mr. Browning was most in need of funds, and while some
                        prospect remained of yet weathering the storm, there came in a monstrous
                        bill for millinery and other finery, and the poor man sunk at once. When Mr.
                        Lane mentioned this, I saw Kate jump up from the music stool and put her
                        hand to her forehead as if thoroughly frightened. I contrived to give her a
                        warning look, but I thought he was rather suspicious."
                     "Poor Kate!" thought Charles, as Miss Bryant paused to take breath. He, too,
                        remembered the night in question, and his wife's agitation.
                     He was truly shocked by these disclosures, but blamed himself far more
                        deeply than he was disposed to blame Kate. Her youth and inexperience fully
                        excused her in his eyes. His own blindness was the most unaccountable. His
                        want of consideration in placing her in the way of such temptations seemed
                        inexcusable. He, who had so solemnly promised to cherish and protect her,
                        had, in his unwitting confidence in the integrity of others, exposed her to
                        the worst of perils. He understood Fanny's malice very well, though only her
                        own lips could have persuaded him of its existence. The sisterly affection
                        that she had offered, in place of the dearer claim that she had striven
                        vainly to establish, he had believed to be sincere, and had rejoiced to see
                        it bestowed upon Kate, also. He had sometimes doubted the utility of their
                        particular intimacy, but never, even in thought, had he suspected Fanny to
                        be capable of any thing dishonorable. And this, then, was the solution to
                        what had so long puzzled him, and Kate's fits of sadness were all explained
                        by it.
                     "Poor Kate!" he sighed again. Miss Bryant continued:
                     "You will be at the party to-night, and I will introduce you to her. You
                        might help me a great deal, Louisa, if you would. She might be invited here,
                        and a simple game of cards proposed at first, in which nothing should be
                        hazarded—a game for mere amusement, you know."
                     "I will have nothing whatever to do with it. My conscience—"
                     "Your conscience!" interrupted Fanny, I did not know you had one. There, you
                        need not get angry. I was speaking in jest. But really you must become
                        acquainted with Kate. She will wear a new fancy silk to-night, that is not
                        paid for. I wonder if Charles Lane really thinks that she dresses so
                        expensively upon the sum he allows her. I coaxed her to Brown's with a good
                        deal of difficulty, for she had sat down with the gravest face you ever saw,
                        to study economy. And I bought a dress that I did not want for the pleasure
                        of getting her to purchase a similar one on credit. Economy, indeed! And
                        Fanny Bryant her intimate friend!"
                     Both ladies laughed heartily.
                     "It's too bad, too bad, Fanny. Why, you are as bad as you were when we were
                        at school, and you stole Miss Burton's prize essay."
                     "But this is better fun than that. If you had only been at Brown's and seen
                        me manage the poor little fool, you would say I had vastly improved.
                        To-night I will give her a whispered hint that I believe Mr. Lane is getting
                        suspicious, and you shall see her turn pale and shiver as if she had the
                        western ague."
                     "You are perfectly heartless," said the other lady, laughing, however, in the most encouraging
                        manner. "Hush! here comes Tom!"
                     "Shut the parlor door, Tom, and then go and play; cousin Lou is busy."
                     The boy did as he was requested, and, in so doing, shut out the amiable
                        schemes of Miss Bryant from the ears of her particular friend's
                        husband. He had heard enough, however, to explain every thing. Fanny had
                        unconsciously been a most powerful pleader in behalf of Kate, and it was
                        only a sentence of forgiveness and love that her judge was to pronounce.
                     The gentleman did not return; so he left a message for him, and went back to
                        his office to reflect alone upon what he had heard, and to decide upon some
                        method of gaining Kate's confidence without alarming her fears. The late
                        improvement in her spirits seemed now an unfavorable symptom; he feared that
                        she was getting accustomed to her dishonorable position, and less sensitive
                        to what was wrong in it. He sent home—as his business frequently obliged him
                        to do—an excuse for not coming to dinner, and spent the whole afternoon in
                        forming plans and discarding them.
                     "If Kate would bring her troubles to me, and confide in me, as she ought to
                        do, it would be easy enough to arrange matters. The bills must
                        be paid directly, and this precious intimacy must be broken up
                        at once, and Kate must not go to this party to be tormented so cruelly. I
                        must speak to her about it all, at once. If I delay, other mischief will be
                        brewing."
                     It had been a miserable day for Kate. Her mother had suggested no plan for
                        the removal of her difficulties, but had urged her—as she valued her
                        happiness—to go directly to Charles and tell the humiliating truth. There
                        seemed no other way to extricate herself; but she remembered Fanny's
                        warnings, and shrunk from the idea of explanation.
                     "If he only knew how much Fanny has encouraged me in all this wretched
                        business, it would not seem so bad to him; but he will think more meanly of
                        me if he finds that I add to my other faults treachery to my friend. No, I
                        will never excuse myself by throwing the blame on her."
                     As the hour approached for dressing for the party, she became more and more
                        uneasy. Fanny had insisted on their being dressed alike, and she dreaded the
                        remarks that she would make on her appearance. When she was dressed she
                        began to be anxious about her husband. It was not usual for him to be so
                        tardy, and on this occasion she was particularly desirous to arrive at the
                        party before the rooms were crowded, that she might secure some quiet corner
                        where she would be screened from general observation. At last he came in,
                        but she observed that he was in his usual dress.
                     "Not ready, Charles?" she said, "it is late, and I have been waiting a long
                        time."
                     "I am very sorry, but I was detained by business."
                     "It is always business, business!" said Kate, in a vexed and impatient tone;
                        "I detest business, Charles."
                     He turned to look at her in some astonishment.
                     "Indeed! and how should we live without it?"
                     "Live? As other people do. But we must not wait to talk about it. You will
                        be ready soon, Charles?"
                     He did not reply; and as she raised her eyes to his face she was struck with
                        its unusual expression. It was not the fond, admiring glance that he usually
                        accorded to her attire when dressed for society; its seriousness awed her. One more stolen look, and the
                        conviction rushed upon her mind that the veil was at last torn from all she
                        had striven to conceal, and her disgraceful position made known. A sensation
                        of relief, mingled with the feeling of shame that led her to cover her
                        burning face with both hands. She could not meet his look with the calm,
                        untroubled glance of other days. He noted the change, and sighed deeply as
                        he came to her side.
                     "Do not be afraid of me, dear Kate," he said, "I have been more to blame
                        than you in all that has troubled you; for I should have considered your
                        youth and yielding temper, and have shielded you from temptation. Look up,
                        and do not tremble so. I know it all, and love you just the same. But
                        really, Kate, there must be confidence between us now."
                     He sat down on the sofa and drew her to his side.
                     "Can you not trust me, Kate?"
                     Her head dropped lower and lower; his manly kindness made her fault only the
                        more odious and contemptible.
                     "Tell me all about it, Kate," he said, soothingly, as he smoothed back with
                        his hand the shining tresses that hung over her face; "let me know all, and
                        we will find out a remedy. Look up, my love, say you forgive me for being so
                        careless of my best treasure, for exposing you to such dangers."
                     "O, Charles!" she exclaimed, for the first time looking up, "I am sure that
                        you do not know all. You could not speak so kindly if you did. I have done a
                        great wrong. I am deeply involved in debt, and it is not a
                           single error that I have been guilty of, but it has been
                        repeated over and over again. I should have come to you at first, but I
                        feared so much lest you should so despise my folly as finally to hate me. I
                        know your sense of honor, and how much I have disgraced you as well as
                        myself; but O, Charles, you can never know how I have
                        suffered."
                     "I know that you have been very unhappy. If I had known the cause, if you
                        had but trusted me sufficiently to have confided in me at first, it would
                        have been better. But we can not recall the past; it only remains to relieve
                        you now, and—"
                     "No, Charles," she interrupted him, you must not help me, I will work my way
                        out without aid; only say that I have not wholly lost your esteem, that you
                        do not despise my weakness, and I shall have courage and strength for any
                        thing. Let me remedy the evil by myself."
                     "Impossible! My dear wife, do you suppose I value a few dollars when it is
                        to secure peace and tranquility to you? Tell me to whom you are indebted,
                        and for how much. I will arrange it all, and we will begin the world anew,
                        my Katie."
                     "No, no, I want to learn self-reliance and regain my self-respect. If the
                        task is difficult the lesson will be more perfect."
                     "But, Kate—"
                     "Please let me try; you do not know how dreadful it is to be afraid to trust
                        one's self."
                     "But, Kate," said her husband, "listen a moment to me. And first tell me the
                        amount to be paid."
                     She hesitated, and raised her eyes timidly to his face, but she saw only
                        love and encouragement there, so she answered boldly, "Eight hundred
                        dollars." It was a larger sum than he had expected to hear; but he
                        continued, quietly, "The last new silk at Brown's, is that included in the
                        sum you mentioned?"
                     
                     "Yes; but mother has taken that for Clara, and I have two hundred dollars
                        more that Mrs. Parker paid for my shawl."
                     "So you have sold the shawl. Well, my little merchant, what is there besides
                        the dress and shawl?"
                     "How did you know about the dress?"
                     "I overheard Miss Bryant telling a lady how she coaxed and ridiculed a 'poor
                        little fool'—these were her very words, Kate—'till she prevailed on her to
                        run in debt for it.'"
                     "O, Charles!" exclaimed his wife, opening her eyes to their fullest
                        extent.
                     "And O, Kate!" he replied, laughing, as he imitated her astonished looks.
                        "Well, you will at least know how to appreciate her worth as a friend. What
                        other articles did you buy in this way?"
                     "These bracelets, and—and that diamond pin, and—"
                     "Well?"
                     "The hat which you called a butterfly because of its gay trimming, and a
                        great quantity of lace, and—and the brocade dress that you admired when we
                        went to Mrs. Grey's."
                     "Were they all bought at Brown's?"
                     "All but the jewelry. I bought that of a traveling peddler. Fanny said that
                        they were very beautiful and—and very becoming to me, and that a chance to
                        get any so cheap might never come again, and she lent me the money."
                     "Ah, well, then we have not to hunt up the peddler. Have you mentioned
                        all?"
                     "Yes."
                     "Now, then, Katie, I shall pay these debts directly—or rather I shall ask
                        you to do so."
                     "If you please, Charles," she interrupted him.
                     "I don't please. For my sake, as well as for yours, these accounts must not
                        be suffered to run." He observed her look of disappointment, and continued:
                        "If you really have it so much at heart, you may puzzle yourself as well to
                        pay me as any one else. I will trust you longer than Brown will, Katie, and
                        I will consider happy looks and restored peace as lawful currency if you are
                        pressed for money."
                     "But I am in earnest, Charles," she urged, I must pay it all—every penny,
                        and you must not add to the liberal sum you have always allowed me."
                     "I will exact the last half cent if it will please you. But you must be my
                        merry, happy Kate; you are not to grow pale and fret yourself about it; and,
                        above all, you must never have a secret from me again. Promise me this."
                     The required promise was so earnestly given, that Charles could not forbear
                        a smile.
                     "Look at the clock," he said, "shall we go to the party?"
                     "No, no; let us spend the evening at home together. Where can we find a
                        place so pleasant as our own home? Wait till I run up stairs and change my
                        dress and get my work—"
                     "And bathe those swollen eyes, Kate. And what then?"
                     "Let us have the books and the music, as we do on stormy evenings. I am so
                        glad, always, when it storms."
                     He looked at her attentively as he held the door open for her. The old
                        sunshine of the heart illuminated the sweet face once more, and he heard her
                        singing as she went up the stairs. He thought of his early dreams of domestic bliss, and began to ask
                        himself if it were not wiser to endeavor to render his wife happy at home
                        than to persist in exposing her to the corrupting influence of fashionable
                        life. He was thinking deeply on this question when she returned.
                     "We can be happy by ourselves, Kate," he said, as he put on the slippers and
                        dressing gown that she had brought down; "we are not dependent on other
                        people for our comfort."
                     "No, indeed."
                     "It is rather strange that we so often seek abroad what we leave at home;
                        don't you think so, Kate?"
                     "Of what are you thinking?" she asked, a little puzzled by his grave
                        manner.
                     "Of home pleasures, dear. Have you never thought that the quiet happiness
                        that is found in your father's house, for example, is worth more than the
                        exciting pleasures of society?"
                     "A thousand times. And I've thought it very strange that you, Charles, who
                        used to enjoy so well those quiet evenings at father's, should care so
                        little about our own home, and insist so strongly on the claims of
                        society."
                     "It was to gratify you—to keep you from pining after the old home."
                     "Then, are you not an over-indulgent man?" said Kate, in her light, natural
                        manner, and smiling brightly as she put her little work-box on the table;
                        "now, sir, do you see this? Thimble, needle, scissors, thread; they are to
                        come down every night, and the books, too," she added, pointing to the
                        bookcase; "and when we are tired, there's the music! Will you really agree
                        to it?"
                     "To what?" He had not seen her eyes sparkle so for many a day.
                     "Will you be contented with those home pleasures of which you just spoke? I
                        should be so happy, Charles, if you were satisfied. Fanny says you are
                        passionately fond of society, and that I must adapt my country taste to
                        yours, if I wish to make you happy."
                     "Fanny knows better. I went into company very seldom before we were married.
                        But we will forget her and settle down as steady old people at once. Never
                        mind the work-box to-night; I am tired, and you must rest me with the dear
                        old music. I shall be a very tyrant in my exactions if we are to amuse each
                        other."
                     "Certainly, then, we shall be very happy."
                     It was indeed a happy evening that they spent together. It was nearly as
                        late as the usual hour of return from abroad when the piano was finally shut
                        and the parlor deserted.
                     The next morning brought Fanny. Kate tried hard to assume her usual cordial
                        manner, but could not succeed.
                     "Why were you not at the party, Kate?"
                     "We preferred staying at home."
                     "Indeed! I supposed you would be there, as you had a new dress on purpose to
                        wear. An old friend and school-mate of mine was there, and I wanted to
                        introduce you to her. Are you going to Mrs. Grey's to-night?"
                     "No, I think not."
                     "You are invited, I suppose?"
                     "Yes, but have already declined going."
                     "Why, Kate, what has come to you? I came in to invite you to call on my
                        friend, but I suppose it would be useless if you have retired from the
                        world."
                     These allusions to her friend recalled all Fanny's schemes to Kate's mind,
                        for Charles had related to her the conversation so providentially overheard,
                        and she now replied with some
                        spirit, "I think, Fanny, that the best place for the 'poor little fool' who
                        can be coaxed or ridiculed to incur a debt, is at home."
                     Miss Bryant started, colored slightly, and fidgeted uneasily in her chair.
                        There was something in Kate's cool, dignified manner that disconcerted
                        her.
                     "I don't know what you mean," she said, rising hurriedly as Charles came in.
                        A sudden thought seemed to occur to her as she sat down near them. "I am in
                        a hurry, Mrs. Lane, having several calls to make. I thought I would come in
                        to ask when it will be convenient for you to pay the money you borrowed of
                        me. I am loth to mention such a trifle, but it would really oblige me if you
                        could pay it at once."
                     Fanny had calculated on seeing the greatest dismay and consternation
                        depicted on either face before her. But Charles coolly took up a review from
                        the table and began to cut the leaves, while Kate counted the required sum
                        from her purse and laid it before her. Miss Bryant bit her lip with
                        vexation. She saw that her plans were understood, that she was foiled in all
                        her efforts, and that perfect confidence had been restored between Charles
                        and his wife. She lingered a few moments, in the vain hope of resuming her
                        old place in the family, or of obtaining some knowledge of the explanation
                        which had evidently taken place; but it was soon quite plain to her that
                        their intimacy was at an end. Kate seemed suddenly to have laid aside her
                        yielding, childish character, and to have acquired in its place the graceful
                        dignity of womanhood. Henceforth, her home was her earthly paradise; and
                        when, in a few short months, the altar of prayer was erected there, and she,
                        with her noble husband, had become partakers of the great salvation of the
                        Gospel of Christ, true peace and heavenly joy came to hallow and purify the
                        domestic pleasures of home. They live still. Foremost in their efforts to
                        promote the good of others, they stand firmly in the ranks of those who are
                        battling for the right and succoring the oppressed.
                     To Miss Bryant the sudden failure of her cherished schemes still remains a
                        mystery; and still less does she understand the change, so abiding and
                        happy, that has been wrought in their hearts by the power of God's Holy
                        Spirit. She calls on them occasionally, and is politely received, but into
                        the charmed circle of love that surrounds them she is never able to
                           enter.—Mrs. H. C. Gardner.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Improprieties with a Servant.
                  The following fact," says Rev. Dr. Wise, "which is taken from a recent British
                     publication, conveys its own moral on several points which, in this polluted
                     world, are important to be guarded against by all who would be happy."
                  Mr. A—— married Miss T——. They were about the same age, and apparently matched
                     as well as paired. He had his infirmities: a weakly constitution, caused by
                     early sickness, and a very common mental infirnity—vanity. She was kind,
                     benevolent, social in her disposition, and was devotedly attached to him. So
                     well suited were they to each other, that twenty years of their wedded life
                     passed away in uninterrupted peace.
                  At first, their circumstances were moderate. Having no children, and her mother
                     being a resident in the family, Mrs. A—— did without a servant. But after
                     twenty years their fortunes were so much improved, that a larger domestic
                     establishment appeared necessary to their station in life. And this gave rise
                     to the further necessity of having a servant to meet the additional labor.
                  This circumstance, strange as it may seem, grew into a domestic viper, whose
                     deadly bite poisoned the remainder of their lives.
                  A quiet girl, ignorant, but strong and healthy, was obtained from the country.
                     She was very poor, also. Her clothes were unfit for her appearance as a
                     servant. Mrs. A—— was a generous woman, and, in the goodness of her heart, she
                     undertook to clothe the girl. And here she unwittingly did her unsophisticated
                     servant a great injury. Not, to be sure, in clothing her; but in doing so
                     improperly. She gave her clothes superior to her circumstances,—finery such as
                     the poor child had never touched before. As a natural consequence, she was
                     greatly lifted up by her altered appearance; she did not know herself; the
                     seeds of vanity were planted in her heart, and in due time they yielded their
                     harvest of crime and sorrow.
                  Perhaps this fault of Mrs. A—— might not have so seriously affected her own
                     happiness, had she not been the prey of another. She was extremely fond of
                     social intercourse, and, in consequence, was frequently, very frequently,
                     absent from her own house and table. Her husband, being partially an invalid,
                     did not choose to accompany her; and being remarkably good-natured, did not
                     complain. But, as a result, he was necessarily much waited on by the country
                     girl, now grown a smart, handsome young woman. She was very attentive to his
                     wishes; and he favored her with kind words in return. The girl felt flattered;
                     he increased his attentions, until, after Mrs. A.'s return from a trip to
                     Bologne with her brother, which had kept her from home a month, she made
                     discoveries that led to a separation from her husband, which lasted ten years,
                     when death put an end to the guilty career of Mr. A. and his paramour.
                  "This simple narrative," says its writer," which is quite true, has many a
                     parallel in every-day life. Evil may spring from the best intentions, when not
                     guided by sound judgement and experience."
               
               
                  
                  Trifles.
                  TRULY hath the poet said that, "Trifles swell the sum of human happiness and
                     woe." Our highest and holiest aspirations, our purest and warmest affections
                     are frequently called forth by what in itself may be deemed of trivial
                     importance. The fragrant breath of a flower, the passing song of the merry
                     milk-maid, a soothing word from one we love, will often change the whole
                     current of our thoughts and feelings, and, by carrying us back to the days of
                     childhood, or bringing to our remembrance some innocent and happy state which
                     steals over us like a long-forgotten dream, will dissipate the clouds of
                     sorrow, and even the still deeper shades of falsity and evil.
                  How many of the great events of life have their origin in trifles; how many
                     deep, heart-felt sorrows spring from neglect of what seemed to us a duty of
                     little or no account—something that could be done or left undone as we
                     pleased!
                  Alas! this is a dangerous doctrine. Let us endeavor to impress upon the minds
                     of our children that no duty is trifling; that nothing which can in any way
                     affect the comfort and happiness of others is unimportant.
                  The happiness of domestic life, particularly of married life, depends almost
                     wholly upon strict attention to trifles. Between those who are united by the
                     sacred tie of marriage, nothing should be deemed trivial. A word, a glance, a
                     smile, a gentle touch, all speak volumes; and the human heart is so constituted
                     that there is no joy so great, no sorrow so intense, that it may not be
                     increased or mitigated by these trifling acts of sympathy from one we love.
                  Nearly three months had elapsed since the papers had duly announced to the
                     public that Mary, daughter of Theodore Melville, had become the bride of Arthur
                     Hartwell; and the young couple had returned from a short bridal tour, and were
                     now quietly settled in a pleasant little spot which was endeared to Arthur by
                     having been the home of his youthful days. He had been left an orphan at an
                     early age, and the property had passed into the hands of strangers, but he
                     continued to cherish a strong attachment for the "old place," as he termed it,
                     and he heard with joy, some few months before his marriage, that it was for
                     sale; and without waiting to consult his intended bride, he purchased it for
                     their future home. This was a sad disappointment to Mary, for she had fixed her
                     affections upon a pretty, romantic little cottage, half hid by trees and
                     shrubbery, which was situated within two minutes' walk of her father's house;
                     and which, owing to the death of the owner, was offered for sale upon very
                     favorable terms. In her eyes it possessed every advantage, and as she mentally
                     compared it with the old-fashioned dwelling of which Arthur had become the
                     possessor, she secretly conceived a strong prejudice against the spot where the
                     duties and pleasures of the new sphere which she was about to enter were to
                     commence; particularly as it was five miles distant from her parents, and not
                     very near to any of her early friends.
                  Some faint attempts were made to induce Arthur to endeavor to get released from
                     the bargain, and to become the
                     purchaser of the pretty cottage, but in vain. He was delighted to become the
                     owner of what appeared to him one of the loveliest spots on the earth, and
                     assured Mary that the house was vastly superior to any cottage; advancing so
                     many good reasons for this assertion, and describing in such glowing terms the
                     beauty of the surrounding scenery, and the happiness they should enjoy, that
                     she could not help sympathizing with him, although her dislike to her future
                     home remained unabated.
                  The first few weeks of her residence there passed pleasantly enough, however.
                     All was new and delightful. The grounds about the house, although little
                     cultivated, were beautiful in the wild luxuriance of nature; the trees were
                     loaded with rich autumnal fruits; and even the old-fashioned mansion, now that
                     it was newly painted, and the interior fitted up in modern style, assumed a
                     more favorable aspect. It was a leisure time with Arthur, and he was ever ready
                     to accompany Mary to her father's; so that she became quite reconciled to the
                     distance, and even thought it rather an advantage, as it was such a pleasant
                     little ride.
                  But as the season advanced, Arthur became more engrossed with business. The
                     rides became less frequent, and Mary, accustomed to the society of her mother
                     and sister, often passed lonely days in her new home, and her dislike to it in
                     some degree returned. Her affection for her husband, however, prevented the
                     expression of these feelings, and she endeavored to forget her loneliness in
                     attention to household duties, reading, and music; but these resources would
                     sometimes fail.
                  It was one of those bright afternoons in the latter part of autumn, when the
                     sun shines forth with almost summer-like warmth, and the heart is gladdened
                     with the departing beauty of nature. Mary was seated alone in her pleasant
                     parlor, with her books and her work by her side.
                  "How I wish Arthur would return early!" she said, aloud, as she gazed from the
                     open window. "It will be such a lovely evening. We could have an early tea, and
                     ride over to father's and return by moonlight; it would be delightful;" and
                     filled with this idea, she really expected her husband, although it still
                     wanted two hours of the usual time of his return; and laying aside her work,
                     began to make some preparations for the evening meal. She was interrupted by a
                     call from an old friend who lived nearly two miles distant, and, intending to
                     pass the afternoon at Mr. Melville's, had called to request Mary to accompany
                     her.
                  The young wife was in considerable perplexity. She had a great desire to go to
                     her father's, but she was unwilling to have Arthur return home and find her
                     absent; and moreover, she felt a strong impression that he would himself enjoy
                     the ride in the evening, and would, perhaps, be disappointed, if she were not
                     at home to go with him. So, with many thanks the invitation was declined, the
                     visitor departed, and Mary returned with a light heart to the employment which
                     the visit had interrupted.
                  Janet, the assistant in the kitchen, entered into the feelings of her mistress,
                     and hastened to assist her with cheerful alacrity, declaring that she knew "Mr.
                     Hartwell would be home directly, it was just the evening for a ride," &c.,
                     this ebullition of her feelings being partly caused by sympathy with the wishes
                     of her young mistress, and partly by her own desire to have the house to
                     herself for the reception of some particular friends, who had promised to favor her with
                     their company that evening.
                  But alas! the hopes of both mistress and maid were destined to be disappointed.
                     The usual time for Arthur's return passed by, and still he did not appear; and
                     it was not until the deepening twilight had almost given place to the deeper
                     shades of evening, that Mary heard his well known step, and springing from the
                     sofa where she had thrown herself after a weary hour of watching, she flew to
                     the door to greet him.
                  "Oh, Arthur!" she exclaimed, forgetful that he was quite ignorant of all that
                     had been passing in her mind for the last few hours, "how could you stay so
                     late? I have waited for you so long, and watched so
                     anxiously. It is quite too late for us to go now."
                  "Go where, Mary?" was the surprised reply. "I did not recollect that we were to
                     go anywhere this evening. I know I am rather late home, but business must be
                     attended to. I meant to have told you not to expect me at the usual hour."
                  This was too bad. To think that she had refused Mrs. Elmore's kind invitation,
                     and had passed the time in gazing anxiously from the window, when she might
                     have enjoyed the society of father, mother, and all the dear ones at home; and
                     now to find that Arthur actually knew that he should not return till late, and
                     might have saved her this disappointment, it was really very hard; and Mary
                     turned away to hide the starting tears, as she replied,
                  "You might have remembered to have told me that you should not be home till
                     dark, Arthur, and then I could have gone with Mrs. Elmore. She called to ask me
                     to ride over to father's with her, but I would not go, because I felt so sure
                     that you would come home early and take me to ride this pleasant evening,
                     yourself."
                  "You had no reason to expect it," said Arthur, rather shortly, for he felt
                     irritated at the implied reproach of Mary's words and manner, and for the first
                     time since their marriage, the husband and wife seated themselves at the table
                     with unkind feelings busy in their hearts. Mary remained quite silent, while
                     Arthur vented his irritation by giving the table an impatient jerk,
                     exclaiming.
                  "I really wish Janet could learn to set a table straight! I believe her eyes
                     are crooked."
                  This was an unfortunate speech, for Mary, in her desire to expedite Janet's
                     preparation for tea, had herself arranged the table; at another time she would
                     have made a laughing reply, but just now she did not feel like joking, and the
                     remark only increased the weight at her heart.
                  These grievances may seem very trifling, and indeed they are so; but our
                     subject is trifles, and if the reader will examine his own heart, he will find
                     that even little troubles sometimes produce a state which even the addition of
                     a feather's weight renders insupportable.
                  Thus it was with Mary. She made an ineffectual attempt to eat, but the food
                     seemed to choke her; and rising abruptly, she seated herself at the piano and
                     commenced a lively tune in order to hide her real feelings.
                  There was nothing strange in this. Arthur frequently asked her to play for him
                     when he felt disposed to remain at the table longer than she did, and he had
                     often said that he liked the ancient custom of having music at meals; but this
                     evening, music had lost its charm; the lively tune was not in unison with his
                     state of feeling, and he hastily
                     finished his supper and left the room. This was another trial, and the ready
                     tears started from Mary's eyes as she left the piano, and summoning Janet to
                     remove the tea things, she bade her tell Mr. Hartwell when he came in, that she
                     had a bad headache and had gone to her own room.
                  Arthur returned from his short walk in less than half an hour, quite restored
                     to good humor by the soothing effects of the lovely evening, and somewhat
                     ashamed that he had been disturbed by so trifling a cause.
                  "Perhaps Mary would like to take a walk," he said to himself, as he entered the
                     house. "It is not too late for that, and to-morrow I will endeavor to take the
                     wished-for ride."
                  He was disappointed when Janet delivered the message, and going up stairs
                     opened the door of their sleeping apartment; but Mary's eyes were closed, and
                     fearful of disturbing her, he quietly returned to the parlor and tried to amuse
                     himself with a book until his usual hour of going to rest.
                  The next morning all seemed as usual; for sleep has a renovating power on the
                     mind as well as the body, and in little troubles as well as in great.
                  Husband and wife spoke affectionately to each other, and secretly wondered how
                     such trifles could have disturbed them; but no allusion was made to the
                     subject, for the very reason that the unpleasant feeling which had arisen
                     between them had sprung from so trifling a cause. The trouble could scarcely be
                     defined, and therefore they judged it better to say nothing about it. In some
                     cases this is well, but, generally, it is better to speak openly even of little
                     difficulties; especially those which may arise in the first part of married
                     life, as this frankness enables husband and wife to gain an insight into all
                     those trifling peculiarities of character which each may possess, and upon
                     attention to which, much of their future happiness may depend.
                  Weeks and months passed on, and, apparently, all was going happily with our
                     young friends. Mary had become more accustomed to passing some hours of each
                     day alone, and her solitude was frequently enlivened by a visit from her
                     mother, sister, or some young friend of her school-girl days. Arthur still
                     appeared devotedly attached to her, and she certainly returned his affection
                     most sincerely, and yet both felt that there was a change. It could scarcely be
                     defined, and but trifling cause could be assigned for it. They would have
                     indignantly rejected the idea that they loved each other less than formerly,
                     but there was certainly less sympathy between them; they were not so closely
                     united in every thought and feeling as they once had been. No unkind words had
                     passed on either side, at least none which could really be regarded as such,
                     for the trifles which had gradually produced this feeling of separation were
                     almost too insignificant to call forth absolute unkindness; yet still they did
                     their work slowly but surely.
                  Mary was the petted child of indulgent parents. Arthur had early lost both
                     father and mother, and his childhood had passed with but little of the genial
                     effects of female influence. He had spent most of his time at a school for
                     boys, where, although his intellect was well cultivated, and his morals
                     strictly attended to, there was little done to call forth those warm affections
                     of which every young heart is susceptible. And as he grew to manhood, although
                     most of his principles were excellent, and his feelings warm and tender, there
                     was a want of that kindliness and
                     gentleness of manner, and above all, of that peculiar faculty of adapting
                     himself to the wants of a female heart, which would not have existed had he
                     been blessed with the care of a mother, or the affectionate sympathy of a
                     sister.
                  His acquaintance with Mary before their marriage had been of short duration,
                     and these traits in his character had passed unobserved during the excitement
                     of feeling which generally marks the days of courtship; but as this state
                     passed away, and his usual habits returned, Mary's sensitive heart was often
                     wounded by trifling inattentions, although never by wilful neglect. Arthur was
                     fond of study, and in his leisure hours he would sometimes become so entirely
                     absorbed in some favorite author, that even Mary's presence was forgotten, and
                     the evening passed away without any effort on his part to cheer her evidently
                     drooping spirits. Not that he was really selfish: it was mere thoughtlessness,
                     and ignorance of those attentions which a woman's heart demands. If Mary had
                     requested him to lay aside his graver studies and read aloud in some work
                     interesting to her, or pass an hour in cheerful conversation, or in listening
                     to music, he would have complied without hesitation, and, indeed, with
                     pleasure; but she remained silent, secretly yearning for little acts of
                     kindness, which never entered the mind of her husband. Another peculiarity
                     which gave the young wife much pain, was that Arthur never, or very rarely,
                     uttered words of commendation or approval. If any thing was wrong, he noticed
                     it at once, and requested a change; but if right, he never praised. This is a
                     common error among husbands, and it is a great one. Approval from those we love
                     is as refreshing to the human heart as the dew to the fading flower; and to a
                     woman's heart it is essential: without it all kindly affections
                     wither away; the softest, the most delicate feelings become blunted and hard;
                     the heart no longer beats with warm, generous emotions—it is cold, palsied, and
                     dead.
                  Even in the most trifling details of domestic life, approval is encouraging and
                     sweet. The weary wife and mother who has passed through a day of innumerable
                     little vexations and difficulties, is cheered by the pleasant smile with which
                     her husband takes his seat at the tea-table, and feels new life as she listens
                     to his commendations of some favorite dish which she has placed before him.
                  True, it is but a trifle, but it speaks to the heart.
                  We will give our readers a short specimen of the habit to which we allude.
                     Breakfast was on the table, and a part of the hot cakes and smoking ham had
                     been duly transferred to Arthur's plate. He ate sparingly, and his looks
                     plainly showed that something was wrong. Presently he said—"Mary, dear, I think
                     you must look a little more strictly after Janet. She grows very careless; this
                     bread is decidedly sour, the ham is half cooked, and worse than all, breakfast
                     is ten minutes too late."
                  Mary's quiet reply, that she would "endeavor to have it right another time,"
                     was quite satisfactory; pleasant remarks followed, and Arthur left home with a
                     cheerful "Good morning."
                  Another breakfast time arrived. Mary's own personal attention had secured sweet
                     bread, and she had risen half an hour earlier than usual to insure that all was
                     done properly and in season.
                  Punctually the well prepared dishes were placed upon the table; again Arthur's
                     plate was well filled, and, to do
                     him justice, its contents were eaten with keen relish; but no look or word of
                     approval was given to show that he understood and appreciated the effort which
                     had been made to meet his wishes.
                  All seemed right to him, and, therefore, there was nothing to say. To some this
                     might have been satisfactory, but not to Mary. She longed for a word or smile
                     to show that she had given pleasure.
                  But, not quite all these petty causes of complaint were on one side. Arthur
                     often felt grieved and somewhat irritated by Mary's altered manner or moody
                     silence, showing that he had offended in ways unknown to himself; and there
                     were also times when her ridicule of his somewhat uncultivated taste grated
                     harshly on his feelings. Her continued dislike to the "dear old place" was
                     another source of regret; and before the first year of their married life had
                     expired, feelings had sometimes been busy in both their hearts which they would
                     have shuddered to confess, even to themselves.
                  Winter and spring had passed away, and summer was again present with its birds
                     and flowers. Mary was in her garden, one lovely afternoon, arranging some
                     favorite plants, when her attention was attracted to a small cart, laden with
                     some strange old-fashioned-looking furniture, which had stopped at their gate.
                     She at first supposed that the driver wished to inquire the way, but to her
                     surprise, he carefully lifted a large easy-chair, covered with leather and
                     thickly studded with brass nails, from the wagon, and brought it toward the
                     house, bowing respectfully as he approached her, and inquiring where she wished
                     to have it put.
                  "There is some mistake," said Mary; "these things are not for us."
                  "Mr. Hartwell sent them here, ma'am," was the reply; "and here is a bit of a
                     note for yer leddyship."
                  Mary received the proffered slip of paper, and hastily read the following
                     lines:
                  "You will be pleased, dear Mary, to find that I have at length discovered the
                     purchaser of my mother's easy-chair, and the old clock which formerly stood in
                     our family sitting-room, and have bought them of him for a moderate price. They
                     are valuable to me as mementos of my boyish days, and you will value them for
                     my sake."
                  But Mary had a great dislike to old clocks, and leather-bottomed chairs, and
                     she was little disposed to value them even for Arthur's sake. However, she
                     directed the man where to place them, and returned to the employment which he
                     had interrupted. Arthur's business demanded his attention until a late hour
                     that evening, and he had said when he left home that he should take tea in the
                     city. Mary retired to rest before his return, and nothing was said concerning
                     the old furniture until the following morning.
                  Indeed, it seemed so perfectly worthless to Mary, that the recollection of it
                     had passed from her mind; but it was recalled by the sudden inquiry of her
                     husband as he finished dressing and prepared to go down stairs.
                  "Oh, Mary, dear, where did you have the old chair and clock placed? Was I not
                     fortunate to find them?"
                  "Very," replied Mary, with forced interest; "although I hardly know what you
                     will do with them. I had them put in the shed for the present."
                  "In the shed!" exclaimed Arthur; "but you are right, Mary, they need a little
                     rubbing off; please to let Janet attend to them this morning, and I will show
                     you the very places where they used to stand in the parlor. How delighted I shall be to see the old clock in its
                     accustomed corner, and to seat myself in the very chair where I have so often
                     sat with my dear mother!"
                  "Why, Arthur, you do not really intend to place those hideous old things in our
                     parlor?"
                  "Certainly I do. I see nothing hideous in them. They are worth all our
                     fashionable furniture put together. What is your objection to them, Mary?"
                  "I have every objection to them," was her almost indignant reply. "They would
                     form the most ludicrous contrast to the rest of our furniture."
                  "I see nothing ludicrous or improper in putting them in their old places," said
                     Arthur, warmly. "They are dear to me as having belonged to my parents, and I
                     can not see why you should wish to deny me the pleasure of having them where I
                     can enjoy the recollections which they recall."
                  "Put them in the garret, or in your own little room where you keep your books,
                     if you like," answered Mary; "but if you have any regard for my feelings, you
                     will keep them out of my sight. I think the sacrifice which I make in living in
                     this old-fashioned place is enough, without requiring me to ornament my parlor
                     with furniture which was in use before I was born. However, I do not expect
                     much consideration for my opinions and tastes."
                  "You have certainly showed little regard for my feelings," was
                     Arthur's irritated reply; "and perhaps, I may also say with truth, what your
                     words imply, I have little reason to expect regard and consideration;" and
                     hastily leaving the room, he was on his way to his office before Mary had
                     composed herself sufficiently to descend to the breakfast room.
                  "Has Mr. Hartwell breakfasted?" she inquired, with surprise, as she saw the
                     solitary cup and plate which Janet had placed for her.
                  "He took no breakfast, ma'am. I think he was in great haste to reach the
                     office."
                  "He has a great deal to attend to, just now," replied her mistress, unwilling
                     that Janet should suspect the truth; but as soon as the girl left the room, her
                     excited feelings again found vent in tears.
                  Bitterly did she regret what had passed. It was the first time that harsh words
                     had been uttered by either and they seemed to have lifted the veil which had
                     long been drawn over thoughts and feelings which had tended to dissimilarity
                     and separation.
                  The year passed in rapid review before her, and she felt that there was a great
                     and fearful change, the cause of which she could not define, for she had no
                     distinct charges to bring against Arthur, and as yet, she attached little blame
                     to herself. The unkind manner in which she had spoken that morning, was indeed
                     regretted; but this seemed only a trifling error. It was certainly unreasonable
                     in Arthur to expect her to yield willingly to such a strange whim.
                  But he no longer loved her, she was sure of this; and proof after proof of his
                     inattention to her wishes, and neglect of her feelings, came to her mind, until
                     she was almost overwhelmed with the view of her own misery, which imagination
                     thus placed before her.
                  And this was the anniversary of their marriage! One short year before and they
                     had exchanged those mutual vows which then appeared unchangeable. How soon
                     happiness had fled! and to think that this climax of their troubles should
                     happen upon this very day, which
                     ought to have been consecrated to tender remembrances!—this was the hardest
                     thought of all; but probably, Arthur did not even remember the day. As these
                     and similar thoughts passed through Mary's mind, her tears redoubled, and
                     fearful that Janet would surprise her in this situation, she rose hastily to go
                     to her own room. In doing this her eye suddenly rested upon a small parcel
                     addressed to herself, which lay upon her little work-table, and taking it in
                     her hand she passed quickly up the stairs, just in time to avoid the
                     scrutinizing eye of Janet, who, shrewdly suspecting that something was wrong,
                     had resolved to be uncommonly attentive to her young mistress, in the hope of
                     discovering the cause of the trouble.
                  Mary locked the door of her own apartment, and, observing that the address on
                     the package was in Arthur's handwriting, she hastily tore off the envelope,
                     discovering a beautiful edition of a volume of poems for which she had
                     expressed a wish—unheeded and unheard, as she deemed it—some days before. Her
                     own name and that of her husband were written upon the blank leaf, and the date
                     showed that it was designed as a gift for this very day; a proof that he
                     remembered the anniversary which she had supposed so entirely forgotten.
                  It was but a trifling attention—one of those pleasant little patches of blue
                     sky which we sometimes see when the remainder of the heavens is covered with
                     clouds—but it produced an entire revulsion of feeling. A flood of gentle and
                     tender emotions filled the heart of the young wife; the faults of her husband
                     now appeared to her as nothing, while his many virtues stood out in bold
                     relief; it seemed that she, alone, had been to blame in the little difficulties
                     which had sprung up between them; for a playful remonstrance on her part would,
                     no doubt, have dispelled the coldness of manner which had sometimes troubled
                     her, and induced him to pay those little attentions which her heart craved. He
                     had generally, in important matters, been very kind to her, and how often she
                     had opposed his wishes and laughed at his opinions!
                  But it was not yet too late; she would regain the place in his affections which
                     she still feared she had forfeited; and with the childish, impulsive eagerness
                     which marked her character, Mary hastened to the shed, and summoning Janet to
                     her assistance, was soon busy at work on the old furniture, which, an hour ago,
                     she had so much despised. The old clock-case soon shone with an unequaled
                     polish, and the chair seemed to have renewed its youth. But where should they
                     be placed? for Arthur had left the house without designating the spot where
                     they had formerly stood.
                  "It would be so delightful to have them just where he wished, before he comes
                     home!" thought Mary, and it was with real joy that she turned to receive the
                     greeting of a worthy old lady, who was one of the nearest neighbors, and having
                     lived on the same place for the last forty years, had undoubtedly been well
                     acquainted with the old chair and clock, and could tell the very place where
                     they ought to stand.
                  This proved to be the case. The lady was quite delighted to meet such old
                     friends, and assisted Mary in arranging them with the utmost pleasure.
                  "There, dear," she exclaimed, when all was completed, "that is exactly right.
                     It seems to me I can almost see my old friend, Mrs. Hartwell, in her favorite
                     chair, with her pretty little boy, your husband that is now, by her side. Poor
                     child! it was a sad loss to him when she died; I am glad he has found such a good wife;
                     it is not every one who thinks so much of their husband's feelings as you do,
                     my dear."
                  Mary blushed a little at this somewhat ill-deserved praise, but thanked her
                     worthy visitor for her kindness, and exerted herself so successfully to make
                     her long call agreeable, that the good lady went home with the firm impression
                     that "Arthur Hartwell had got one of the best wives in the country."
                  The hours seemed long until the usual time for Arthur's arrival; and with
                     almost trembling eagerness Mary heard his step in the entry. Her tremulous but
                     pleasant "Good evening," met with rather a cold return, but she was prepared
                     for this, and was not discouraged. Tea was on the table, and they sat down.
                     Arthur's taste had been scrupulously consulted, and the effort to please did
                     not, as was too often the case, pass unnoticed.
                  From a desire to break the somewhat awkward silence, or from some other motive,
                     he praised each favorite dish, and declared he had seldom eaten so good a
                     supper.
                  Rising from table, they proceeded as usual to the parlor; and now Mary was
                     amply rewarded for the sacrifice of her own taste—if sacrifice it could be
                     called—by the surprise and pleasure visible in her husband's countenance as he
                     looked around, and by the affectionate kiss which he imprinted upon her
                     cheek.
                  "And you will forgive my hasty words, will you not?" whispered Mary, softly, as
                     he bent his head to hers.
                  "They will never again be remembered," was the reply; "and I have also much to
                     ask your forgiveness for, Mary; for I have thought much and deeply, to-day,
                     dearest, and I find that I have been very deficient in many of the most
                     essential qualities of a husband. But let us sit down together, and we will
                     review the past year a little, and you will give me a clearer insight into the
                     feelings and wants of your heart."
                  A long and free conversation followed, in which the husband and wife gained
                     more real knowledge of each other's characters than they had obtained in the
                     whole of their previous acquaintance.
                  "And now, dearest, we will sum up the lesson which we are to remember," said
                     Arthur, playfully, as the lateness of the hour reminded them that the evening
                     had passed unheeded away. "I am to think more of
                     trifles, and you are—"
                  "To think less." added Mary, smilingly. "Let us see who will
                     remember their lesson the best."
               
               
                  
                  The Jealous Wife.
                  SOPHY BLAKE was the acknowledged belle of Lonsville. There were handsome girls
                     in the village—girls whose personal loveliness seemed but a transparent veil to
                     the nobler graces of heart and mind; but there was no one who ever dreamed of
                     disputing Sophy's right to supremacy. As a child she had been petted and
                     humored by all; at first from a general feeling of pity, when her two fair
                     sisters and baby brother died, within a fortnight, of that terrible scourge of
                     childhood—scarlet fever. When, a few months after, her father, too, sickened
                     and died, and was buried, by sympathizing friends, beside the three little
                     graves, not yet green, the almost broken hearted widow and her remaining child
                     were adopted into the hearts and home circles of their happier neighbors, and
                     all their wishes hence forward considered sacred.
                  The widow clung to her sole treasure with an affection rendered morbid by a
                     sense of her great loss. She was a pious woman, and, therefore, spared no pains
                     to instruct her child in the holy truths of religion, and she sought early to
                     inspire in her heart a belief in the love and goodness of God, as well as a
                     sense of reverence toward him. But with all her excellent instruction, there
                     was one serious defect in the training of the child, for she was educated to be
                     selfish. Every body around her, in their mistaken compassion, helped to develop
                     this trait in her character; and it was not strange that she unconsciously
                     learned to consider herself of primary importance, and to assume a
                     right to be so considered by others.
                  In all those trivial affairs that make up the course of every-day life, her
                     pleasure was consulted, and her will obeyed. Had she not possessed naturally a
                     fine, amiable disposition, the indulgence with which she was treated would soon
                     have made her an object of dislike; but, in spite of her unfavorable training,
                     she grew up with many noble qualities of mind, and was a decided favorite in
                     youthful society.
                  Here, too, unfortunately, all deferred to her wishes; and the various
                     excursions, parties, picnics, etc., that make up the sum of happy rural
                     amusements, were planned in accordance with her taste, and often under her sole
                     dictation.
                  There had never been any querying among her young friends as to whom Sophy
                     would marry. Since the days when Jerry Curtis used to draw her to school on his
                     snow-sledge, and take charge of the little blue hood and red mittens that she
                     wore, it had been generally understood that the imperious little belle belonged
                     to him, and would become his wife in due time. If the knowledge of this caused
                     any maiden's heart to beat a little faster than its wont, when, in the
                     old-fashioned church, she detected the roguish but tender glances of Jerry's
                     dark, handsome eyes perpetually straying from the pulpit to the widow's pew,
                     she hid the emotion deep from mortal view, and its existence was unsuspected.
                     If the clear, violet eyes, dimpling smiles, and fair golden curls that lit up
                     the said pew, ever caused a flutter beneath the waistcoat of any young man,
                     saving that of the aforesaid Jerry, no one was the wiser for it. And when the
                     wedding-day came, and the whole village population crowded the little church to witness the ceremony, there
                     were whispered congratulations and blessings on every side. So it seemed, in
                     spite of the old proverb, that the course of true love could sometimes run
                     smooth.
                  In the same place, and at the same time, Jerry's only sister, Bessie, was also
                     married. She had been betrothed for several years to a fine, worthy young man,
                     who, having been, during that time, the sole stay and support of his infirm
                     father, gave reasonable promise of proving an excellent husband. At any rate,
                     Bessie seemed to have no unpleasant doubts in relation to it, and not a tear
                     dimmed her bright eyes, as, leaning on his strong arm, she turned to receive
                     the congratulations of her friends.
                  In this bridal there was no sundering of dear old ties. There could hardly be
                     said to be a forming of new ones, so long had the parties been pledged to each
                     other. It seemed rather like securing the hallowed benediction of Heaven upon
                     life-long associations. None of those bitter parting scenes that so often rend
                     the heart of parent and child were to be experienced. Bessie and her husband
                     were to live at the old homestead with her parents; and the only difference
                     would be in his occupying Jerry's old place by the fireside and at the family
                     table.
                  On the brow of a green eminence, at a short distance, a new white cottage
                     awaited the presence of Jerry and his bride, and was also to afford a pleasant
                     home to Sophy's mother. It was on his father's land, and in full view from the
                     older house. It could be plainly seen, too, from Jerry's bedroom window, where
                     many a time of late he had sat till late into the night, dreaming such visions
                     and forming such plans for the future as only the heart of youth can conceive.
                     * * * *
                  In the excitement of the double wedding, and in taking possession of his new
                     house, in the old-fashioned, merry "house-warming" that ensued, and the shower
                     of congratulations that fell on every side, Jerry was clearly convinced that he
                     had been born with a golden spoon, or something equally lucky, in his mouth.
                     Was ever mortal man so agreeably situated? He looked at the big, imposing
                     country residence of lawyer Bowen, the richest man in Lonsville, and the shaded
                     oriel windows seemed to have lost the mysterious beauty that had awed his
                     younger vision; and he snapped his fingers contemptuously as the elegant
                     daughters of the Squire rode by in their splendid carriage. What was wealth or
                     tinsel adornment in comparison with such happiness as had fallen to his
                     lot?
                  With Sophy, too, the honey-moon was a season of perpetual sunshine. She was
                     never tired of arranging and re-arranging the pretty cottage furniture, or of
                     pointing out to admiring visitors the charming views from every window.
                  In the evenings, when Jerry was at leisure to take up his flute, a continuous
                     stream of music floated down the green slope, to mingle with night's softer
                     melodies in the valley, as Sophy accompanied the air he played, or her own
                     sweeter voice, on the piano, which had been a bridal gift from her
                     father-in-law.
                  Her mother grew young again while witnessing her child's happiness. It was
                     something new—though Jerry was happily ignorant of it—for Sophy to pass one day
                     without finding more or less cause for repining; and here were whole weeks
                     succeeding other, and no complaint made of disappointed plans, or of a want of
                     attention on the part of her husband or mother. And Jerry had been three months
                     married, and had not yet suspected
                     that he had wooed and won, and taken to his bosom that most ingenious of
                     tormentors, a jealous wife.
                  Sophy now began to have short fits of melancholy, which were wholly
                     unaccountable to him. They did not last long, after a due expression of anxiety
                     on his part, the clouds dispersed; but they troubled him because he could not
                     understand them. He racked his brain to discover the cause, but without
                     success. Her lightest wish was studied, and, if possible, gratified; but still
                     the shadows occasionally fell across their path.
                  Sophy herself gave no explanation of her varying moods. She was too high-minded
                     to deceive, and she was ashamed to own that his common-place expressions of
                     regard for their mutual female friends, or the frank, cousinly kiss bestowed
                     upon his lady cousins, were at the bottom of her fits of depression. Her mother
                     looked on in silence, and sighed over the vanishing sunbeams.
                  At last Jerry was enlightened. It happened in this wise. A young girl, an
                     intimate friend of Sophy's, had been spending the day with her; and when Jerry
                     came in from his work he found his wife very earnestly persuading her to remain
                     during the evening.
                  "I should like to stay, Sophy," said her friend; "but it is a lonesome way to
                     go after dark."
                  "But you are not a coward, Grace?"
                  "I don't know. I suspect I am not very courageous. I can't bear to go by that
                     old graveyard in the evening."
                  "O fie! Afraid of ghosts! I wouldn't be afraid to sleep there alone, so far as
                     the spirits are concerned."
                  "Very likely. But you will please recollect that my aunt Lucy brought me up on
                     ghost stories; and later education, and the exercise of reason, and even the
                     happier influences of religion, have not always proved sufficient cient to
                     dissipate the nameless, shrinking dread that comes over me whenever I find
                     myself alone at night near a grave. Don't laugh. It is foolish! I will own that
                     as readily as yourself; but I can't help it—positively can't."
                  "It is too bad," said Sophy, who could not resolve to give up her plans, even
                     to ghosts. "I have depended so much on this evening. Jerry has got a new flute,
                     and I wanted so much to hear you accompany it, so that I could judge of its
                     tones. Do stay."
                  "Yes, Grace," said Jerry, coming forward to second his wife's entreaties, "you
                     must stay, if it is only to oblige me. Why, I have hardly seen you
                     yet. I've hurried my work all the afternoon so as to secure a long
                     evening."
                  He had known her all her life, and so he began, in his cordial, familiar
                     manner, to untie the strings of her bonnet and to remove her shawl.
                  "No, no, cousin Jerry."
                  "Yes, yes, cousin Grace."
                  "But I am really timid. I'm afraid to go home after dark."
                  "What a compliment to my politeness! You are not to suppose, Miss Grace, that a
                     married life robs us of our manners. I will see you safely home, and scare off
                     the ghosts."
                  If Jerry had glanced toward his wife, we are not sure that the unusual light in
                     her eyes, and the unwonted crimson of her cheeks might not have served as a
                     warning to him; but he was too open and frank to suspect that she did not thank
                     him for his help, and too desirous to gratify her whim to observe her
                     closely.
                  The short summer evening passed quickly by, although Sophy quite lost her usual animation when her
                     point was gained, and her friend again seated in the little parlor. The moon
                     rose pleasantly, in time to light Grace homeward; and as she stood in the door,
                     once more equipped for her walk, Sophy thought it was hardly possible for any
                     one to be really timid on such a night. "She only pretends to be afraid," she
                     thought. "It is only to get Jerry to go with her."
                  The question of politeness to her guest did not once occur to her; neither did
                     she remember her own indignation on being once allowed to return home alone and
                     unprotected, from the house of a newly-married friend. Jealousy seldom reflects
                     much upon the claims of good-breeding, and poor Sophy felt very much abused
                     when she saw her husband and friend ready to depart together. Grace noticed her
                     depression, though unsuspicious of its cause.
                  "It is a glorious evening," she said; light as day. Come, Sophy, get your hat
                     and go with us."
                  Sophy glanced quickly toward her husband, who, unluckily, at that moment
                     recollected a slight cold of which she had complained in the morning.
                  "No, no, Grace," he exclaimed; "the grass is wet with dew, and Sophy has a
                     cold. I shall be back in half an hour, Sophy, unless," he added, laughingly, as
                     he drew his companion's arm within his, "unless Grace asks me to go in."
                  They went down the walk, chatting and laughing gayly; while poor Sophy, having
                     closed the door, threw herself upon a low lounge, and wept and sobbed as if she
                     had just lost her last earthly friend. It was all in vain that her mother,
                     drawn from her own room by her sobs, reasoned with or coaxed her; she was sure
                     that Jerry was too much attached to Grace, and that Grace returned his
                     affection. So, quite worn out with her vain endeavors to restore Sophy's peace,
                     Mrs. Blake returned to her room, just in time to avoid a meeting with
                     Jerry.
                  At first he was greatly alarmed. He had never seen his wife so violently
                     agitated, and he feared that some dreadful calamity had befallen her. But when,
                     at last, after coaxing and soothing till he was quite discouraged, he
                     ascertained the cause of her distress, his astonishment was unbounded. He was
                     sensible of a painful, involuntary feeling of disgust, mingling with a natural
                     indignation. But he conquered it and spoke to her in his usual tone and
                     manner.
                  "Why, Sophy," he said, "it was your wish that she should stay. I only thought
                     of pleasing you when I urged her to do so. We were both unjust to her, if you
                     really wished her to go."
                  "I did want her to stay. At least, I did at first. But I didn't think of your
                     going home with her, or—or of your being so delighted with her while she was
                     here."
                  "You would not wish me to let her go alone, Sophy? And she so timid, too!"
                  "I don't believe she is timid. She made you think so on purpose to get you to
                     go with her. I hope she will never come here again. She has no right to you,
                     and"—
                  "Stop, stop, Sophy! You will regret those unkind words when you are calmer. Be
                     more just to Grace and to me, and more reasonable with yourself."
                  "Go on. Say what you like. I can bear it." Sophy became highly indignant as she
                     noticed the implied reprimand contained in his words, and the more so because
                     she felt that she deserved it.
                  
                  "O, Sophy," he answered, after a moment's pause, "how very ridiculous all this
                     is!"
                  "Judge for yourself. You wouldn't have talked so before we were married. You
                     never called me ridiculous then.
                  "I have n't called you so now."
                  "It's just the same thing," said Sophy, beginning to cry afresh; "and—and you
                     know you wasn't even willing I should walk with you when Grace asked me."
                  "I not willing! I thought of your cold, and, of course"—
                  "O, any thing for an excuse. But I am not so easily blinded as you think. I've
                     watched you before when Grace has been here. But I shall not stand in your way
                     long," added Sophy, suddenly assuming the air of disinterested benevolence so
                     natural to a jealous spirit; "this grief will soon put an end to my life, and
                     my sorrows will not annoy you when hidden in the grave. O dear! O dear!" said
                     Sophy, with a fresh burst of tears, "why didn't I die of scarlet fever like my
                     sisters? But it won't last long; and then, Jerry, you and Grace can have it all
                     your own way."
                  Sophy had made several pauses during her speech, to give her husband a chance
                     to interrupt her; but he made no effort to do so, and, now that she had fairly
                     stopped, he remained silent. He sat by the table, leaning his head upon his
                     hand. He disdained to reply to accusations so undeserved; but this was not the
                     thought that spread such deep shades of sadness over his usually joyous
                     countenance. It was the sudden shattering of the image of beauty and goodness
                     to which he had rendered an almost idolatrous worship. Where were those gentle,
                     womanly attributes, those refined and almost divine graces of heart and mind,
                     to which his own manly nature had rendered homage? His wife sat before him
                     unaltered in person, but only serving to recall the ideal loveliness of the
                     phantom he had worshipped. It was natural that his first emotions should be
                     bitter; but his was no sentimental, shallow nature, and so he did not content
                     himself with deploring his situation, but resolved, on the spot, to make the
                     best of it.
                  A half hour had passed by in silence; Jerry gradually arriving at his noble
                     resolution, and Sophy, with a puzzled, anxious look, studying the varying
                     changes of his countenance. She began to be conscious of her injustice, and
                     ashamed of having given expression to her feelings. She would have given all
                     she possessed, if, by so doing, the shameful words she had said to him might be
                     blotted forever from his memory. She waited impatiently for him to address her,
                     so that, without compromising her dignity, she might be coaxed back to
                     reconciliation and happiness. At last, after what seemed an age, he turned
                     toward her.
                  "It is getting very late, Sophy. I must be off to town very early in the
                     morning; so, if you are ready, we will have our evening devotions now, and
                     retire at once."
                  The tears fell fast from Sophy's eyes, as she listened while he earnestly asked
                     for the blessing of God to rest upon them, and that in all the affairs of life,
                     however trivial in appearance, they might be guided by the Holy Spirit.
                  "How foolish and cruel I have been!" she thought; "but I will never be jealous
                        again."—Mrs. H. C. Gardner.
               
               
                  
                  The Jealous Husband.*

                  
                     
                     *IT certainly must be conceded that, as a general thing, wives are much more
                        excusable for their liableness to jealous feelings than husbands. Men are
                        much away from home, often hundreds of miles distant from the circle of
                        those who are acquainted with them. They are allowed to go everywhere
                           alone, and when they are among strangers, nobody watches
                        them with sharp eye to see where or when they stop, or who they talk to. If
                        a married man is genteel in his address, comely in his appearance, and
                        chooses to mingle freely in the society of ladies when far away from home,
                        he has ample chances to do so without being immediately suspected of
                        treachery; though his sin will surely, some day, find him out, and the way
                        of such a transgressor will be hard.
                     On the other hand, a wife stays mostly at home, where the Argus-eyed
                        neighborhood, as well as, perchance, some inmate of her own house, would be
                        apt soon to detect and reveal any undue familiarities practiced during the
                        absence of her husband. When she leaves her abode to journey among
                        strangers, if she is not accompanied by her husband, she is usually attended
                        by some of his friends. Even when a married lady travels alone, if she be
                        disposed to pass herself as unmarried, or act in any way regardless of her
                        marriage vows, she is much more liable to detection than men generally are.
                        Besides this, a great deal more is always thought and said about the
                        flirtations of married women than the like acts of married men, whenever
                        such deceptions become known. There have been many instances in which a
                        number of a married man's acquaintances have had knowledge of his unconjugal
                        hypocrisies for months and years, yet have withheld such knowledge from his
                        wife. But when the wife is known to be similarly guilty, somebody will
                        surely tell her husband almost as soon as possible. Notwithstanding all this
                        husbands are found harboring servile jealousies quite too frequently. The
                        following is a case which might easily have its parallel.—EDITOR.
                  
                  NEARLY a score of years ago, in one of the middle States, Charles —— —— married
                     the daughter of a worthy gentleman, then a member of the Legislature of the
                     State in which he lived. Laura (for this was the daughter's name) was beautiful
                     in person, generous at heart, and sound in intellect. Only two years before
                     Charles became her lover her parents had removed from an adjoining State to the
                     home where her marriage was celebrated, and as she was fairly out of her teens
                     before their joint removal, it is no more than we would expect that one so
                     attractive as herself had received marked attentions from some gentleman who
                     was Charles's predecessor in love, and that he had been tenderly loved in
                     return. It is but proper to say here that, prior to her removal from her native
                     village, her hand had been eagerly sought by a young man, whom for prudence'
                     sake we must call a little differently from his real name; therefore we will
                     call him Alfred Jimison.
                  This Alfred had a sprightly mind—was quite handsome—dressed fastidiously—and
                     was emphatically styled "a lady's man." He and Laura were associated as mutual
                     lovers about one year, and no doubt they would have been married even before
                     the meridian of that time had not her parents wisely withheld their consent on
                     account of their fears that Alfred's moral character was not of the permanent
                     kind. At last he did an act of injustice in dealing with one of their neighbors
                     that fully convinced Laura's parents that he possessed a sordid, hypocritical
                     heart, and they decided that he must be banished from their dwelling, and cease
                     at once his interviews terviews with
                     their daughter. Indeed, Laura saw the danger herself, but true love does not
                     fully decompose in a day, and it was hard for her to acquiesce in her parents'
                     decree. But she—like a Christian girl as she was—took a Christian view of the
                     dilemma, and the Scripture injunction, "Children obey your parents in ALL
                     things, for this is well-pleasing unto the Lord," enabled her to decide to
                     "honor" the judgment of her father and mother, even in this severe test. Alfred
                     was accordingly dismissed, and she, with her parents, moved shortly afterward
                     to another State, as we have already seen.
                  After her removal she would occasionally hear that Alfred was still multiplying
                     his evil deeds, and being now able to view the whole affair more judiciously
                     than ever before, most heartily did she thank her parents for their
                     intervention in saving her from what she saw would have been inevitably the
                     ruin of her peace. Therefore, when Charles—whom she considered much more
                     high-minded and noble-hearted than Alfred—offered his hand, it was no wild,
                     fractional love that prompted her to accept; it was her whole generous heart
                     cured of its former extravagance. Of course she frankly told Charles all about
                     the way she came so near marrying Alfred, and all about the way she
                        didn't marry him; and Charles thought he loved her all the more
                     for quenching her ardent love for Alfred upon such grounds, and giving such a
                     steady, pure flame of affection to himself. His pride was gratified immensely
                     at the thought of getting the girl that rejected Alfred Jimison because he, in
                     one instance, proved himself to be not exactly of "the right stripe."
                  After their marriage Charles and Laura commenced house-keeping in a beautiful
                     cottage upon a farm which Charles had bought, lying on the State road, about
                     three miles from the town of D——. Charles traded considerably in various ways,
                     and was very often away from home, and, frequently, his business called him to
                     the adjacent town.
                  A few months after the happy pair had become settled in their beautiful home,
                     it so happened that Mr. S.—a gentleman who had married Alfred Jimison's
                     cousin—came along and bought the farm lying about three-fourths of a mile
                     directly back of Charles's, and shortly afterward moved upon it. The only
                     passage from the main road to the log cabin of Mr. S. led, first through a
                     narrow lane, thence zig-zag through a thick wood, thence across a ravine and
                     through another short lane to the rude gate of his yard fence. A few months
                     more and the Christmas of 18—drew near, and Mrs. S., desiring that her cousin
                     Alfred might visit herself and husband about that time, wrote him a letter of
                     invitation; also giving him some account of the route to their dwelling from
                     the town of D——. Then when it was sealed and directed, inasmuch as Mr. S. had
                     no other special business at town, Mrs. S. concluded to run over the same
                     evening to neighbor Charles's and see if he could take the letter to the
                     post-office the next morning. Charles was not at home, but Laura told her to
                     leave the letter and she would get Charles to take it, as she had heard him say
                     that morning that he must go to town early the next day.
                  "Wait, Charles!" said Laura next morning, just as her husband was mounting his
                     horse to start, "wait till I give you a letter that Mrs. S. left with me
                     yesterday for you to take to the post-office to-day. I forgot to tell you about
                     it before," and she quickly brought it, and without looking at its superscription, Charles
                     thrust it into his side-pocket and started. On his way he concluded to examine
                     the exterior of the letter more closely. He drew it forth and read, "Mr. Alfred
                     Jimison;" with the name of a certain post-office, county, and State annexed. A
                     bad thought immediately entered his mind, and instead of casting it out
                     headlong as he should have done, he harbored it till it engendered a great many
                     bad thoughts, and these thoughts at length produced a harvest, as will
                     hereafter be seen. He began to wonder if his own Laura hadn't written the
                     letter. He was sure that the superscription was a lady's handwriting, and
                     though it differed from Laura's considerably, he looked at it so long that he
                     finally thought he detected some peculiarities of her hand, and that the
                     difference might have been made expressly to deceive him. He thought if Mrs. S.
                     had actually brought the letter the evening before, Laura would certainly have
                     remembered to mention it sooner, and that, perhaps she gave it to him just as
                     he was hurrying to start to avoid being questioned concerning it. He thought it
                     was singular, too, that she should not take such a letter to the post-office
                     herself, or at any rate send it by some other person; and he at last concluded
                     not to break it open, as his first impulse prompted, but send it, and say
                     nothing about his suspicions; for if Mrs. S. had written it, it would be a
                     great crime in law to open it, and if his wife had really written it to her old
                     lover, by watching closely he would be able to discover the truth, in the case,
                     and probably behold evidences that would show Laura to be involved in still
                     deeper guilt. This he thought would be much better than making a fuss at the
                     start, before much could be found out. He remembered, too, that Laura had
                     always before told him the truth about every thing, but he knew the human heart
                     was often treacherous where we least expected it, and perhaps Laura's fidelity
                     had failed her just at that point! He even fancied that she had not been quite
                     so kind to him of late as she had formerly been. Poor Laura! the matter of Mrs.
                     S.'s letter was so common-place a thing that she never thought of saying
                     anything more to Charles about it when he returned.
                  The morning before Christmas came, and Charles left home early, expecting to be
                     absent till night. The day grew cold and sleety and night came on very dark,
                     with occasional gusts of keenest wind. Charles had not yet returned. While
                     Laura was awaiting, with a well-prepared supper and a loving, sympathizing
                     heart, the coming of her husband, a loud "halloo" was heard at the gate, and
                     when she opened the door, a voice inquired if a lantern could be borrowed. "We
                     have no lantern," was the reply. Then the same voice asked if "a stranger who
                     was bewildered in his route and very cold could get to stay all night?" "Yes,
                     sir," said the kind-hearted Laura, "you can stay." Presently he came in to the
                     light, and what was their mutual surprise when she recognized Alfred Jimison,
                     and he beheld the unmistakable countenance of the same Laura he had once loved
                     so ardently. She placed a chair by the fire and invited him to warm himself,
                     informing him that her husband, who had been gone all day upon business, would
                     be home soon, and then supper would be served. Alfred explained to Laura that,
                     having received a letter from his cousin, living somewhere in the neighborhood,
                     inviting him to spend the holidays with her family, he had come for that
                     purpose, but failing to find the road through the darkness, he thought it best to procure a
                     lantern if possible, and if not, at least a shelter till daylight.
                  Scarcely had he finished this explanation when the door opened and Charles came
                     in. His wife at once introduced the stranger as Mr. Alfred Jimison. No sooner
                     was the name pronounced than the recollection of the letter came up in
                     Charles's mind, and he flew into a most disgraceful rage. His reason seemed
                     utterly dethroned. Remarking that "he was looking for something like this," he
                     proceeded with, "Well, Mr. Alfred Jimison, if this is you, you had better be
                     traveling, or you will suddenly meet with rough fare!" Jimison undertook to
                     explain, but the enraged man bawled out, "I've explanation enough—don't want
                     any more! clear out instantly, or take what will follow!" Of course the
                     stranger, following the principle that "prudence is the better part of valor,"
                     departed, and sought and obtained lodging at a house he had passed one half
                     mile further back on the road.
                  When he was fairly ejected from the room, Charles turned to Laura, who was
                     weeping piteously, and in the most cruel manner accused her of unfaithfulness
                     in writing to Jimison, and otherwise encouraging improper attentions from him
                     by smuggling him into the house upon false pretences.
                  It is needless to prolong the dark picture further than to say, that all of
                     poor Laura's protestations of innocency, her pleadings and her tears were
                     unavailing to appease the disquietude of the hasty husband. A separation was
                     talked of the next day, when Mr. S. and his wife, who had by this time heard of
                     the difficulty, and, also, something of its origin, came over to do what they
                     could to effect a reconciliation. Meanwhile Charles's torment had been so great
                     that he was now willing to do almost anything that promised relief; therefore,
                     he submitted to hear what they had to say. They fully explained the whole
                     mystery; and when at last they produced the identical letter which Charles had
                     accused Laura of writing,—Alfred having brought it with him to his cousin's—he
                     saw the magnitude of his great fully and the awful effects it had produced, and
                     never did a penitent bewail his sin more heartily than he at this time. He
                     implored Laura's forgiveness so earnestly, and Laura forgave so readily and
                     unmistakably that even Mr. and Mrs. S. were filled with emotion, and each wept
                     with those that were weeping. The lesson of that affair lasted Charles through
                     life, and the remembrance of it always sent a pang to his heart. He and Laura
                     spent several successive years together in a comparatively happy manner. Two
                     years ago an accident occurred on one of the eastern railroads in which he was
                     instantly killed. Laura had been ever true, and her untiring devotion as a wife
                     had been such that no human discernment could have told that she ever
                     remembered Charles's first injustice toward her after she promised to forgive
                     him. Doubtless she did forgive as much as any human being could have done, but
                     the following declaration from her own lips proves that irreparable loss had
                     been sustained. After the death of her husband, to a particular friend who was
                     acquainted with the foregoing facts she said, "I cheerfully did all in my power
                     to make Charles happy to the last; yet I was constantly afraid of him. He had
                     treated me so cruelly once without cause, that in spite of all I could do, I
                     was often in a dread, lest in some moment of rashness, from some groundless
                     suspicion, he might reproach me again."
               
               
                  
                  A Thrilling Sketch.*

                  
                     
                     *The latter part of the following sketch does not belong, strictly speaking,
                        to the first discord, but it was a continuation of the same abiding cruelty
                        on the part of the husband that produced the last as well as the first
                        trouble in this case, and the article is inserted entire, because it shows
                        the apalling results which the spirit that will cause the first discord may
                        eventually produce.—EDITOR.
                  
                  In one of the New England States, the little church-bell in C—— village rung
                     merrily in the clear, morning air of a bright summer's day. It was to call the
                     people together, and they nearly all obeyed its summons; for who among the
                     aged, middle-aged, or the young, did not wish to witness the marriage
                     ceremonies of their favorite, Ellen Lawton? Ere the sound of the bell had
                     ceased, the gray-haired man was leaning on the finger-worn ball of his staff,
                     in the corner of his antiquated pew; the hale, healthy farmer came next; and
                     then the seats were filled with rosy-cheeked boys and girls, with here and
                     there a dignified matron among them. The church became quiet, eager eyes were
                     fastened upon the door. Presently a tall form entered, that of a handsome man,
                     apparently about thirty years of age, on whose arm was leaning, in sweet,
                     childlike, smiling trust, the young and loved Ellen Lawton, whose rose-cheek
                     delicately shaded the pale face, and who looked more beautiful in her angel
                     loveliness than ever before, even to the eyes of the humble villagers, to whom
                     she ever was but a "thing of beauty" and "a joy forever." If thus she looked to
                     familiar eyes, how transcendently beautiful must she have appeared to him, who
                     this hour was to make her his own chosen bride, the wife of his bosom, the
                     pride, the priceless jewel of his heart. They stood before the altar; he cast
                     his dark eye upon her—she raised hers, beaming in their blue depths, all full
                     of love and tenderness, and as they met his, the orange blossoms trembled
                     slightly in her auburn tresses, and the rose-tint deepened on her cheek. The
                     voice of the man of God was heard, and soon Frederic Gorton had promised to
                     "love, cherish, and protect," and Ellen Lawton to "love, honor, and obey." As
                     it ever is, so it was there, an interesting occasion—one that
                     might cause the eye to fill with tears, the heart to hope, fearfully but
                     earnestly hope, that that young girl's dreams may not too soon fade, that in
                     him to whom she has given her heart she may ever find a firm friend, a ready
                     counselor, a kind and forbearing spirit, a sympathizing interest in all her
                     thoughts and emotions. On this occasion many criticising glances were thrown
                     upon the handsome stranger, and many whispers were circulated.
                  "I fear," said one of the deacon's good ladies, "that he is too proud and
                     self-willed for our gentle Ellen;" and she took off her spectacles, which she
                     wiped with her silk handkerchief, as if she thought they were as weary of the
                     long scrutiny as her own very eyes.
                  Is there truth in the good lady's suspicion? Look at Frederic Gorton, as he
                     stands there in his stateliness, towering above his bride, like the oak of the
                     forest above the flower at its foot. His eye is very dark and very piercing,
                     but how full of tenderness as he casts it upon Ellen's up-turned face! His brow
                     is lofty, and pale, and stern, but partially covered with long dark hair,
                        with which lady's finger had
                     never toyed. His cheek was as if chiseled from marble, so perfect had the hand
                     of nature formed it. His mouth—another space of Ellen's unpenetrating
                     discernment, would have been reminded of Shakspeare's 
                        
                           "O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
                           In the contempt and anger of his lip."
                        
                     
                  
                  There was about it that compression, so indicative of firmness, which, while it
                     commands respect, as often wins love.
                  A perfect contrast to him, was the fairy thing at his side; gentle as the
                     floating breeze of evening, trusting as true-hearted woman ever is, lovely,
                     amiable, and beautiful, she was just the one to win a strong man's love; for
                     there is something grateful to a proud man in having a delicate, gentle,
                     confiding girl place all her love and trust in him, and make all her happiness
                     derivable from his will and wish. Heaven's blessing rest upon him who fulfills
                     faithfully that trust reposed in him, but woe be unto him who remembers not his
                     vows to love and to cherish!
                  The marriage service over, the friends of Ellen pressed eagerly around her,
                     offering their many wishes for her long life and happiness. The gray-haired
                     man, and aged mother in Israel, laid their hands on the young bride's fair
                     head, and fervently prayed, "God bless thee!" and not a few there were who gave
                     glances upward to Frederic Gorton, and impressively said,
                  "Love as we have loved the treasure God transfers to thee."
                  The widowed mother of Ellen gazed upon the scene with mingled emotions. Ellen
                     was her eldest child, and had been her pride, her joy, and delight, since the
                     death of her husband, many years before. She was giving her to a stranger,
                     whose reputation as a man of talent, of worth, and honorable position in the
                     world, was unquestioned; but of whose private character she had no means of
                     acquiring a knowledge. It was all uncertainty if a stern, business man of the
                     world, should supply the tenderness and devoted love of a fond mother to her
                     whose wish had been hitherto scarcely ever disregarded. Yet it might be—she
                     could only hope, and her trust was in "Him who doeth all things well."
                  For the two previous years Ellen had been at a female boarding-school in a
                     neighboring State, on the anniversaries of which she had taken an active part
                     in the examinatory exercises. Frederic Gorton, who was one of the Board, was so
                     much pleased with her that he made of the teachers minute inquiries in regard
                     to her character, which were answered entirely satisfactorily, for Ellen had
                     been a general favorite at school, as well as in her own village. Afterward he
                     called on her frequently, and on her final return home, Frederic Gorton, who
                     had ever been so confident in his eternal old-bachelorship, accompanied her,
                     and sought her from her mother as his bride. Seldom does one so gifted seek
                     favor of lady in vain; and Ellen Lawton, hitherto unsought and unwon, yielded
                     up, in silent worship, her whole heart, that had involuntarily bowed itself in
                     his presence, and became as a child in reverence.
                  But Frederic Gorton had lived nearly thirty-five years of his life among men.
                     His mother had died in his infancy, his father soon after, and he, an only
                     child, had been educated in the family of an old bachelor uncle. The influence of woman had never been exerted on
                     his heart. In his boyhood he had formed, from reading works of fiction, an idea
                     of woman as perfection in all things; but as he grew in years and in wisdom,
                     and learned the falsity of many youthful ideas and dreams, he discarded that
                     which he had entertained of woman, and knowing nothing of her but by her
                     general appearance of vanity and love of pleasure, he cherished for her not
                     much respect, and regarded her as an inferior, to whom, he thought in his
                     pride, he at least would never level himself by marriage. He smiled scornfully,
                     on learning his appointment as trustee of the female school, and laughingly
                     said to an old bachelor companion:—
                  "They will make me to have care of the gentle weak ones, whether I will or
                     no."
                  "O, yes," replied his friend, who was somewhat disposed to be satiric,
                     "classically speaking, 'pulchra faciant te prolc
                        parentum.' Depend upon it, this will be your initiation; you will
                     surely, upon attendance there, be caught by the smiling graces of some pretty
                     Venus—but be careful; remember there is no escape when once caught. Ah, my
                     friend, I consider you quite gone. I shall soon see in the morning
                     daily—'Married, on the 12th, Hon. Frederic Gorton, of M——, to Miss Isabella,
                     Mary, or Ellen Somebody,' and then, be assured, my best friend, Fred, that I
                     shall heave a sigh imo pectore, not for
                     myself only, but for you."
                  Some prophecies, jestfully uttered, are fulfilled—so were those of Frederic's
                     friend; and when they next met, only one was a bachelor.
                  But we will return to that bright morning when the bell had rung merrily—when
                     Ellen Lawton had returned from the village church to her childhood home as
                     Ellen Gorton, and was to leave it for a new home. After entering the parlor,
                     Mr. Gorton said,
                  "Now, Ellen, we will be ready to start in as few moments as possible."
                  "Yes," answered Ellen, "but I wish to go over to Aunt Mary's, just to bid her
                     good-bye."
                  "But, my dear," answered Frederic, there is not time;" looking at his
                     watch.
                  "Just a moment," persisted Ellen. "I will hurry. I promised Aunt Mary; she is
                     sick and can not leave her room."
                  And, as Frederic answered not, and as Ellen's eyes were brimful of tears, she
                     could but half see the impatience expressed on his countenance, and hastily
                     departed.
                  But Aunt Mary had many kisses to bestow upon her favorite, and many words and
                     wishes to utter, brokenly, in a voice choked with tears; and it was many
                     minutes ere she could tear herself away, and on her return she met several
                     loiterers from the church, who stopped her, to look, as they said, upon her
                     sweet face once more, and list to her sweet voice again. She hurried on—Mr.
                     Gorton met her at the door, and taking her hand, said, sternly,
                  "Ellen, I wish you not to delay a moment in bidding adieu to your friends—you
                     have already kept me waiting too long."
                  There was no tenderness in his voice as he uttered this, and it fell as a
                     weight upon Ellen's heart, already saddened at the thought of the parting with
                     her mother and home friends, which must be now, and which was, soon over.
                  As the carriage rolled away, Ellen grieved bitterly. Mr. Gorton, who really loved Ellen sincerely and
                     fondly, encircled her waist with his arm, and said, kindly,
                  "Do you feel, Ellen, that you have made too great a sacrifice in leaving home
                     and friends for me?"
                  "O, no," answered Ellen, raising her love-lit countenance to his, "no sacrifice
                     could be too great to make for you; but do you not know I have left all I had
                     to love before I loved you? And they will miss me, too, at home, and will think
                     of me, how often, too, when I shall be thinking of you only! Think it not
                     strange that I weep."
                  Nevertheless, Mr. Gorton did think it strange. He had a very
                     imperfect idea of the tender associations clustering around one's home. He had
                     small conceptions of the depth and richness and sweetness of a mother's love,
                     of a sister's yearning fondness, for they had ever been denied him;
                     consequently the emotions that thrilled the heart of his bride could find no
                     response, and met with no sympathy in his own. It was more with wonder, than
                     with any other sensation, that he regarded her sorrow. Was she not entering
                     upon a newer and higher sphere of life? Was she not the mistress of a splendid
                     mansion? Was she not to be the envied of many and many a one who had feigned
                     every attraction and exerted every effort for the station she was to assume;
                     and ought she to weep with this in view?
                  Thus Mr. Gorton thought—as man often reasons.
                  After having proceeded a little distance, they came within view of an humble
                     cottage, when Ellen said, "I must stop here, Mr. Gorton, and see Grandma
                     Nichols, (she was an elderly member of the church to which Ellen belonged.)
                     When I was last to see her, she said, as she should not be able to walk to
                     church to see me married ried, I must call on her, or she would think me proud.
                     I will stop for a moment—just a moment," she added, after a pause, observing he
                     did not answer.
                  They were just opposite the cottage at that moment, yet he gave no orders to
                     stop. With a fresh burst of tears, Ellen exclaimed,
                  "Please, Mr. Gorton, let me see her. I may never see her again, and she will
                     think I did not care to bid her a last farewell."
                  But Mr. Gorton said, "Really, Ellen, I am very much surprised at the apparent
                     necessity of trifles to make up your happiness. You went to see your aunt after
                     I had assured you there was not time. I wish you to remember that your little
                     wishes and whims, however important they may seem to you, can not seem of such
                     importance to me as to interfere with my arrangements. What matters it if my
                     bride does not say farewell to an old woman whom I never heard of, and shall
                     never think of again, and who will probably soon die, and cease to remember
                     that you slighted her?"
                  And he laid Ellen's head upon his shoulder, and wiping the tears from her face,
                     wondered of what nature, incomprehensible, she was.
                  But it did matter to her, in more respects than one, that she was
                     not permitted to call at the cottage. A heart so sensitive as Ellen's, feels
                     the least neglect and the slightest reproof, and is equally pained for having
                     given cause for pain as for receiving. Besides, how much was expressed in that
                     last sentence of Mr. Gorton's, accompanying the denial of her simple request!
                     How much contained in that denial, too! How plainly she read in it the future!
                     How fully did it reveal the disposition of him by whose will she saw she was
                     herself to be thereafter governed!
                     Though her mind was full of these thoughts, there was no less of love for him:
                     love in Ellen Lawton could never change, though she wondered, too, how he could
                     refuse what seemed to her so easy to grant. And so they both silently pursued
                     their way, wondering in their hearts as to the nature of each other. This,
                     however, did not continue long; and soon Ellen's tears ceased to flow, and she
                     listened, delighted, to the eloquent words of her gifted husband, spoken in the
                     richest and most musical of all voices.
                  Woman will have love for her husband so long as she has admiration, and Ellen
                     knew she would never cease to admire the talents and brilliant acquirements of
                     Frederic Gorton.
                  After several days' travel through a delightfully romantic country, they
                     reached the town of M——, where was the residence of Mr. Gorton. It was an
                     elegant mansion; the exterior planned and finished in the most tasteful and
                     handsome style, the interior equally so, and furnished with all that a young
                     bride of most cultivated taste could desire. The eye of Ellen was delighted and
                     surprised, even to tears, and inaudibly, but fervently in her heart she said,
                     "How devotedly will I love him who has provided for me so much comfort and
                     splendor, and how cheerfully will I make sacrifices of my feelings, 'my wishes
                     and my whims,' for him who has loved me so much as to make me his wife!" and
                     she gazed into her husband's face through her tears, and kissed reverently his
                     hand.
                  "Why do you weep, my Ellen? Are you not pleased?"
                  "O, yes; but you have done too much for me. I can never repay you, only in my
                     love, which is so boundless I have not dared to breathe it all to you, nor
                     could I!"
                  Mr. Gorton looked upon her with greater astonishment than before. Tears he had
                     ever associated with sorrow; and surely, thought he, here is no occasion for
                     tears, and he said,
                  "Well, if you love me, you will hasten to wipe away those tears, and let me see
                     you in smiles. I do not often smile myself, therefore the more need for my lady
                     to do so. Moreover, we may expect a multitude of callers; and think, Ellen, of
                     the effect of any one's seeing the bride in tears."
                  Calling a servant to conduct her to her dressing room, and expressing his wish
                     for her to dress in her most becoming manner, he left her.
                  It is unnecessary to say that Ellen was admired and loved by all the friends of
                     her husband, even by his brother judges and politicians. Herbert Lester, the
                     particular friend of Mr. Gorton, whose prophecy had thus been verified, came
                     several miles to express, personally, his sympathy and condolence. These he
                     changed to congratulations when he felt the influence of the grace and beauty
                     of the wife of his friend, and he declared that he would make an offer of
                        his hand and heart, could he find another Ellen.
                  Meanwhile time passed, and though Ellen was almost daily called upon to yield
                     her own particular preferences to Mr. Gorton's, as she had done even on her
                     bridal day, still she was comparatively happy. Had she possessed less keenness
                     of sensibility, she might have been happier; or had Mr. Gorton possessed more,
                     so that he could have understood her, many tears and heart-aches would have
                     been spared her. Oftentimes, things comparatively paratively trifling to him would wound the
                     sensitive nature of Ellen most painfully, and he, of course, would have no
                     conception why they should thus affect her.
                  Occupied as he was, mostly with worldly transactions and political affairs,
                     Ellen's mind often, in his absence, reverted to the scenes of her youth, and
                     her childhood home, her mother, and the bright band of her young sisters; and
                     longings would come up in her heart to behold them once more.
                  Two years having passed without her having seen one member of her family, she
                     one day asked Mr. Gorton if it would not be convenient soon to make a visit to
                     C——. He answered that his arrangements would not admit of it at present, and
                     coldly and cruelly asked her if she had yet heard of Grandma Nichols' decease.
                     Ellen answered not, and bent her head over the face of her little Frederic, who
                     was sleeping, to hide her tears. Perceiving her emotion, he added,
                  "Ellen, I assure you it is impossible for me to comply with your wish, but I
                     will write to your mother, and urge her to visit us—will that do?"
                  Ellen's face brightened, as with a beam of sunshine, and springing to her
                     husband's side, she laid her glowing cheek upon his, and then smiled upon him
                     so sweetly that even the cold heart of Frederic Gorton glowed with a warmth
                     unusual.
                  Seven years passed away, leaving their shadows as the sun does. And Ellen— 
                        
                           "But matron care, or lurking woe,
                           Her thoughtless, sinless look had banished,
                           And from her cheek the roseate glow
                           Of girlhood's balmy morn had vanished;
                           Within her eyes, upon her brow,
                           Lay something softer, fonder, deeper,
                           As if in dreams some visioned woe
                           Has broke the Elysium of the sleeper."
                        
                     
                  
                  Never yet, since that bright bridal morn, had Ellen looked upon her native
                     village, though scarcely three hundred miles separated her from it. Now her
                     heart beat joyfully, for her husband had told her that business would call him
                     to that vicinity in a few days, and she might accompany him. With all the
                     wilful eagerness of a child she set her heart on that visit, and from morning
                     till night she would talk with her little boys of the journey to what seemed to
                     her the brightest, most sacred spot on earth, next to her present home. And the
                     home of one's childhood! no matter how sweet, how dear and beloved the home the
                     heart afterward loves, it never forgets, it never ceases most fondly to turn
                     back to the memories, and the scenes, and the friends of its early years.
                  One fault, if fault it might be called, among so many excellencies in Ellen's
                     character, was that of putting off "till to-morrow what should be done to-day."
                     This had troubled Mr. Gorton exceedingly, who, prompt himself, would naturally
                     wish others to be so also, and, notwithstanding his constant complaints, and
                     Ellen's desire to please him, she had not yet overcome her nature in that
                     respect, though she had greatly improved. The evening preceding the intended
                     departure, Mr. Gorton said to his wife,
                  "Now, Ellen, I hope you will have every thing in readiness for an early
                     departure in the morning. Have the boys and yourself all ready the moment the
                     carriage is at the door, for you know I do not like to be obliged to wait."
                  
                  Almost before the stars had disappeared in the sky, Ellen was busy in her final
                     preparations. She was sure she should have every thing ready in season, and
                     wondered how her husband could suppose otherwise, upon an occasion in which she
                     had so much interest. Several minutes before the appointed time, Ellen had all
                     in readiness for the departure, the trunks all packed and locked, the children
                     in their riding-dresses and caps; and proceeding from her dressing-room to the
                     front hall door, she was thinking that this time, certainly, she should not
                     hear the oft-repeated complaint—"Ellen, you are always too late!"—when, to her
                     dismay, she met Georgie, her youngest boy, dripping with mud and water from the
                     brook, whence he had just issued, where, he said, he had ventured in chase of a
                     goose, which had impudently hissed at him, which insult the young boy, in his
                     own conception a spirited knight of the regular order, could not endure, and in
                     his wrath had pursued the offender to his place of retreat, much to the
                     detriment of his dress.
                  Ellen was in consternation; but one thing was evident—Georgie's dress must be
                     changed. With trembling hands she unlocked a trunk, and looked for a change of
                     dress, while the waiting-maid proceeded to disrobe the child.
                  Just at this moment Mr. Gorton entered, saying the carriage was at the door.
                     Various things had occurred that morning to perplex him, and he was in a bad
                     humor. Seeing Ellen thus engaged with the trunk, as he thought, not half
                     packed, various articles being upon the carpet, and Georgie in no wise ready,
                     the cloud came over his brow, and he said, harshly,
                  "I knew it would be thus, Ellen—I have never known you to be in readiness yet;
                     but you must know I am not to be trifled with."
                  And with this, not heeding the explanation she attempted to make, he seized his
                     valise and left the room. Jumping into the carriage, he commanded the driver to
                     proceed.
                  Ellen heard the carriage rolling away, in astonishment. She ran to the door,
                     and watched it in the distance. But she thought it could not be possible he
                     would go without her—he would return: and she hastened the maid, and still kept
                     watching at the door. She waited in vain, for he returned not.
                  The excitement into which Ellen was thrown by the anticipation of meeting her
                     friends once more, may be readily imagined by those similarly constituted with
                     her, and the reaction occasioned by her disappointment, also. Her heart had
                     been entirely fixed upon it, and what but cruelty was it in her husband to
                     deprive her thus so unreasonably of so great an enjoyment—to her so exquisite a
                     pleasure?
                  In the sudden rush of her feelings she recalled the last seven years of her
                     life, and could recollect no instance in which she had failed doing all in her
                     power to contribute to her husband's happiness. On the other hand, had he not
                     often wounded her feelings unnecessarily? Had he ever denied himself any thing
                     for her sake, but required of her sacrifice of her own wishes to his?
                  The day wore away, and the night found Ellen in a burning fever. The servant
                     who went for the physician in the early morning, said she had raved during the
                     latter part of the night. As the family physician entered the room, she said,
                     mildly,
                  
                  "O, do not go and leave me! I am all ready—all ready. Do not go—it will kill me
                     if you go."
                  The doctor took her hand; it was very hot; and her brow was terribly throbbing
                     and burning. He remained with her the greater part of the day, but the attack
                     of fever on the brain had been so violent that no attempt for relief was of
                     avail.
                  She grew worse; and, about midnight, with the words,
                  "O, do not go, Mr. Gorton—do not go and leave me!"—her spirit took its
                     flight.
                  And the morning dawned on Ellen in her death-sleep—dawned as beautiful as that
                     bright one, when the bell rang merrily for her bridal. Now the dismal
                     death-notes pealed forth the departure of her spirit to a brighter world. Would
                     not even an angel weep to look upon one morning, and then upon the other?
                  The birds, from the cage in the window, poured forth their songs; but they fell
                     unheeded on the ears they had so often delighted. The voices of Fred and
                     Georgie, ever as music to the loving heart of the young mother, would fall
                     thrillingly on her ear no more. She lay there, still and cold—her dreams
                     over—her hopes all passed by—the sun of her young life set—and
                        how?
                  
                  People came in, one after another, to look upon her—and wept that one so young
                     and good should die. They closed her eyes—they laid her in her grave-clothes,
                     and folded her pale hands—and there she lay!
                  And now we leave that chamber of the too-early dead. Mr. Gorton's feelings of
                     anger soon subsided. In a few hours he felt oppressed with a sense of the grief
                     Ellen would experience. His feelings prompted him to return for her. Several
                     times he put his head out of the window to order the driver to return, but, his
                     pride intervening, he as often desisted. Yet his mind was ill at ease. He,
                     also, involuntarily, reviewed the period of his wedded life. He recalled the
                     goodness, and patience, and sweetness, which Ellen had ever shown him—the warm
                     love she had ever evinced for him; and his heart seemed to appreciate, for the
                     first time, the value and character of Ellen. He felt how unjust and unkind he
                     had often been to her—he wondered he could have been so,—and resolved that,
                     henceforth, he would show her more tenderness.
                  As he stopped for the night, at a public house, his resolution was to return
                     early in the morning. Yet, his business must be attended to. It was a case of
                     emergency. He finally resolved to intrust it with a lawyer acquaintance, who
                     lived a half day's ride from where he then was. Thus he did; and, about noon of
                     the following day, started homeward. He was surprised at his own uneasiness and
                     impatience. He had never so longed to meet Ellen. He fancied his meeting with
                     her—her joy at his return—her tears for her disappointment—his happiness in
                     restoring her heart to happiness, by an increasing tenderness of
                     manner, and by instantly gratifying her wish of a return home.
                  All day and part of the night he traveled. It was early morning when he arrived
                     at his own door. He was surprised at the trembling emotions and quickened
                     beating of his heart, as he descended the steps of his carriage, and ascended
                     those to his own door. He passed on to the room of his wife. The light gleamed
                     through the small opening over the door, and he thought he heard whispers.
                     Softly he opened the door. O! what a terrible, heart-rending scene was before
                     him!—The watchers left the room; and Mr. Gorton stood alone, in speechless less agony, before the being made
                     voiceless by himself.
                  The sensibility so long slumbering within his worldly, hardened heart, was
                     aroused to the very keenness of torture. And Ellen, gentle spirit that she
                     was,—how would she have grieved to have seen the heart she had loved, so
                     overwhelmed with grief, regret, remorse, despair!
                  "Ellen! my own Ellen!"
                  But she could not hear!
                  "I have killed thee, gentlest and best!"
                  But the kindness of her heart was not open now! "I forgive thee,"
                     could not fall from those lips so pale! "I love thee," could never come upon
                     his ear again—never—and "NEVER!" thrilled his soul, every chord of
                     which was strung to its intensity!
                  If anything could have added to the grief inconsolable of the man stricken in
                     his sternness and pride, it was the grief of his two motherless boys, as they
                     called on their mother's name in vain, and asked him why she slept
                     so long.
                  Few knew why Ellen died so suddenly and so young; but, while Mr. Gorton
                     preserved in his heart a memory of her virtues, he remembered, and mourned in
                     bitterness and unavailing anguish, that it was his own thoughtless—but not the
                     less cruel—unkindness, that laid her in her early grave.
                  Seldom came the smile again upon his face; and never, though fond mothers
                     manœuvered and insinuated, and fair daughters flattered and praised, did he wed
                     again; for his heart was buried with his Ellen, whom he, too late, loved as he
                     should have loved.
                  Washington Irving, in his beautiful "Affection for the Dead," says: "Go to the
                     grave of buried love, and meditate. There settle the account with thy
                     conscience, for every past benefit unrequited, every past endearment
                     unregarded. Console thyself, if thou canst, with this simple, yet futile
                     tribute of regret, and take warning by this, thine unavailing sorrow for the
                     dead, and henceforward be more faithful and affectionate in the discharge of
                     thy duties to the living!"
               
               
                  
                  Confessions of an Unyielding Wife.
                  BEFORE proceeding to the subject matter of this sketch, allow me, my young
                     friends, to exhort you to strive earnestly at self-culture and self-control
                     before taking a step which involves your all of earthly happiness, as well as
                     that of the individuals, whom, before Heaven, you promise to honor, love, and
                     cherish during your sojourn in a state where mutual forbearance and mutual
                     concessions are constantly demanded. My female friends, though the chosen
                     companion of your life may not be all you had, in the ardor of your affection,
                     painted him, he is still the man you promised to "love, honor and obey;" and to
                     your keeping, in a great degree, is committed his reputation, his usefulness in
                     life, his social tastes and fire-side enjoyments. Mutual improvement is,
                     undoubtedly, one of the ends of the marriage institution; but any attempt at
                     correction or reproof should be mingled with great kindness of manner. If the
                     contrary course be adopted, the desired effect is worse than lost.
                  After a reasonable courtship, Joseph and I were at length married. It seemed to
                     me I had never been so happy before. Weeks passed as days. Surrounded by an
                     atmosphere of love and kindness, my faults were not called out, and Joseph, in
                     his mistaken fondness, thought me all that his warm heart and noble nature
                     could desire.
                  Soon after our marriage, we commenced house-keeping in a neat, pretty house,
                     just suited to our wants. I was enabled to nearly furnish it with the avails of
                     my year's teaching, and the kind assistance of mother and sisters. Neatness and
                     order were largely developed in my habits, and for some time, nothing occurred
                     to mar the happiness of our daily life. One evening I had to wait longer than
                     usual for Joseph to come to his tea; and suffered a long-suppressed feeling of
                     impatience to betray itself in the peevish tones in which I exclaimed, as soon
                     as he entered the dining room, "The tea is all cold; why did you not come
                     before?"
                  "I could not, my dear, as there was no one to stay in the store," was the mild
                     reply which should have put the subject to rest, as I knew that Joseph's
                     business must necessarily occupy his whole time: he being head clerk in the
                     establishment with which he was connected, expecting, in the course of two or
                     three years, to be taken into partnership; therefore it was necessary for him
                     to be active, and attentive. All this I knew, but like many wives, I took
                     little interest in business affairs, and did not consider that they had any
                     claims paramount to my convenience.
                  I know, my friend, that when you read this, you will bitterly reproach me for
                     unkindness to one who loved me better than life,—one too, for whom, at times, I
                     would have laid down my life, and every thing else, save my will. The loss of
                     him at this time would have broken my heart, but being naturally impulsive,
                     that intense love that for a time controlled infirmities of temper, was
                     overcome, and I had suffered them to gain the ascendency, thus dashing from our
                     lips the cup of happiness. I allowed myself to forget that the same guard over
                     my conduct, and the same effort was necessary to preserve the affections of the
                     husband, that were employed to please the lover.
                  
                  But, to return. That night I sat up late, yet my husband delayed his coming.
                     "Ah!" thought I, "he thinks to frighten me into submission by staying out late;
                     (a thing he had never done before,) but he will find his mistake." Ascertaining
                     that he had taken the night key, I determined to sit up no longer. I retired,
                     but sleep would not come to my eyes. The mild beams of the moon came stealing
                     through the window, filling the room with fantastic shapes of light and shade,
                     bearing to my troubled mind a self-examination too long deferred. As the night
                     deepened and my husband came not, I wept bitter tears of self-accusation, and
                     in proportion to my fears for his safety, did my repentance for the past, and
                     resolves for the future, deepen and expand.
                  Small matters like these should have been borne patiently, but in the absence
                     of greater trouble, I suffered scores of trifling things to irritate me to that
                     degree that I threatened to "turn over a new leaf," which was but another form
                     of saying, "Unless I can have things my own way, I shall give my husband a
                     lesson." He bore my oft-reiterated complaints about what appear to me now to
                     have been "trifles light as air;" without resentment, offering good reasons
                        (excuses I called them) for not complying with my wishes.
                  One day after I had reproached him with thinking more of his business than of
                     his wife, he rose to go out, and as he did so, he turned to me with a look that
                     should have sent remorse to my heart, and fixing on me those liquid grey eyes,
                     expressive more of sorrow than anger, "Clara," said he, "if you find it so
                     troublesome waiting for me, do not wait any more, but take your meals and clear
                     away the things without regard to me." When he had gone, the demon Temper, that
                     should have been cast behind me, prompted me to take him at his word.
                     Accordingly, when the time came, I prepared the evening meal, and after waiting
                     a few moments, I sat down, ate alone, then cleared away the table and took up
                     my sewing. In a few moments more Joseph came in, and without raising my eyes
                     from my work, I told him, in as unconcerned a manner as possible, that "he need
                     not have come for his tea; I had cleared it away!" Without saying a word he
                     turned and left the house.
                  I knew the store had been closed some time before, and as we had few
                     friends—indeed none—with whom he could be spending the evening, "Where can he
                     be?" was the constantly recurring question. Just as the clock struck one, I
                     heard the click of the night key, and also his step on the stairs. With my
                     fears vanished repentance from my volatile heart, and I was prepared to pour a
                     storm of invective upon his head. He paused at the door, and as the moon shone
                     full on his face, I perceived that he was pale and excited, and in the
                     moonlight presented a ghastliness that shocked me so much that I sprang from
                     the bed exclaiming, "Joseph, what is the matter?" He stared at me an instant,
                     and in an excited tone replied, "Don't be a fool, Clara! go back to bed and let
                     me alone!" The truth flashed on my mind, and I indignantly turned from him, and
                     again pressed my pillow, where I sought in my mind to fasten the blame on him,
                     rather than take any share myself. The next day nothing was said of the
                     occurrences of the preceding day and night: in fact, there were few words
                     spoken on any subject. I felt injured, and a gloom seemed to have settled on
                     the countenance and manner of my husband.
                  It was not until years after this that I knew what I may as well mention now.
                     When Joseph left the store on that
                     eventful night, he paused a moment on the threshold uncertain whither to direct
                     his steps; dreading after the toils of the day to encounter the fretfulness of
                     an arbitrary wife at home. Home! Ah! home no longer to his gentle and
                     peace-loving spirit. Just then an acquaintance came up, and accosting him gaily
                     invited him to go and partake of an oyster supper that was to be served at a
                     fashionable restaurant. But Joseph excused himself, and decided immediately to
                     return to me. Then when he had done so, and I had thrust him away from his own
                     dear "ingle-side" by my cold language about his tea, he thought again of the
                     oyster supper, and, unhappily, his stomach prompted his mind to accept the
                     invitation. He went. That night the tempting wine-cup was held to his lips; a
                     second and a third followed in rapid succession, and in this state he sought
                     his chamber, as we have already seen.
                  Following this, there came a succession of days and months, fraught with the
                     deepest misery to both of us. I will draw a veil over the recollections of this
                     period, only mentioning that but a few months had elapsed before the hollow
                     cheeks and bloodshot eyes told a tale that none who saw him could fail to
                     understand. My husband's conduct and appearance at this time, instead of
                     causing self-reproach and exciting pity, led me to look upon myself as one of
                     the most injured of wives; and my selfish and wicked heart hardened toward him
                     till I rarely spoke, save in harshness and revenge.
                  We had now been married about two years. One morning Joseph went to the store
                     as usual, but soon returned. On looking at him, I caught my breath in
                     astonishment. His eyes were wild, gleaming like hot coals, and he staggered
                     across the room, and would have fallen had he not grasped a chair into which he
                     sank. He sat a moment, as if collecting his thoughts, then in a voice tremulous
                     and solemn, while I almost felt his burning gaze, he said, "Clara,
                     this day I am a ruined man! My employers have watched my steps—have
                     expostulated with me; but finding it to no purpose, this day, on which I should
                     have been raised to an honorable and profitable position, finds me cast
                     off—sick—broken-hearted—alone—without money, and without friends. Trouble and
                     disappointment drove me to the wine-cup; then, to find oblivion for my sorrows,
                     I neglected my business, became involved in debt, and this is the
                     consequence!"
                  Joseph began rapidly to decline. Neither love nor care could save him, and soon
                     they laid him in a shady nook beneath the great willow in the corner of his
                     father's farm; and the little brook that babbles by, murmurs his requiem to
                     this day. Just as his eyes were about closing forever on this world I knelt
                     beside him with my boy in my arms; my husband placed one wasted hand on the
                     child's head, and the other on mine, and said, "Clara, inasmuch as you love me,
                     guard well the footsteps of Willie. I intrust his happiness to your keeping,
                     believing our Heavenly Father will bless your endeavors. Farewell, my wife and
                     child! Heaven bless and keep you both!"
                  I have considered this, his dying trust, a sacred one; and have executed it,
                     with what success the well-ordered life of my son will attest.
                  
                     
                        "How full, ere heaven recalls the breath,
                        The cup of woe may be!"
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  A Mistake.
                  
                     CHAPTER I.
                     "I WISH I was dead!"
                     The person who uttered this rather questionable wish, was a young and
                        handsome woman. She sat on a low, cushioned stool, in the recess of a French
                        window, which overlooked one of the finest squares of the city.
                     There was nothing in the pleasant room, or its rather luxurious furniture,
                        to inspire such a wish, and yet it was uttered with an unaffected sincerity.
                        There was a carelessness in her attire, a negligence in the arrangement of
                        her abundant hair, that would have been quickly noticed in a woman of fewer
                        personal charms, but which only served in her case to indicate some great
                        sorrow.
                     An orphan from her infancy, she remembered nothing of the yearning maternal
                        love that had watched over the first few months of her life, or of the
                        blessing so long ago whispered by the lips of her dying father. She only
                        knew that they were young and lovely, that they had garnered her in their
                        affections as their most precious treasure, and that the "pestilence that
                        walketh in darkness," the fearful cholera, which had desolated so many
                        household hearths, had in one day left her fatherless and motherless.
                     Still her infancy and youth had passed happily by, under the care of an
                        indulgent, but wise guardian, and with her constant attendant, Kathleen, who
                        had been her mother's favorite servant, and whose love for the orphan child
                        could scarcely have been greater if it had really been her own.
                     "O me! I wish I was dead!"
                     She had been thinking of her early orphanhood, and then of her first meeting
                        with him who for five years had been her husband. The first happy years of
                        her wedded life shone out vividly upon the page of her memory, and she
                        recalled, one by one all the dear associations of that happy time, ere she
                        permitted herself to review the late miserable months which had darkly
                        overshadowed all.
                     "O, don't go for saying such dreadful things o' ye-self, Miss Bertha, dear,"
                        said Kathleen, who had entered in time to hear her exclamation.
                     "It is only the truth, Kathleen."
                     "It's likely. But it has a sound o' wickedness for all that. Cheer up. It's
                        brighter days are in store for ye, now the masther is coomin'."
                     "I can not see him. I'd rather die."
                     "No, no! His coomin' home will soon explain all things to yer likin'. Ye
                        mind betther nor me how sad he was at the laving home, and how joyfully he
                        spake o' the time o' coomin' back. O, thin little did he or any one else
                        think what a weary time it would be! But it has inded at last, and thanks be
                        to God, for your sake, mavourneen!"
                     "O, Kathleen, how can you speak as if he were coming to a home unchanged!
                        Look at me!" She pushed up her sleeve, and held up her arm, still beautiful
                        in its transparent delicacy, but fearfully thin. "It is his work,
                        Kathleen."
                     "No, no! It's a mistake altogether. He loved ye too well to harm a hair o' your head. Ye were the
                        core o' his heart, a cushla, and niver a change will ye find in him at all.
                        God bless him! The kind young masther that he was!"
                     Many a time had Kathleen endeavored to inspire her young mistress with the
                        hope that animated her own breast, that "the coomin' o' the masther would
                        put all right, for shure," but always in vain. The cause of Bertha's sorrow
                        was a secret closely locked in her own breast, and all the entreaties of her
                        faithful nurse had failed to secure her confidence in regard to it.
                     "It's he that will fret o'er yer pale cheeks where he left the roses a
                        bloomin', an' it's many a heart-ache he'll have, an' ye gethin' thinner and
                        paler under his own eyes."
                     "I am not afraid of his grief for me hurting him. There is no danger of his
                        breaking his heart on my account. Hark! Is not that the clock? It is
                        half-past nine, and the cars will be in at ten."
                     "But ye will change yer dress to be sure? It's paler than a ghost ye are in
                        that white wrapper."
                     "No. What does it matter?"
                     "At the least, darlin', let old Kathy dress yer hair."
                     "Well, hurry then."
                     She sat silently musing while Kathleen took down and smoothed the heavy
                        shining bands, apparently unheeding her employment. When her hair was
                        dressed, and Kathleen, catching a glimpse through the window of a familiar
                        form rapidly approaching the house, hastily left the room, she still sat
                        motionless, absorbed in an unpleasant reverie. Even the manly step upon the
                        stairs, so long ago familiar to her ear, and welcome as music to her heart,
                        failed to rouse her; and so she sat still, her small white hands clasped
                        over her knee, while her long-absent husband paused at the open door for the
                        greeting that should have welcomed his return.
                     He had been absent three years, transacting business in Europe for the
                        mercantile firm of which he was the junior partner. He was a tall,
                        stout-built man of thirty years; not handsome, perhaps, but with an open
                        intellectual countenance that was a true index of the nobility of his
                        character. Three years of absence! They had seemed long in passing, but as
                        he stood in the familiar room, and noted the well-known arrangement of every
                        thing in it, it seemed but yesterday that he had so reluctantly left home
                        for his long voyage.
                     The first two happy years of his married life had been spent here; he
                        thought of the next two, scarcely less happy in their flight, because of the
                        unreserved and affectionate correspondence by letter with his wife, and the
                        hope, so often disappointed, of being able to return home; and then he
                        thought of the last year, during which he had only heard from her through
                        the kindness of a friend.
                     When his letters to her first remained unanswered, he had attributed her
                        silence to illness, and he wrote in his alarm to an old college friend, who
                        resided in the same neighborhood. In due time came the answer, but it
                        changed his anxiety to astonishment and indignation, for it represented
                        Bertha as being quite well, and a leader in gay society.
                     "Now, George," wrote his friend in conclusion, "don't fret about this whim
                        of your pretty wife. You couldn't expect her to always live like a hermit,
                        you know. Her appearance produces more effect than the 'coming out' of any
                        young miss of the season, and people—notoverwise
                        wise—are continually wondering how she has contented herself
                        to keep such rare beauty as hers in seclusion. She adorns her new station
                        well, and the beautiful Mrs. Linton is the acknowledged star of the
                        season."
                     George Linton crushed the letter in his hand, and did not write again either
                        to his friend or his wife for many months. His business had prospered so
                        that it might be safely left in the hands of an agent; but he felt no
                        disposition to leave Europe till another letter from his friend, by
                        re-awakening his anxiety for the health of his wife, inspired also an
                        unendurable longing for home.
                     "There is a mystery about Mrs. Linton," wrote his friend, "that I can not
                        fathom. She disappeared from society as suddenly as she had entered it, and
                        has been spending a couple of months in the country with your aunt. I saw
                        her yesterday for the first time since her return. She came into the library
                        to choose a book. I was struck with her pale and fragile look. There was a
                        settled sadness in the expression of her face when in repose, that excited
                        my pity, much as I was disposed to blame her for your sake. As in duty
                        bound, I asked for the latest accounts of yourself. A slight color tinged
                        her cheek, but was gone in a moment, and she replied coldly, that 'her last
                        letter from you had represented you as being well and happy.' I knew how
                        long ago that 'last' letter was written, and that it had never been
                        answered, and I pitied her in spite of her haughty manner. I can't advise
                        you, my dear fellow, but don't you think you had better come home, if only
                        for a visit?"
                     On his arrival at New York, George had written a brief note to his wife,
                        announcing his arrival, and his intention of being home as soon as
                        practicable. As he rapidly journeyed toward his native city, many bitter
                        thoughts were involuntarily suggested to his mind. What had he done that he
                        should creep, like an unwelcome stranger, to his own fireside? But when he
                        stood at last in the open door, and his quick attentive eye had noted the
                        changes in his wife's appearance, that had been described by his friend,
                        every trace of displeasure vanished from his thoughts, and pity and wonder
                        succeeded.
                     "Bertha!"
                     She started. It was the old loving tone for which she had so yearned. For a
                        moment her eyes sparkled, she sprung from her seat with the old impulse to
                        fly to his arms, but she stopped suddenly, and while her cheek again paled,
                        she folded her arms tightly across her beating heart and sank again into her
                        seat.
                     "You are ill, Bertha," he said, anxiously approaching her, forgetting, in
                        his anxiety, the doubtful character of his reception. "Let me ring the bell
                        for Kathleen."
                     "No. I am not ill."
                     She soon recovered her composure—the cold, haughty composure that seemed so
                        unnatural to her; and though her cheek and lips remained almost colorless,
                        there was no tremor in her voice, as she congratulated him upon his safe
                        return—common-place words, such as she might have used in speaking to any
                        stranger.
                     "Was the sea voyage pleasant?"
                     "Not particularly so. You will remember that the weather has been stormy
                        here. We were twice in extreme danger of shipwreck."
                     She rose quickly to hide the emotion that the idea of his peril awakened,
                        and going to a table returned to her seat with her work-box in her hand. He
                        watched her as she bent her head over the work that she took from it. Pity and the old love still
                        controlled his rising displeasure at her coldness.
                     "This box has been carefully used, Bertha, if it is the keepsake I bought
                        for you six years ago."
                     There was some association with the box that had once been a pleasant one,
                        and he remembered that she used laughingly to say that no work of hers
                        prospered with any other tools than those the box afforded.
                     "It is not the same," she replied. "This was the gift of your aunt
                        Mercy."
                     "And the old one?"
                     "Is somewhere about the house, I dare say."
                     She did not tell him that the box, with the rings that he missed from her
                        fingers, the gold watch, and the miniature-likeness of himself, with many
                        other gifts of his, were stowed away in a closet opening from her chamber,
                        to which no one had access but herself.
                     "I should like the old box, if it has become valueless to you."
                     "I will tell Kathleen to look it up and put it in your room."
                     "And the new piano that we selected just before I left home. I remember that
                        you wrote of the wonderful improvement you made in playing, though I am sure
                        nothing could be more delightful than the old songs. Do you play much?"
                     "I have n't opened the piano," she answered, in a hesitating manner, "for a
                        year."
                     He looked surprised.
                     "A year! Does not the piano please you?"
                     "No—yes," she answered, hastily correcting herself, "the piano is well
                        enough. It has been greatly admired. But I don't like music."
                     "I am sorry. I used to think, when I remembered the pieces that had so
                        charmed me here, and when I read your accounts of the progress you were
                        making in your practice of music, what a pleasure was in store for me if I
                        ever got home again."
                     He sighed deeply as he spoke, for again the injustice of his position at
                        home rose in contrast with what he had once hoped it might be, and a stern
                        look, once quite foreign to his features, but now become rather habitual,
                        passed over his face. But one glance at the pale face, so changed from the
                        rosy, merry one that he remembered so well, prevented the expression of the
                        indignant thoughts already trembling on his lips.
                     Determined, if possible, to find some clue to the mystery, he asked all the
                        usual questions of a returned wanderer. Gradually the conversation became
                        less restrained, and once, when he was describing a rather comic adventure
                        amid the romantic Alpine scenery of Switzerland, her eyes met his with the
                        old fond look, and a merry smile played for a moment around her lips. His
                        face brightened perceptibly.
                     "I shall soon regain her confidence and affection," he thought, "and then
                        the mystery will be solved. Poor, altered Bertha! How much she has
                        suffered!"
                  
                  
                     CHAPTER II.
                     George Linton was doomed to disappointment in all his efforts to understand
                        the cause of the alteration in his wife. Any approach to the subject in his
                           conversation tion with her
                        only served to increase the coldness and distance between them, and the fear
                        of aggravating her ill health prevented his urging the matter.
                     Still he tried, by attention to her wishes, and by his evident solicitude
                        for her happiness, to win back her lost trust in him. But day after day, and
                        week after week passed by, and, excepting a gradual improvement in her
                        health, there was no change in her.
                     At last he became discouraged. He began to think it unmanly to spend all his
                        time in vain attempts to win back a love and confidence that were his by
                        right, and which he had never abused. There were many paths of usefulness
                        open before him; active, honorable men were needed in public life, and a
                        fine opportunity to distinguish himself was offered him. If he could never
                        be happy, might he not be useful? The foreign agent of the firm had resigned
                        his trust, and it was necessary that some one should again visit Paris in
                        their behalf. A permanent residence there might be necessary, and there
                        seemed no reason why the senior partners should be separated from their
                        families, when his own absence would not be felt. He sat alone, revolving
                        such gloomy thoughts in his mind, one fine morning, when his wife had gone
                        to ride. At last a sudden idea seemed to strike him favorably, and he rung
                        the bell to summon Kathleen. She came at once, smoothing down her clean
                        linen apron and arranging the wide cambric ruffles of her cap, by the
                        way.
                     "Kathleen, I want to speak to you."
                     She shut the parlor door and stood leaning against it.
                     "What is it that has so changed your young mistress?"
                     "Changed, sir?"
                     "Yes. You are not so blind as not to see that she is not the same person
                        that she was when I went to Europe."
                     "That is true, sir."
                     "Well, what has occasioned the change?"
                     "I don't know, sir, indade."
                     "You are with her a great deal, Kathleen, and you have always known and
                        loved her; you must surely have some idea of the truth. I have been thinking
                        that she might be happier if I were away; and we must either send an agent
                        to Paris, or one of the firm must go. I should be—"
                     "O, thin," interrupted Kathleen, "don't ye do it at all. If ye've a spark o'
                        love for Miss Bertha, don't ye go."
                     He looked surprised.
                     "You know very well, Kathleen," he added, gently, "that all this misery of
                        Bertha's is somehow connected with me. I'm sure I don't know how, but if I
                        were away, and she had no expectation of ever seeing me again, she
                        might—"
                     "It would jist kill her," said Kathleen, decidedly, interrupting him again.
                        "She would niver hould up her pritty head again. I know how she was whin ye
                        were away, an' I can see how she is since ye came home, and it's betther she
                        is gettin', intirely. It's ase o' the mind is what she nades most o' all,
                        and no one but yerself, sir, and that's the thruth, can help her."
                     "Well, Kathleen, tell me just how this sad state of things began. I can not
                        help her unless I can find out what is the matter."
                     O, thin," said Kathleen, wiping her eyes on her apron as she spoke, "I don't
                        know, for shure, any more than yerself. But I know more than she thinks
                        for."
                     
                     "Tell me all you know, for her sake."
                     "Well, sir, it was a little above a year before ye coom home, I mind it as
                        if it was yesterday, because she was so pleased and lively over a letther
                        from you that the post-boy had brought in. I was dressin' her hair, for
                        nobody can do it to feel asy and snoog-like, barrin' ould Kathy."
                     "Yes, I know."
                     "I was dressin' her hair, and pritty it is, so dark, and with waves like
                        gold whin she sits in the light—"
                     "Yes, Kathleen. And what happened then?"
                     "Happened? Nothing at all just then; but I spies another letther lying on
                        the toilet-table. The sealing was whole, and says I,
                     "'See, Miss Bertha, dear, ye've clane forgot to rade this in yer joy o' the
                        other.'
                     "'So I have,' says she; 'but it's to George, instead of me.'
                     "'That's quare,' says I, 'an' he for two years over the sa.'
                     "'I think so too,' she says, 'but it may be one of the begging letters that
                        always come to his name. Some Society wants money. And just look, Kathy,
                        what a faint little cramped hand it is directed in.'"
                     "So I looked, and I told her what I thought, for shure that it did not look
                        much like her own beautiful writin'. For indade, sir, it's few paple that
                        can put pen to paper like Miss Bertha. It's like a pictur whin she—"
                     "I know, Kathleen. Her writing is very fine, but I am anxious to know what
                        happened next."
                     "Yes, indade. Well, sir, she kept turnin' the letther over and over in her
                        hand, and spakin' about it, and biddin' me mind the faint writin', but I
                        could see that she were all the time radin' her letther from you that still
                        lay open on the table before her. So I said agin,
                     "'Shure now, an' the letther may be from the masther's own sister.'
                     "'No,' she answered, 'for Lucitta knows he is far away. I suppose I must
                        open it,' she says, for unless it is of more consequence than it looks, it
                        would not be worth while to forward it to George. I will read it while you
                        get my toast and coffee, and then tell you all about it.'"
                     "You see that I know exactly how she likes her coffee, an' the
                           ingregencies—"
                     "Yes. Did she read the letter?"
                     "I will tell you about it. I made the toast and the coffee, and hurried up
                        stairs, for indade I felt a little curos, as was nateral. But when I opened
                        the door, I was sthruck all o' a thremble, for there sat Miss Bertha, as
                        white as the snow, wi' the letther all crumpled up in her hands, and her
                        eyes starin' so big and wild. Ye would have been frightened yerself,
                        sir."
                     "No doubt of it." He was listening with breathless interest. "Go on,
                        Kathleen."
                     "O, thin, the great woe had coom to her for shure. Not a bit o' word did she
                        spake for hours, and to all my cryin' and soothin' she were dafe intirely.
                        At the last I thried to get the botherin' letther away, and thin she came to
                        herself, an' broke out into tears. Och, sich tears! sich cryin', as if her
                        heart were breakin in pieces! But it did her good," added Kathleen, crying
                        herself, as George walked to a window to hide his emotion.
                     "Did she never tell you what was in the letter?" he asked, as soon as he
                        could control his voice.
                     "Niver a word. There were odd words she spake in her great disthress, but I
                        could not put them together to
                        make sinse o' them, for shure she was out o' her head intirely."
                     "Do you remember them?" he asked, eagerly. "Tell me all you can
                        recollect."
                     "She were clane crazy, sir."
                     "Never mind that. What did she say?"
                     "Well, sir," answered Kathleen, with evident reluctance, "she repeated over
                        and over again this one thing: 'If she is his lawful wife, O,
                        what am I!'"
                     "What could she mean?"
                     "She were crazy, sir, and meant nothin' at all."
                     "And you never found out more about the letter?"
                     "No. I niver dared mintion it but once, and thin she was so excited about
                        it, I was sure niver to hint o' it more. But I watched her whin she got all
                        the pritty things you had given her together, and put them out o' sight. She
                        cried a good deal over the letthers you had written to her, but whin she
                        took up that letther—the bad one, sir—to put with them, her face was haughty
                        and proud-like, instead o' sad, jist as you see it nowadays. I'm shure, sir,
                        that ugly letther, wi' its fine jumbled-up writin', is at the bottom o' all
                        the throuble."
                     "You are probably right. I am greatly obliged to you, Kathleen, and I will
                        not detain you any longer."
                     "O thin, if ye plaze, I hope ye'll not be afther spakin' to Miss Bertha o'
                        this matther."
                     "I won't bring you into any trouble."
                     "An' ye will not go to Paris?"
                     "Not yet. I will first make one more effort to restore your mistress to
                        happiness."
                     Kathleen courtesied her thanks, and went away looking as grateful as if it
                        was her own happiness that he was considering.
                  
                  
                     CHAPTER III.
                     Left alone, George pondered a long time upon the strange information he had
                        received. That the letter was a heartless attempt to ruin his domestic
                        happiness he did not doubt. But from what quarter the blow had been aimed he
                        had no idea. If he had personal enemies they were secret ones, and in all
                        the wide circle of his acquaintance he could think of no person likely to
                        act so dastardly a part. There was no individual upon whom he could fasten
                        suspicion.
                     "No one can give me the information I need but Bertha herself. I will
                        question her at once. Painful as it will be to us both, if it should restore
                        her lost trust in me, we shall not regret it. I might get the letter in her
                        absence, but it would be scarcely honorable to steal it from her. Besides,
                        if, as I suppose, it contains charges against me, I choose to meet them in
                        her presence," His brow darkened for a moment at the thought of the probable
                        humiliating nature of the coming explanation, and his lip curled haughtily
                        as he said aloud:
                     "Bertha, at least, should have known me letter than to admit doubts of my
                        honor."
                     He could not sit down quietly to await her return, but paced with a quick,
                        impatient step, up and down the long drawing-room. It seemed as if she would
                        never come. He knew that she expected him to be absent from dinner, for he
                        had mentioned to her his intention of dining with a friend in the country,
                        and he was querying whether she might not have chosen the same time to pay a
                        social visit, when the sound of a carriage at the door aroused him, and he
                        hurried down to receive her. He saw the quick flush of pleasure that his
                        unexpected presence brought to her cheek.
                     
                     "I thought you were gone. It is a long ride, and you will be late."
                     "It will make no difference, as I am not expected. I have concluded not to
                        go."
                     She looked perplexed, for it was not usual for him to alter his plans.
                     "Are you ill?"
                     "No. I am perfectly well. I remained at home because I have something
                        particular to say to you."
                     He had untied her hat, and laid it with her shawl on the table. She looked
                        alarmed, but took the seat he gave her in silence.
                     "Do not be afraid. It is nothing that need frighten you. Bertha", he said,
                        as he took a seat near her, "I have been thinking this morning that I might
                        soon be obliged to go abroad again—to Paris."
                     She turned very pale, but did not speak.
                     "It is for you, Bertha, to decide whether I shall go or stay. If my going
                        will make you happier, do not fear to say so."
                     She leaned her head forward upon the table, and endeavored to suppress all
                        appearance of emotion. It would not do, her self-control was wholly lost,
                        and the table shook as her tears and sobs burst forth.
                     "Bertha!"
                     She felt a light hand on her shoulder; then she was clasped close to the
                        manly heart so long estranged by her coldness, and other tears mingled with
                        hers. She trembled and tried to escape from his arms, but he held her
                        firmly.
                     "Not yet, Bertha. Hear me first. We both remember the first happy years of
                        our married life, and the perfect trust we each felt in the other. You alone
                        know what it is that has so fearfully divided us. Let me share in that
                        knowledge, since it affects me equally with yourself."
                     He waited in vain for an answer, but he felt the slight form trembling in
                        his arms.
                     "If you refuse the confidence I ask, then I shall rightly interpret your
                        wish for my absence. But O, Bertha, by all our early love, let me beg for
                        that confidence and trust that will secure to me the treasures I most
                        value—my wife and my home."
                     She raised herself by a strong effort, and stood by his side, regaining at
                        once her usual haughty composure.
                     "I am ashamed of my weakness," she said. "If I have shunned, and do still
                        shun an explanation with you, it is because I know that it is by my silence
                        I hold my false position in society. And, because," she added, her voice and
                        manner again softening, "I am still too foolishly weak to adopt the right
                        and only honorable course, and bid you leave me forever."
                     "I still ask the explanation. I do not understand you, Bertha, as your
                        reproachful looks seem to imply that I should, but I am sure that there is
                        nothing that can part us if love and truth remain. If these are shattered,
                        let all else go. Bertha, if love has no influence, I ask you by your duty as
                        a wife to tell me what it is that has separated us."
                     She looked at him a long time before replying. There was no guilty fear, no
                        faltering in the open glance that met hers, but a stern dignity that awed
                        her into submission.
                     "I will do as you wish. Remain here and I will send what you require from my
                        room."
                     "No, Bertha. Let me hear from your own lips the faults or crimes that are
                        laid to my charge."
                     
                     She hurried out of the room, but came back directly with a letter in her
                        hand.
                     "I never meant that you should have seen this while I lived. I received it a
                        year and a half ago. It told me that I was not, and had never been your
                        wife. I have never written to you or called you husband since."
                     "Let me see it."
                     His tone was so low and quiet, that she was unprepared for the grieved and
                        indignant expression of his face as he took the letter. He examined it
                        curiously. It was rather short—not more than a page.
                     "The handwriting seems familiar, though I do not recollect where I have seen
                        it. I will read it aloud, and see what its import is."
                     She said nothing, but stood opposite to him, watching him with flashing
                        eyes, with her hands tightly clasped across her bosom. He read:
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "Dearest George,—What an age it seems since we
                                    met! If I did not know you to be the truest of all true
                                    husbands, I should be quite jealous of the business that keeps
                                    you so long. I can think of nothing, do nothing, be nothing
                                    without you. Little Georgie is so like you, that he only serves
                                    to remind me of the absent father and husband. He talks
                                    incessantly of papa. It is five years since he learned to call
                                    you by name, and what a world of prattle he has brought out of
                                    such a dry subject! There, doesn't that bring the
                                    old make-believe frown to your face? Georgie has learned many
                                    new things on purpose to surprise you. Among the rest he can
                                    repeat the multiplication table, which is pretty well for a boy
                                    of his years. Now, George, if you make fun of my penmanship, as
                                    you do at home, I will never write again. I keep all the news
                                    pickled down for you, only saying that we are quite well, and
                                    are planning ways and means to secure you a willing prisoner
                                    here.
                                 
                                    "Your own
                                    "ISABEL."
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     George read it through twice, growing more and more puzzled all the
                        time.
                     "Was it post-marked, Bertha? Where is the envelope?"
                     She took it from her pocket and gave it to him. A sudden light broke over
                        his countenance as he examined it.
                     "Come here, Bertha."
                     She came to his side wonderingly. He pointed to the initial letter of the
                        surname.
                     "Is not that a singular looking L?"
                     "O, George," she exclaimed, "is that all you have to say to so cruel a
                        charge?"
                     "No, my dear wife, for my wife, my dear and lawful wife you are in spite of
                        this letter. But look at this direction carefully. This is not an L, but
                        there are two letters—C and L. It is written very carelessly, and if I did
                        not know the hand, I should not have been able to point out the mistake you
                        have made in opening a letter addressed to another person. The post-master
                        made the same mistake in sending it here."
                     "Another person!" she repeated, in a dreamy, absent tone,
                     "Yes, See for yourself. The name is Clinton. It is the name of George
                        Clinton, who married my wild cousin, Isabel Howard. You have not forgotten
                        her, or the jokes we used to have in regard to her awkward penmanship. The
                        'Georgie' mentioned I never saw, as they live in Boston, where the letter is
                        post-marked, but I presume he is
                        the lawful heir of his father's name, and of his mother's wit and beauty.
                        Nay, Bertha, dear, I shall not suffer this."
                     She had sunk on her knees at his feet, and buried her face in her hands. He
                        raised her as he spoke, and clasped her again in his arms. This time, no
                        doubt, no dark mistrust drove her away.
                     "I do not deserve your forgiveness, George, I shall never forgive myself,"
                        she said, still holding her face on his shoulder. "So miserable as I have
                        been! so unhappy as I have made you! O, George, what a foolish, dreadful
                        mistake!"
                     "A very natural one, Bertha. We will forget it if possible. At any rate it
                        shall not trouble us longer. My poor cousin! how little she thought, when
                        she wrote so negligently, of the misery she was preparing for us!"
                     "Ah! if I had only told you, or sent the letter to you, as I was often
                        tempted to do!"
                     "And why didn't you."
                     He raised her head so as to see her face. It was radiant with smiles in
                        spite of the regret she was expressing. He repeated his question,
                        playfully,
                     "Well, why didn't you?"
                     "I was afraid. How could I address you on such a subject? And I kept the
                        letter for fear that you would never return if you saw it. You smile as if I
                        were making poor apologies, but put yourself in my place, and my want of
                        confidence will be—"
                     "Wholly inexcusable, Bertha. I shall make you atone for it by telling me all
                        your thoughts for the time to come. I shall not entirely forgive you till I
                        see the rosy cheeks, and hear the light-hearted music of the old times. And
                        if I go to Paris—" She started and looked up anxiously—"I shall not run the
                        risk of losing my recovered treasure, but shall insist on your going with
                        me. You see I am going to be a severe judge, Bertha, but you deserve all
                        this, and as much more. I shall never be tired of punishing you.
                     "We shall be always happy," she replied, smiling brightly. "Always
                        happy."
                     They were interrupted by Kathleen, who came to ascertain why the dinner-bell
                        was unheeded. One glance at the happy face of her darling mistress was
                        enough to dispel all her late anxieties.
                     "An' shure, Miss Bertha, did I not tell ye that the coomin' o' the masther
                        would make all right? Och, it's yer own beautiful self intirely that is
                        smilin' so swately! Hiven bless ye foriver, and kape ye togither too, an'
                        it's pace and contint ye'll find, and it's coulor and strength ye'll be
                        gettin', Miss Bertha, dear."
                     And the warm-hearted nurse ran out of the room to wipe away her joyful
                        tears, and to renew her clanging of the dinner-bell.
                     "For small use it would be for the vittles to spile jist for a matter o'
                        joy. Och, the happy time in store for us all!"—
                     
                        Mrs. Gardner.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  A Husband's Confession.
                  I NEVER undertook but once to set at naught the authority of my wife. You know
                     her way, cool, quiet, but as determined as ever grew. Just after we were
                     married, and all was going on nice and cosy, she got me in the habit of doing
                     all the churning. She never asked me to do it, you know, but then she—why it
                     was done just in this way. She finished breakfast one morning, and slipping
                     away from the table, she filled the churn with cream, and set it just where I
                     couldn't help seeing what she wanted. So I took hold regularly enough, and
                     churned till the butter came. She didn't thank me, but looked so nice and sweet
                     about it that I felt fully paid. Well, when the next churning day came along
                     she did the same thing, and I followed suit and fetched the butter. Again, and
                     it was done just so, and I was regularly in for it every time. Not a word was
                     said, you know, of course. Well, by-and-by this became rather irksome. I wanted
                     she should ask me, but she never did, and I couldn't say any thing about it, so
                     on we went. At last I resolved that I wouldn't churn another time unless she
                     asked me.
                  Churning day came, and when my breakfast—she always got nice breakfasts—when
                     that was swallowed, there stood the churn. I got up, and standing a few
                     minutes, just to give her a chance, put on my hat and walked out doors. I
                     stopped in the yard to give her a chance to call me, but not a word said she,
                     so with a palpitating heart I moved on. I went down town, up town, and all over
                     town, and my foot was as restless as Noah's dove—I felt as if I had done a
                     wrong—I did'nt exactly know how—but there was an indescribable sensation of
                     guilt resting upon me all the forenoon. It seemed as if dinner time would never
                     come, and as for going home one minute before dinner, I would as soon cut my
                     ears off. So I went fretting and moping around till dinner time. Home I went,
                     feeling much as a criminal must when the jury hold in their hands his
                     destiny—life or death. I could'nt make up my mind how she would meet me, but
                     some sort of a storm I expected. Will you believe it? she never greeted me with
                     a sweeter smile—never had a better dinner for me than on that day; but there
                     was the churn just where I had left it! Not a word was passed. I felt cut, and
                     every mouthful of that dinner seemed as if it would choke me. She did not pay
                     any regard to it, however, but went on as if nothing had happened. Before
                     dinner was over I had again resolved, and shoving back my chair I marched up to
                     the churn and went at it in the old way. Splash, drip, rattle—I kept it up. As
                     if in spite, the butter was never so long coming. I supposed the cream,
                     standing so long, had got warm, so I redoubled my efforts. Obstinate matter—the
                     afternoon wore away while I was churning. I paused at last from real
                     exhaustion, when she spoke for the first time:
                  "Come, Charlie, my dear, you have rattled that buttermilk quite long enough, if
                     it is only for fun you are doing it."
                  I knew how it was in a flash. She had brought the butter in the forenoon, and
                     left the churn standing with the buttermilk in for me to exercise with. I never
                     set up for household matters after this.
               
               
                  
                  A Story for young Husbands.
                  "WHERE are you going, George?" asked Mrs. Wilson, as her husband rose from the
                     tea-table, and took his hat.
                  "O, I'm going out," was the careless response.
                  "But where?" asked his wife.
                  "What odds does it make, Emma?" returned her husband. "I shall be back at my
                     usual time."
                  The young wife hesitated, and a quick flush overspread her face. She seemed to
                     have made up her mind to speak plainly upon a subject which had lain uneasily
                     upon her heart for some time, and she could not let the opportunity pass. It
                     required an effort—but she persevered.
                  "Let me tell you what odds it makes to me," she said, in a kind but tremulous
                     tone. "If I can not have your company here at home, I should at least feel
                     better if I knew where you were."
                  "But you know that I am safe, Emma, and what more can you ask?"
                  "I do not know that you are safe, George. I know nothing about you when you are
                     away."
                  "Pooh! pooh! Would you have it that I am not capable of taking care of
                     myself?"
                  "You put a wrong construction upon my words, George. Love is always anxious
                     when its dearest object is away. If I did not love you as I do, I might not be
                     thus uneasy. When you are at your place of business, I never feel thus, because
                     I know I can seek and find you at any moment; but when you are absent during
                     these long evenings, I get to wondering where you are. Then I begin to feel
                     lonesome; and so one thought follows another, until I feel troubled and uneasy.
                     O, if you would only stay with me a portion of your evenings!"
                  "Aha! I thought that was what you were aiming at," said George, with a playful
                     shake of his head. "You would have me here every evening."
                  "Well, can you wonder at it?" returned Emma. "I used to be very happy when you
                     came to spend an evening with me before we were married; and I know I should be
                     very happy in your society now."
                  "Ah!" said George, with a smile, "those were business meetings. We were
                     arranging for the future."
                  "And why not continue to do so, my husband? I am sure we could be as happy now
                     as ever. If you will remember, one of our plans was to make a home."
                  "And have n't we got one, Emma?"
                  "Certainly, we have a place in which to live," answered the wife, somewhat
                     evasively.
                  "And it is our home," pursued George. "And," he added, with a sort of confident
                     flourish, "home is the wife's peculiar province. She has charge of it, and all
                     her work is there, while the duties of the husband call him to other
                     scenes."
                  "Well, I admit that, so far as certain duties are concerned," replied Emma.
                     "But you must remember that we both need relaxation from labor; we need time
                     for social and mental improvement and enjoyment; and what time have we for this
                     save our evenings? Why should not this be my home of an evening, as well as in
                     the day time and in the night?"
                  
                  "Well, isn't it?" asked George.
                  "How can it be if you are not here? What makes a home for children if it be not
                     the abode of the parents? What home can a husband have where there is no wife?
                     and what real home comfort can a wife enjoy where there is no husband? You do
                     not consider how lonesome I am all alone here during these long evenings. They
                     are the very seasons when I am at leisure to enjoy your companionship, and when
                     you would be at leisure to enjoy mine, if it is worth enjoying. They are the
                     seasons when the happiest hours of home life might be passed. Come—will you not
                     spend a few of your evenings with me?"
                  "You see enough of me as it is," said the husband, lightly.
                  "Allow me to be the best judge of that, George. You would be very
                     lonesome here, all alone."
                  "Not if it was my place of business, as it is yours," returned the young man.
                     "You are used to staying here. All wives belong to home."
                  "Just remember, my husband, that previous to our marriage I had pleasant
                     society all the time. Of course I remained at home much of my time; but I had a
                     father and mother, and brothers and sisters there, and our evenings were
                     happily spent. Finally I gave up all for you. I left the old home, and sought a
                     home with my husband. And now have I not a right to expect some of your
                     companionship? How would you like to have me away every evening, while you were
                     obliged to remain here alone?"
                  "Why, I should like it well enough."
                  "Ah! but you would not be willing to try it."
                  "Yes, I would," said George at a venture.
                  "Will you remain here every evening next week, and let me spend my time among
                     my female friends?"
                  "Certainly I will," he replied; "and I assure you I shall not be so lonesome as
                     you imagine."
                  With this the husband went out, and was soon among his friends. He was a
                     steady, industrious man, and loved his wife truly; but, like thousands of
                     others, he had contracted a habit of spending his evenings abroad, and thought
                     it no harm. His only practical idea of home seemed to be that it was a place
                     which his wife took care of, and where he could eat, drink, and sleep, as long
                     as he could pay for it. In short, he treated it as a sort of private
                     boarding-house of which his wife is landlady; and if he paid all the bills, he
                     considered his duty done. His wife had frequently asked him to stay at home
                     with her, but she had never ventured on any argument before, and he had no
                     conception of how much she missed him. She always seemed happy when he came
                     home, and he supposed she could always be so.
                  Monday evening came, and George Wilson remained true to his promise. His wife
                     put on her bonnet and shawl, and he said he would remain and "keep house."
                  "What will you do while I am gone?" Emma asked.
                  "O, I shall read and sing, and enjoy myself generally."
                  "Very well," said Emma. "I shall be back early."
                  The wife went out, and the husband was left alone. He had an interesting book,
                     and he began to read it. He read till eight o'clock, and then he began to yawn,
                     and look frequently at the clock. The book did not interest him as usual. Ever
                     and anon he would come to a passage which he thought would please his wife, and he turned as though he read it
                     aloud, but there was no wife to hear it. At half-past eight he arose from his
                     chair, and began to pace the floor and whistle. Then he got his flute, and
                     played several of his favorite airs. After this he got a chess board and played
                     a game with an imaginary foe. Then he walked the floor, and whistled again.
                     Finally the clock struck nine, and his wife returned.
                  "Well, George," said she, "I am back in good time. How have you enjoyed
                     yourself."
                  "Capitally," returned the husband, "I had no idea it was so late. I hope you
                     have enjoyed yourself."
                  "O, splendidly!" said his wife. "I had no idea how much enjoyment there is away
                     from home. Home is a dull place after all—isn't it?"
                  "Why—no—I can't say that it is," returned George, carelessly. "In fact," he
                     added, "I rather like it."
                  "I'm glad of that," retorted Emma, "for we shall both enjoy ourselves now. You
                     shall have a nice comfortable week of it."
                  George winced at this, but he kept his countenance, and determined to stand it
                     out.
                  On the next evening Emma prepared to go away again.
                  "I shall be back in good time," she said.
                  "Where are you going?" her husband asked.
                  "O, I can't tell exactly. I may go to several places."
                  So George Wilson was left alone again, and he tried to amuse himself as before;
                     but he found it a difficult task. Ever and anon he would cast his eyes upon
                     that empty chair, and the thought would come, "How pleasant it would be if she
                     were here!" The clock finally struck nine, and he began to listen for the steps
                     of his wife. Half an hour more slipped by, and he became very nervous and
                     uneasy.
                  "I declare," he muttered to himself, after he had listened for some time in
                     vain, "this is too bad. She ought not to stay out so late!" But he happened to
                     remember that he often remained away much later than that; so he concluded that
                     he must make the best of it.
                  At a quarter to ten, Emma came home.
                  "A little late, am I not?" she said, looking up at the clock. "But I fell in
                     with some old friends. How have you enjoyed yourself?"
                  "First-rate," returned George, bravely. "I think home is a capital place."
                  "Especially when a man can have it all to himself," added the wife, with a
                     sidelong glance at her husband. But he made no reply.
                  On the next evening Emma prepared to go out as before; but this time she kissed
                     her husband ere she went, and seemed to hesitate.
                  "Where do you think of going?" George asked, in an undertone.
                  "I may drop in to see Uncle John," replied Emma. "However, you won't be uneasy.
                     You'll know I'm safe."
                  "Oh! certainly," said her husband; but when left again to his own reflections,
                     he began to ponder seriously upon the subject thus presented for consideration.
                     He could not read; he could not play, nor enjoy himself in any way, while her
                     chair was empty. In short, he found that home had no real comfort without his
                     wife. The one thing needed to make his home cheerful was not present.
                  
                  "I declare," he said to himself, "I did not think it would be so lonesome! And
                     can it be that she feels as I do, when she is here all alone? It must be so,"
                     he pursued, thoughtfully. "It is just as she says. Before we were married, she
                     was very happy in her childhood's home. Her parents loved her, and her brothers
                     and sisters loved her, and they did all they could to make her
                     comfortable."
                  After this he walked up and down the room several times, and then stopped again
                     and communed with himself.
                  "I can't stand this," said he. "I should die in a week. If Emma were only here
                     I think I could amuse myself very well. How lonesome and dreary it is! And only
                     eight o'clock! I declare, I've a mind to walk down as far as Uncle John's, and
                     see if she is there. It would be a relief if I only saw her. I won't go in. She
                     shan't know yet that I hold so faintly."
                  George Wilson took another turn across the room, glanced once more at the
                     clock, and then took his hat and went out. He locked the door after him, and
                     then bent his steps toward Uncle John's. It was a beautiful moonlight night,
                     and the air was keen and bracing. He was walking along with his eyes bent upon
                     the pavement, when he heard a light step approaching him. He looked up,
                     and—could not be mistaken—saw his wife. His first impulse was to avoid her, but
                     she had recognized him.
                  "George," she said in surprise, "is this you?"
                  "It is," was the response.
                  "And you do not pass your evenings at home?"
                  "This is the first time I have been out, Emma, upon my word; and even now I
                     have not been absent from the house ten minutes. I merely came out to take the
                     fresh air. But where are you going?"
                  "I am going home, George. Will you go with me?"
                  "Certainly," returned the husband. She took his arm, and they walked home in
                     silence.
                  When Emma had taken off her things she sat down in her chair, and looked at the
                     clock.
                  "You have come home early to-night," remarked George.
                  The young wife looked up into her husband's face, and with an expression half
                     smiling and half tearful, she answered, "I will confess the truth, George; I
                     have given up the experiment. I managed to stand it last evening; but I could
                     not bear it to-night. When I thought of you here all alone, I wanted to be with
                     you. It didn't seem right. I haven't enjoyed myself at all. I have no home but
                     this.
                  "Say you so?" cried George, moving his chair to his wife's side, and taking one
                     of her hands. "Then let me make my confession. I have not stood it
                     a whit better. When I left the house this evening, I could bear it no longer. I
                     found it was no home for me, while my sweet wife was absent. I thought I would
                     walk down to Uncle John's and see your face, if possible. I had gazed upon your
                     empty chair till my heart ached." He kissed her as he spoke, and then added,
                     while she reclined her head upon his arm—"I have learned a very good lesson.
                     Your presence here is like the bursting forth of the sun after a storm; and if
                     you love me as I love you—which, of course, I can not doubt—my presence may
                     afford some sunlight for you. At all events, our next experiment shall be to
                     that effect. I will try and see how much home comfort we can find while we are
                     both here to enjoy it."
                  
                  Emma was too happy to express her joy in words; but she expressed it,
                     nevertheless, and in a manner, too, not to be mistaken.
                  The next evening was spent at home by both husband and wife, and it was a
                     season of much enjoyment. In a short time George began to realize how much
                     comfort was to be found in a quiet and peaceful home; and the longer he enjoyed
                     this comfort, the more plainly did he see and understand the simple truth, that
                     it takes two to make a happy home, and that if the wife is one party the
                     husband must be the other.
               
            
            
               MATRIMONIAL PEACE-OFFERING.
               
               Matrimonial Peace-Offering.
               
                  Building on the Sand.
                  
                     'TIS well to woo, 'tis well to wed,
                     For so the world has done
                     Since myrtles grew, and roses blew,
                     And morning brought the sun.
                  
                  
                     But have a care, ye young and fair,
                     Be sure ye pledge with truth;
                     Be certain that your love will wear
                     Beyond the days of youth.
                  
                  
                     For if ye give not heart for heart,
                     As well as hand for hand,
                     You'll find you've played the "unwise" part,
                     And "built upon the sand."
                  
                  
                     Eliza Cook.
                  
               
               
                  "Only a Few Faults."
                  ALAS! that so many worthy young girls are deceived by this species of
                     reasoning! He only smokes a little, and chews a little, and drinks a
                     little—never passes the bounds of sobriety! He is rather fond of amusements;
                     and what man of spirit is not? True, he is seldom at home, but the idea of a
                     man sitting forever by the chimney
                     is ridiculous. He is fond of dress, but then he is so handsome!
                  All these little straws, that point the way the wind blows, are regarded as
                     trivial things;—only a few faults. After marriage, when the
                     smoking, the chewing, and the drinking become confirmed habits the mistaken
                     wife sings a sadder strain. Then her children want for shoes, but her husband
                     never for cigars and drink. Her own clothes are patched and mended; not so the
                     broken windows, and her husband's wretched habits. The few faults, like grains
                     of mustard seed, have increased in size a hundred-fold. Due-bills come in—the
                     rent is unpaid, and friends forsake the drunkard's family.
                  Then comes the miserable expediency of moving into a more miserable house,
                     destitute of all conveniencies, where the rain pours into the garrets, and the
                     rats revel all the night; where the children get cold, grow sick, and die,
                     while the broken-hearted mother sits until "morning grey" to stitch her
                     ill-paid work, turning ever and anon with a stifled sigh to gaze through tears
                     upon the little corpse. Sometimes she starts. The fitful winds are drumming
                     upon the blinds,—is it his step she hears! Soon she, too, is sick and dying,
                     and indeed she does breathe her last, while he who once had "only a few
                     faults," sings and shouts in drunken brawls at the pest-tavern or the
                     rum-house.
                  This sorrowful picture has been painted a thousand times and more, and its
                     duplicates are hanging up in the sad chambers of many hearts. And yet the
                     thoughtless girl, blinded by passion, reiterates, "He has only a few faults,"
                     and gives herself up to corruption more noisome than the grave, and to a fate,
                     the horrors of which, no pen can portray.
               
               
                  Taking a Wife.
                  A YOUNG gentleman of fine appearance becomes acquainted with an amiable young
                     lady, and hastily "achieves the conquest of her heart," and then he thinks he
                     will take her to himself.
                  "Take her!" muses he uneasily, "I have no place to take myself to! What is
                     more, I am up to my ears in debt." A new thought strikes him. Her father has
                     wealth. He will take her, and risk it. He therefore keeps silent respecting his
                     own affairs, else makes large pretences, for which there is no foundation.
                  After marriage the young wife asks for a little "pin money." "Wait till I get
                     into business," replies the husband; "I am a little pressed for money just
                     now."
                  "O! I thought you were in business somewhere down town," says the bride. This
                     is an inexperienced girl's idea of business—"somewhere down town," where bank
                     notes are rolled out like hand-bills from a printing-press.
                  Presently new troubles arise. The devoted lover turns out more than an
                     indifferent husband. He begins to neglect her for his old habits of
                     dissipation, and if she remonstrates or weeps, he bitterly accuses her of
                     selfishness and ill-nature, declaring that he will seek the society of those
                     more congenial and kind. A year or two fully develops his real character. He is
                     reckless, thriftless, passionate, and is no more capable of making his wife
                     happy than a brute.
                  
                     
                        "Woman, like ivy, is found to cling
                        Too often round a worthless thing."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  Best Plan after the Choice is made.
                  WHEN Hymen has settled the destiny of a loving pair, the very best
                     thing they can do is to secure a supply of that "sovereign balm" for all
                     bickerings, commonly called Domestic Religion. Persons who have long kept it
                     about their dwellings testify that it is as good a preventive of
                     domestic inharmonies as it is a cure. In fact they generally
                     consider it unsafe to try to keep house without it. This preventive and remedy
                     has the advantage, too, of being exceedingly cheap, insomuch that "whosoever
                     will," among the married, may profit by its blessings.
                  "It is because of their irreligiousness that so many homes are joyless; it is
                     for want of that infinite depth of sentiment, of which Christianity is, in the
                     human soui, the fountain, that marriages are so many of them vapid; it is
                     because conversation is never in heaven that in so many houses it is so
                     monotonous, so without soul or interest; and it is for want of the preservative
                     power of religion that husband and wife so often find the warmth and delicacy
                     of their early affection fail."—W. Mountford.
                  "Dedicate your bridal home to God. It will have a character,
                     whether you choose it or not. Give it the impress of religion, that its
                     character may be pure. Indeed, you ought to have Christ at your wedding. The
                     wedding-party at Cana were more indebted to him for the enjoyment of the
                     occasion than to any other guest.
                  
                  "That prayer is attended with marked benefits to the family, must be admitted
                     without accumulated proof. From its own nature alone we should infer that it
                     must have a salutary influence upon all who engage in the exercise. The husband
                     who sincerely brings his family to the throne of grace in observance of this
                     rite, must be a better husband; and his wife, sincerely uniting with him, must
                     be a better wife. If they have children and domestics, the influence upon them
                     must be very beneficial. It must allay the heat of passion, soften the
                     asperities of temper, and regulate those desires, which, unrestrained,
                     introduce discord and misery into the household. It must sweeten the
                     disposition, cultivate amiability, and beget a forgiving spirit, all of which
                     is indispensable to a peaceful home. Let me reiterate, bridal pair, these
                     needful counsels. Welcome Christ to your home. Let the gospel hallow it. Make
                     it the center of hope and joy. Live for it, labor for it, plan for it, and
                     often ask yourselves, Are we one? Be happy with the home that you now have, and
                     wait not for one you may never possess. A hovel may be a happy home to those
                     who truly love each other."—W. M. Thayer.
               
               
                  How to keep Dwellings from being Haunted.
                  MANY people whose circumstances might enable them to enjoy even more than a
                     common portion of domestic felicity, are rendered miserable from the fact that
                     the houses they live in are haunted by a fiend whose name is
                        Domestic Discord; and it is of that species of demons which,
                     having once obtained possession, it is very hard to cast out. Therefore I shall propose the
                     following means to prevent the evil, believing the truth of the adage that "an
                     ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure."
                  Before giving your hand in marriage, examine critically the character of the
                     person with whom you propose forming this important connection, and prefer
                     those qualities which will wear well, to such as are merely showy.
                     A fine face, a genteel air and figure, a charming voice, ready elocution,
                     quickness of wit—however attractive—are poor substitutes for sound sense
                     cultivated by useful education, prudence, integrity, benevolence, together with
                     the residue of the train of domestic virtues.
                  Mind the saying of the Quaker proverb: "Let thy liking ripen before thou
                     lovest; let thy love advise thee before thou makest choice, and let thy choice
                     be fixed before thou marryest."
                  Expect not unalloyed felicity in the marriage state. Such an unreasonable
                     expectation must ever prove the parent of disappointment. If you think your
                     bride an angel, or that the man who gives you his hand in marriage will through
                     life act towards you the part of a hero in romance, a few years, perhaps a few
                     months or weeks, will show you your mistake; and the never-failing
                     disappointment of such romantic expectations tends to produce coldness,
                     alienation, and bitterness of mind. The angels "neither marry nor are given in
                     marriage;" this kind of contract and relation is between mere mortals, who, at
                     best, have some failings which must be overlooked or patiently borne.
                  If you find some unexpected flaws in temper, or foibles in character,
                     assiduously endeavor to cure them, not by reproaches, but by all the winning
                     arts of prudence and benevolence; or, if they should prove incurable, bear
                     them, as much as possible, with good humor. Meanwhile look steadfastly and
                     chiefly on the bright side of character; and see whether the good qualities do
                     not balance, or even outweigh the faulty ones.
                  Ever prize the chain of domestic confidence as the choicest of all your
                     household treasures; frequently examine every link; if one should grow weak,
                     strengthen it; should one happen to gather rust, burnish it till its lustre be
                     fully restored: so will you shun that grievous calamity of many,—living in a
                     haunted house.
               
               
                  The Ever-Present "If."
                  
                     
                        
                           "Now for life's waves and blisses,
                           The wedded two are one."
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     And down the shining stream,
                     They launch their buoyant skiff,
                     Bless'd if they may but trust hope's dream,
                     But ah! Truth echoes—"If!"
                  
                  
                     If health be firm—if friends be true—
                     If self be well controlled,
                     If tastes be pure—if wants be few—
                     And not too often told—
                  
                  
                     If reason always rule the heart—
                     If passion own its sway—
                     If love—for aye—to life impart
                     The zest it does to-day—
                  
                  
                  
                     If Providence, with parent care,
                     Mete out the varying lot,
                     While meek contentment bows to share
                     The palace, or the cot—
                  
                  
                     And O, if Faith, sublime and clear,
                     The spirit upward guide—
                     Then bless'd indeed, and bless'd for e'er,
                     The bride-groom and the bride!
                  
               
               
                  Home Hints to a Husband.
                  INSTEAD of seeking for the faults, the attention of the husband should be
                     directed entirely to the good qualities of the wife. Let these be
                     sought after with assiduity, and, if you please, magnified. I care not how
                     blind a husband is to the faults of his wife, or how much he is disposed to
                     multiply her excellencies—provided he does not approbate any evil disposition,
                     or uphold her in any wrong-doing.
                  And I here repeat that a young man must expect, when he enters the marriage
                     state, to make a material change in his habits. Whoever becomes a husband with
                     the expectation of still continuing in the associations and customs peculiar to
                     the unmarried, will not only cherish erroneous views, but will be particularly
                     exposed to the crime of spreading discontent within his own dwelling.—
                  
                     Austin.
                  
               
               
                  A Lady's Advice to a Bride.
                  THE great error which women fall into is, they suppose the lover
                     and the husband to be exactly the same individual, which is a
                     palpable mistake. The husband may love as well as the lover, but his love will
                     be of a different character. It is the want of this knowledge that makes many
                     married ladies troublesome to their husbands, from a supposition that they are
                     neglected if a man is out of their sight a few hours. They are astonished how
                     he can be capable of taking any pleasure when absent from them, and attribute
                     the want of that assiduous attention which preceded their marriage, to disgust
                     or cold indifference, when the truth is, he is not less happy than formerly,
                     but more calm, and, consequently, less rapturous in his expressions.
                  The protestations of the newly-married man are, without doubt, sincerely
                     intended, but he professes more than humanity can accomplish—yet you believe
                     it. This is your first error. You are flattered into vanity, and self-esteem;
                     the romance of the lover is regarded by you as truth, and, certainly, if you
                     still continue the same means of excitement, you may experience its truth as
                     far as such romance can possibly be true; but believing, from his assertions,
                     that you have a most powerful hold upon him, you abate every means of retaining
                     that hold, and then that wearisome monotony is experienced, which too generally
                     characterizes the marriage state.
                  The nature of man is such, that where there is no excitement, there he is
                     faithless; like the bee, he is constant to no flower after the charm has worn
                     off. It is your task to preserve a
                     perpetual charm; or rather a variety of charms, by which your husband, always
                     finding pleasures at home, will never wish to roam abroad for others. You must
                     consult his taste and his partialities. Whatever he may commend in another,
                     that you should strive to imitate, or if that is not practicable, then atone
                     for it by something else for which you have the capability. If he is a
                     well-disposed, honorable man, these are the means he will adopt in order to
                     insure your affection; but should he find all these attentions unrepaid by
                     similar exertions on your part, he will abandon them altogether, and you will
                     prove the truth of the vulgar expression, "courtship and matrimony are
                     different things."
               
               
                  Mutability of the Husband's Affection.
                  
                     
                        
                           "What is life when wanting love?
                           'Tis night without a morning."
                        
                     
                  
                  IT has become too unfashionable to exhibit the symptoms of affection long after
                     marriage. A man marries, and so long as the novelty of the new relation lasts,
                     he is as full of bliss as the heavens are full of stars upon a clear night. But
                     when he has become the husband, instead of the lover, he is very apt to relapse
                     into a demeanor which is sure to freeze a woman's heart, as if it were intended
                     to become so much ice. He may be respectful and kind, but he is not loving; and
                     if he is not loving, no matter what else he may be, he is hardly better fitted
                     to answer the demands of a truly affectionate wife than a statue of marble or
                     brass. Such a husband, when weighed in God's balance will always be found
                     wanting.
                  A late writer says, "An everlasting 'my dear,' on the part of the
                     husband is but a sorry compensation for that love that makes him cheerfully
                     toil by day, break his rest by night, and endure all kinds of hardships, if the
                     life or health of his wife demand it. Let the deeds of the
                     husband, as well as his words, carry to the heart of the wife a daily and
                     hourly confirmation of the fact that he values her health and happiness beyond
                     every thing else.
                  "But,"*
                      asks some one, "suppose a man's wife is not deserving such treatment:
                     suppose she is petulant, cross-grained and cold; would you require her husband
                     to love her and treat her as if she were an angel?"
                  
                     
                     *Quinby's "Marriage and its Relations," page 182.
                  
                  Most certainly. Was she not once an angel? When you gave her your
                     affection, and led her, trembling and blushing, to the marriage altar, and
                     there promised "to love and cherish her as long as life continued," did she not
                     seem to you as a favor from God, a being direct from paradise?
                  "Well, but she has since changed!"
                  So have you changed; and who can tell but you were the
                        first to change, and that the change in you has had an
                     influence to make her what she is. Now, perhaps, all she needs to make her one
                     of the kindest, and most affectionate creatures in the world is that constant,
                     that tender affection of which I have spoken, and to which the apostle alludes
                     when he says, "Let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as
                     himself."
               
               
                  
                  Don't Expect too Much.
                  DECEIVE not thyself by over expecting happiness in the married state. Look not
                     for contentment greater than God will give, or a creature in this world can
                     receive, namely, to be free from all inconveniences. Remember that moderation
                     is the silken string running through the pearl-chain of all virtues.—Dr. Fuller.
                  If you were made the recipient of all the blessings that you expect at the hand
                     of Providence, it would doubtless prove your ruin. * * It is well that some of
                     your flattering dreams are nothing more than dreams, that some of the
                     anticipated sights and scenes are mere visions of the fancy.—Rev.
                     W. M. Thayer.
                  
                     
                        
                           Too much of joy is sorrow,
                           So cares must needs abound;
                           The vine that bears too many flowers
                           Will trail upon the ground.
                        
                     
                     Alice Cary.
                  
               
               
                  Rules for Husbands.
                  ALWAYS regard your wife as your equal; treat her with kindness, respect and
                     attention; and never address her with the appearance of an air of authority, as
                     if she were, as some misguided husbands appear to regard their wives, a mere
                     house-keeper.
                  If possible, always keep her properly supplied with money for furnishing your
                     table in a style proportioned to your means, and for the purchase of articles
                     of dress, and whatever else she may require suitable to her station in
                     life.
                  Cheerfully and promptly comply with all her reasonable requests; and, as far as
                     practicable, anticipate them. Whatever you accord to her wishes, let it be done
                     promptly and cheerfully, so as to enhance the merit of the matter by the
                     manner.
                  Never be so unjust as to lose your temper toward her, in consequence of
                     indifferent cookery, or irregularity in the hours of meals, or any other
                     mismanagement of her domestics; knowing the difficulty of making many of them
                     do their duty.
                  If she have prudence and good sense, consult her on all operations involving
                     the risk of serious injury in case of failure. Many a man has been rescued from
                     ruin by the wise counsels of his wife, and many a foolish husband has most
                     seriously injured himself and family by the rejection of the advice of his
                     wife, stupidly fearing, if he followed it, he would be regarded as hen-pecked.
                     A husband can never consult a counsellor more deeply interested in his welfare
                     than his wife, if she understands her position.
                  If distressed, or embarrassed in your business, communicate your situation to
                     her with candor, that she may bear your difficulties in mind in her
                     expenditures. Wives, sometimes believing their husbands' circumstances better
                     than they really are, disburse money which can not be well afforded, and which,
                     if they knew the real situation of their husbands' affairs, they would shrink
                     from expending.
                  Never, on any account, chide or rebuke your wife in company, should she make any mistake in history,
                     geography, grammar, or indeed on any other subject. There are, I am persuaded,
                     many wives of such keen feelings and high spirit, (and such wives deserve to be
                     treated with constant delicacy,) that they would rather receive a severe and
                     bitter scolding in private than a comparatively mild rebuke in company,
                     calculated to display their ignorance or folly, or to impair them in the
                     opinion of others.
                  Go nowhere to spend your evenings where you would be ashamed to have your wife
                     see you.
                  Never be so thoughtless as to torture your wives by detailing to them the
                     attractions of other women, when you really have no other object than to
                     ascertain if you are sufficiently beloved to be objects of jealousy. If you are
                     anything of an observer, you can find out this in a much easier and safer
                     way.
               
               
                  Rules for Wives.
                  ALWAYS endeavor to win, and gratefully reciprocate your husband's kindness and
                     attention.
                  Study to gratify his inclinations in regard to food and cookery; in the
                     management of the family; in your dress, manners, and deportment.
                  In every thing reasonable comply with his wishes with cheerfulness; and even,
                     as far as possible, anticipate them.
                  Avoid all altercations or arguments leading to ill humor, and more especially
                     before company. Few things are more disgusting than the altercations of the
                     married, when in the company of friends or strangers. There is one kind of
                     conduct which is almost as revolting as this—but not of frequent
                     occurrence—that is, a great display of fondness before company. There is a time
                     and a place for all judicious things.
                  Never attempt to interfere in his business, unless he ask your advice and
                     counsel; and never attempt to control him in the management of it.
                  Never confide to gossips any of the failings or imperfections of your husband,
                     nor any of those little differences which occasionally arise in
                     the married state. If you do, you may rest assured that, however strong the
                     injunctions of secrecy on the one hand, or the pledge on the other, they will
                     in a short time become the common talk of the neighborhood.
                  Avail yourself of every opportunity to cultivate your mind, so that, should
                     your husband be intelligent and well-informed, you may join in rational
                     conversation with him and his friends.
                  Think nothing beneath your attention that may produce even a momentary breach
                     of harmony, or the slightest uneasy sensation.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Think naught a trifle, though it small appear;
                           Small sands the mountain, moments make the year,
                           And trifles life. Your care to trifles give,
                           Else you may die ere you have learned to live."
                        
                     
                     Young.
                  
                  If your husband be in business, always, in your expenditures, bear in mind the
                     various vicissitudes to which trade and commerce are subject; and do not expose
                        yourself self to the painful
                     self-reproach, should he experience some great loss, of having unnecessarily
                     expended money of which you and your family may afterwards be in extreme
                     want.
                  If you be disposed to economise, I beseech you not to extend your economy to
                     the wages you pay to seamstresses or washer-women, who are too frequently
                     ground to the earth by the inadequacy of the wages they receive. Economise, if
                     you will, in shawls, bonnets, and handkerchiefs; but never, by exacting labor
                     from the poor without adequate compensation, incur the dire anathemas
                     pronounced in the Scriptures against the oppressor of the poor.
                  Never consider that a trifle which may tend to please him. The greater articles
                     of duty he will set down as his due, but the smaller attentions he will mark as
                     favors; and trust me, for I have experienced it, there is no feeling more
                     delightful to one's self, than that which is produced by turning these little
                     things to so precious a use.
                  Above all, let a wife beware of communicating to others any want of duty or
                     tenderness she may think she has perceived in her husband. This untwists, at
                     once, those delicate cords which preserve the unity of the marriage engagement;
                     its sacredness is broken forever, if third parties are made witnesses of its
                     failings, or umpires of its disputes.
               
               
                  General Rules for Husbands and Wives.
                  SHOULD differences arise between husband and wife let the sacred and invariable
                     rule be, not as it too frequently is, Who shall display the most
                        spirit, and play the despicable character of Mr. or Mrs. Sullen
                     most intently, but, who shall make the first advances. This is a
                     cardinal rule, which, if religiously observed by both parties, can hardly fail
                     to secure perennial happiness. There is scarcely a more prolific source of
                     unhappiness in the married state than this so-called spirit, the
                     legitimate offspring of odious pride and destitution of feeling.
                  Let the husband treat his wife, and the wife her husband, with as much respect
                     and attention as he would a strange lady, and she a
                     strange gentleman.
                  I trust much caution is scarcely necessary against flirtations, well calculated
                     to excite uneasiness, doubts, and suspicions in the heart of the husband or
                     wife of the party who indulges in them, and to give occasion to the censorious
                     to make sinister observations. It is, unfortunately, too true, that the
                     suspicion of misconduct often produces full as much scandal and evil as the
                     reality.
                  It is a good rule, of reason and common sense, that we should not only be, but
                     appear to be, scrupulously correct in our conduct. And, be it observed that,
                     however pure and innocent the purposes of the parties may be at the
                     commencement, flirtation too often leads to disastrous results. It
                     imperceptibly, but certainly, breaks down some of the guards that preserve
                     innocence. The parties in these cases are not inaptly compared to the moth
                     fluttering around a lighted candle, unaware of the impending pending danger. It finally burns its wings, and
                     is thus mutilated for life. "He that loveth the danger shall perish therein."
                     "Lead us not into temptation," is a wise prayer; but while we pray not to be
                     "led into temptation," we most assuredly ought not to lead ourselves into
                     it.
                  Avoid all reference to past differences of opinion, or subjects of altercation
                     that have, at a former day, excited uneasiness.
                  Above all things, never meanly deceive each other.
               
               
                  To Young Husbands.
                  IT is a fact that men often lose their interest in their homes by their neglect
                     to make them interesting and pleasant. It should never be forgotten that the
                     wife has her rights,—as sacred after marriage as before,—and a good husband's
                     devotion to the wife after marriage will concede to her quite as much attention
                     as his gallantry did while a lover. If it is otherwise, he is generally at
                     fault.
                  Take a few examples. Before marriage, a young man would feel some delicacy
                     about accepting an invitation to spend an evening in company where his
                     "lady-love" had not been invited. After marriage is he always so particular?
                     During the days of courtship, his gallantry would demand that he should make
                     himself agreeable to her; after marriage it often happens that he thinks more
                     of being agreeable to himself. How often it happens that married men, after
                     having been away from home the live-long day, during which the wife has toiled
                     at her duties, go again at evening to some place of amusement, and leave her to
                     toil on alone, uncheered and unhappy. How often do her kindest offices pass
                     unobserved and unrewarded, even by a smile; while her best efforts are
                     condemned by the fault-finding husband! How often it happens, even when the
                     evening is spent at home, that it is employed in silent reading, or in some
                     other way that does not recognize the wife's right to share in the enjoyment,
                     even of the fireside!
                  Look, ye husbands, for a moment, and remember what your wife was when you took
                     her, not from compulsion, but from your own choice; a choice based, probably,
                     on what you then considered her superiority to all others. She was
                     young—perhaps the idol of a happy home; she was gay and blithe as a lark, and
                     the brothers and sisters at her father's fireside cherished her as an object of
                     endearment. Yet she left all to join her destiny with yours; to make
                        your home happy, and do all that woman's ingenuity can devise
                     to meet your wishes, and to lighten the burdens which might press upon you in
                     your pilgrimage. She, of course, had her expectations, too. She could not
                     entertain feelings which promised so much, without forming some idea of
                     reciprocation on your part, and she did expect you would, after your marriage,
                     perform those kind offices of which you were so lavish in the days of
                     betrothment. She became your wife; left her own home for yours; burst asunder,
                     as it were, the bands of love which had bound her to her father's fireside, and
                     sought no other boon than your affections; left, it may be, the ease and
                     delicacy of a home of indulgence, and now what must be her feelings if she
                     gradually awakes to a consciousness that you love her less than before; that your evenings are
                     spent abroad; that you come home only to satisfy the demands of your hunger,
                     and to find a resting-place for your head when weary, or a nurse for your
                     sick-chamber when diseased!
                  Why did she leave the bright hearth of her youthful days? Why did you ask her
                     to give up the enjoyments of her happy home? Was it simply to darn your
                     stockings, mend your clothes, take care of your children, and watch over your
                     sick-bed? Was it simply to conduce to your own comfort? Or was there some
                     understanding that she was to be made happy in her devotion to the man she
                     dared to love?
                  Nor is it a sufficient answer that you give her a home; that you feed and
                     clothe her. You do this for your help; you would do so for any house-keeper.
                     She is your wife, and unless you attend to her wants, and in some way answer
                     the reasonable expectations you raised by your attentions before marriage, you
                     need not wonder if she be dejected, and her heart sink into insensibility; but
                     if this be so, think well who is the cause of it. We repeat it, very few women
                     make indifferent wives, whose feelings have not met with some outward shock, by
                     the indifference or thoughtlessness of their husbands. It is our candid opinion
                     that in a large majority of the instances of domestic misery, the man is the
                     aggressor.
               
               
                  How to Assist in Curing a Husband's bad Habits.
                  IF the husband begins to indulge in improper habits, it should be the object of
                     the wife to choose a fitting opportunity, when his mind is clear, his feelings
                     calm and composed, and his better nature has the ascendency, to address him on
                     the subject of his failings. Let her not commence in an angry tone, nor indulge
                     in bitter accusations or harsh invectives. This course would defeat her
                     purpose. It would afford him an opportunity and an excuse for replying in like
                     manner; and a warfare of blame would commence, that could result in little less
                     than the confirmation of the husband in his dangerous career. Instead of
                     adopting this dangerous method, let her address him in her kindest and sweetest
                     tone, and in a manner as little calculated to offend him as possible. Let her
                     gently lead him to converse upon the subject of his habits; and when the way is
                     perfectly prepared, she can proceed to call his attention to the unhappiness
                     which his present course is calculated to bring upon himself and his family.
                     Let her advert to the virtuous and useful habits he formerly possessed—to the
                     bright hopes they once cherished of prosperity and happiness, and to the danger
                     that those hopes may be forever blasted. Strive to awaken, if possible, his
                     finer sensibilities, his honorable and humane feelings; and when these have
                     been brought into activity, then appeal to his love, his manhood, his good
                     sense, his desire for prosperity and respectability, and beseech him in
                        kind, yet moving terms, to
                     attempt a change in his tastes and habits. A conversation of this character
                     should be pursued as long as she discovers that it is producing beneficial
                     influences. But the moment she perceives that bitterness and acrimony are
                     tincturing her own language, or that anger and resentment are about to arise in
                     her husband, the conversation should be changed; for all that would afterward
                     ensue would be injurious. Wait patiently until another favorable opportunity
                     presents itself, when the same course should be pursued with equal caution and
                     kindness. I pray the wife to believe me, that this is one of the safest and
                     surest plans she can adopt in reforming her husband, or in preventing him from
                     adopting any improper practices to which he may be inclined.—
                  
                     Austin.
                  
               
               
                  The Marriage Altar.
                  JUDGE CHARLTON, in an eloquent address before the Young Men's Library
                     Association, at Augusta, Ga., thus sketches the marriage scene:
                  "I have drawn for you many pictures of death; let me sketch for you a brief,
                     but bright scene of beautiful life. It is the marriage altar. A lovely female,
                     clothed in all the freshness of youth and surpassing beauty, leans upon the arm
                     of him to whom she has just plighted her faith; to whom she has just given up
                     herself forever. Look in her eyes, ye gloomy philosophers, and tell me, if you
                     dare, that there is no happiness on earth.
                  "See the trusting, heroic devotion which impels her to leave country, and
                     parents, for the sake of a comparative stranger! She has launched her frail
                     bark upon a wide, and it may be, a stormy sea; she has handed over her
                     happiness and doom for this world, to another's keeping; but she has done it
                     fearlessly, for love whispers to her that her chosen guardian and protector
                     bears a manly heart. Woe to him that forgets his oath and his manhood!
                  "We have all read the story of the husband who in a moment of hasty wrath said
                     to her who had but a few months before united her fate to his, 'If you are not
                     satisfied with my conduct, go and return to your friends and your happiness.'
                     'And will you give that back which I brought to you?' asked the despairing
                     wife. 'Yes,' he replied, 'all your wealth shall go back to you; I covet it
                     not.' 'Alas!' she answered, 'I thought not of my wealth—I spoke of my devoted
                     loves; can you give these back to me?' 'No!' said the man, as he flung himself
                     at her feet, 'no! I can not restore these, but I will do more—I will keep them
                     unsullied and unstained; I will cherish them through my life and my death; and
                     never again will I forget that I have sworn to protect and cherish her who gave
                     up to me all she held most dear.'
                  "Did I not tell you there was poetry in a woman's look—a woman's word? See it
                     there! the mild, the gentle reproof of love winning back from its harshness and
                     rudeness the stern and unyielding temper of an angry man. Ah! if creation's
                     fair only knew their strongest weapons, how many of wedlock's fiercest battles
                     would be unfought! how much of unhappiness and coldness would be avoided!"
               
               
                  
                  The Wife's Appeal.
                  
                     You took me, husband, when a girl,
                     Unto your home and heart,
                     To bear, in all your after life,
                     A fond and faithful part;
                     And, tell me, have I ever tried
                     That duty to forego,
                     Or grieved because I had no joy,
                     When you were sunk in wo?
                  
                  
                     No—I would rather share your tears
                     Than any other's glee,
                     For though you're nothing in the world,
                     You're all the world to me;—
                     You make a palace of my shed,
                     Of this rough bench a throne;
                     There's sunlight for me in your smile,
                     And music in your tone.
                  
                  
                     I look upon you when you sleep—
                     My eyes with tears grow dim;
                     I cry: "O, Parent of the Poor,
                     Look down from heaven on him;
                     Behold him toil from day to day,
                     Exhausting strength and soul;
                     O, look in mercy on him, Lord,
                     For thou canst make him whole!"
                  
                  
                     And when at last reviving sleep
                     Has on my eyelids smiled,
                     How oft are they forbid to close
                     In slumber, by your child!
                     I take the little murmurer
                     That spoils my span of rest,
                     And count it as a part of thee
                     I lull upon my breast.
                  
                  
                     There's only one return I crave—
                     I may not need it long—
                     And it may soothe thee when I'm where
                     The wretched feel no wrong;
                     I ask not for a kinder tone,
                     For thou wert ever kind;
                     I ask not for less frugal fare—
                     My fare I do not mind;
                  
                  
                     I ask not for attire more gay;
                     If such as I have got
                     Suffice to make me fair to thee,
                     For more I murmur not;
                     But I would ask some of the hours
                     That you on clubs bestow—
                     Of knowledge which you prize so much,
                     May I not something know?
                  
                  
                     Subtract from meeting among men,
                     Each eve an hour for me;
                     Make me companion of your soul,
                     As I may safely be;
                     If you will read I'll sit and work,
                     And think when you're away;
                     Less tedious I shall find the time,
                     Dear husband, if you stay.
                  
                  
                     A meet companion then I'll be
                     For your most studious hours,
                     And teacher of those little ones
                     You call your cottage flowers!
                     And if we be not rich and great,
                     We may be wise and kind,
                     And as my heart can warm your heart,
                     So may your mind my mind.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Whisper to a Husband.
                  ONE of the most brilliant traits that can adorn the character of man, is the
                     quality which makes him a good husband: and he who deserves a contrary
                     appellation, proclaims, in the strongest terms, his want of religion, his want
                     of feeling, and his want of understanding. He can not be a good
                     man, because he violates one of the most sacred commands of God. He can not be
                     a brave man, because a brave man scorns to use with tyranny the
                     power with which he is invested. He can not be a feeling man: O,
                     no, a man of feeling will never draw tears from the eyes which look to him for
                     comfort, or voluntarily pain a heart that has given up so much for his
                     sake!—
                  
                     Mrs. Derenzy.
                  
               
               
                  Hints to Wives.
                  A COMMON proverb makes a smoky chimney, and a scolding wife the worst of
                     domestic plagues. But there are worse than these. A smoky chimney shows there
                     is a fireside, at all events, and if the chimney smokes, it is the builder's,
                     and not the housewife's fault, and as for a scolding wife, why she may possibly
                     teach her husband philosophy, as Xantippe did Socrates.
                  A dirty wife is far worse. A wife may scold and yet be clean and thrifty. But a
                     scolding slattern is a terrible nuisance at home, and will very soon succeed in
                     making home thoroughly intolerable for even the most pacific and contented
                     dispositions.
                  Ill-cooked meals is a very great source of discomfort. Bad cooking is
                     waste—waste of money and loss of comfort. Whom God has joined in matrimony,
                     ill-cooked joints of meat and ill-boiled potatoes have often put asunder. By
                     exercising sound economy and skill in cooking, wives may save very much of
                     their husbands' purses as well as tempers. Skill in the culinary department is
                     vastly more important to the comfort of homes than tambour-work, crotchet,
                     netting, or back-stitch, not to speak of music and drawing.—
                  
                     Eliza Cook.
                  
               
               
                  "It's nobody but my Husband!"
                  THE common way of many wives is to resign themselves to too much heedlessness
                     and slovenliness after marriage. "It's nobody but my husband," they think;
                     "It's no use to care for him!" and with this erroneous idea in their minds,
                     they utterly disregard their personal appearance when company is not expected.
                     Meanwhile the husband sees in his walks, beautiful women, dressed and adorned
                     with proper attractions, and when he returns home he can not help instituting
                     comparisons between those whom he has met, and his own neglectful wife who has
                     slouchily received him at home. Then that home becomes wearisome. Perhaps he
                     may reprove his wife's negligence: if she is what is termed a woman of spirit,
                     a quarrel is likely to ensue; if she is sullen, she turns her back upon her
                     husband, and plays with her lap-dog, or sits in silence contemplating the
                     fire-tongs or some other interesting piece of furniture.
                  
                  The wife who considers the ratification of her marriage contract by civil
                     authority the chief guaranty of her husband's devotion, is vastly mistaken.
                     Perennial attraction is the thing. Without it, the remembrance of the marriage
                     ceremony will sting like an adder.
               
               
                  The Secret of Success.
                  
                     Ye fair, possess'd of every charm
                     To captivate the will,
                     Whose smiles can rage itself disarm,
                     Whose frowns, almost, can kill—
                     Say, will ye deign the verse to hear,
                     Where flatt'ry bears no part—
                     An honest verse, that flows sincere
                     And candid from the heart?
                  
                  
                     Great is your power; more firmly yet
                     Mankind it might engage,
                     If, as ye all can make a net,
                     Ye all could make a cage.
                     Each nymph a thousand hearts may take;
                     For who's to beauty blind?
                     But to what end a pris'ner make,
                     Unless we've strength to bind?
                  
                  
                     Attend the counsel, often told,
                     Too often told in vain!
                     Learn that best art, the art to hold
                     And lock the lover's chain.
                     Gamesters to little purpose win,
                     Who lose again as fast;
                     Though beauty may the charm begin,
                     'Tis sweetness makes it last.
                  
               
               
                  A Happy Home.
                  WOULD you have a happy home, a model home, my friend? Then you must exert
                     yourself to make it such. Let me charge you with the warmth and faithfulness of
                     a brother never to go to that spot with bleak unkindness in your face, or on
                     your lips. If the world has ill-treated you, and got you inveterately piqued at
                     its maxims, I warn you to muzzle well that grumbling mouth before you enter
                     that old familiar door, to join once more the household circle. Let your
                     complaints and sour words against the world be spoken out in it where they
                     belong, and never do you let them be morosely mouthed at the fire-side.—
                  
                     J. D. Bell.
                  
               
               
                  No Good From Passion.
                  "WILL putting one's self into a passion mend the matter?" said a venerable old
                     man to a boy who had picked up a stone to throw at a dog. The dog had only
                     barked at him in playfulness.
                  "Yes it will—mend the matter," said the passionate boy, and immediately he
                     dashed the stone at the dog with violence. The animal thus enraged sprang at
                     the boy and bit his leg, while the stone bounded against a shop window and
                     broke a pane of glass. Out ran the shop-keeper, and seizing the misguided boy,
                     made him pay for the broken pane.
                     The lad had mended the matter finely indeed!
                  Take my word for it, it never did and it never will mend a matter to get into a
                     passion about it. If the thing be hard to bear when you are calm, it will be
                     harder still when you are angry. If you have met with a loss, you will only
                     increase it, and increase it sadly too, by being willing to lose your temper.
                     Do set yourself against such a fault with all your heart. Try to be calm,
                     especially in trifling troubles, and when greater ones come, bear them
                     bravely.
               
               
                  Remember This.
                  
                     Angry words can do no good,
                     And blows are dealt in blindness;
                     Words are better understood
                     If spoken but in kindness.
                  
                  
                     Simple love far more hath wrought,
                     Although by childhood utter'd,
                     Than all the battles ever fought,
                     Or oaths that men have utter'd.
                  
                  
                     Friendship oft would longer last,
                     And quarrels be prevented,
                     If little words were let go past—
                     Forgiven—not resented.
                  
                  
                     Foolish things are frowns and sneers,
                     For angry thoughts reveal them;
                     Rather drown them all in tears,
                     Than let another feel them.
                  
               
               
                  The Folly of Fretting.
                  
                     
                        
                           Fret not thyself to do evil.
                        
                        —PSALM xxxvii. 8.
                     
                  
                  FRETTING is a sin against God. We have no more right to fret, than we have to
                     swear or steal. It destroys affection. No one ever did—ever can—or ever
                     will—love an habitual fretter. Husbands, wives, children, relations, or
                     domestics have no affection for peevish fault-finders.
                  Fretting and scolding make hypocrites. As fretters never receive confidence and
                     affection, so no one likes to tell them anything disagreeable. Children will
                     conceal as much as they can from such parents. They can not make up their minds
                     to be frank and open-hearted. In like manner, husbands conceal from their
                     wives, and wives from their husbands. A man may brave a lion, but he always
                     dreads to come in contact with nettles and hornets. Upon the same principle
                     every one wishes to shun the society of the fretter. Fretters "dig out their
                     own wretchedness as if they were digging for diamonds." They would do well to
                     remember that the chief secret of comfort lies in not suffering trifles to vex
                     one, and in prudently cultivating a thick under-growth of small pleasures,
                     since, in this world, very few great ones are let on long leases.
               
               
                  
                  The Bride Counseled.
                  ZSCHOKKE, in one of his tales, gives the following excellent counsel to a
                     bride:
                  "In the first solitary hour after the ceremony, take the bridegroom and demand
                     a solemn vow of him, and give him a solemn vow in return. Promise one another
                     sacredly, never, not even in jest, to wrangle with each other;
                     never to bandy words, or indulge in the least ill-humor. Never, I say,
                        never! Wrangling in jest, and putting on an air of ill-humor
                     merely to teaze, becomes earnest by practice. Mark that! Next, promise each
                     other, sincerely and solemnly, never to have a secret from each
                        other, under whatever pretext, with whatever excuse it might be. When
                     one of you has committed a fault, wait not an instant, but confess it
                     freely—let it cost tears, but confess it. As you keep nothing secret from each
                     other, so, on the contrary, preserve the privacies of your house and heart,
                     from father, mother, sister, brother, aunt, and all the world. You two, with
                     God's help, build your own quiet world: every third or fourth person whom you
                     draw into it with you will form a party, and stand between you two. That should
                     never be. Promise this to each other. Renew it at every temptation. Ah! if many
                     a young pair had, on their wedding-day, known this secret, how many marriages
                     would be happier than, alas! they are!"
               
               
                  Self-Government.
                  THE task of self-government is not easy. To repress a harsh answer, to confess
                     a fault, and to stop—right or wrong—in the midst of self-defense, in gentle
                     submission, sometimes requires a struggle like life and death; but these three
                     efforts—to repress, to confess, and to
                        stop—are the golden threads with which domestic happiness is
                     woven. Once begin the fabric with this woof, and trials shall not easily break
                     or sorrow tarnish it.—
                  
                     Mrs. Caroline Gillman.
                  
               
               
                  Little Things Fearful.
                  
                     A something light as air—a look,
                     A word unkind or wrongly taken,
                     The love that tempests never shook,
                     A breath, a touch like this, has shaken;
                     And ruder winds will soon rush in
                     To spread the breach that words begin;
                     And eyes forget the gentle ray
                     They wore in Hymen's smiling day
                     And voices lose the tone that shed
                     A tenderness round all they said;
                     Till fast declining, one by one,
                     The sweetnesses of love are gone;
                     And hearts so lately mingled, seem
                     Like broken clouds, or like the stream
                     That, smiling, left the mountain's brow,
                     As though its waters ne'er could sever,
                     Yet, ere it reach the plain below,
                     Breaks into floods and parts forever.
                  
                  
                     Moore.
                  
               
               
                  
                  A Hint on the Prevention of Quarrels.
                  "I HAVE heard," says Mr. Henry, "of a married couple, who, though they were
                     both of a hasty temper, yet lived comfortably together by simply observing a
                     rule upon which they had mutually agreed, 'Never to be both angry at the same
                     time.'" And he adds, that an ingenious and pious father was in the habit of
                     giving this advice to his children when they were married: 
                        
                           "Doth one speak fire, t'other with water come;
                           Is one provoked, be t'other soft and dumb."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  Insignificance of Disputed Points.
                  IT is surprising how warmly husbands and wives will sometimes dispute about
                     almost nothing. "No matter what the subject of controversy may be," says.
                     Quinby, "whether the color of a lady's dress, the set of a shirt collar, the
                     cookery of a dinner, the probability of a storm, or the difference 
                        'Twixt tweedle dum and tweedle dee,'—
                      they will dispute, and talk with as much determination as if a great
                     national subject were under consideration, wherein, not only the interests of
                     the country, but of the world, were at stake; when, in truth,
                        nothing is at stake, and, let the dispute be decided as it may,
                     neither party has gained anything."
                  A certain writer, in speaking of the frivolous disputes in which married people
                     sometimes indulge, says: "I have known a fond couple to quarrel in the very
                     honeymoon about cutting up a tart; I could name two, who, after having been
                     married several years, fell out and parted about the boiling of a leg of
                     mutton. Indeed, my very next neighbors have not spoken to one another these
                     three days because they differed in their opinions as to whether the clock
                     should stand by the window, or upon the chimney-piece."
                  The writer hereof is credibly informed that a first quarrel once originated at
                     a certain place in this way: The young wife made the bed in the morning, as
                     usual, and upon the husband's retiring first at night, he accused the wife of
                     having put more feathers upon her side of the bed than upon his; she denied the
                     charge, he repeated it; and before their contradictions ceased, they became
                     intensely spirited. Hundreds of such silly disputes are known to have taken
                     place.
                  "Two things, well considered," says Cotton, "would prevent many disputes.
                     First, to have it well ascertained whether we are not disputing about
                        terms rather than things; and secondly, to examine
                     whether that on which we differ is worth contending about."
               
               
                  
                  A Little Word.
                  
                     
                        "Words are little mouthfuls of spoken mind; yet you can stab a
                           life-partner with a little word as with a dagger."
                     
                  
                  
                     A little word in kindness spoken,
                     A motion, or a tear,
                     Has often healed the heart that's broken,
                     And made a friend sincere.
                  
                  
                     A word—a look—has crushed to earth
                     Full many a budding flower,
                     Which, had a smile but owned its birth,
                     Would bless life's darkest hour.
                  
                  
                     Then deem it not an idle thing
                     A pleasant word to speak;
                     The face you wear, the thought you bring,
                     A heart may heal or break.
                  
               
               
                  "Out of Heart."
                  "WHY so sad, Ernest?" said the young wife to her husband, affectionately
                     placing her arm around his neck and kissing him.
                  He looked up with a sad smile and replied:
                  "I am almost out of heart, Mary; I think of all pursuits a profession is the
                     worst. Here have I been, week after week, and month after month—I may soon say
                     year after year—waiting for practice, yet without success. A lawyer may
                     volunteer in a celebrated case, and so make himself; but a physician must sit
                     patiently in his office, and, if unknown, see men without half his acquirements
                     rolling in wealth, while he, perhaps, is starving. And it will soon come to
                     that," he added, bitterly, "if I do not get employment!"
                  An unbidden tear started into the wife's eye, but she strove to smile, and
                     said:
                  "Do not despond, Ernest. I know you have been unfortunate so far, but you have
                     talents and knowledge to make your way, as soon as you get a start. And, depend
                     upon it," she added, with a cheerful smile, "that will come when you least
                     expect it."
                  "So you have told me often; but the lucky hour has never come," said her
                     husband, despondingly.
                  "And now every cent of our little fortune is expended, and our credit will soon
                     be gone when it is found we do not pay. What then is to become of us?"
                  Ernest was in a mood which the most sanguine sometimes experience when
                     disappointment after disappointment has crushed the spirit, and the voice of
                     hope is no longer heard within. His wife would have given way to tears if she
                     had been alone; but she felt the necessity of sustaining him, and answered
                     cheerfully:
                  "What if every cent is gone? Have no fear that we shall starve. God sent the
                     ravens to feed Elijah, and he will yet interpose for our aid. Trust in Him,
                     dearest!"
                  The husband felt rebuked, as she thus spoke, and answered less
                     despondingly:
                  "But really, Mary, this want of success would try the stoutest spirit. The
                     mechanic, the day laborer, the humblest farmer, is sure of his food and
                     raiment; but I, after having spent years in study, have wasted years, besides
                     waiting years for practice, and now, when all my fortune is gone, if I resort to other means for
                     a livelihood, I lose all I have spent, both of time and money, and must forever
                     abandon the idea of pursuing my profession. It is too hard."
                  And he arose and walked the room with rapid strides.
                  His wife sighed and remained silent. But after a minute or two, she arose and
                     went to him, and fondly encircling him with her arms, said:
                  "Dear Ernest, you must not worry yourself so. You think it painful for me to
                     endure poverty, I know; but woman never regards such things when she loves. A
                     crust of bread, a log cabin, would be preferable to me, if I shared them with
                     you, than a palace with another. But it will not come to this. Something within
                     assures me you will yet be great and rich. Have patience for only a little
                     while longer. There! there is a knock at the door now—it may be for you."
                  As if her words had been prophetic, the little girl, their only servant,
                     appeared at this crisis, and said the doctor was wanted in a great hurry. With
                     an exulting smile his wife ran for his hat, and then sat down with a beating
                     heart to await his return.
                  It was almost the first summons the young physician had received, though he had
                     resided in the village more than a year. The place, too, was large and
                     populous; but there were several physicians of large practice, and all this
                     combined to put down their young rival. More than once, heretofore, Ernest
                     would have abandoned the field in despair, but his young wife cheered and
                     encouraged him; though sometimes her own heart felt almost ready to give up.
                     Mary Linwood was, indeed, that greatest of all earthly blessings, a good wife;
                     she sympathized with her husband, economized to the utmost, and by her sanguine
                     words chased despondency from his heart.
                  Hour after hour she sat there awaiting her husband's return; yet he came not.
                     At last darkness set in, and she began to feel uneasy. She was about rising to
                     go to the door, when she heard her husband's foot upon the step, and hurrying
                     out she met him in the hall.
                  "God bless you, Mary, for an angel you are!" were his first words. "If it had
                     not been for you, I should have given up long ago, but now my fortune is
                     made."
                  Filled with anxiety to hear all, yet not unmindful of his probable wearied
                     condition, Mary hurried her husband into the little sitting-room, where the tea
                     things were laid, and began to pour out the refreshing beverage with a
                     trembling hand, while Ernest told the history of his day's absence.
                  "I found," said he, "I was sent for by old Governor Huston—the richest and most
                     influential man, you know, in the country—and when I reached his house, I
                     learned to my surprise, that the Governor had been thrown from his carriage,
                     and was thought to be dying. All the physicians in the town had been sent for,
                     one after the other, but none could aid him. In despair, his wife, without
                     orders, had sent for me. I saw his only chance for life depended upon a new and
                     difficult operation, which none of the older physicians had seen performed. I
                     stated that I thought it could be done. The old Governor was a man of iron
                     nerve and quick resolution; so when he heard the others say they could do
                     nothing for him, he determined to commit himself to my hands. I succeeded
                     beyond my hopes, even the other physicians were forced to acknowledge my skill;
                     and there is now nothing but care required to make my patient as well as ever. On parting he put this roll of
                     bank notes in my hand."
                  Mary was in tears before her husband finished his narration; but her heart went
                     up with thankfulness to God for having thus interposed just at the crisis when
                     hope seemed perishing.
                  From that day Ernest Linwood was a made man. The fame of his skillful operation
                     was in every one's mouth, and by the aid of his patient—now become his patron,
                     he stepped at once into practice among the best families of the place. Wealth,
                     as well as reputation, flowed in upon him; but he always attributed his success
                     to his wife, whose affection he said had cheered and sustained him when out of
                     heart.
                  "There is nothing," he would say, "like a faithful wife; under God our weal and
                     our woe for this life depend upon her. If she is desponding, your own sanguine
                     spirit catches the infection. But if she is full of hope and energy, her smiles
                     will cheer you on in the darkest hour, and enable you to achieve what you at
                     first thought impossible. Our success in this world, as well as our happiness,
                     depends chiefly on our wives. Let a man marry one, therefore, "equal to either
                     fortune," who can adorn his riches, or brighten his poverty; and who, under all
                     circumstances, will be truly his helpmate.—Ellen Ashton.
               
               
                  Praise Your Wife.
                  PRAISE your wife, man! for pity's sake give her a little encouragement. It
                     won't do her any harm. She has made your home comfortable, your hearth bright,
                     your food agreeable—for pity's sake tell her you thank her, if nothing more.
                     She is not expecting it. It will make her eyes sparkle more delightfully than
                     they have for these ten years; but it will do her good for all that, and you,
                     too! A kind, cheerful word, spoken in a gloomy home, is like the rift in a
                     cloud that lets the sunshine through.
                  There are thousands of women to-day thirsting for the word of praise—the
                     language of encouragement. Through summer's heat, and winter's toil they have
                     drudged uncomplainingly, and so accustomed have their husbands become to their
                     monotonous labors, that they look for and upon them as they do the daily rising
                     and setting of the sun.
                  Homely every-day life may be made beautiful by an appreciation of its very
                     homeliness. You know that if the floor is clean, labor has been performed to
                     make it so. You know that if you can take from your drawer a clean shirt
                     whenever you want it, somebody's fingers have ached in the toil of making it so
                     smooth and lustrous. Every thing that pleases the eye and the sense has been
                     produced by untiring toil of body and mind.
                  Men don't come out with a hearty, "Why, Mary, (or Jennie, or Lizzie, as the
                     case may be) how pleasant you make things look!" or, "I am obliged to you,
                     dear, for taking so much pains!" As
                     some one has fitly expressed it, "They don't seem to know how to blossom out,
                     but always keep in the bud!" They thank the tailor for giving them fits; they
                     thank the man in the crowded omnibus for giving them a seat; in short, they
                     thank everybody out of doors, because it is the custom; and then they come
                     home, tip their chairs back and stick their heels up, pull out the newspaper,
                     grumble if wife mentions a request to take the baby, scold if the fire has gone
                     down, or if everything is not just right, shut their mouths with a
                     self-important smack, but never say to her whom they once idolized, "I thank
                     you!"
                  I tell you what, young men and old, if you did but show becoming civility
                     toward those common articles of house-keeping—your wives; if you gave the half
                     of the compliments you almost choked them with before marriage; if you would
                     stop that badinage about whom you are going to have for your next wife; (such
                     things wives may laugh at, but they sink deep sometimes,) if you would cease to
                     speak of their faults, however banteringly, before others, few wives would seek
                     other sources of happiness than your cold so-so-ish affection.
                  Praise your wife then for all the good qualities she has, and don't be too
                     certain that her deficiencies are greater than your own.
               
               
                  A Rift in the Clouds.
                  ANDREW LEE came home at evening from the shop where he had worked all day,
                     tired and out of spirits; came home to his wife, who was also tired, and out of
                     spirits.
                  "A smiling wife and a cheerful home—what a paradise it would be!" said Andrew
                     to himself, as he turned his eye from the clouded face of Mrs. Lee, and sat
                     down with knitted brows and moody aspect.
                  Not a word was spoken by either. Mrs. Lee was getting supper, and she moved
                     about with a weary step.
                  "Come," said she, at last, with a side glance to her husband.
                  There was invitation in the word only; none in the
                        voice of Mrs. Lee.
                  Andrew rose and went to the table. He was tempted to speak an angry word, but
                     controlled himself, and kept silence. He could find no fault with the chop, or
                     the sweet home-made bread, or the fragrant tea. They would have cheered his
                     inward man, if there had only been a gleam of sunshine on the face of his wife.
                     He noticed that she did not eat.
                  "Are you not well, Mary?" These words were on his lips, but he did not utter
                     them, for the face of his wife looked so repellant that he feared an irritating
                     reply. And so, in moody silence, the twain sat together until Andrew had
                     finished his supper. As he pushed his chair back, his wife rose and commenced
                     clearing off the table.
                  "This is purgatory!" said Lee to himself, as he commenced menced walking the floor of their little
                     dining-room, with his hand thrust desperately down into his trowsers pockets,
                     and his chin almost touching his breast.
                  After removing all the dishes, and taking them into the kitchen, Mrs. Lee
                     spread a green cover on the table, and placing a fresh trimmed lamp thereon,
                     went out, and shut the door after her, leaving her husband alone with his
                     unpleasant feelings. He took a long, deep breath as she did so; paused in his
                     walk; stood still for some moments, and then drawing a paper from his pocket,
                     sat down by the table, opened the sheet, and commenced reading. Singularly
                     enough, the words upon which his eyes rested were, "Praise your wife." They
                     rather tended to increase the disturbance of mind from which he was
                     suffering.
                  "I should like to find some occasion for praising mine!"
                  How quickly his thoughts expressed that ill-natured sentiment. But his eyes
                     were on the page before him, and he read on:
                  "Praise your wife, man! for pity's sake give her a little encouragement; it
                     won't do her any harm."
                  Andrew Lee raised his eyes from the paper, and muttered: "Oh, yes; that's all
                     very well! Praise is cheap enough. But praise her for what? For being sullen,
                     and making your home the most disagreeable place in the world?" His eyes turned
                     again to the paper:
                  "She has made your home comfortable, your hearth bright and shining, your food
                     agreeable; for pity's sake tell her you thank her, if nothing more. She is not
                     expecting it. It will make her eyes sparkle more delightfully than they have
                     done for these ten years; but it will do her good for all that, and you,
                     too!"
                  It seemed to Andrew as if this paragraph was written just for the occasion. It
                     was the complete answer to his question, "Praise her for what?" and he felt it
                     also as a rebuke. He read no farther, for thought came too busy, and in a new
                     direction. Memory was convicting him of injustice toward his wife. She had
                     always made his home as comfortable for him as hands could make it, and had he
                     offered her any return of praise or commendation? Had he ever told her of the
                     satisfaction he had known, or the comfort experienced? He was not able to
                     recall the time or the occasion. As he thought thus, Mrs. Lee came in from the
                     kitchen, and taking her work-basket from a closet, placed it on a table, and
                     sitting down without speaking, began to sew. Mr. Lee glanced almost stealthily
                     at the work in her hands, and saw that it was the bosom of a shirt, which she
                     was stitching neatly. He knew that it was for him that she was at work.
                  "Praise your wife." These words were before the eyes of his mind, and he could
                     not look away from them. But he was not ready for this yet. He still felt moody
                     and unforgiving. The expression of his wife's face he interpreted to mean
                     ill-nature; he had no patience. His eyes fell upon the newspaper that lay
                     spread out before him, and he read the sentence:
                  "A kind, cheerful word, spoken in a gloomy home, is like the rift in a cloud
                     that lets the sunshine through."
                  Lee struggled with himself a while longer. His own ill-nature had to be
                     conquered first; his moody, accusing spirit had to be subdued. But he was
                     coming right, and at last got right, as to will; but next came the question as
                     to how he should begin. He thought of many things to say, yet feared to say
                     them, lest his wife should meet his
                     advances with a cold rebuff. At last, leaning toward her, and taking hold of
                     the linen bosom upon which she was at work, he said, in a voice carefully
                     modulated with kindness:
                  "You are doing that work very beautifully, Mary."
                  Mrs. Lee made no reply. But her husband did not fail to observe that she lost
                     almost instantly that rigid erectness with which she had been sitting, and,
                     also, that the motion of her needle had ceased.
                  "My shirts are better made, and whiter than those of any other man in our
                     shop," said Lee, encouraged to go on.
                  "Are they?"
                  Mrs. Lee's voice was low, and had in it a slight huskiness. She did not turn
                     her face, but her husband saw that she leaned a little toward him. He had
                     broken through the ice of reserve. His hand was among the clouds, and a few
                     feeble rays were already struggling through the rift it had made.
                  "Yes, Mary," he answered, softly; "and I've heard it said more than once what a
                     good wife Andrew Lee must have."
                  Mrs. Lee leaned her face towards her husband. There was light in it, and light
                     in her eye. But there was something in the expression of the countenance that a
                     little puzzled him.
                  "Do you think so?" she asked quite soberly.
                  "What a question!" ejaculated Andrew Lee, starting up and going around to the
                     side of the table where his wife was sitting. "What a question, Mary!" he
                     repeated, as he stood before her.
                  "Do you?" was all she said.
                  "Yes, Mary," was his kindly spoken answer, and he stooped down and kissed her.
                     How strange that you should ask me such a question!"
                  "If you would only tell me so now and then, Andrew, it would do me good." Mrs.
                     Lee rose; and leaning her head against the manly breast of her husband, stood
                     and wept.
                  What a strong light broke in upon the mind of Andrew Lee! He had never given to
                     his faithful wife even the smallest reward of praise for all the loving
                     interest she had manifested daily, until doubt of his love entered her soul,
                     and made the light around her thick darkness. No wonder that her face grew
                     clouded, and that what he considered moodiness and ill-nature took possession
                     of her spirit.
                  "You are good and true, Mary. My own dear wife. I am proud of you—I love
                     you—and my first desire is for your happiness. O, if I could always see your
                     face in sunshine my home would be the dearest place on earth!"
                  "How precious to me are your words of love and praise, Andrew," said Mrs. Lee,
                     smiling up through her tears into his face. "With them to cheer me, my heart
                     can never lie in shadow."
                  How easy had been the words for Andrew Lee! He had swept his hand across the
                     cloudy horizon of his home, and now the bright sunshine was streaming down, and
                     flooding that home with joy and beauty.
               
               
                  
                  Complaint of a Merchant's Wife.
                  THE following extract is from a communication written by a merchant's wife for
                     the Merchants' Magazine:
                  "It seems to me, at times, as if there were no more men left in
                     the world; they have all become citizens. Their humanity seems
                     merged into some presidency or secretaryship. They are good trustees,
                     directors, cashiers, bankers, etc., but they are often very indifferent
                     husbands and fathers. They are utterly without social chat; they read no
                     pleasant books; they hate the sound of music; they visit nobody; they scarcely
                     deign to look at the face of nature; and as for their unhappy wives, they must
                     put up with cold looks and cold words. This is all wrong, gentlemen. It is a
                     sad perversion of life; it is cruelly unjust to us and our daughters; and it is
                     the too certain source of misery to those who indulge in it.
                  I bitterly feel and lament the want of that sympathy and communion of heart,
                     which are so liberally promised us in the marriage vow."
               
               
                  Think not Lightly of your Wife.
                  YOUR wife, though a gentle, amiable creature, may be deficient in mental
                     endowments, and destitute of fancy or sentiment; and you, perhaps a man of
                     taste and talents, are inclined to think lightly of her. This is unjust,
                     unkind, and unwise. It is not, believe me, the woman most gifted by nature, or
                     most stored with literary knowledge, that always makes the best wife; by no
                     means: your gentle, amiable help-mate may contribute much more to
                     your happiness, much more to the regularity, economy, and discipline of your
                     house, and may be to your children a much better mother than many a brilliant
                     dame who could trace, with Moore, Scott, and Byron, every line on the map of
                     taste and sentiment, and descant on the merits and demerits of poetry as if she
                     had just arrived fresh from the neighborhood of Parnassus.
               
               
                  Home Politeness.
                  WHY not be polite? How much does it cost to say, "I thank you?" Why not
                     practice it at home?—to your husband, your children, your domestics. If a
                     stranger does you some little act of courtesy, how sweet the smiling
                     acknowledgment! If your husband—ah! it's a matter of course; no need of
                     thanks.
                  Should an acquaintance tread on your dress—your very, very best—and tear it,
                     how profuse you are with your "never minds," "don't think of it," "I don't care
                     at all!" If a husband happens to do so, he gets a frown; if a child he is
                     chastised. Sometimes you scold your husband, and speak of him as though you
                     considered him a very insignificant being; when at the same time if you were to
                     hear a stranger uttering similar complaints against him, you would be
                     exceedingly offended. Then pause a
                     little and reflect upon the course you are pursuing.
                  Ah! these are little things say you. They tell mightily upon the heart, let me
                     assure you, little as they are.
               
               
                  Jealousy.
                  THE man or woman who will run to a husband or wife with idle and frivolous
                     reports, calculated to awaken jealousy in regard to their companions, is
                     engaged in one of the meanest and most despicable transactions that can receive
                     the attention of mean mortals. It must be an inconceivably narrow and barren
                     mind, a most wretchedly debased and vitiated taste, that can find satisfaction
                     in seizing every flying rumor and hissing it into the ear of a wife or husband
                     to awaken their jealousy.
                  
                  Every husband and every wife is liable to be placed in circumstances which
                     might lead to the suspicion of some evil, unless due explanation is given. Such
                     explanation should never be withheld through pride, or obstinacy, or a
                     supposition that there can be no need of it.
                  Married people have a claim upon each other in this respect which should not be
                     neglected.
                  Although the husband, for instance, may feel conscious that his conduct in a
                     given case has been perfectly proper, yet if he perceives that it gives
                     uneasiness to his wife, from the view she takes of it, he should be both
                     willing and anxious to give a full explanation of his proceedings and motives
                     to any extent she may desire. And he should not refuse an explanation from any
                     supposition that she has no right to expect it of him. If his proceedings have
                     been of such a character as to give her uneasiness, she has a
                     right to an explanation, and the husband who is conscious of his own rectitude
                     will not withhold it. The same remarks will apply in all those cases where the
                     proceedings of the wife are unintelligible to the husband. This mutual
                     confidence—this willingness to open all the secrets of the heart to each
                     other—is a most powerful promoter of respect and love.—
                  
                     Austin.
                  
               
               
                  Justice at Meal-time.
                  IT appears to be true that discords in married life are peculiarly apt to break
                     out at the domestic table; and though I would by no means admit that wives are
                     not frequently to blame for mismanagement in preparing the food, and in their
                     manner of serving it to their husbands, yet, I believe that husbands are more
                     frequently in the wrong than many are wont to believe. A man will often get
                     vexed at the ill-going of his business affairs, which he can not control to his
                     liking, and then come into his dining-room and sit down to his repast, and if
                     every thing pertaining thereto is not exactly as he thinks it should be, he
                     takes advantage of the least opportunity to give vent to some unkind remark
                     addressed to his wife— perhaps about
                     the victuals—perhaps about something having no connection whatever with the
                     arrangement of the table—which probably he would never have thought of, had he
                     not first become irritable away from home. Nearly every husband will admit that
                     his own business affairs are apt to become vexatious sometimes, and he should
                     remember, too, that it is the principal business of his wife to manage the
                     concerns of the kitchen, the pantry and the table, and that vexations are
                     liable to come athwart her pathway as well as his. What husband will say that
                     he always has his own work finished just at the time, and in the manner it
                     should be? Perhaps he does the best he can. Then he expects his wife not to
                     blame him, even if she should see its incompleteness and untimeliness. Although
                     the food may not be quite as well prepared, and the table not quite as well
                     waited upon as usual, probably she has done the best she could under the
                     circumstances. Then the husband has no right to complain of her.
                  Wife, try to please your husband in preparing the food, and arranging the
                     table. It may be he is like an alligator—more susceptible at his stomach than
                     elsewhere.
                  Husband, do try to eat your meals in a good humor. Physicians tell us that it
                     greatly enhances our ill-health to eat our food while we are turbulent or
                     angry, and your own reason tells you that there is danger in many cases of
                     enhancing the grief of a devoted, care-worn wife, which is much worse than
                     all.—
                  
                     J. H. B.
                  
               
               
                  Be Gentle to thy Wife.
                  
                     BE gentle! for ye little know
                     How many trials rise—
                     Although to thee they may be small—
                     To her of giant size.
                  
                  
                     Be gentle! though perchance that lip
                     May speak a murmuring tone:
                     The heart may beat with kindness yet,
                     And joy to be thine own.
                  
                  
                     Be gentle! weary hours of pain
                     'Tis woman's lot to bear;
                     Then yield her what support thou canst,
                     And all her sorrows share.
                  
                  
                     Be gentle! for the noblest hearts
                     At times may have some grief,
                     And even in a pettish word,
                     May seek to find relief.
                  
                  
                     Be gentle! none are perfect here—
                     Thou'rt dearer far than life;
                     Then, husband, bear and still forbear—
                     Be gentle to thy wife.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Stinginess of Husbands.
                  IT is marvelous what a great difference there often is in the movements of a
                     man's purse strings during his courtship, and after the expiration of his
                     honey-moon. In his ardor as a suitor he cheerfully buys costly presents, pays
                     the expenses of numerous pleasure excursions, etc., and any request for money
                     on such occasions would cheerfully be granted, even to the utter draining of
                     his reservoir of "ready cash;" but in his "absolute monarchy" as a husband, he
                     gives nothing till asked, then almost, or quite, "flies into a pet," and asks a
                     dozen questions about its application, and if he gives at all, gives very
                     sparingly—even grudgingly—as though he considered his wife an interloper, and
                     not a partner in the firm. I have known some forbearing wives, whose husbands
                     were worth their thousands, to actually do without a little money which they
                     sometimes really needed for private use, rather than take the imminent risk of
                     asking their other "halves" to give it to them.
                  I am personally acquainted with an elderly pair, the husband of which is a man
                     of considerable property, and is said to have plenty of gold and silver hoarded
                     away; yet at the village store where they make their purchases, separate
                     accounts are kept for them, and when any of their children are sent to buy a
                     lot of articles for their parents, specific directions are given to the clerk
                     to charge such and such things to "father," and such and such to "mother," and
                     if "mother," by any slavish economy, can manage to sell enough of butter, eggs,
                     rags, soap, and the like to pay off her account, it is all well; otherwise, the
                     "old man" will make "a fuss in the family" on the strength of the failure.
                  O what a comfort it must be to such a money-despot, to gaze upon his pile of
                     specie and roll of bank bills, and exclaim, 
                        
                           "I'm monarch of all I survey,
                           My right there is none to dispute;"
                           From my money all round every way,
                           I am lord of the wife and the brute!
                        
                     
                  
                  My dear sir, after marriage you had better possess a principle that will make
                     you feel toward your wife as king Ahasuerus felt towards queen Esther. (Esth.
                     5th chap.) You know not how many wicked Hamans it might aid in destroying, nor
                     how many worthy Mordecais it might directly or indirectly promote. I write this
                     article as unto reasonable husbands concerning the treatment of reasonable
                     wives, who would not wish more than was proper for them to have. "Judge ye what
                     I say."
                  
                     J. H. B.
                  
               
               
                  Extract from a Sermon on Marriage.
                  HAPPINESS must be sought in simplicity, and not in costliness; in the
                     perpetually recurring, more than in the rare; in abiding peace, more than in
                     temporary rapture.
                  There are some persons who have their imaginations so excited by the
                     possibility of some distant good, as to loose all taste for the little delights
                     which husband and wife may devise and reciprocate almost hourly. Which is the
                     luckier man, he that can be happy in the smiles of his wife, or he that must wait, wait, wait for
                     the smiles of fortune, and wait in vain, perhaps?
                  In this world there is nothing of so much value as affection; and the most
                     trifling expression of it, even though it be but a single word of endearment,
                     is, in the best ears, a pleasanter sound than that of gold pieces.
                  The price of a virtuous woman, says Solomon, "is far above rubies." Were there
                     allotted to any man a female figure of solid gold as a companion for life, who
                     is there that would not beg that it might be of silver only, that it might
                     speak; and then of a more inferior metal still, if it might only feel; and
                     then, that it might be like himself,—of earth—might it only accompany him
                     about, as a guard and a helper in life's good undertakings. And yet, O human
                     inconsistency! husbands are many of them heedless of home joys; seemingly
                     regarding them as not being an increase of wealth. The real want of man's heart
                     is sympathy and love, and not the Philosopher's Stone. It would not be more
                     unreasonable to transplant a favorite flower out of black earth into gold dust,
                     than it is for a man to let money-getting harden his heart into contempt, or
                     into impatience of the little attentions, the merriments, and the caresses of
                     domestic life.—
                  
                     W. Mountford.
                  
               
               
                  Let us Love each other still.
                  
                     SAD it is for hearts to sunder,
                     Rent apart by passion's thunder,
                     Held apart by sullen will;
                     For the sake of Him who sees us—
                     Darling! for the sake of Jesus,
                     Let us love each other still!
                  
                  
                  
                     Shall affections that went brooking
                     Into one wide river, crooking
                     Through the bloomy banks of bliss,
                     Shall these heart-brooks now run single,
                     Never more to meet and mingle?
                     Can thy soul assent to this?
                  
                  
                  
                     Think of yet the life before us!
                     Think, if death's dread angel, o'er us
                     Hovering, first should single me,
                     Think of pale death staring sadly!
                     Would thou kiss the cold lips madly?
                     Think what madness that would be!
                  
                  
                     Ask thy deep heart, darling! whether
                     Up in Eden we together
                     Shall with love immortal thrill!
                     O, I see thy sad eyes brimming!
                     Thou dost hear the angels hymning,
                     "Love, O love each other still!"
                  
                  
                     Coates-Kinney.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Husbands and Wives Belonging to Different Churches.
                  IT frequently happens that persons of different religious views, and different
                     Church relations, become united in marriage. When this is the case they are not
                     always sufficiently careful to avoid all expressions calculated to hurt the
                     feelings of each other respecting some peculiar doctrine, or form of worship;
                     some minister, or member that they do not esteem alike. When a gentleman and
                     lady of dissimilar Church memberships unite in wedlock, though the one, for the
                     sake of harmony, may cheerfully join the church of the other's choice, even
                     then it is an error to suppose there is thereafter no more sympathy in the mind
                     of the proselyte for the doctrines, mode of worship, &c., of the nominally
                     abandoned sect.
                  Doubtless husbands are much oftener the aggressors in discords arising from
                     these causes than wives. There are perhaps but few of us who could not call to
                     mind one instance or more in which the husband belonging to one Church has
                     taken a wife belonging to some other, and then ceased not his debates,
                     entreaties, and, probably, his ridicule, until the wife joined his Church,
                     "just to please him and get rid of his everlasting ding-dong," though her real
                     opinions were not changed a whit. The fact is a man gains but little in this
                     way. True he gets his wife's name placed beside his own on the Church-register,
                     but ere this is done she loses some of her confidence in him as a man of
                     reasonably liberal views, and this loss affects him far more than all his
                     gain.
                  When a wife, untrameled and unprovoked, prefers to join with her husband, it is
                     not at all improper. Let him then consider that it rather increases his
                     responsibility to assist her all he can in living a Christian life; but let him
                     by no means indulge in disrespectful remarks about the denomination of which
                     she was formerly a member, lest her last state be worse than her first.
                  Not all the members of Church possess the charity that "is not easily
                     provoked," and where a husband and wife taunt each other for exercising their
                     religious prerogatives in different religious societies, there is great danger
                     of producing a state of feeling antagonistic, not only to domestic happiness,
                     but to religion itself.
                  If individuals fear God and keep his commandments, which is man's whole duty,
                     are they not as safe in one Church as another? The Great Shepherd came to seek
                     and to save the sheep that were lost; but men, instead of following the same
                     illustrious example, are often found trying to entice the sheep out of one fold
                     into some other; and when they persecute their wives for belonging to Churches
                     different from their own, it looks a good deal like taking measures to
                        drive them out. Shame on such men! When farmers take their
                     wheat to market they are not asked which road they came, or what kind of a
                     vehicle they brought it in; but if their wheat is alike good, where they deal
                     fairly, they all get a uniform price. So in the judgment day; it will not be
                     asked what branch of the Church we were members of, if we be God's
                     children.—
                  
                     J. H. B.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Treatment of a Wife.
                  FIRST get a wife; secondly, be patient. You may have great trials and
                     perplexities in your business with the world; but do not, therefore, carry to
                     your home a clouded or contracted brow. Your wife may have many trials which
                     are as hard as yours to bear. A kind, conciliating word, a tender look, will do
                     wonders in chasing from her brow all clouds and gloom.
                  You encounter your difficulties in the open air, fanned by heaven's cool
                     breezes, but your wife is often shut in from these healthful influences, and
                     her health fails, and her spirits lose their elasticity. O then, bear with her!
                     She has trials and sorrows to which you are a stranger, but which your
                     tenderness can deprive of much of their anguish. Notice kindly her little
                     attentions and efforts to promote your comfort. Do not take them all as a
                     matter of course, and pass them by, at the same time being very careful to
                     observe any omission of what you may consider duty to you. Do not treat her
                     with indifference, if you would not sear and palsy her heart, which, blessed
                     with kindness, would to the latest day of your existence, throb with sincere
                     and constant affection.
                  Sometimes yield your wishes to hers. She has preferences as strong as yours;
                     and it may be just as trying to yield her choice, as it is to you. Do
                        you find it hard to yield sometimes? Think you it is not
                     difficult for her to give up always? If you never yield to her, there is danger
                     that she will think you selfish, and care only for yourself; and with such
                     feelings, she can not love you as she might.
                  Then show yourself manly, so that your wife can look up to you, and feel that
                     you will act nobly, and that she can confide in your judgment and your candor.
                     A late writer,—Rev. Wm. Hague—says, "Many touching cases could I recount
                     wherein the wife has received intelligence of a terrible reverse in her
                     husband's fortunes without a murmur, in which the blow that smote their budding
                     hopes developed the character of each in nobler proportions, in beauty,
                     strength, and grandeur; but I could speak, too, of instances in which the heart
                     of the wife was at first pained, then almost alienated or paralyzed, by
                     perceiving that her husband could not apprehend her difficulties, and that he
                     expected more of her than she could accomplish.
               
               
                  Beautiful Suggestions.
                  HUSBAND, treat your wife as an immortal being, and have regard to her moral and
                     spiritual welfare.
                  Can any true-hearted man give his hand to one of kindred soul, to be the
                     companion of his pilgrimage onward to the verge of death's dark valley, and yet
                     have no thought or care as to her preparation to pass serenely through that
                     place of terrors, whither she must go alone, so that, even amidst
                     its chilling shadows, she may greet with joy the glorious destination to which
                     heaven beckons her, to which her God invites her aspirations and her faith? O,
                        no!—Hague.
                  Husband, sympathize with the wife of your bosom in the hour of affliction.
                     Rejoice with her when she rejoices, and weep with her when she weeps. Who more
                     than you is expected to wipe from
                     her cheek the falling tear of sorrow?
                  Remember, husband, that death will soon sever the combined cord. When you
                     behold her with whom you have toiled and wept and rejoiced, lying cold and
                     lifeless in the coffin,— 
                        
                           "Think of the happiness, so deep and tender,
                           That filled thy heart when wandering by her side;
                           Think how her faintest smile had power to render
                           Thy darkest moment one of love and pride!
                        
                        
                           "And now that this frail form in death grows colder,
                           A sweet calm rapture fills the parting hour,
                           That thou art with her, though a sad beholder,
                           A witness of the dear Redeemer's power."
                        
                     
                  
                  Will you then regret that you studied always to promote her happiness? that the
                     law of kindness and love dwelt on your lips evermore? O, think! and be now her
                     ministering angel!
               
               
                  To a Wife during a severe Sickness.
                  
                     I said I would love thee in want or in wealth,
                     Through cloud and through sunshine, in sickness in health;
                     And fear not, my love, when thy spirits are weak,—
                     The troth I have plighted I never will break.
                  
                  
                     Ay, sickness—but sickness it touches the heart
                     With a feeling where how many feelings have part!
                     There's a magic in soothing the wearisome hour;
                     Pity rears up the stem, and hope looks for the flower.
                  
                  
                     I have loved thee in sickness,—I'll love thee in health,
                     And if want be our portion, why, love be our wealth;
                     Thy comfort in sorrow, thy stay when most weak,
                     The troth I have plighted I never will break.
                  
                  
                     —C. Neal.
                  
               
            
            
               Incidents.
               
                  A Remarkable Reconciliation.
                  A SWISS journal contains the following:
                  "A married couple, who had for years lived in a state of anti-conjugal harmony,
                     determined to part, and made an appointment with each other to meet at a
                     notary's to sign the deed of separation. To arrive at the office of the man of
                     law they had to cross a lake, and as it happened, they both embarked in the
                     same boat. On their passage a storm arose, and the boat was upset. The husband
                     being a good swimmer, soon reached the shore in safety. On looking around him
                     to see the fate of his fellow-passengers, he observed his wife still struggling
                     for her life, but in imminent danger. A feeling of his early affection returned
                     to him, and plunging again into the water, he swam to her, and succeeded in
                     rescuing her. When she recovered her senses, and learned to whom she owed her
                     life, she threw herself into his arms; he embraced her with equal cordiality;
                     and they vowed an oblivion of all their differences, and that they would live
                     and die together."
               
               
                  
                  Marrying without Affection.
                  SAYS Rev. W. M. Thayer in his "Pastor's Wedding Gift," "I have seen the
                     clergyman who has been asked by a father if he would marry his daughter without
                     making her promise to love her husband; inasmuch as she had no
                     special affection for him. She was too conscientious to say, before God, that
                     she loved him when the reverse was true; yet she could become his wife, and
                     thus make herself and him miserable through life, with no scruples of
                     conscience."
               
               
                  An Imprudent Jest.
                  "MY wife tells the truth three times a day," said a jocose fellow, in company,
                     at the same time casting a very mischievous glance at his wife who was present.
                     "Before rising in the morning she says, 'O dear! I must get up, but I don't
                     want to.' After breakfast she adds: 'Well, I suppose I must go to work, but I
                     don't want to;' and she goes to bed saying: 'There! I have been busy all day,
                     and haven't done any thing.'"
                  Perhaps the husband thought this rehearsal exceedingly smart, but if he had
                     known the whole truth,—for his wife, by hard struggling, almost concealed her
                     real feelings—her kind, sensitive heart was fairly writhing within her on
                     account of his careless, torturing witticism.
               
               
                  Best Way to Scold.
                  "MY dear," said a man who was being severely scolded by his termagant wife,
                     "please commit your remarks to paper, and read them to me!" We know not whether
                     the wife complied with his request or not:—we rather guess she was too hasty to
                     take the trouble; but one thing we are certain of, if those husbands and wives
                     who scold each other had to read their scolding sentences to each other from
                     paper, they would usually become thoroughly ashamed of themselves before they
                     were half through.
               
               
                  Remarkable Fidelity.
                  WHEN the executioner was sent to do his office upon Seneca, his wife, Paulina,
                     announced her determination to die with him, notwithstanding he had once been
                     banished from his country upon the charge of adultery. The repudiated
                     Josephine, after the confinement of Napoleon at Elba, wrote immediately a most
                     affectionate and reverential letter to him, asking permission to share his
                     exile. Many a wife has accompanied her husband into the court-room and remained
                     by him, while he was charged with the commission of heinous crime. No true
                     lover of "fidelity till death" can fail to pronounce such conduct admirable,
                     and worthy of imitation.
               
               
                  
                  The Deathless Love of Woman.
                  WHILE the late Rev. James B. Finley was chaplain to the Ohio State Prison, a
                     letter was received by one of the convicts from his wife, which was afterward
                     published in the Ladies' Repository with prefatory remarks by Mr. Finley as
                     follows: "This convict's habits of life, and states of feeling, are now
                     entirely changed, and having sought and found mercy, he is now happy in a
                     Savior's love. His wife is an esteemed and pious member of our Church, and
                     notwithstanding the unfortunate condition of her husband, she still loves him
                     with the same love that inspired her heart in her early days of bliss. What an
                     instance of the deep and deathless attachment of woman have we here exhibited
                     to our view, and how well does it prove that neither change nor adversity will
                     destroy this love within the female breast! But to the letter itself. I give it
                     without a verbal alteration, that the reader can judge properly respecting its
                     nature and merits.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "'MY DEAR W.,—I find upon reflection I have not been as punctual in
                                 answering your welcome letter as it justly merits. I hope I need
                                 not apologize for my long silence. I trust you know my heart too
                                 well to suppose it has been caused by any diminution of affection,
                                 or disregard for your feelings. I feel my heart united to you in
                                 bonds not to be weakened by time, distance or circumstances. Your
                                 letter was a cordial to my drooping spirits, and a balm to my poor
                                 aching heart. I rejoice to learn that you have found a true Friend,
                                 one that sticketh closer than a brother; yes, and he will, in every
                                 trial, relieve you and be your God and guardian through all the
                                 trying conflicts of human life. Our moment of time will soon be
                                 ended here, and of how little consequence is it whether our pathway
                                 be rough or smooth, so the "heaven of heavens" be ours at last! I
                                 should have embraced an earlier opportunity of writing, had not a
                                 multiplicity of cares and wants oppressed me.
                              "'O! my W., if you knew the state of my mind; it is such a task to
                                 write to you! If I sit down to it tolerably composed, and begin to
                                 think of you, the blood flies to my head, and seems to scatter all
                                 my senses. What can I say to comfort you in your present
                                 afflictions? But I think I hear you say that you are not without
                                 the consolations of Divine grace, and find underneath and around
                                 about you the everlasting arms of love and mercy. It is good to be
                                 passive in the hands of so divine a Father, and to know no will but
                                 his.
                              "'My dear W., let us try to acquiesce in his righteous will and
                                 providence in all things; for I believe he smites to bless, and
                                 wounds to heal. This dispensation may be the means of yourself and
                                 myself singing hallelujah together around his throne to all
                                 eternity. If so, why not kiss the chastening rod, and bow in
                                 submission to the divine Providence? I wish to be wholly given up
                                 to God; but I acknowledge you engross too much of my mind. I know
                                 it ought not to be so; but thus it is, and it seems that I can not
                                 help it. When at my daily work, or at the table, or on my bed, or
                                 in the street, or in the church, or at my prayers, and even at the
                                 holy communion-table, when my mind should be fixed on Calvary, and
                                 on the bleeding Lamb of God, you will be in my mind. I still feel
                                 that my heart is true to its first love, and to my solemn marriage
                                 vows; but I desire to devote my heart and mind more uninterruptedly to my
                                 Master. God knows my heart, and he made it to love. O, that he
                                 would shed it more abundantly on me, and give me that mind that was
                                 in his dear Son. Let us try, my dear husband, to live more to his
                                 honor and glory. Let us aim more than ever at higher and deeper
                                 attainments in grace. I want to rest wholly on my dear Savior, and
                                 to look to and trust in him alone, and in him daily to satiate the
                                 thirst of my poor soul. While I remain an inhabitant of this
                                 ever-changing world, I calculate to be the subject of numberless
                                 afflictions, which I would not ask to be released from, as they
                                 have invariably proved my best friends. I have a measure of that
                                 love, which will overcome by patient endurance, and I fully believe
                                 that when it ceases to be necessary, I shall suffer no more. But in
                                 the midst of our sore trials and conflicts there is a union of
                                 affection existing between us, that may not be lessened by time,
                                 absence, or distance. Let us, then, console ourselves, that though
                                 absent in body, we are present in spirit, partake of the same
                                 grace, both supplicate the same Lord, meet at the same mercy-seat,
                                 and perhaps, at the same time. O, what a stimulus have we to be
                                 faithful! My dear W., pray for your sincere and deeply afflicted
                                 M., that she may arrive at the completion of every Christian grace.
                                 It appears that the Lord has in store much suffering for me, but I
                                 trust through grace I shall be enabled to stand in my lot when the
                                 building is finished, and see the top stone brought on with
                                 shoutings of 'grace, grace unto it.'
                              
                                 
                                    "'Tell me not that time can sever
                                    Fond affection's golden chain—
                                    Tell me not that we shall never
                                    Live as we have lived, again.
                                 
                                 
                                    "'Toil and care could never move me,
                                    Nor all of their blame or praise,
                                    If I knew that thou didst love me,
                                    As thou didst in other days.
                                 
                                 
                                    "'Then this heart by sorrow riven,
                                    Trembling in its wildest rest,
                                    Still would wing thy name to heaven,
                                    Asking that thou might'st be blest.
                                 
                                 
                                    ''Yes, others have my W., taken,
                                    And all that made life dear to me,
                                    Trodden down—alone—forsaken—
                                    I will live to pray for thee.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 "'M.'"
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  Wife of the Imprisoned Irishman.
                  A POOR Irishman in New Orleans was once placed in prison for being too ready
                     with his fist. His wife was kindly permitted by the officers in charge to visit
                     his window; and with her two children by her side, she kept her position till
                     her husband's release. She was advised by some who pitied her grief, to go
                     home, when she replied, "I have no home if he can not come to it!"
               
               
                  An Anomaly.
                  THE "Toledo Advocate" in 1830 contained the following editorial item:
                  "We were much amused the other day in passing a prison in this town, by hearing
                     a man who is imprisoned for abusing his wife, sing, through the iron grates,
                     the plaintive melody, 'Home, sweet home!'"
               
               
                  
                  A Fortunate Husband.
                  THE editor of this book has before him a letter received from a distinguished
                     lawyer and statesman in Ohio, which contains a short sentence that speaks nobly
                     for the aged man's wedded life, Says he: "I have never had a quarrel with
                        my wife." Doubtless there are many men in the world that could say
                     this in truth; but while this is the case, it is probable the greater number
                     could not say it. O it must be sweet for one who has spent most of his years in
                     the enjoyment of an undisturbed conjugal calm, and "grown old in the bosom of
                     domestic happiness," to review his experience, and then declare with candor, "I
                     have never had a quarrel with my wife!"
               
               
                  "Is that All?"
                  IRVING, in one of his beautiful stories, mentions the case of a gentleman who
                     was on the verge of distraction because all his extensive wealth had suddenly
                     glided from his possession; and his wife had been so tenderly cared for all her
                     life that he feared to reveal the fact to her, thinking it would probably crush
                     her. But a friend advised him not to rest until he had unfolded to her all his
                     hapless case. Accordingly he frankly told her of their losses.
                  "Is that all?" said she, smiling like a ministering angel as she was, "I feared
                     by your sadness it was worse. Let our beautiful things be taken. All this
                     splendor, let it go; I care not for it. I care only for my husband's love and
                     confidence. You shall almost forget in my affection that you are in adversity.
                     Only still love me, and I will aid you to bear these little
                     reverses with cheerfulness!"
                  Still love her! Why the man that would n't love such a wife constantly, would
                     n't love heaven.
               
               
                  What to Do in Misfortune.
                  THE mode often practiced by the natives of the Pacific islands, when their
                     canoes are upset at a distance from the shore, in order to save their lives, is
                     this: They sustain themselves by joining hands across the bottom of the boat,
                     changing hands when fatigue prompts it. It is said they can sustain themselves
                     a long time in this way.
                  This information suggests a useful lesson to husbands and wives. In the day of
                     misfortune, instead of spurning each other with reproaches, let them join
                     hearts and hands more closely than ever over their imperiled interests, and by
                     all possible means mutually assist in the rescue.
               
               
                  Eccentric Illustration.
                  THERE was once a bridegroom who gloried in his eccentricities. A day or two
                     after his wedding, he requested his bride to accompany him into the garden. He
                     then threw a line over the roof of their cottage, and giving his wife one end
                     of the line, he retreated to the other side and exclaimed, "Pull the line!"
                  She pulled it, at his request, as far as she could. He cried, "Pull it
                     over!"
                  "I can't," she replied.
                  
                  "But pull with all your might," shouted the whimsical young husband.
                  But vain were all the efforts of the bride to pull the line over, so long as
                     her husband held on to the opposite end. But when he came round, and they both
                     pulled at one end, it came over with great ease.
                  "There!" said he as the line fell from the roof, "you see how hard and
                     ineffectual was our labor when we pulled in opposition to each other; but how
                     easy and pleasant it was when we pulled together! It will be thus with us, my
                     dear, through life. If we oppose each other, it will be hard work; if we act
                     together, it will be pleasant to live. Let us always pull together!"
               
               
                  A Wife's Influence.
                  JUDGE O'NEAL, in the Yorkville Enquirer, tells the following of Judge William
                     Smith, of South Carolina:
                  He had the rare blessing to win the love of one of the purest, mildest, and
                     best women whose character has ever been present to the writer. He married
                     Margaret Duff. In his worst days she never upbraided him by word, look, or
                     gesture, but always met him as if he was one of the kindest and best of
                     husbands. This course on her part humbled him, and made him weep like a child.
                     This sentence, it is hoped, will be remembered, was the language of Judge Smith
                     to the friend already named, and to those who knew the stern, unbending public
                     character of the Judge, it will teach a lesson of how much a patient woman's
                     love can accomplish. He was at last reformed by an instance of her patient love
                     and devotion, as he himself told it:
                  "The evening before the Return Day of the Court of Common Pleas for York
                     District, a client called with fifty notes to be put in suit. Mr. Smith was not
                     in his office—he was on what is now fashionably called a 'spree,' then a
                     'frolic.' Mrs. Smith received the notes and sat down in the office to the work
                     of issuing the writs and processes. She spent the night at work—Mr. Smith 'in
                     riotous living.' At daylight on his way home from his carousals, he saw a light
                     in his office, and stepped in, and to his great surprise saw his amiable wife,
                     who had just completed what ought to have been his own work, with her head on
                     the table and asleep. His entry awoke her. She told him what she had done, and
                     showed her night's work—fifty writs and processes. This bowed the strong man;
                     'he fell on his knees, implored her pardon, and then and there faithfully
                     promised her never to drink another drop while he lived.' 'This promise,' says
                     my friend, Colonel Williams, 'he faithfully kept, and,' said the Judge to him,
                     'from that day everything which I touched turned to gold.' 'His entire success
                     in life,' says Colonel Williams, 'he set down to his faithful observance of
                     this noble promise.'"
                  No better eulogy could be pronounced on Mrs. Smith, than has just been given in
                     the words of her distinguished husband. The reformation of such a man as
                     William Smith is a chaplet of glory which few women have been permitted to
                     wear. To the people of South Carolina, and especially of York District,
                     certainly no stronger argument in favor of temperance, and total abstinence,
                     need be given.
               
               
                  
                  A Beautiful Lesson.
                  THERE were many little occurrences which suggested to me, with a great
                     consolation, how natural it is to gentle hearts to be considerate and delicate
                     toward any inferiority. One of these particularly touched me. I happened to
                     stroll into the little church when a marriage was just concluded, and the young
                     couple had to sign the register.
                  The bridegroom, to whom the pen was handed first, made a rude cross for his
                     mark; the bride who came next, did the same.
                  Now, I had known the girl when I was last there, not only as the prettiest girl
                     in the place, but as having distinguished herself in the school; and I could
                     not help looking at her with some surprise. She came aside, and whispered to
                     me, while tears of honest love and admiration stood in her bright eyes:
                  "He's a dear good fellow, Miss, but can not write yet; he's going to learn of
                     me—and I wouldn't shame him for the world!"—
                  
                     Anon.
                  
               
               
                  Touching Sight in a Rail-car.
                  "I AM not certain" says Rev. Mr. Fry of Ohio, "but a great many expect to see
                     old people act with such indifference toward each other that no one would have
                     a suspicion that there was any remnant of the 'tender affections' in their
                     hearts. The contrary is so unusual that a solitary instance of it is deemed
                     worthy of attention. The following item describes such affection:"
                  "'While in the cars, we noticed an incident that filled our hearts with
                     pleasant thoughts. An aged couple were seated together, their heads both gray,
                     and their eyes dim and sunken. Both, through fatigue, had fallen asleep; the
                     wife leaning on the still broad-shouldered husband. It was a beautiful sight.
                     Thus through a half century they had journeyed together—the rugged oak and the
                     clinging vine. There were hallowing thoughts as we watched them. It would have
                     excited no attention to have seen a young wife, with a future all bright with
                     hopes, thus leaning on the choice of her young dreams. But after all the ardor
                     of youthful affection had passed through the ordeal of life's realities, then
                     to see the aged wife still leaning upon her husband's arm with so much
                     confidence and trust, was a scene of touching and hallowing beauty.'"
               
               
                  "A Crown to her Husband."
                  DR. FRANKLIN having noticed that a certain mechanic who worked near his office,
                     was always happy and smiling, ventured to ask him for the secret of his
                     constant cheerfulness. "No secret, doctor," he replied, "I've got one of the
                     best wives, and when I go to work she always has a kind word of encouragement
                     for me; and when I go home she meets me with a smile and a kiss, and the tea is
                     sure to be ready; and she has done so many little things through the day to
                     please me that I can not find it in my heart to speak an unkind word to any
                     body.'"
               
               
                  
                  Beautiful Incident in the Life of Mrs. Phelps.
                  (Author of "Sunny Side.")
                  AFTER meditating long in silence upon the extremity to which disease seemed
                     about to bring her, she called her husband to her side,—her voice was calm—her
                     whole manner self-possessed—every thing betokened the collected purpose of her
                     soul—and as nearly as can now be recalled, she said, "I do not wish you to
                     speak to me of death, nor tell me of any discouraging changes in my state. Talk
                     to me of God, and give me pleasant thoughts of heaven, but not as if you
                     expected me to die. Be as hopeful as you can be, and help me to hope. You need
                     not feel anxious about my religious state, nor ask me about it. That is not
                     necessary. I am at rest. When the time comes for me to go, you shall know it. I
                     shall not die without being able to say to you all that you will wish to hear.
                     God will take care of that, and he will take care of me. Now, my duty is,
                        to live; and you must help me."
               
               
                  Joined in the Better Country.
                  In the Knickerbocker is the following, which will sufficiently explain
                     itself:
                  The announcement of the death of Mr. George Redfield, of New York, which
                     reaches us in the public journals, startles us all at "Cedar Cottage," reposing
                     in the silence and quietude of the country. He loved children. Also—which
                     always follows—for as Byron says, "The heart must leap kindly back to
                     kindness"—children loved him. Mr. Redfield was a frank, generous man, who
                     despised all meanness; and he loved his friends. We saw but little of him in
                     later months, after we quitted residing uninterruptedly in town; but the last
                     time we met him, he gave us a characteristically-cordial invitation to visit
                     him at Brooklyn, and begged our acceptance of a small but beautiful landscape
                     which we had admired at his apartments in town. Mr. Redfield was still a young
                     man; but several years ago he lost a young and lovely wife—the lady alluded to
                     in the following passage from our little volume, "Knick-Knacks from an Editor's
                     Table," which we hope to be pardoned for quoting here, for the enjoyment of
                     thousands who are our readers now, but who were not so then:
                  "The following most touching fragment of a letter from a dying wife to her
                     husband was found by him, some months after her death, between the leaves of a
                     religious volume, which she was very fond of perusing. The letter, which was
                     literally dim with tear-marks, was written long before the husband was aware
                     that the grasp of a fatal disease had fastened upon the lovely form of his
                     wife, who died at the early age of nineteen:
                  "When this shall reach your eye, dear George, some day when you are turning
                     over the relies of the past, I shall have passed away forever, and the cold
                     white stone will be keeping its lonely watch over the lips you have so often
                     pressed, and the sod will be growing green that shall hide forever from your
                     sight the dust of one who has so often nestled close to your warm heart. For
                     many long and sleepless nights, when all besides my thoughts was at rest, I
                     have wrestled with the consciousness of approaching proaching death, till at last it has enforced
                     itself upon my mind; and although to you and to others it might now seem but
                     the nervous imaginings of a girl, yet, dear George, it is so! Many weary hours
                     have I passed in the endeavor to reconcile myself to leaving you, whom I love
                     so well, and this bright world of sunshine and beauty; and hard indeed it is to
                     struggle on silently and alone with the sure conviction that I am about to
                     leave all forever, and go down alone into the dark valley! 'But I know in whom
                     I have believed,' and leaning upon His arm 'I fear no evil.' Do not blame me
                     for keeping even all this from you. How could I subject you, of all others, to
                     such sorrow as I feel at parting, when time will so soon make it apparent to
                     you? I could have wished to live, if only to be by your side when your time
                     shall come, and pillowing your head upon my breast, wipe the death-damp from
                     your brow, and usher your departing spirit into its Maker's presence, embalmed
                     in woman's holiest prayer. But it is not so to be—and I submit. Yours is the
                     privilege of watching, through long and dreary nights, for the spirit's final
                     flight and of transferring my sinking head from your breast to my Savior's
                     bosom! And you shall share my last thought; the last faint pressure of the
                     hand, and the last feeble kiss shall be yours; and even when flesh and heart
                     shall have failed me, my eye shall rest on yours, till glazed by death; and our
                     spirits shall hold one last fond communion, till gently fading from my view—the
                     last of earth—you shall mingle with the first bright glimpses of the unfading
                     glories of that better world, where partings are unknown. Well do I know the
                     spot, dear George, where you will lay me: often have we stood by the place, and
                     as we watched the mellow sunset as it glanced in quivering ing flashes through
                     the leaves, and burnished the grassy mounds around us with stripes of burnished
                     gold, each perhaps has thought that some day one of us would come alone, and
                     whichever it might be, your name would be on the stone. But we loved the spot;
                     and I know you'll love it none the less when you see the same quiet sunlight
                     linger and play among the grass that grows over your Mary's grave. I know
                     you'll go often alone, when I am laid there, and my spirit will be with you
                     then, and whisper among the waving branches, 'I am not lost, but gone
                     before!'"
                  "They loved in life, and now in death they are not divided." They sleep
                     together in the beautiful cemetery near Troy, where we have stood by her grave,
                     at sunset, with the weeping husband who has now rejoined her "in that world
                     where sorrow is never known, and friends are never parted."
               
               
                  Last Moments of Postmaster-General Brown.
                  ABOUT midnight he joined fervently in a prayer offered up by Dr. Granberry, a
                     Methodist clergyman of our city. At the close of this, he turned a long,
                     lingering gaze of wistful tenderness upon the face he loved best on earth, and
                     said, in a voice clearly intelligible to all around, "My—dear wife, we shall
                     meet again—when the fashion of this world passeth away." From this hour he sank
                     slowly but surely, and it is consolatory to think that his last moments were
                     free from acute suffering: the bodily energies waning gently like the twilight,
                     and the mind, though clear, partaking of that glorious languor guor which had crept over the frame with which
                     it was associated.
                  From this time his devoted wife seemed to absorb all his thoughts. He was
                     patient and thankful for the smallest attention, abounding in tender anxiety
                     for her, following her slightest movement with his eyes, with that anxious,
                     wistful, appealing look, which seemed to say, "I can no longer trust myself to
                     speak." After the power of speech had left him, he extended his arms, clasping
                     her to his heart with a fervor which even the approach of death could not
                     diminish. And so he died. On Tuesday morning, March 8th, 1859, at twenty
                     minutes past nine o'clock, clasping her hand, and gazing into her eyes with
                     that earnest look which even death could not alter, his spirit burst its bonds
                     and rose on triumphant wings to find, we believe, happiness in the bosom of its
                        God.—Washington Union.
                  
               
            
            
               Morsels.
               
                  Morsels for Husbands.
                  THE word husband comes from the Anglo-Saxon hus and band: the
                        bond of the house, anciently spelt hòusebond. The husband then is, or should be, the
                     power or energy which holds the family, whether small or large, in its proper
                     position, and he does not accomplish this desirable work if he is a drunken,
                     shiftless, dissipated wretch. Rather, he breaks the bond of union, and scatters
                     the family abroad.
                  A TURK or Hindoo would consider himself insulted by an inquiry which implied
                     that he regarded his wife as a companion; that he ever consulted her on
                     questions of duty, or stooped to converse with her on important subjects. Must
                     an enlightened man—a Christian man, follow such a depraved example as this?
                     Nay, verily.
                  THE husband who is not greatly influenced by a prudent wife is not worthy of
                     her.
                  
                     THE first sure symptom of a mind in health,
                     Is rest of heart and pleasure felt at home!
                  
                  
                  HUSBAND, don't distribute all your smiles out in extraneous society. Keep at
                     least a few of the warmest and brightest for home.
                  IT ill-agrees with the benign aims of the marriage institution for a man to
                     have a house, yet be virtually of his own accord, a non-resident. 
                        "A man may be homeless amid a thousand homes."
                     
                  
                  O HOW hard when a true wife can no longer resist the dread conviction that to a
                     genuine home-love her husband is a stranger!
                  "DON'T stay long husband!" This entreaty, often uttered by wives, when their
                     husbands are about leaving the home circle to attend to business, is one they
                     should not lightly esteem. When a wife talks in this way, it shows that her
                     husband's company is duly appreciated at home, and that his presence there
                     exerts a happifying influence, which is seriously impaired when he is away
                  
                     A WIFE TO HER HUSBAND.
                     LINGER not long!—home is not home without thee,
                     Its dearest tokens only make me mourn;
                     O let it's memory, like a chain about thee,
                     Gently compel, and hasten thy return.
                  
                  IT is one of a wife's just claims that her husband abstain from everything that
                     might induce others to believe that there is any other woman for whom, even if
                     he were at liberty, he would have any special affection.
                  
                     
                        THEREFORE take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously
                           against the wife of his youth.—
                     
                     
                        Malachi ii. 15.
                  
                  MAN'S love is like the moon: if it does not grow greater, it is certain to grow
                     less. The sweet moons of wedded life should never wane.
                  
                     
                        
                           A QUERY.
                           Now, is not that a great idea,
                           That men should take to sinning
                           Because a weary, half-sick wife
                           Can't always smile so winning?
                        
                     
                     Mrs. F. D. Gage.
                  
                  THERE are many husbands who would not for the world wound their wives with
                     daggers, but they will wound them with words.
                  WE read in the Bible of the cherubs that had two faces—the face of a man and
                     the face of a lion. There are objects (not cherubs) now-a-days that in this
                     respect are a good deal like them. They generally try to show only the man's
                     face till after they are married, then they sometimes hesitate not to exhibit
                     their lionship, even around their own hearth-stones, 
                        "Till all the man is in the monster
                           drowned."
                     
                  
                  IT is much easier for the husband to choose his words carefully, and repress
                     the unkindness of tone that gives them a double force, than it is for the wife
                     to help feeling pain at their utterance.
                  
                  A husband is often like a cross horse,—he will bite his mate when the harness
                     galls.
                  MAKE everything as convenient as possible for your wife, and don't allow her to
                     walk with you barefoot through the thorns and fires of life, while you have
                     heavy boots on.
                  WHEN a good woman is fitly mated, she grows doubly good; 
                        "How good so e'er before.'
                     
                  
                  IT is not in the power of fate to make a true woman utterly miserable, while
                     she is blessed with the love and confidence of a true husband.
                  HERE is a rather neat epigram on a pale-faced wife. Read it all who are
                     toperously inclined: 
                        
                           Why is it that on Emma's cheek
                           The lily blooms and not the rose?
                           Because the rose has gone to seek
                           A place upon her husband's nose.
                        
                     
                  
                  SOME political men become so absorbed in "the welfare of their country," that
                     they forget the welfare of the own homes. O, what distorted philanthropy!
                  A wife's tender expressions, heard two or three times a day, amount at the end
                     of even one year, to vastly more and sweeter happiness than election to some
                     high office, by the united suffrages of all the people of a nation.
                  BE exceedingly cautious never to say or do anything that will tend to mortify
                     the feelings of your wives in company. Here, if possible, show them more marked
                     respect than when alone.
                  LADIES will sooner pardon want of sense in their husbands than want of
                     manners.
                  LET an unselfish thoughtfulness of your wife in little, as well as great
                     matters, be your peculiar characteristic.
                  HUSBANDS, reflect that though the novelty of your relation is perhaps worn off,
                     yet that habit, and a thousand acts of kindness, have strengthened your mutual
                     friendship.
                  LET not many days pass without a strict self-examination of your conduct as a
                     husband.
                  
                     
                        
                           AN ENTREATY.
                           Deal gently thou, when far away,
                           'Mid stranger scenes her foot shall rove,
                           Nor let thy tender care decay—
                           The soul of woman lives in love
                           And shouldst thou, wandering mark a tear,
                           Unconscious, from her eyelids break,
                           Be pitiful, and soothe the fear
                           That man's strong heart may ne'er partake.
                        
                     
                     Mrs. Sigourney.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Morsels for Wives.
                  SOME wives who bring wealth to their husbands by marriage ever afterward
                     consider those husbands beneath them. This is extremely indiscreet.
                  As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without
                        discretion.—Prov. xi. 22.
                  DON'T be jealous whenever your husband is away from you. If the Creator had
                     intended no more mutual freedom to married people than some appear to allow,
                     couples might almost as well have been joined by nature like the Siamese
                     twins.
                  A WOMAN who is disposed to be jealous, will find something that she will
                     consider suspicious in the conduct of the most upright of men.
                  THERE is nothing more likely to cause an innocent man to become guilty than to
                     have his wife constantly exhibiting jealousy respecting his actions, and
                     uttering or insinuating suspicions against his fidelity. There is danger that
                     it will bring subjects into his mind which have never before occupied a moment
                     of his attention, and may be the means of starting him on a career to which he
                     had always before been a stranger.
                  SOME wives evince a sort of childish jealousness of the newspaper, whose
                     absorbing interest so much attracts their husbands. Rather let them
                     congratulate themselves that their most formidable rival is one of paper.
                  IT is not to the wife's advantage to let the husband see how well he can do
                     without her at home.
                  LIGHTEN the cares, and chase away the vexations to which men, in their commerce
                     with the world, are unavoidably exposed, by rendering their homes agreeable to
                     them.
                  
                     
                        
                           WIFE, BE GENTLE.
                           Be gentle to thy husband,
                           Remember all day long,
                           Amid the din and tumult
                           He battles with the throng.
                           No wonder that the noble brow
                           Grows clouded with the care
                           That presses on his heart and hands
                           While he is struggling there.
                        
                     
                     Mrs. Enos.
                  
                  IN order for a wife to have great influence over her husband, she must qualify
                     herself for conversational communion on subjects congenial to his tastes in
                     hours of retirement.
                  THERE is, perhaps, no season of the year when it is more highly important that
                     the wife should strive to have her home present its most pleasant aspect, than
                     during the long winter evenings, when men in a great variety of occupations
                     have much leisure time at their disposal. These hours are dangerous to the
                     habits of those husbands whose homes are distasteful to them.
                  TALK more with thy husband, and less at him.
                  
                  TIE your husbands to their homes in their leisure hours,—not with hempen cords,
                     but with something less easily broken; namely, the influence of a gentle
                     spirit.
                  DEAL mildly with thy husband, or he will perchance conclude, with Solomon, that
                     it is better to dwell elsewhere—even "in the corner of a housetop"—than with a
                     "brawling woman, in a wide house."
                  PATRICK HENRY has said, "A wife should consider a dispute with her husband one
                     of the greatest calamities that can befall her wedded life."
                  
                     IMPROPER LOOKS.
                     Never look sad, there's nothing so bad
                     As getting familiar with sorrow;
                     Treat him to-day in a cavilier way,
                     And he'll seek other quarters to-morrow.
                  
                  IT is almost in vain for a man to be born fortunate, if he be unfortunate in
                     his marriage.
                  WHEN a man is in trouble, it is but a little word that may ruin him; it is but
                     a little word that may save him.
                  
                     Avoid with reproaches, fresh pain to bestow,
                     The heart that is stricken needs never a blow.
                  
                  NEVER join in any laugh or sharp jest against your husband. He may be a plain,
                     and even a ridiculous man: be it so, why did you marry him? Before marriage is
                     the time to look at these things.
                  SHE that maketh her husband ashamed is as rottenness in his
                        bones.—Prov. xii. 4.
                  A WIFE'S faithfulness should be the tomb of her husband's failings.
                  IF you should reprove your husband for a fault, and he should, therefrom, mend
                     it, be assured you are thereby placed in a still more critical place, if you
                     are at all beset with a like failing; because he will then observe your fault
                     more closely, and exercise less charity for it after it is observed. This truth
                     likewise deserves the attention of husbands, who are inclined to reprove their
                     wives for their imperfections.
                  THE following dangerous motto is too often substantially adopted in the
                     practice of wives: "If my husband sees a mote in my eye, why then, I'll clutch
                     at the beam in his."
                  
                     
                        
                           BE EVER GENTLE.
                           And so, be ever gentle,
                           Kind words and deeds from thee
                           Do more toward making labor light
                           Than ever thou couldst see.
                        
                     
                     Mrs. Enos.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Morsels for all the Married.
                  MARRIAGE is a feast, where the grace is often better than the repast; but it is
                     capable of being made a long delightful festival.
                  WEDLOCK is not a generous benefactress that pours munificent gifts into the
                     laps of all who enter her dominions without regard to fidelity on their
                     part.
                  A LITTLE insect may sink a ship that has weathered many a fierce tempest. One
                     "bite" of the forbidden fruit would have been sufficient to drive Adam and Eve
                     from Eden, and entail misery on their posterity. So, unless you watch soberly,
                     and keep Prudence constantly at the helm, your matrimonial voyage may terminate
                     close to the receding shore, in a most unfortunate wreck of your conjugal
                     faith.
                  IN the majority of cases where strong mutual attachment has been followed by
                     coldness, indifference, or aversion, the change has not been brought about by
                     the shock of some great event, by the blast of misfortune, or the persecution
                     of enemies. These unite more firmly than ever the hearts that are susceptible
                     of genuine affection. It is the little troubles that wear the heart out.
                  THE joys which we prepare for others are the most lovely of all.
                  WHEN you start across the connubial deep, don't do like the Atlantic
                     voyager—discharge your pilot when you have launched out a little way from
                     shore. Keep him on board. This ocean is full of straits, reefs, and ice-bergs.
                     Without this precaution you must inevitably be lost. Keep him with you till, in
                     death, you are "safely moored, your perils o'er."
                  IF you endeavor to please each other with as much study and care as you did
                     during your courtship, there is little fear that your union will be
                     unhappy.
                  
                     
                        
                           FIDELITY.
                           THERE'S a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has told,
                           When two that are linked in one heavenly tie,
                           With heart never changing and brow never cold,
                           Love on through all ills, and love on till they die!
                        
                     
                     Moore.
                  
                  TO love and labor is the sum of all living, and yet how many think they live
                     who neither labor nor love.
                  WITH some, life is love and nothing more; with others it is love
                     and something more, and this is far the more fortunate class.
                  WHEN men and women try to get more good than comes from well-doing, they are
                     sure to get less.
                  THE yoke of matrimony sometimes galls, and is grievous to be borne; but it is
                     often more because of the way it is worn, than of the yoke itself.
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           THE FIRST GRIEF.
                           FOR many a bitter blast may blow
                           O'er life's uncertain wave,
                           And many a thorny thicket grow
                           Between us and the grave;
                           But darker still the spot appears
                           Where thunder-clouds have burst—
                           Upon our green unblighted years,
                           No grief is like the first.
                        
                     
                     Francis Browne.
                  
                  CHERISH the warmest affection for each other. You can not overlook each other's
                     faults, nor duly appreciate each other's exccellencies without it.
                  LAVISH not all your love on to-day; for, remember that marriage has its
                     to-morrow, likewise, and its day after to-morrow, too.
                  WHEN the flame of reciprocal love and reciprocal duty burns low and feeble on
                     the domestic altar, it is worse than useless to flee to other scenes for
                     pleasure; for when home is darkened, the sun of true happiness is
                     sunk below the horizon.
                  YOUR strife against evil tempers must never cease. You are, as it were, afloat
                     in a leaky ship, and must continue pumping to keep from going down.
                  NEITHER husband nor wife were intended to buffet the billows of life's troubled
                     sea.
                  
                     
                        
                           HOME.
                           PLEASURE is marked by fleetness
                           To those who ever roam,
                           While grief itself has sweetness
                           At home, dear home.
                           
                        
                     
                     Barton.
                  
                  YOUNG husband, young wife, if all about you is now happiness and brightness, do
                     not forget the story of the boy who, enraptured with the delightful flowers
                     that were springing up around him, abandoned his allotted task, to wile away
                     his hours in the midst of their fragrance. Attention to his duties brought
                     those flowers into existence, and when he ceased his efforts, they soon ceased
                     to bloom.
                  IF God has joined you together, whatever the friction of life may be, let your
                     bonds grow stronger.
                  WE should never take for our intimate friends the husbands or wives who live
                     wretchedly with kind companions.
                  
                     
                        A FOOL'S lips enter into contention.
                     
                     
                        Prov. xviii. 6.
                  
                  IF you would hear a pleasant echo, speak pleasantly yourself.
                  A TEMPEST in nature is said to purify the noxious air: not so, however, in
                     married life. Rather it is more apt to be the deadly simoon.
                  
                  
                  IT has become a kind of by-word among many married people, when one says or
                     does something that suddenly displeases the other, to exclaim, "You're smart!"
                     This expression is generally uttered ironically, and amounts to about the same
                     as if they were to say, You're not smart! To say the least of it,
                     when spoken under such circumstances, it always sounds ugly, and adds nothing
                     to mutual love or respect.
                  THE brawls of the fire-side are the worst wars that are waged. They stab the
                     heart in the tenderest spot.
                  AN old maxim says, "Always speak your mind;" but we can suggest a better: Speak
                     it only when it is worth speaking.
                  LEAVE your grievances like a certain emperor did his letters,—unopened for
                     three weeks, and it will be astonishing how few of them will then require
                     answering.
                  
                     
                        
                           FORGIVE AND FORGET.
                           Forgive and forget! why, the world would be lonely
                           The garden a wilderness left to deform,
                           If the flowers remembered the chilling winds only,
                           And the fields gave no verdure for fear of the storm.
                        
                     
                     Swain.
                  
                  TROUBLES will come; but they come to all, and who shall better sustain them
                     than those to whom mutual affection gives mutual support?
                  THE discharge of duty to each other is not only exemption from the sin of
                     omitting it; but it is also growing strength, and self-knowledge.
                  WHERE there is bitterness, there is no article that can be used to better
                     advantage than honey. It is also said that bees and wasps will not sting a
                     person who is imbrued with it. Neither will husbands and wives sting each other
                     with their tongues if their tempers are kept bathed in sweetness.
                  SOCRATES, being one day offended at his servant, said: "I would beat you if I
                     were not angry." Let those married persons who are so unguarded as to get angry
                     with each other, adopt the same rule of action, and say within themselves,
                     Husband,—wife,—if I were not angry, I would speak harshly to you! then let them
                     wait till they get in a good humor before they utter their tirade.
                  THIS way that husbands and wives have of punishing each other,
                     always comes back upon the aggressors with increased force.
                  PEOPLE are apt to think their jests like mustard,—good for nothing unless they
                     bite; therefore let husbands and wives be cautious how they jest with each
                     other.
                  THE greatest people on earth can not commit injuries sooner than good people
                     can make themselves greater by forgiving them.
                  
                     
                        
                           NONE ARE FAULTLESS.
                           The kindest and the happiest pair
                           Will find occasion to forbear,
                           And something, every day they live,
                           To pity, and perhaps, forgive.
                        
                     
                     Cowper.
                  
                  
                  A FULL heart is as difficult to carry as a full cup—the least thing may upset
                     it. When you think your companion's heart is full of weariness, disappointment,
                     or anger, beware how you jostle it unkindly. Should you upset it, you might
                     both "drink damage" thereby.
                  LET there be no frigid zone to your wedded existence. A man's or woman's home
                     should be the polar centre of his or her life; yet let it be surrounded by a
                     "frostless polar sea."
                  PRIDE has an ample wardrobe; but it has no garment with which to hide the tints
                     of sorrow, or cover the traces of disappointment in the youthful face.
                  THE door-way to many married person's souls is hidden from superficial view by
                     a heavy drapery of selfishness, and festooned by many a cob-web of moroseness
                     and exaction.
                  SELFISH affections will make to themselves thoughts, and thoughts will produce
                     actions, and these actions will be evil, and their effect upon yourselves will
                     be painful.
                  A HUSBAND and wife should infinitely avoid a curious distinction between "mine"
                     and "thine;" for such a principle as this has caused all the laws, and all the
                     suits, and all the wars in the world. Let those who have but one person, have
                     also but one interest. Nevertheless, they frequently look at their interests in
                     this light: "What is mine, is all mine; and what is yours I go halves
                        in!"
                  
                     GENTLE WORDS, LOVING SMILES.
                     It is not much the world can give,
                     With all its subtle art,
                     And gold and gems are not the things
                     To satisfy the heart;
                     But O, if those who cluster round
                     The altar and the hearth
                     Have gentle words and loving smiles,
                     How beautiful is earth!
                  
                  FORGIVE quickly and you will be more like the Savior than those who never
                     forgive.
                  WHAT reason, what propriety is there in creating hard feelings and making one
                     another unhappy, simply because you can not think alike upon every subject?
                     There is quite as much reason for becoming angry and miserable because you do
                     not look, or speak, or dress alike.
                  HAVE you ever reflected that it is in the power of either of you to make the
                     other miserable?
                  EXCITABILITY is the worst enemy of conjugal happiness. Therefore lay by a good
                     store of patience, but be sure to put it where you can find it.
                  PITIABLY-UNFOUNDED jealousies destroy a great amount of domestic felicity; and,
                     believe me, ye married, the devil would just as soon sow the seed that will
                     produce such jealousies, as anything else. Never think of being hastily jealous
                     of each other. It is exceedingly foolish.
                  
                  TO convince, without irritating, is one of the most difficult, as
                     well as most desirable points of conjugal argument. Be willing to lose the
                     argument, rather than the temper. Sow no seeds for future repentance.
                  
                     BE NOT HASTY.
                     Do not form opinions blindly,
                     Hastiness to trouble tends;
                     Those of whom we think unkindly,
                     Often are our truest friends.
                  
                  A HUSBAND or wife may not always be particular to know all about the affairs of
                     the other, but if the one happens to discover an attempt to conceal anything
                     from their mutual knowledge, it excites suspicion in the discoverer at once.
                     The one may have a private drawer, and the other care nothing about opening it
                     until it is known that a key has been turned upon it, then curiosity will stand
                     erect.
                  THERE are two periods in married life that are apt, even with the indifferent,
                     to overflow with manifestations of affection and tenderness, viz., the
                     honey-moon, and the day of death and burial.
                  
                     DECEITFUL EVIDENCES.
                     There's many a wife, and husband too,
                     Each on the other's burial day,
                     Will volley sobbings out aloud,
                     And fairly grieve the life away;
                     But often has the mournful voice,
                     In peevish and revengeful tone,
                     Dealt cruel words that bled the heart
                     Of the then weeping—now wept—one.
                  
                  IF only the Alpha and the Omega periods of wedded life reveal intense mutual
                     fondness, there is danger that twenty-two others of much longer duration have
                     been grossly misimproved.
                  TO follow a companion to the grave, while the soul is oppressed with the
                     consciousness of having wronged him or her, must be an experience more bitter
                     than the bereavement itself.
                  HAPPINESS, like day, consists not in partial flashes, but in steady light.
                  HAPPINESS in married life can be made of cheap materials as well as dear
                     ones.
                  HAPPINESS is like manna; it is to be gathered in grains, and enjoyed every day,
                     it will not keep long; it can not be accumulated to-day for our use next week;
                     nor have we to go into remote places to gather it, since it is rained down at
                     our very doors, or, rather, inside of them.
                  
                     TRY TO BE HAPPY.
                     O try to be happy! it is not for long
                     We shall cheer on each other by counsel or song;
                     If we make the best use of our time that we may,
                     There is much we can do to enliven the way:
                     Let us only in earnestness each do our best
                     Before God and our conscience and trust for the rest,
                     Still taking this truth, both in word and in deed,
                     That who tries to be happy is sure to succeed.
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
            STANDARD AND VALUABLE BOOKS,
            Published and for Sale by
            APPLEGATE & CO.,
            BOOKSELLERS, STATIONERS, PUBLISHERS, PRINTERS, BINDERS AND BLANK BOOK
               MANUFACTURERS.
            43 MAIN STREET, (BELOW SECOND) CINCINNATI.
            
               
               Dr. Adam Clarke's Commentary On the Old and New Testaments.
               With portrait of the Author engraved expressly for this edition accompanied with
                  Maps, etc. Super-royal 8vo. sheep, spring back, marbled edge.
               The Commentary of Dr. Clarke is most deservedly popular, being not only a truly
                  scientific and elaborately learned work, but it is also well adapted to family
                  reading. Liberal in his views, benevolent in his character Christian in his
                  deportment, and deeply learned in Scripture lore, and all the science of the
                  ancients as well as moderns, Dr. Clarke produced a work every way adapted to the
                  wants of Bible students, preachers and families. This work, although the largest
                  published west of the mountains, is yet afforded at a price within the reach of
                  all.
               "It would be difficult to find any contribution to Sacred Literature
                  that has attained to a higher rank than the Commentaries of Dr. Adam Clarke. It is
                  a treasury of knowledge, in the accumulation of which the author seems to have had
                  no purpose in view but the apprehension of truth; not to sustain a particular
                  creed, but the apprehension of truth for truth's own sake, restrained in the noble
                  pursuits of no party tenets by no ardor for favorite dogmas."—Nashville and
                     Louisville Christian Advocate.
               
               "Of the merits of this work we need not speak, as its fame is as wide as the world
                  of language in which it is written, and as imperishable as the name of its author;
                  but of this edition we may say a word: It consists of four super-royal octavo
                  volumes, two of the Old and two of the New Testament. The type is clear, printed
                  upon a beautiful white paper. of superior texture, bound in a strong and
                  substantial manner, with marbled edges. The first volume of the Old Testament
                  contains a superior steel engraving of the author. The last volume contains the
                  usual copious alphabetical index, while the entire work is embellished with the
                  usual number of tables and maps. Upon the whole, this is an excellent and cheap
                  edition of this great work of this great man."
               "Much has been written in elucidation of its doctrines and precepts, by thousands
                  of able authors, but there are none who have produced more simple and
                  heart-touching expositions of the 'Book Divine,' or who have employed a greater
                  fund of philological and biblical knowledge in the work than Dr. Adam
                     Clarke."—Christian Advocate.
               
               "This is a splendid super-royal edition of the commentary on the New Testament by
                  that erudite and critical scholar, Dr. Adam Clarke. However persons may differ
                  with Clarke in regard to his peculiar theological views, no one, we are assured,
                  who is competent to form a judgement of his biblical and philological labors, will
                  call in question his competency for the task he has performed, and we hesitate not
                  to say that for laborious research no work of the kind has ever appeared, or
                  perhaps ever will appear, exhibiting a more profound and extensive acquaintance
                  with the whole range of Biblical literature. No theological student should be
                  without this invaluable work. Henry and Scott, South, Doddridge and others, have
                  furnished valuable practical commentaries, abounding with copious and luminous
                  observations, but they are not EXPOSITIONS, such as the Bible student wants, and
                  Clarke's Commentary stands unrivaled in this respect."—Literary
                     Casket.
               
            
            
               The Complete Works of Thos. Dick, LL. D.
               11 vols. in 2; containing an Essay on the Improvement of Society; The Philosophy
                  of a Future State; The Philosophy of Religion; The Mental Illumination and Moral
                  Improvement of Mankind; An Essay on the Sins and Evils of Covetousness; The
                  Christian Philosopher, or Science and Religion; Celestial Scenery Illustrated;
                  Siderial Heavens planets, etc.; The Practical Astronomer; The Solar System, its
                  wonders; The Atmosphere and Atmospherical Phenomena, etc. Illustrated with
                  numerous engravings and a portrait. 2 vols. royal 8vo. sheep, spring back, marbled
                  edge.
               This edition is printed from entirely new plates, containing the recent revision
                  of the author, and is the only COMPLETE edition published in the United
                  States.
               The works of Dr. Dick are so well known and appreciated, (being such as should be
                  in the possession of every family and made the daily study of its members, old and
                  young,) that the attempt to praise them would be like gilding fine gold.
               "DICK'S WORKS.—Those who read at all, know both the name of Dr. Dick and the work
                  itself, now reprinted. It has long found acceptance with the
                     public"—Presbyterian Review, Edinburgh.
               
               "The range of subjects contained in these several essays and scientific treatises
                  is varied, all are highly important and of practical utility to mankind
                     generally."—Presbyterian of the West.
               
               "The best recommendation which can be given of Dr. Dick's Works is the great
                  popularity they have enjoyed, and the numerous editions of them, collected and
                  separate, which have been published in England and America. Messrs. Applegate
                  & Co. are deserving of much praise for the tasteful and handsome style in
                  which they have issued the work, and at such a price as to be within the reach of
                     all"—Cincinnati Gazette.
               
               "Dr. Dick's works have filled a place occupied by no others, and have presented
                  the great facts of nature and the scientific movements and discoveries of the
                  present age, in a manner at once both pleasing and instructive."—Central
                     Watchman.
               
               "The typography, plates, paper, and binding make the book more favorable in
                  appearance than any publication we have yet seen in the West, and without exulting
                  any, we are glad to say it equals the publications of like works in New York or
                  Boston. How glad we are to see this, as it tells well for go ahead
                     Ohio.—Springfield Republic.
               
               "We hail this remarkably cheap and greatly improved edition of Dr. Dick's
                  admirable and highly popular Works. It is a real boon to the millions to be able
                  to purchase such an excellent work for so inconsiderable a cost. We earnestly
                  recommend this work to all our readers, and especially to all who desire to store
                  their minds with general information."—Wesleyan Associate Magazine,
                     London.
               
               Eleven different works are embraced in these volumes, making it an edition full
                  and complete. The range of subjects embraced in these several essays and
                  scientific treatises, is varied, all are highly important and of practical utility
                  to mankind generally. These characteristics of Dr. Dick's writings, while they
                  render them permanently valuable, insure for them also a wide circulation among
                  all classes of readers.—Presbyterian of the West.
               
            
            
               
               Rollin's Ancient History.
               The Ancient History of the Carthagenians, Assyrians, Babylonians, Medes, and
                  Persians, Grecians and Macedonians, including a History of the Arts and Sciences
                  of the Ancients, with a Life of the Author. 2 vols. royal 8vo., sheep, spring
                  back, marbled edge.
               One of the most complete and impartial works ever published. It takes us back to
                  early days, and makes us live and think with the men of by-gone centuries. It
                  spreads out to us in a pleasant and interesting style, not only the events which
                  characterize the early ages, but the inner world of thought and feeling, as it
                  swayed the leading minds of the times. No library is complete without Rollin's
                  Ancient History.
               "A new edition of Rollin's Ancient History has just been issued by Applegate &
                  Co. The value and importance of this work are universally acknowledged. Every
                  private library is deficient without it; and it is now furnished at so cheap a
                  rate, that every family should have it. It should be placed in the hands of all
                  our youth, as infinitely more instructive and useful than the thousand and one
                  trashy publications with which the country is deluged, and which are so apt to
                  vitiate the taste and ruin the minds of young readers. One more word in behalf of
                  this new edition of Rollin: It may not be generally known, that in previous
                  English editions a large and interesting portion of the work has been suppressed.
                  The deficiencies are here supplied and restored from the French editions, giving
                  the copy of Messrs. Applegate & Co. a superiority over previous English
                     editions."—Western Recorder.
               
               "This work in this form has been for some years before the public, and is the best
                  and most complete edition published. The work is comprised in two volumes of about
                  six hundred pages each, containing the prefaces of Rollin and the 'History of the
                  Arts and Sciences of the Ancients,' which have been omitted in most American
                     editions."—Springfield Republic.
               
               "The work is too well known, and has too long been a favorite to require any
                  commendationfrom us. Though in some matters more recent investigations have led to
                  conclusions different from those of the author, yet his general accuracy is
                     unquestionable."—Western Christian Advocate.
               
               "This work is so well known as standard—as necessary to the completion of every
                  gentleman's library—that any extended notice of it would be folly on our part. We
                  have named it for the purpose of calling the attention of our readers to the
                  beautiful edition issued by the enterprising house of Mess. Applegate &
                     Co."—Methodist Protestant, Baltimore.
               
               The public are under obligations to Applegate & Co. for their splendid edition
                  of this standard History.—Times.
               
               Works like this, that form a connecting link between the splendid civilization of
                  the ancients, and the more enduring progress of the moderns are a boon to the
                  lover of literature and the student of History.—Railroad Record
               
               Time is fleeting—Empires perish and monuments moulder. But a book like this
                  survives the wreck of time and the ravages of decay.—Globe.
               
               The history of departed kingdoms, with the causes of their sad decline and fall,
                  serve as light-houses along the sea of life, to warn succeeding generations of
                  their fate, and to teach them to avoid the rocks and quicksands of error and guilt
                  on which they were wrecked. In no history is this purpose so well accomplished as
                  in that of Rollin, a handsome edition of which has just been issued by Applegate
                  & Co.—News.
               
            
            
               The Spectator,
               By ADDISON, STEELE, ETC., 1 vol. royal 8vo., 750 pages, with portrait of Addison.
                  Sheep, spring back, marble edge.
               The numerous calls for a COMPLETE and cheap edition of this valuable work, have
                  induced us to newly stereotype it, in this form, corresponding in
                  style and price with our other books. Its thorough revisions have been committed
                  to competent hands, and will be found complete.
               There is no work in the English language that has been more generally read,
                  approved, and appreciated than THE SPECTATOR. It is a work that can be perused by
                  persons of all classes and conditions of society with equal pleasure and
                  profit.
               "One hundred and forty years ago, when there were no daily newspapers nor
                  periodicals, nor cheap fictions for the people, the Spectator had a daily
                  circulation in England. It was witty, pithy, tasteful, and at times vigorous, and
                  lashed the vices and follies of the age, and inculcated many useful lessons which
                  would have been disregarded from more serious sources. It was widely
                     popular."—Central Christian Herald.
               
               "APPLEGATE & CO., 43 Main street, have just published, in a handsome octavo
                  volume of 750 pages, one of the very best classics in our language. It would be
                  superfluous at this day to write a line in commendation of this work."—Cin.
                     Com.
               
               "There are few works, if any, in the English language that have been more highly
                  appreciated and generally read than the Spectator. It is in general circulation,
                  and continues a popular work for general reading. The chaste style of its
                  composition, and purity of its diction, has placed it high in rank among the
                  English classics."—St. Louis Republican.
               
               "It is a source of general satisfaction to hear of the republication of a work of
                  such standard merit as the Spectator. In these days, when the press teems with the
                  issue of ephemeral publications, to subserve the purpose of an hour, to enlist
                  momentary attention, and leave no improvement on the mind, or impression on the
                  heart—it is a cause of congratulation to see, now and then, coming from the press
                  such works as this; to last as it should, so long as a pure taste is cultivated or
                     esteemed."—Cincinnati Gazette.
               
               "Criticism upon the literary merits of the Spectator would be rather late and
                  superfluous at the present time. Steele, Addison and Swift are above criticism.
                  This edition is gotten up in style and form that will make it peculiarly
                  acceptable to the admirers of English literature. It is bound in one volume, with
                  copious notes of the contributors prefixed. The type is clear and elegant, the
                  paper good, and the binding excellently suitable for the
                     library."—Cincinnati Daily Times.
               
               "Amid the rush and whirl of this locomotive and high pressure age—amid the almost
                  breathless rage for the light and flimsy effusions with which the laboring press
                  is inundating the world, ADDISON, the immortal ADDISON—one of the most beautiful,
                  chaste, elegant, and instructive, as well as pleasing writers of the English
                  language, may be pushed aside or overlooked for a time, but the healthful mind,
                  satiated with the frothy productions of the times, will again return to such
                  authors as Addison, and enjoy with renewed zest the pleasing converse of such pure
                  and noble spirits."—Methodist Monthly.
               
            
            
               
               Plutarch's Lives,
               With Historical and Critical Notes, and a LIFE OF PLUTARCH. Illustrated with a
                  Portrait. 1 vol. royal 8vo., sheep, spring back, marbled edges.
               This edition has been carefully revised and corrected, and is printed upon
                  entirely new plates, stereotyped by ourselves, to correspond with our library
                  edition of Dick, etc.
               "Next in importance to a thorough knowledge of history, and in many respects fully
                  equal to it, is the study of well authenticated biography For this valuable
                  purpose, we know of no work extant superior to the fifty lives of Plutarch. It is
                  a rare magazine of literary and biographical knowledge. The eminent men whose
                  lives compose this work, constitute almost the entire of that galaxy of greatness
                  and brightness, which stretches across the horizon of the distant past, and casts
                  upon the present time a mild and steady lustre. Many of them are among the most
                  illustrious of the earth."—Nashville and Louisville Christian
                     Advocate.
               
               "No words of criticism, or of eulogy, need be spent on Plutarch's Lives. Every
                  body knows it to be the most popular book of biographies now extant in any known
                  language. It has been more read, by the youth of all nations, for the last four or
                  five centuries in particular, than any ever written. It has done more good, in its
                  way, and has been the means of forming more sublime resolutions, and even more
                  sublime characters, than any other work with which we are acquainted, except the
                  Bible. It is a better piece of property for a young man to own, than an eighty
                  acre lot in the Mississippi Valley, or many hundred dollars in current money. We
                  would rather leave it as a legacy to a son, had we to make the choice, than any
                  moderate amount of property, if we were certain he would read it. There are
                  probably but few really great men now living, that have not been largely indebted
                  to it for their early aspirations, in consequence of which they have achieved
                  their greatness."—Ladies' Repository.
               
               "No book has been more generally sought after, or read with greater
                     avidity."—Indiana State Sentinel.
               
               This is a magnificent 8vo., handsomely and substantially gotten up, in every
                  respect highly creditable to the enterprising house of Applegate & Co. Who has
                  not read Plutarch? for centuries it has occupied a commanding position in the
                  literature of the age. It needs no eulogy; the reading public know it to be one of
                  the most interesting, instructive and popular biographies now extant.—St.
                     Louis Republican.
               
               The Western public are under obligations to Messrs. Applegate & Co., of
                  Cincinnati, for the handsome and substantial manner in which they have recently
                  got up editions of several standard works. Dick's Works unabridged, Rollin's
                  Ancient History, and now Plutarch's Lives, attest the enterprise and good judgment
                  of this firm in their publishing department. To speak of the character and merits
                  of Plutarch, which the old and the young of several generations are familiar with,
                  would be presumptuous; but we can with propriety refer in terms of high
                  commendation to the manner in which this edition has been got up in every
                  department. The size is royal octavo, just right for the library. The paper is
                  good, the typography excellent, and the calf binding just as it should be, neat
                  and substantial. If this house continues as it has begun, it will soon have an
                  extended and enviable reputation for the character and style of its editions of
                  standard works, and it will deserve it.—Cincinnati Daily Times.
               
            
            
               The Tattler and Guardian.
               By ADDISON. STEELE, ETC., with an account of the authors, by Thos. Babbington
                  Macaulay. Illustrated with steel plate engravings. Complete in one volume, with
                  notes and general indexes.
               TATTLER AND GUARDIAN.—Addison and Steele never wrote
                  anything that was not good; but superlatively so is the Tattler and Guardian. In
                  conjunction with the Spectator, (and neither of them is complete
                  without the other) it affords a full view of English, as well as Continental
                  Society, one hundred and fifty years ago, and in a quaint and classic style
                  vividly portrays the follies and vices of the age. With pleasant humor, keen wit,
                  and bitter sarcasm, it overflows, and is entirely free from the nonsense and
                  commonplace twaddle and toadyism of much of the popular writings of the present
                  day. It would be superfluous for us to say that the style in which it is written
                  is chaste, classic and unique. No Library of Belles-Lettres is complete without
                  it, and no scholar can appreciate the beauties of the English language until he
                  has thoroughly studied the diction of Addison and Steele.
               The splendid series of articles contained in these journals, having such authors
                  as Addison, Steele and their associates, living through a century and a half, and
                  still retaining all their freshness, can not but make them in their present shape
                  sought after in every enlightened community.—Cincinnati Daily
                     Times.
               
               THE TATTLER AND GUARDIAN, whose capital Essays by Addison, Steele, Tickell and
                  others, long since placed the volume in the foremost rank among the English
                     classics.—Cincinnati Press.
               
               They were and are yet models of composition, almost indispensable to a thorough
                  knowledge of Belles-Lettres.—Cincinnati Enquirer.
               
               The writings of Addison, Steele and their associates have rarely been issued in a
                  form so well adapted for the general circulation which they
                     deserve—Cincinnati Gazette.
               
               As a collection of rich essays, in beautiful English, The TATTLER needs no
                  commendation from our pen.—Ohio State Journal.
               
               The publishers have done the public a good service by placing this fountain of
                  pure thought and pure English in a convenient form.—Western Christian
                     Advocate.
               
               No library is complete unless the TATTLER and GUARDIAN is on its shelves, and
                  every man of literary tastes regards its possession as a necessity.—Masonic
                     Review.
               
               TATTLER AND GUARDIAN.—Who has not heard of Addison and Steele, and where is the
                  scholar or lover of English Literature who has not read the Spectator? It is a
                  part of English literature that we could not afford to lose. The writings of such
                  men as Addison and Steele are good in any age. The book now before us is by the
                  same authors.—Ledger.
               
               Among all the flippant publications of the present day, in which there is an awful
                  waste of paper and ink, it is refreshing to see a reprint of a work of standard
                  merit such as the Tattler and Guardian. The criticisms of over a century have only
                  more clearly pointed out its merits and established its
                     reputation.—Democrat.
               
            
            
               
               Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History;
               Ancient and Modern, from the Birth of Christ to the beginning of the Eighteenth
                  Century, in which the rise, progress and variations of Church Power are considered
                  in their connection with the State of learning and philosophy, and the political
                  history of Europe during that period. Continued to the year 1826, by Charles
                  Coote, LL. D., 806 pages, quarto, sheep, spring back, marbled edge.
               This edition forms the most splendid volume of Church History ever issued from the
                  American Press; is printed with large type, on elegant paper, and altogether forms
                  the most accessible and imposing history of the Church that is before the
                     public.—Gospel Herald.
               
               This great standard history of the Church from the birth of Christ, has just been
                  issued in a new dress by the extensive publishing house of Applegate & Co.
                  Nothing need be said by us in relation to the merits or reliability of Mosheim's
                  History; it has long borne the approving seal of the Protestant
                     world.—Masonic Review.
               
               To the Christian world, next to the golden Bible itself, in value, is an accurate,
                  faithful, and life-like delineation of the rise and progress, the development and
                  decline of the Christian Church in all its varieties of sects and denominations,
                  their tenets, doctrines, manners, customs and government. Such a work is Mosheim's
                  Ecclesiastical History. Like "Rollin's History of the Ancients," it is the
                  standard, and is too well known to need a word of
                     comment.—Advocate.
               
               But little need be said of the history as a standard work. It has stood first on
                  the list of Church histories, from the day it became known to scholars, down to
                  the present time; and there is but little probability that any new one will soon
                  set it aside.—Beauty of Holiness.
               
               No Church History, particularly as it respects the external part of it, was ever
                  written, which was more full and reliable than this; and indeed, in all respects,
                  we opine, it will be a long time before it will be superseded.—Literary
                     Casket.
               
               Who has not felt a desire to know something more of the early history, rise and
                  progress of the Christian Church than can usually be found in the political
                  histories of the world? Mosheim's Church History, just published by our Western
                  Publishing House of Applegate & Co., contains just the information which every
                  believer in Christianity so much needs. It fills the space hitherto void in
                  Christian Literature, and furnishes a most valuable book for the student of
                  Christianity. Every clergyman and teacher, every Sunday School and household,
                  should have a copy of Mosheim's Church History.—Herald.
               
               The work is printed on beautiful whitepaper, clear large type, and is bound in one
                  handsome volume. No man ever sat down to read Mosheim in so pleasing a dress. What
                  a treat is such an edition to one who has been studying the elegant work in the
                  small, close print of other editions. Any one woh has not an ecclesiastical
                  history should secure a copy of this edition. It is not necessary for us to say
                  anything in relation to the merits of Mosheim's Church History. For judgment,
                  taste, candor, moderation, simplicity, learning, accuracy, order, and
                  comprehensiveness, it is unequaled. The author spared no pains to examine the
                  original authors and "genuine sources of sacred history," and to scrutinize all
                  the facts presented by the light of the "pure lamps of
                     antiquity."—Telescope, Dayton, O.
               
            
            
               Lorenzo Dow's Complete Works.
               The Dealings of God, Man and the Devil, as exemplified in the Life, Experience and
                  Travels of LORENZO DOW, in a period of over half a century, together with his
                  Polemic and Miscellaneous Writings complete. To which is added, THE VICISSITUDES
                  OF LIFE, by PEGGY DOW, with an Introductory Essay, by John Dowling, D. D., of New
                  York, MAKING THE BEST AND MOST COMPLETE EDITION PUBLISHED. 1 vol. 8vo., library
                  binding, spring back, marbled edge.
               
                  NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
                  Several editions of the Life and Works of Lorenzo Dow have been issued by
                     different publishers, but the most complete and accurate is the one published
                     by Applegate & Co., Cincinnati. After perusing it and reflecting on the
                     good he accomplished not mentioned in this volume, we came to the conclusion
                     that, if for the last hundred years, every minister had been a Lorenzo Dow, the
                     whole world would have been civilized, if not christianized, some time
                     since.
                  "No wonder that he was finally crucified at Georgetown, D. C., if it is true,
                     as reported in some quarters, he was poisoned by some enemies who followed him
                     to his retreat."
                  "Lorenzo Dow was not 'ONE,' but 'THREE' of them, a St. Paul in blessing souls—a
                     Washington in seeking the best interests of his country, and a Howard in
                     getting people out of the prison' of conservatism and oppression."
                  "We decide (ex cathedra) that one of the most
                     interesting works ever placed on our table is 'The Complete Works of Lorenzo
                     Dow,' embracing his travels in Europe and America, his polemic and poetical
                     writings and 'Journey of Life,' by his wife Peggy, who heroically accompanied
                     him in many of his peregrinations."
                  "Full as an egg is of meat, so was Lorenzo Dow of sparkling wit and genuine
                     good humor. He overflowed with anecdote like a bubbling fountain in a sandy
                     basin, and was never at a loss for a good and lively story where-with to
                     illustrate his subject and engage the attention of his hearers. His audience
                     ever listened with breathless attention, and drank in his sayings with wondrous
                     admiration and reverence. By some he was regarded as one of those special
                     messengers the Almighty sent in times of great dearth of godliness and piety,
                     to wake up the slumbering church. He evidently had his mission, and thousands
                     now living throughout the land can testify as to how he filled it.
                  "His life was one continuous scene of adventure and anecdote, ever varying, and
                     full of the life-giving power of enthusiasm. Spotless in purity, faultless in
                     heart, and wholly devoted to the cause he had espoused—the cause of
                     Christ."
                  "This is the best octavo edition of Dow's complete works now published. The
                     writings of this remarkable and eccentric man have been before the public for
                     years. They have been read by thousands. If not altogether unexceptionable,
                     they embrace many wholesome truths. Vice in all its forms is rebuked with
                     characteristic severity: his bitter sarcasm and cutting wit are employed in
                     many instances to good effect. His wife seems to have been a kindred spirit,
                     and both, with all their peculiar eccentricities, no doubt were truly devoted
                     Christians, doing what they sincerely believed to be for the spiritual good of
                     their fellow-beings, and the glory of God. Those who have not read this book
                     will find sufficient to instruct and interest them."
               
            
            
               
               Guizot's Gibbon's History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire;
               A new edition, revised and corrected throughout, preceded by a preface, and
                  accompanied by notes, critical and historical, relating principally to the
                  propagation of Christianity. By M. F. GUIZOT, Minister of Public Instruction for
                  the kingdom of France. The Preface, Notes and Corrections translated from the
                  French expressly for this edition—with a notice of the life and character of
                  Gibbon, and Watson's reply to Gibbon. In 2 vols. imperial 8vo., sheep, spring
                  back, marble edge.
               We are pleased to see a republication of Guizot's Gibbon, with the notes, which
                  have never before been republished in English. Gibbon, so far as we know, stands
                  alone in filling up the historical space between the Roman Cæsars and the revival
                  of literature.—Cincinnati Chronicle.
               
               While there are numbers of Historians of the early days of the great Empire,
                  Gibbon stands almost alone as the historian of its fall. The present edition, with
                  the notes of Guizot, is a treasure of literature that will be highly prized.
               The vices of the Roman Empire, that like the vipers in the bosom of Cleopatra,
                  caused her destruction, are traced from their first inception, and should act as
                  beacon-lights on the shores of time, to guide other nations that are following in
                  her footsteps.
            
            
               Altisonant Letters.
               Letters from Squire Pedant in the East, to Lorenzo Altisonant, an emigrant to the
                  West, for the Benefit of the Inquisitive Young. 1 vol. 12mo., cloth.
               The publishers of the following letters do not present them as models of style,
                  but as a pleasant means of obtaining the meaning of the greater part of the
                  unusual words of the English language, on the principle of "association of ideas."
                  In the column of a dictionary there is no connection between the definition of
                  words, consequently, the committed definitions are soon lost to the pupil. By
                  placing in such a juxtaposition as to form some kind of sense, the learner will
                  the more readily retain the meaning of the word used
               
                  TO THE YOUNGSTERS. BY THE AUTHOR.
                  YOUNG FRIENDS:—Some one has said "that words not understood are like uncracked
                     nuts—the lusciousness of the kernel is not enjoyed." Believing this to be so,
                     and thinking that there are now many uncracked nuts in the English language,
                     the author went up into old John Walker's garret, and gathered "lots" of old
                     and hard nuts, and brought them down for you, and then he went into old Noah's
                     ark—he means old Noah Webster's dictionary—and gathered many more, and by the
                     assistance of Mr. Altisonant, placed them in the "letter-basket," with the
                     hammer, the dictionary, laid side by side. Will you take up the hammer and
                     crack the nuts, and enjoy the kernel? Try it. Your friend, S. K. HOSHOUR.
                  A rare book this, and rare amusement it will afford to the reader.—Daily
                        Times.
                  
               
            
            
               Farmer's Hand Book;
               Being a full and complete Guide for the Farmer and Emigrant, comprising the
                  clearing of Forest and Prairie land, Gardening and Farming generally. Farriery,
                  and the prevention and cure of diseases, with copious Hints, Receipts and Tables.
                  12mo., cloth.
               The publishers are gratified that they are enabled to satisfy the universal demand
                  for a volume which comprises a mass of superior material, derived from the most
                  authentic sources and protracted research.
               The contents of the "Farmer's Hand Book" comprise about fifteen
                     hundred points of information respecting the management of a Farm, from
                  the first purchase and clearing of the land, to all its extensive details and
                  departments. The necessary conveniences, the household economy, the care of
                  animals, the preservation of domestic health, the cultivation of fruits, with the
                  science and taste of the arborist, and the production of the most advantageous
                  articles for sale, are all displayed in a plain, instructive and mos-satisfactory
                  manner, adapted peculiarly to the classes of citizens for whose use and benefit
                  the work is specially designed. Besides a general outline of the Constitution,
                  with the Naturalization and Preëmption Laws of the United States, there is
                  appended a Miscellany of 120 pages, including a rich variety of advice, hints and
                  rules, the study and knowledge of which will unspeakably promote both the comfort
                  and welfare of all who adopt and practice them.
               The Farmer's Hand Book is a handsomely bound work of 478 pages. It treats of
                  farming in all its various departments, buildings, fences, household and culinary
                  arrangements, diseases of Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Swine, etc., etc., and gives the
                  remedies suited to each. It has a valuable treatise on the use of medicine, with
                  hints for the preservation of health and the treatment of wounds, accidents, etc.,
                  and also contains a vast amount of valuable receipts, tables and facts, to aid the
                  male and female in this important business of life. No farmer can fail to be
                  benefited by reading this work.—Valley Agriculturist.
               
               Though this book has been before the public a few years, it will prove a useful,
                  instructive treatise on a great variety of interesting subjects to the farmer and
                  emigrant to a new country. Its hints upon farming interests must be valuable to
                  the agriculturist. Agriculture is now to a very great extent reduced to a science,
                  and all the reliable information touching that branch of industry is appreciated
                  by a large portion of the farming population. This work will be of great service
                  to them.—O' Fallon Polytechnic Institute.
               
               "The Farmer's Hand-Book is a collection of facts, hints, receipts, and really
                  valuable information, which should be in the hands of every farmer in the land. We
                  find in it directions for purchasing and clearing timber land, prairie farming,
                  hints on the general management of a farm, for the construction of buildings and
                  fences, a treatise on the dairy, also a household department, comprising all kinds
                  of cookery."—Clarksville Jeffersonian.
               
            
            
               
               Dick's Theology.
               Lectures on Theology. By the late Rev. JOHN DICK, D. D., Minister of the United
                  Associate Congregation, Grayfriar, Glasgow, and Professor of Theology in the
                  United Session Church. Published under the superintendence of his Son. With a
                  Biographical Introduction. By an American Editor. With a Steel Portrait of Dr.
                  Dick.
               "We recommend this work in the very strongest terms to the Biblical student. It
                  is, as a whole, superior to any other system of theology in our language. As an
                  elementary book, especially fitted for those who are commencing the study of
                  divinity, it is unrivaled."—Christian Keepsake.
               
               "This is a handsome octavo of 600 pages, published in uniform style with the other
                  valuable standard works of Applegate & Co. It contains a thorough and
                  enlightened view of Christian Theology, in which the author presents in beautiful,
                  simple and forcible style, the evidences of authenticity of the sacred text, the
                  existence and attributes of the Deity, the one only and unchangeable God The fall
                  of man, and its consequences, and the restoration of the fallen through the
                  intercession of the Crucified. It is one of the most simple and yet elevated of
                  works devoted to sacred subjects."—Literary Casket.
               
               "The lecturer, throughout, displays an extensive and a most accurate knowledge of
                  the great variety of important topics which come before him. His system has all
                  the advantages of fair proportion: there is nothing neglected, and nothing
                  overlooked. His taste is correct and pure, even to severity; nothing is admitted,
                  either in language or in matter, that can not establish the most indisputable
                  right to be so; hence, he is alike lucid in his arrangement, and perspicuous in
                     style."—Christian Instructor.
               
               "We consider these Lectures as no small accession to our Theological literature,
                  and would cordially recommend them to the perusal, not merely of the professional
                  divine, but also to the general reader. They are characterized throughout by a
                  clear and perspicuous style, by tasteful illustration, by fervent, manly piety, by
                  candor and perfect fairness in stating the opinions of all from whom he differs,
                  and by a modest and firm defense of 'the truth as it is in Jesus.' The most
                  intricate doctrines are unfolded with admirable tact."—Presbyterian
                     Review.
               
               "Few men of the present day appear to have united more requisites for the office
                  of Theological Lecturer. As a theologian, we are told, Dr. Dick was distinguished
                  by the strictness with which he adhered to the great Protestant rule of making the
                  Bible, in its plain meaning, the source of his religious creed, and the basis of
                  his theological system. The intellectual excellence for which he was chiefly
                  remarkable, was that of conceiving clearly; which, when united, as in him, with
                  acuteness and a sound judgment, must be peculiarly useful in theological
                  investigations. To these high requisites, he added a very correct taste, dignified
                  manners, gentleness of heart, and fervent piety, such as rendered him an object of
                  affectionate veneration to his pupils, and of no ordinary attachment to his
                  friends. We can not conclude this notice of so valuable a work, without cordially
                  recommending it to our readers."—Eclectic Magazine.
               
               "On every subject which he discusses, Dr. Dick may safely be trusted as a
                  Scriptural guide. He always thinks for himself, displaying a mind of much
                  acuteness, enriched with extensive information, imbued with the deepest reverence
                  for the authority of scripture. His taste is pure, and his style obviously formed
                  upon the finest models,"—Christian Journal.
               
            
            
               Gathered Treasures From the Mines of Literature.
               Containing Tales, Sketches, Anecdotes and Gems of Thought, Literary and Moral,
                  Pleasing and Instructive. Illustrated with steel engravings. 8vo., embossed sheep,
                  colored, marbled edge.
               To furnish a volume of miscellaneous literature, both pleasing and instructive,
                  has been the object of the editor in compiling this work, as well as to supply, to
                  some extent at least, the place that is now occupied by publications which few
                  will deny, are of a questionable moral tendency.
               It has been the intention to make this volume a suitable traveling and fireside
                  companion, profitably engaging the leisure moments of the former, and adding an
                  additional charm to the glow of the latter; to blend amusement with instruction,
                  pleasure with profit, and to present an extensive garden of vigorous and useful
                  plants, and beautiful and fragrant flowers, among which perchance, there may be a
                  few of inferior worth, though none of utter inutility. While it is not exclusively
                  a religious book, yet it contains no article that may not be read by the most
                  devoted Christian.
               "How important to place within the reach of the people such books that will
                  instruct the mind, cheer the heart, and improve the understanding—books that are
                  rich in the three grand departments of human knowledge—literature, morals and
                  religion. Such a book is 'Gathered Treasures.' We can cheerfully recommend it to
                     all."—Intelligencer.
               
               "A book of general merit, diversified yet truly rich and valuable in its
                  interests; thrilling in many of its incidents; instructive in principle, and
                  strictly moral in its tendency."—Cin. Temperance Organ.
               
               "This is both an instructive and entertaining book, from which many a sparkling
                  gem of thought may be culled. Its vast range of subjects affords both pleasure and
                  instruction. It is a book of pastime, and time not usually lost in its
                     perusal."—St. Louis Democrat.
               
               "GATHERED TREASURES FROM THE MINES OF LITERATURE."—As its title imports, it is a
                  suitable traveling and fireside companion, profitably engaging the leisure moments
                  of the former, and adding an additional charm to the cheerful glow of the latter.
                  It blends amusement with instruction and pleasure with profit.—Freeport
                     (Ill.) Bulletin.
               
               GATHERED TREASURES FROM THE MINES OF LITERATURE.—The above is the title of an
                  excellent work now publishing by the well-known firm of Applegate & Co. It is
                  certainly one of rare merit, and well calculated for a rapid and general
                  circulation. Its contents present an extensive variety of subjects, and these not
                  only carefully but judiciously selected and arranged in appropriate departments.
                  It is a work of pleasing and instructive character, free from all sectarian bias
                  and impure tendencies, and designed to supplant, in part the light literature, or
                  what is more appropriate, the ephemeral trash of the day. Its contents have also
                  been highly spoken of by men of distinguished literary acumen, both Editors and
                  Ministers of various Christian denominations. We cheerfully recommend it to the
                  attention and patronage of the public.—Cincinnati Times.
               
            
            
               
               Webb's Freemason's Monitor;
               By THOMAS SMITH WEBB. A new edition, printed on fine paper, large and clear type,
                  beautifully and symbollically illustrated—containing all the Degrees from Entered
                  Apprentice to Knights of Malta, together with a Sketch of the Origin of Masonry.
                  Government of the Fraternity, Ceremony of Opening and Closing the Lodge, with full
                  directions for Instituting and Installing all Masonic Bodies. To which is added A
                  MONITOR OF THE ANCIENT AND ACCEPTED RITE, containing ample Illustrations of all
                  the Grades from Secret Master to Sovereign Grand Inspector General, including the
                  series of Eleven Grades known as the INEFFABLE DEGREES, arranged according to the
                  work practiced under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the Thirty-third
                  Degree. By E. T. CARSON.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              CINCINNATI, O.
                           
                           GENTLEMEN:—Having carefully examined your new edition of "Webb's
                              Freemason's Monitor," we find it to correspond with the system of work
                              as now adopted in all the Masonic bodies in the United States, and we
                              take great pleasure in recommending it to the Craft throughout the
                              country, as being the most useful and well arranged practical Manual
                              of Freemasonry that we have yet seen.
                           
                              D. H. MEARS, W. M of N. C. Harmony Lodge, No. 2.
                              WILLIAM SEE, W. M. of Miami Lodge, No. 46.
                              J. M. PARKS, W M. of Lafayette Lodge, No. 81.
                              HOWARD MATTHEWS, W. M. of Cincinnati Lodge, No. 133.
                              C. MOORE W. M. of McMillan Lodge, No. 141.
                              E. T. CARSON, W. M. of Cynthia Lodge, No. 155.
                              ANDREW PFIRRMANN, W. M. of Hanselmann Lodge, No. 208.
                              WM. C. MIDDLETON, H. P. of Cincinnati R. A. Chapter, No.
                                 2.
                              CHAS. BROWN. H. P. of McMillan R. A. Chapter, No. 19.
                              C. F. HANSELMANN, G. C. of Cincinnati Encampment, No.
                                 3.
                           
                        
                        
                           The admirable arrangement of the emblems of Masonry in your edition of
                              Webb's Freemason's Monitor, makes the work complete, and I am much
                              pleased to say it meets my entire approved.
                           
                              HORACE M. STOKES, Grand Master of Ohio.
                           
                        
                        
                           The language, charges, etc., I have used in all my Masonic work, and
                              would not change under any circumstances. I freely recommend the
                              "Monitor" to be adopted and used in my jurisdiction.
                           
                              SOLOMON P. BAYLESS, Grand Master of Masons in
                                 Indiana.
                           
                        
                        
                           GENTLEMEN:—I have looked over your "Webb's Freemason's Monitor," and
                              am much pleased with the general arrangement of our Rituals, and the
                              several Lectures, Charges and Lessons; and do most cheerfully
                              recommend the "Monitor" as the best hand-book of Masonry I have ever
                              seen.
                           
                              Yours respectfully,
                              JACOB GRAFF, P. G. H. P.
                              Of the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons of the State of
                                 Ohio.
                           
                        
                        
                           I have carefully examined the Webb and Carson Monitors which you have
                              just published, and feel constrained to say that in its mechanical
                              execution and arrangement it will add much to the already high
                              reputation of yours as a publishing house.
                           
                              W. B. DODDS, P. G. M. of Ohio.
                           
                        
                        
                           We can not too strongly recommend to the Craft the above named book—it
                              is an indispensable work to Royal Arch Masons particularly, but no
                              Freemason of any degree ought to be without a copy. It is a standard
                              Masonic work of the highest reputation.—Mirror and Keystone,
                                 Philadelphia.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               Elements of the German Language;
               A Practical Manual for acquiring the art of reading, speaking and composing
                  German. By THEODORE SODEN, Professor of the German Language and Literature, at the
                  Woodward and Hughes' High Schools of Cincinnati. 1 vol. 12mo., half cloth.
               From A. H. McGuffey, Esq. "The work is very complete in embracing all the more
                  important grammatical rules and terms, (with copious exercises under each), and
                  omitting only such as by their minuteness and complication, would tend rather to
                  confuse than assist the beginner. It everywhere bears the marks of most careful
                  preparation, and is evidently the work of an experienced practical teacher."
               From Judge J. B. Stallo. "Professor Soden has most skillfully selected and
                  arranged his exercises. The book, though of unpretending form, has by no means
                  disappointed the expectations which the eminence of Prof. Soden as a scholar and a
                  teacher had caused me to entertain, and I cheerfully recommend it as the most
                  valuable introduction to the study of German which has fallen under my
                  notice."
               From Rev. William Nast. "Mr. Soden's work is truly superior, original and the
                  fruit of successful experience in teaching. A peculiar recommendation of it is,
                  that the student can make immediate practical use of every lesson he learns, for
                  instance, one of the primary lessons consists in a concise and entertaining
                  dialogue on the principal grammatical rules. The subject-matter of the exercises
                  is chosen with great care, in view of gradual progression, and refers not to
                  imaginary, useless objects, but to the real concerns, relations, business and
                  interests of social and civil American life, and is, therefore, interesting for
                  the student. Of especial use are also the strictly progressive exercises in
                  translating from English into German."
               From Ph. J. Klund, Prof. of Modern Languages at Farmer's College, Hamilton County,
                  Ohio. "If a long experience and numerous experiments give some claim to a
                  downright opinion, we do not hesitate to pronounce this book the
                  best, the most practical, the most judicious, and within the limits of a school
                  book, the most complete English-German Grammar yet published."
               From Rev. Wm. G. W. Lewis. Prof. at the Wesleyan Female College, Cin'ti. "I
                  particularly admire the easy gradations by which the student is led on from that
                  which is simple and readily understood, to that which is more difficult. I find in
                  it an unusual amount of that which is ordinarily the unwritten grammar of the
                  language, that part I mean which is usually left to the skill and care of the
                  student, and which, on that very account, is often denied to the student.
               I therefore consider your work well calculated to secure the great end at which I
                  know well you have aimed in its preparation, namely, a comprehensive and scholarly
                  mastery of the German language."
               From Dr. J. S. Unzicker, Cincinnati. "This work has been compiled with great care
                  and judgment, and is far more comprehensive and practical than any similar work I
                  know of. It is well adapted for the use of our High Schools, and especially for
                  those of English parentage, who wish to study the German language."
            
            
               
               Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Daniel Drake,
               Physician, Professor and Author, with notices of the early settlement of
                  Cincinnati, and some of its pioneer citizens, with a steel portrait of Dr. Drake.
                  By E. D. MANSFIELD, LL. D. 1 vol. 12mo.
               Dr. Drake was an extraordinary man. Talents of no ordinary character, developed by
                  unceasing industry, raised him from comparative obscurity and placed him amongst
                  the most eminent and scientific men. He was at the same time one of the most
                  sincere, humble, spiritual disciples of Christ. As an eminent Physician and as a
                  man of general scientific attainments, he has contributed largely to the stock of
                  useful knowledge. As a Christian, he was a "burning and shining light."—St.
                     Louis Republican.
               
               We are deeply indebted to Mr. Mansfield and Messrs. Applegate & Co., for this
                  timely book, putting on record the life and wonderful exertions of one whom we
                  have ever been taught to cherish with sincerest admiration while living, and for
                  whose memory in death we cultivate the most profound veneration.—Templar's
                     Magazine.
               
               Medical science in the West is largely indebted to Dr. Drake. Almost
                  self-educated, he arrived at Cincinnati at the age of fifteen, and was there
                  instructed in the art of healing by Dr. Goforth, a physician of the old school.
                  Drake was the first student of medicine in Cincinnati, and was so apt a pupil that
                  at the age of eighteen he became his instructor's partner.—New York
                     Times.
               
               This will be an acceptable book everywhere in the West, as a record of the
                  enterprise and successful labors of one of the most eminent men and earliest
                     settlers.—Cincinnati Times.
               
            
            
               Christianity.
               As exemplified in the Conduct of its Sincere Professors.
               By the Rev. W. SECKER. 12mo., embossed cloth.
               This is a book of rare merit, full of thought-exciting topics, and is particularly
                  valuable as an aid to Christian devotion.
               This is a reprint of a quaint old English book, entitled "The None-Such Professor
                  in his Meridian Splendor." It abounds in pithy sentences and suggestive
                  expressions, and should be read by such as wish to put a spur to
                     thought.—Madison Courier.
               
               This is a book of more than ordinary merit, and may be made a valuable assistant
                  to the Christian, as he strives to grow in grace. It has its foundation on Mat. v.
                  47, "What do ye more than others."—Beauty of Holiness.
               
               This is a book every professor of religion ought to procure and read. We predict
                  for it a large circulation and a useful mission among men.—Brookville
                     American.
               
               Popular Christianity and Christianity exemplified by its sincere professors are
                  two entirely different things, and we hazard nothing in saying that a studious
                  perusal of this little book will add its share in producing the latter.
               From Rev. W. R. Babcock. This is a most charming work on practical religion. It is
                  a treatise of more than ordinary merit as an aid to Christian virtue and devotion.
                  It abounds with living thought, and may be read at all times with religious
                  profit.
            
            
               The Lord's Prayer Explained,
               In which the terms are defined and the text carefully considered. By Rev. A. A.
                  JIMESON, M. D. 12mo., embossed cloth.
               This is a volume of rare excellence, written in the author's usual style of great
                  beauty and elegance. It sparkles with gems of elevated thought, and abounds in the
                  most happy illustrations of the great philosophical bearings of the several
                  petitions of the Lord's Prayer.
               This work abounds in fervent piety, clothed in elegant and attractive language,
                  and can not be read without profit, unless the reader is wholly lost to all the
                  better feelings of his nature.—Jeffersonian.
               
               So simple is the verbal formation of this prayer and so simple are the several
                  petitions it contains as they appear to the careless reader, that its profound
                  depth and sublime instructions are too often overlooked. The book is a gem for a
                  Christian's library.—Cincinnati Daily Times.
               
               This is an interesting practical exposition of the various petitions, etc., in the
                  Lord's Prayer. It is well calculated to instruct the minds and quicken the hearts
                  of Christians, and being a Western book—a home book, it will, no doubt, have a
                  wide circulation, and do much good.—Christian Herald.
               
               This is a charming and most excellent digest of this inimitable portion of God's
                     Word.—St. Louis Sentinel.
               
               No person can read the book without profit, and infancy, maturity and old age
                  would alike be benefited by its perusal.—Masonic Review.
               
               It is just the volume to present to a child or a friend, in whose mind you would
                  desire at once to incite and answer the question, "Teach me how to
                     pray."—Journal and Messenger.
               
            
            
               Notes on the Twenty-five Articles of Religion,
               As received and taught by Methodists in the United States, in which the doctrines
                  are carefully considered and supported by the testimony of the Holy Scriptures. By
                  Rev. A. A. JIMESON, M. D. With a portrait of the author. 12mo., embossed
                  cloth.
               This book contains a clear exposition of the doctrines of the Articles, and of the
                  errors against which the Articles were directed, written in a popular style, and
                  divided into sections, for the purpose of presenting each doctrine and its
                  opposite error in the most prominent manner.
               From the Rev. John Miller. It is a book for the Methodist and for the age—a
                  religious multum in parvo—combining sound
                  theology with practical religion. It should be found in every Methodist
                  family.
               The style is clear and forcible, the illustrations are just, the arguments sound.
                  The author has performed a good and useluf work for all the Methodist bodies in
                  the world; as his book will furnish a very satisfactory exposition of the leading
                  doctrines of Methodism.—Western Christian Advocate.
               
               We have looked carefully over this volume, and find it to be truly what it
                  purports to be.—Cincinnati Daily Times.
               
               A timely aid to the private Christian and to the pulpit.—Boston
                     Herald.
               
            
            
               
               Religious Courtship;
               Or Marriage on Christian principles.
               By DANIEL DEFOE, author of "The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe," &c,,
                  &c. 12mo., cloth.
               Who has not read Robinson Crusoe? It has fascinated every boy, and stimulated his
                  first taste for reading. Defoe has been equally happy in this present work, in
                  interesting those of riper years, at an age (Shakspeare's age of the lover) when
                  the mind is peculiarly susceptible of impressions. Altho but few copies of this
                  work have ever been circulated in America, yet it has a popularity in England
                  co-extensive with his unparalleled "Crusoe."
               Young persons should by all means read it, and with particular attention, for it
                  furnishes important directions relative to the most important act of
                     life.—Masonic Review.
               
               Who would have thought that the author of "Robinson Crusoe" could have written
                  such a book as this; but it seems he did so.—Jour. and Mess.
               
               We commend it to all whom it may concern.—Albany Argus.
               
               The subject is one of great importance, and it is suggestive of valuable
                     counsel.—Rev. Wm. R. Babcock.
               
               This book is of rare excellence. The best of instruction and counsel are given in
                  a very attractive and pleasing form.—Miami Visitor.
               
            
            
               Universalism against itself;
               Or, an Examination and Refutation of the Principal Arguments claimed in support of
                  the final Holiness and Happiness of Mankind. By ALEXANDER HALL. Revised and
                  corrected by W. P. Strickland, D. D. 12mo., cloth.
               This work contains a vigorous and earnest remonstrance against the doctrines of
                  universal salvation. It is characterized by great perspicuity and
                     directness.—Albany Argus.
               
               It is better than any volume of debates on the same subject and should be in the
                  hands of every minister, or others investigating the subject.—Beauty of
                     Holiness.
               
               This volume is not only valuable to the general reader, but is excellent as a
                  reference book, and should be in the hands of every person who lives in a region
                  troubled by the heresy of Universalism.—Nashville and Louisville Christian
                     Advocate.
               
               This work will certainly prove a burr in the hands of Universalists who take it
                  up. It is that species of warfare, by which combatants seize upon an ene my's park
                  of artillery and turn it against them.—Journal and Messenger.
               
               Those who are almost persuaded to become Universalists, or have been entangled in
                  their net, will do well to peruse this book. It will of course, do them no harm,
                  even if Universalism be true.—Daily News.
               
               From Rev. W. R. Babcock. We can commend this book to those who wish to study the
                  subject upon which it treats. It is a book for the people devoid of metaphysical
                  abstractions to bewilder the mind and neutralize the force of Scripture
                  authority.
            
            
               Methodism Explained and Defended,
               By Rev. JOHN S. INSKIP. This is an exposition and defense of the polity of
                  Methodism, giving a brief history of its introduction, in England and America, and
                  contains a large and valaable collection of statistics, connected with the
                  progress of the Church in various sections of the country. 12mo., embossed
                  cloth.
               If any one without, or within, the compass of that branch of the Christian Church,
                  wishes to know what Methodism really is, as viewed and taught by a progressive,
                  liberal-minded man, this is the book to meet his wants. But what we especially
                  like in this book is the fearless and just estimate which the author puts upon
                  such things as are deemed non-essential, in the economy of the Church. He has had
                  the courage to stand up and speak face to face with ecclesiastical authority,
                  truths which others have only dared to think.—Dayton Journal.
               
               We have read this book with no ordinary interest, and on the whole, rejoice in its
                  appearance for several reasons—First. It is a concise and powerful defense of
                  every essential feature of Methodism, now-a-days so much assailed by press and
                  pulpit. Second, The general plan and character of the work are such, that it will
                  be read and appreciated by the great masses of our people who are not familiar
                  with more extended and elaborate works. Third, It is highly conservative and
                  practical in its tendencies and will eminently tend to create liberal views and
                  mutual concession between the ministry and laity for the good of the whole—a
                  feature in our economy never to be overlooked. Fourth, This work is not written to
                  advocate some local or neighborhood prejudice; neither to confute some particular
                  heresy or assault; but its views are peculiarly denominational and comprehensive,
                  indicating the careful and wide observation of the author—free from bigotry and
                  narrow prejudice.—Herald and Journal.
               
            
            
               Home for the Million;
               Or, Gravel Wall Buildings.
               This is one of the most desirable books published, for all who contemplate
                  erecting dwellings or out-houses, as the cost is not over one-third that of Brick
                  or Frame, and quite as durable. Illustrated with numerous plans and cut of the
                  author's residence, with full directions, that every man may be his own builder.
                  12mo., cloth.
               The process is simple and easy, and the walls once built, become as hard as common
                  rock, and are impervious to the corrodings of time, and the peltings of the
                  inclement storm, as well as the ravages of fire; beside, it is said that this
                  method of building is cheaper by one-half than brick, stone, or frame buildings,
                  and the inner walls never get a damp, as brick and stone often do. The plan has
                  been successfully tested by the author and many others.—Railroad
                     Record.
               
               This book is a treasure to every man who desires to have a house of his own,
                  comfortable and durable, without costing a fortune. Every one intending building
                  should by this book: it will be worth to him a hundred times its cost, before he
                  is done building.—Masonic Review.
               
               Any man who had sufficient genius when a boy to mould a sand oven over his naked
                  foot, can construct the walls of one of these houses.—Aurora
                     Standard.
               
            
            
               
               Peterson's Familiar Science;
               Or the scientific explanation of common things.
               The pages of "Familiar Science" are its best recommendation. The common phenomena
                  of life are treated of in a simple and intelligible manner, which renders it both
                  pleasing and instructive. In the family circle, as a text-book, it will form the
                  basis of an hour's interesting conversation, and in the hands of the pupil it will
                  be a valuable aid in the acquisition of useful knowledge.
               This is a work of rare merit. It should be in every family, for more information
                  can be gained from it, than from half the books afloat. We most heartily commend
                  it to the public.—Masonic Review.
               
               How often have we heard parents rebuke a child for asking what they term "silly
                  questions," when they were unable to answer their artless inquiries. This little
                  work is designed to explain many of these things.—Odd Fellow's Literary
                     Casket.
               
               The above manual of science should be in the hands of every youth in the
                     land.—Parlor Magazine.
               
               About two thousand questions, on all subjects of general information, are answered
                  in language so plain that all may understand it.—Home Gazette.
               
               This is really a valuable book, and furnishes more useful and practical
                  information than can be obtained from many volumes of profoundly abstruse
                     works.—Genius of the West.
               
            
            
               Temperance Musician;
               A choice selection of original and selected Temperance Music, arranged for one,
                  two, three or four voices, with an extensive variety of Temperance Songs. 1 vol.
                  32mo.
               It contains a great number of tunes and melodies which win the hearts of all the
                  people, and which the boys in their happy moments sing and whistle as it were
                     spontaneously.—Springfield Western Leader.
               
               We think it, so far as we have examined it, the best collection of songs we have
                  seen. Some of them are exceedingly beautiful and affecting.—Temperance
                     Chart.
               
               We have examined the Temperance Musician, and have no hesitation in recommending
                  it to the public as a valuable work. The tunes seem to be excellent, and the songs
                  are of the best.—Indianapolis Christian Record.
               
               This is a popular Temperance Song book, designed for the people, and should be in
                  every family. We can recommend it to the patronage of all our temperance friends,
                  as the best temperance songster, with music attached, we have
                     seen.—Cincinnati Commercial.
               
               It is the best collection of Temperance songs and music we have
                     seen.—Summit Beacon.
               
               It strikes us as being just the thing for the times and the vacuum it is intended
                  to fill. Temperance songs, with music to suit, will do much to keep temperance
                  feeling alive, particularly with lovers of music.—Maine Law
                     Messenger.
               
            
         
      
   
