
    ----CITATION----
        B., A. R.. Agnes Arlington .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5547 wright2-0029A
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
            
               AGNES ARLINGTON:
               OR LIFE, TIMES, TROUBLES, TRIBULATIONS, AND SAD END OF AGNES ARLINGTON, THE COTTON PLANTER'S DAUGHTER, A BEAUTIFUL AND ACCOMPLISHED YOUNG LADY FROM GEORGIA WHOSE BODY WAS FOUND FLOATING IN THE NORTH RIVER, A FEW MILES ABOVE NEW YORK, A FEW WEEKS SINCE.
               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL NARRATIVE.
            
            EDITED BY REV. A. R. B.
            
            THE WHOLE COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.
            PUBLISHED BY A.R. ORTON:
               BALTIMORE, PHILADELPHIA, NEW YORK AND BUFFALO.
               1854.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                  AGNES ARLINGTON.
               
               Entered according to the Act of Congress in the year 1853, by A. R. ORTON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States of the 
                  Norther
                  Northern
                District of New York.
            
         
         
            PROLOGUE
            IT is with no common feelings that I undertake to be my own biographer. But despair gives courage to the weak, 
                  
                     "So farewell hope, and with hope, farewell fear;
                     Farewell remorse; all good to me is lost."
                  
                Alas! that it should come to this! Woe! Woe! Woe! On whichsoever side I turn my eyes, nothing but woe stares me in the face. All, all, is chaotic darkness; not a glimmer of light shines forth in the horizon of my existence, but an impenetrable gloom covers me as with a pall, shutting out even hope, which is the last friend to take its leave of the despairing soul.
            It was not always thus with me. There was a time, I remember me of, when I was as happy as yonder lamb that skips so merrily, in all the happiness and joyousness of its nature, through those green fields. But a change has come over the spirit of my young dreams, and the incubus of fate has made the angelic fairies of my sweet imaginings, take the shape of furies and demons.
            Ah, me! what changes a few short years will work in the destinies of all. What are our joys but dreams and what our hopes but goodly shadows in a summer's cloud? So long as we have hope, there is not a wind that blows, but bears with it some rainbow promise that buoys up the despairing soul, and keeps it from sinking into the "slough of despond." But take that sheet anchor from the soul, and it is like yonder blasted bough by lightning riven—perfection, beauty, life, from that time, henceforth, and forever, it can never know. It is so with me.
            Oh! my mother earth! 
                  
                     "And thou, fresh breaking day! and you, ye mountains
                     Why are ye beautiful! I cannot love ye!
                     And thou, the bright eye of the universe,
                     That open'st over all, and unto all
                     Art a delight—thou shin'st not on my heart!"
                  
                Yes, despair has taken up its abode with me, and life has become a grievous burden, too grievous to be borne much longer. I long to see that "undiscovered country, from whose bourne no traveler returns," for my brain is peopled with the furies, and I long to escape their tormentings.
            Beyond, I know full well, is all abyss—eternity, whose end no eye can reach—and I also know that the gospel especially prohibits "suicide." But what can I do? Echo answers, what? I have gnashed my teeth in darkness till returning morn, then prayed for madness till sunset, but it is denied me, and I see no other remedy for my many ills, than an easy death by drowning. But before taking the fatal plunge, I thought I could do no less than write my life, in order that all may know who, and what I am; how I came to be possessed of so much misery, etc., etc.; which, when they have read, will, I feel persuaded, incline them to have pity and compassion for the miserable being that I am. And now for my sad history.
         
      
      
         
            Agnes Arlington, or, Life, times, troubles, tribulations, and sad end of Agnes Arlington, the cotton planter's daughter... an autobiographical narrative
            AGNES ARLINGTON.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           A spirit pure as hers
                           Is always pure, even while it errs,—
                           As sunshine broken in the rill,
                           Though turn'd aside, is sunshine still.
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               I WAS born in Augusta, Ga., July 26, 1828, and am of no plebeian origin, for our family was considered one of the first families of Georgia.
               My father was a wealthy cotton planter, and owned a very large plantation not many miles from Augusta. Being the scion of a noble house, at the age of two and twenty he wooed and won the hand and heart of my mother, who was the daughter of a neighboring planter.
               The second year after their union, I came into the world as a pledge of their love, and was placed under the care of an old, affectionate and faithful nurse, by the name of Betsey, who had been the nurse of my mother before me.
               Under Betsey's kind and watchful care, I waxed strong, and grew in years and in stature. When I had arrived at the age of six years, a young lady from the North, by the name of Marilla Porter, was engaged as governess, and I was placed under her tuition.
               Marilla was a lovely girl, of exquisite form, having been cast in nature's most perfect mold. In stature, five feet five inches, hair of a dark auburn color, and which hung gracefully in long ringlets down her alabaster neck; eyes gazelle-like, and shaded by long silken lashes; nose neither Grecian or Roman, but of exquisite mold; lips neither thick or thin, but full and ripe like the cherries in harvest; teeth like pearls; chin beautiful; neck with a most lovely arch; complexion a beautiful blonde; and a bust that would delight a sculptor to behold but once. Such was the lady that was engaged to be my governess, and no better
               
            
            
               [CHAPTER II.]
               
                  
                   was sent, two years after the death of poor Marilla, to finish the education so hopefully begun under her tuition.
               At this school, in capacity of first assistant, was Miss Matilda A——, one of the sweetest dispositioned persons I have ever met. She was very much like Marilla, in looks, words, and actions, always ready and willing to oblige you: never thought she was doing too much for you; but on the contrary, was delighted when she could be of any service to you, and let her meet you when or where she would, she would have a bewitching smile and a soft word for you.
               I considered myself peculiarly fortunate in making the acquaintance of such a sweet young lady, and I soon came to love her devotedly, and felt happy in the thought that my affection for her was known and appreciated.
               About three months after we had become warm friends, one evening just at twilight, Matilda came running up to me in a most joyous mood, with a letter in her hand, which she said she had just received from her brother, who was then in Connecticut, but that he would pay her a visit before many weeks. Then clasping one arm around my waist, she led me to an arbor in the grounds belonging to the institution, where we seated ourselves, and she commenced and gave me a glowing description of her brother, whom she loved with all the fondness of a sister's love; and who that has ever had a sister, does not know how strong that love is, and how often a sisterly affection renders a woman blind to a brother's failings.
               She painted him in such variegated colors, spoke in such raptures of the superiority of his mind, his many virtues, etc., etc., that I thought I could love him too, and I longed to see him, and after promising me the twentieth time, that I should be introduced to him the moment he arrived, we separated for the evening.
               I retired to my room and attempted to study, but my mind was full of other thoughts than study, so I threw down the book, retired to the window, threw up the sash and looked at the myriads of stars that were plainly visible in the dome of heaven's high concave. For hours did I peruse those little celestial trinkets that studded the ebon brow of night, as though I would read my fate. At length I retired to my couch, but for hours I could not sleep, and when I did at last fall asleep, it was a fitful doze, troubled with strange dreams. In the morning I awoke quite unrefreshed, and after laving my face and hands in a bowl of cold water, I walked out in the grounds, where I met Matilda, who expressed no small surprise at my early rising. I frankly told her that I could not sleep from thinking of her brother. At first she laughed most heartily at the idea of my falling in love before seeing the object of my affection, but seeing I was serious, she put on a grave look and said she had been kept awake all night, from the same cause, and then she commenced and told me the following history of herself and brother:
               "We are twins," said she; "at the time of our birth, and up to the time when we were twelve years old, our parents were wealthy and highly respected, but unfortunately, our father was not satisfied with enough, he wanted more, so he went into some stock-jobbing operation, which, instead of enriching utterly ruined him. But we were not of that class who cannot bear meekly, adverse circumstances. No; on the contrary, we meekly bowed our heads to the will of Providence, and determined to be of some use to society; and so we struggled on, and improved our condition day by day. My brother was very tender of me, and did any and all work that he could, to earn anything, so that I was kept in school till I had finished my education, or at least, until I was competent to teach, for our education is never finished till we die. As soon as I felt competent I accepted of this situation, that was procured for me through the kind influence of our worthy minister at home, who is acquainted with the pastor here, and thus became aware of the vacancy.
               "When I came out here my brother entered college, and has worked his way through it by teaching school during vacation, and copying law-papers, etc., and now, thank heaven, he has got through and is coming to see me."
               I listened eagerly to all Matilda said, and when she had finished I threw my arms around her neck and kissed her affectionately, for I felt more endeared to her than ever from that hour.
               Days and weeks rolled on, but still Matilda's brother did not make his appearance, and I had almost begun to despair of his ever coming, when one evening in September, as Matilda and I were sitting in the arbor conversing about him as usual, and both expressing our surprise that he did not make his appearance sooner, we were startled by the tread of feet and sound of voices, and the next moment we heard the voice of Susan, the servant, saying, "dar she be massa, in dat little arbor dar, I knows she be dar, for ebery ebening her an Miss Agnes goes in dar to hab a talk wid de stars," and the next moment Matilda was in her brother's arms, for it was him. After a mutual embrace, she turned and introduced him to me and said, "Dear brother, Agnes is the dearest friend I have in Georgia." At this he bowed prettily, and taking my hand thanked me cordially for loving his sister, who he said was dearer to him than his life. Then he became seated and entered into a lively conversation with us, so that I had leisure to examine him closely, and I found him all and more than my fancy had painted him, from hearing his sister describe him.
               He had come to A——, he said, to settle down and follow a literary pursuit, being preposessed in favor of the South from the glowing description his sister had given him of it, and he hoped we would become better acquainted.
               Thus we rattled on for an hour or so, when at length he took his leave, after promising to call the next day. Well, weeks and months rolled on, and every few days—every time he called to see his sister—I saw and conversed with him. He had commenced his literary career by a poem which had given notoriety to his name. But he was not a hackneyed poet. His production was that of impulse rather than education. He portrayed the passions, not as he had read them, but as he felt them growing up in his own heart.
               He was a poet by nature, and all nature appeared to his young and unsullied imagination but as a beautiful poem; he considered all his undefined longings, all his incipient passions, only as so many legitimate passports to enjoyment. He had, indeed, the mind of a true poet; he looked at everything abstractedly; he loved nature, he loved the world, and called it a beautiful world, because all things seemed to conspire to his wishes.
               He loved fame too, and wished to live in futurity. He could not bear, that with his life his name should pass away; he wished that it might be enrolled among the master spirits of poetry; he wished posterity to read it recorded with those from whose works he quoted so frequently and so aptly. He could not bear that 
                     
                        He should be left forgotten in the dust,
                        Where fate relenting, lets the flower revive."
                     
                  
               
               One vigorous effort of his young mind had gained him a celebrity which he was inexperienced to suppose would stand him in the stead of fortune. He imagined the caresses and invitations he received on all hands, to be the permanent result of respect for his talents, instead of the evanescent feeling which would last only so long as he could afford entertainment. He believed the professions of assistance which he received to be sincere, and imagined he saw a hand ready to help him up every step of the ladder of fame, and that fortune waited to welcome him, at the top of it.
               He had yet to learn, that selfish vanity was the groundwork of most all the kindness he received, and that the moment his presence ceased to gratify this passion in his admirers, they would cease to remember that he existed.
               He little thought that his patrons of the moment would treat him as they did their champagne—enjoy its sparkling qualities, and, dash aside the bottle which contained them the moment they ceased to exhilarate.
               There was an artless buoyancy in the conversation of Albert—for that was his name—unlike any that I had ever heard, and I thought I perceived, under all his brilliancy, a goodness of heart
                     AGNES AND ALBERT IN SWEET COMMUNION.
                  
                   and a generosity of nature, which I flattered myself, I had sense and heart enough to appreciate, far beyond the qualities which merely afford entertainment. There was, likewise, that congeniality of disposition and sentiment, so often existing between young, lively, and virtuous minds at their first entrance into the world, which drew us together.
               On his part, he appeared to be charmed with my naiveté, and his heart was flattered by my evident, though silent admiration. In short, what with music and poetry, and a congeniality of sentiment we went on and on, till we found ourselves passionately in love with each other, and unfortunately, not with that evanescent passion, the result of a few quadrilles and fine speeches, but with a love arising from the knowledge of the qualities of each other's hearts.
               Young and ingenious, we were not long in coming to an explanation, or at least, to an understanding of each other's sentiments; for feelings like ours required no set forms of speech to make them known. Our eyes, the sound of each other's voices, our parting and meeting tremors, the searching looks of the one, and the retiring glances of the other, soon disclosed more than whole hours of formal declaration could have done.
               At length, however, the moment of declaration came, the tongue gave utterance to those feelings which the eyes had already expressed—mutual vows, such vows as pass woman's lips but once, and springing warm from the heart, were given and received, and we felt rich in all the feelings of a first and young love; and who is there that, under this influence, does not overlook every obstacle to its gratification? What difficulties does it not hide from the inexperienced or blinded eyes of the lover! What path does it not smooth! What prospects does it not brighten! Yes, 
                     
                        "There are ten thousand tones and signs,
                        We hear and see, but none defines—
                        Involuntary sparks of thought
                        Which strikes from out the heart o'erwrought;
                        And form a strange intelligence,
                        Alike mysterious and intense,
                        Which, like the burning chain that binds,
                        Without their will, young hearts and minds;
                        Conveying as the electric wire,
                        We know not how, the absorbing fire."
                     
                  
               
               It was thus with Albert and myself, when some officious person wrote to my parents, and gave them a complete history of how things were working in A——; and immediately, upon the receipt of that intelligence, my father came after me and took me home at once, in spite of all my entreaties to be permitted to remain only a few days longer.
            
            
               CHAPTER III
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Had we never loved so kindly,
                           Had we never loved so blindly;
                           Never met, or never parted,
                           We had ne'er been broken hearted."
                        
                     
                     ROBERT BURNS.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Tell him, for years I never nursed a thought
                           That was not his; that on his wandering way,
                           Daily and nightly, poured a mourner's prayer—
                           Tell him, even now, that I would rather share
                           His lowliest lot—walk by his side an outcast—
                           Work for him, beg with him—live upon the light
                           Of one kind smile from him, than wear a crown."
                        
                     
                     BULWER'S LADY OF LYONS.
                  
               
               ALAS! that bright things should so quickly come to confusion; that pure unalloyed happiness should make so brief a sojourn with us! But so it is; all our pleasures are as brief as the lightning; of a dark night that, with a flash, unfolds both heaven and earth, and before you can say look! see! behold! the jaws of darkness have devoured it up. Thus I felt when I stepped into the carriage to return home with my father, after an absence of over three years. Unlike thousands who return home with light and joyous hearts after so long an absence, I felt more like a doomed criminal going to execution.
               In due time we arrived home, and I threw myself in my mother's arms, which were held open to receive me, and wept upon her bosom, for I felt that, as she was a woman, she could enter into the spirit of my feelings and sympathize with me.
               After the first burst of feeling had passed, and we had become sated, both my father and mother opened their batteries upon me, and gave me a severe lecture for having dared to love any one without asking their opinion, and receiving their approbation. They called Albert a mere adventurer, without fortune or friends, and said he cared nothing for me personally, but that it was my expected fortune that he was angling for. They then ridiculed me for thinking even, of love, seeing that I was so young, and ended by commanding me to think no more of him, but to drive him at once from my mind, as they intended I should never see him again.
               After listening to my sentence, for such I felt it to be, I retired to my room, threw myself on the sofa and wept scalding tears till sleep came to my relief. How long I slept I know not, but when I awoke the sun had gone down. I got up, went to the window, and looked out and saw that the moon had risen and was looking mildly upon me. Seating myself, I gazed long and silently, first at the silvery moon, and then at the little twinkling stars, as if I would read my fate in their bright leaves.
               
               As I sat thus contemplating the heavens, I was led into a chain of reasoning, and I thought if my parents had control over my actions, they had no authority or control over my mind, for the "thoughts of all slaves are free." They might command me to see Albert no more, and be obeyed; but to forbid me to forget him was too much. They might as well have bade me dam up the mighty cataract of Niagara with bundles of cotton, as bid me think no more of him. For 
                     
                        "Love is not to be reasoned down or lost
                        In high ambition, or a thirst for greatness
                        'Tis second life ; it grows into the soul—
                        Warms every vein, and beats in every pulse."
                     
                  
               
               What though Albert was poor, had I not given him the first gushings of a soft warm heart, when it was free to hold a thousand tender pleasures, and was he not my first and only love? Were not my very heart-strings wrapped around him? and I felt to resign him would snap those strings asunder. Was not his image daguerreotyped upon my heart of hearts? and were we not two souls with but a single thought—two hearts that beat as one? How then was it possible for me to drive him from my thoughts! It must not, could not be.
               After reasoning in this strain for hours, I left the window and retired to bed, when I soon fell into dream land, and dreamed fearful dreams. The next morning I awoke hot and feverish, my temples throbbed violently, my tongue was parched, my head ached severely, and my pulse was feeble. I attempted to rise but could not. As the hour for breakfast approached, and I did not make my appearance below, a servant was sent to my room and found me quite sick.
               Thinking it was only a slight cold that I had taken while on the journey from A——, the day before, but little attention was given it by my parents for several days, and I grew worse. This alarmed my parents, and an eminent physician was sent for, who came post haste; and as soon as he saw me, he said I was in a very precarious state, and at once prescribed for me. Well, for weeks and months I lingered on, now showing some signs of recovery, and the next day as bad, if not worse than ever, till at length all hope of my recovery was given up by my parents, and the physician was about to give me up too, when all of a sudden, the type of the fever changed, and I began to mend slowly. In a few weeks after the favorable change, I was able to sit up a few hours each day, but it was a whole year from the time I was first attacked with the fever before I was able to leave my room.
               What great changes that year had produced in the world! In all that time, I had not heard anything of Albert nor his sister Matilda, and I longed to learn something about them. But how? there was the rub. For days and weeks, I kept thinking how I could accomplish my wishes, but every night found me as far from the consummation of them as the morning had found me sanguine. I tried to bribe the overseer to carry a letter to the nearest post-office for me, but he was not to be bribed, as my parents had given him strict orders concerning such things, some twelve months before, and when I begged him to take only one letter for me, he strenuously refused, saying he knew his duty better, and if I persisted in trying to lead him from his duty he would have to acquaint my parents with my proceedings. Fearing that he would put his threat into execution, and thus foil all my wishes, I ceased importuning him, and put my wits to work in another channel, and just as I began to despair of ever accomplishing my wishes, I found that one of my father's body servants was devoted to me, and would undertake to be my letter carrier, as he was going to town in a day or two, with my father. On becoming sure of the fidelity of Sam the servant, I hastened to my room and wrote a long letter to Albert, told him of my sickness; the inflexible and unalterable determination of my parents that I should see him no more, assured him of the unalterableness of my opinion of him, and of the unchangeable nature of my love, and ended by begging him and Matilda to write to me and tell me all that had transpired with them the last twelve months.
               When I had folded and sealed the letter I put it in my pocket, and the first opportunity that presented itself I gave it to Sam, who put it in his boot for safe keeping till he would go to town, which he did the next day and deposited it safe in the post-office box. In a P. S. which I had added to the letter, I had instructed Albert to direct his answer to Martha Bond, so that no one would have suspicion that it was for me, and when the time came around when I thought I should have an answer, I managed to have Sam sent to town for something and instructed him to inquire in the post-office for a letter for Martha Bond, and if there was one to take it out and bring it to me.
               Oh! how my heart fluttered through that day! and with what anxiety did I watch the return of my messenger as night began to spread her sable mantle over the world. Hour after hour passed and still he did not return. I became doubly anxious, every hour seemed an eternity. What could have happened him? Surely he must have met with some sad accident, perhaps the horses had run away with and killed him, or something as awful had befallen him I felt sure, for he was never known to stay away so long before.
               At length, however, he came, though at a very late hour, and I could not manage by any means to have speech with him that night, as my father and the overseer were keeping him with them so I retired to bed with a heavy heart, and wept myself to sleep.
               
               I was up with the lark in the morning and as soon as I could see Sam, I asked him for the letter that I felt sure he had for me. "I got no letter for yer Miss Agnes," said Sam, "dar was no letter for any person by the name of Martha Bond, the gemman in de post-office said, and den I axed him if dar was any for Miss Agnes, and he said dar was'nt. I told him look for sure, for my young missus had told me dar was one for certain sure. With dat he looked again, and said dar was'nt no such letter an' den I came away." This was sad news indeed and I could only go and weep over it, which I did when I felt relieved somewhat, after which I sat down and wrote another letter to Albert and begged him by all things earthly and divine to write to me or my poor heart would break. This letter I sent to town by the same messenger that had conveyed the other there, and with many bitter forebodings did I await the time when I deemed I should have a reply. But weeks rolled on and no answer came, and I became almost a maniac.
               At last I resolved to bear the awful suspense no longer, but to go in propria persona to A——, and learn the cause of Albert's silence, for I felt sure he must have received my letters.
               It was one thing to form a resolution, but another thing to put it in execution. How was I to get there? That was the difficult question that I asked myself a thousand times a day. But a woman is ever ingenious and will find out ways and means for accomplishing things when the lords of creation are lost in a wilderness of conjecture, and I thought I would be less than woman if I could not find out some means for accomplishing my dearest wishes, and so I kept thinking and was ultimately rewarded by a happy idea, which was no less than to dress in male attire, and in that guise visit A——.
               When I had arrived at this conclusion I purloined a whole suit from my father's wardrobe, and the next day just at twilight I dressed myself in them and as the night set in I quietly left the mansion, and passing noiselessly through the grounds fearing to arouse suspicion, I soon found myself on the highway to town where I arrived about 10 o'clock, and put up at the "Phoenix." The next day I took the stage coach for A——, and in good time arrived there.
               On making inquiry for Albert I found that he had left A——, some six months before for Baltimore, Md. I then asked why he had left, and whether his sister was still a teaching in the boarding school?
               After looking at me sharply for a moment, as if he would read my thoughts, my informant then said:
               "Some fourteen months ago there was a young lady of good family attending the boarding school here and about the same time, Mr. A—— came here too. They soon fell desperately in love with each other, and just as they were going to run away and get married the young lady's father came and took her away. Well this was quite a severe blow to the young man for he loved the young lady dearly, and it worked so hard upon him that he took sick and for three months was not expected to live. During his illness his sister took care of him, and watched with him day and night, and every body said he would surely have died if it had not been for the kind care of his sister. Well at the expiration of three months he began to mend and in a few weeks more was able to leave his room, and take an airing in the carriage.
               "But O, how changed he was in appearance! From the stout, robust, hale fellow he was, but a few months before, he now looked like Hamlet's ghost. Poor fellow! every body pitied him, and called the young lady's father a brute for separating them. Well; a few more weeks passed, and he got well in body, but not in mind, for he continually talked of his A—Ah—Ag—Agnes. Yes! that was the name he continually called upon, and would not be comforted, because she was not here. Just then his sister, Matilda, I think her name was, took sick; and in spite of every thing that we could do for her, she died, after an illness of only three weeks. Poor girl! she had ruined her constitution by sitting up so much with her brother; and so she had no animal life left, to resist the insidious disease that took so firm a hold of her. Yonder is her grave," said he, pointing to a little green knoll in the village churchyard; "I know it well; for I have often seen her brother standing beside it, weeping."
               By this time we had got to the entrance-gate of the churchyard, which we entered, and walked over to Matilda's grave. No monumental pile was erected there, to commemorate her memory; no marble slab, with her name, birth, death, and epitaph chiseled thereon, was there, to mark the spot, where so much departed worth was buried. No; nothing of the sort was there. All that was there to tell the passer-by what mortal remains laid beneath that sod, was two pine sticks, one at either end of the grave, with "Matilda" carved thereon in rude letters, done apparently with a jack-knife.
               Poor Matilda! as I gazed upon the spot beneath which lay cold in death that form that I have pressed to my heart, I know not how oft, and felt that I should never see you more on earth, my heart, that was sad before, felt doubly sad, and I fell across thy grave and wept; and as the hot, scalding tears fell fast upon thy tomb, I lifted up my soul, and tried to pray that I might so live that when it came my day to die, that I might pass away as thou hadst, with a hope of bliss hereafter.
               Alas! what troubles was mine! What had I done, that I was visited with such sore afflictions? First, my good and kind governess, Marilla, was taken from me, just as I was beginning to appreciate her; and now, the dear, gentle, loving Matilda, the beloved sister of my dear Albert, had been taken away from me by that unrelenting conqueror—Death; and Albert, too, had gone many miles away, and perhaps I would never see him again this side of the grave.
               As such bitter thoughts passed through my brain, I wept more and more; and I know not what might have happened with me, if the stranger who was with me had not soothed me all in his power, and after much trouble, prevailed upon me to leave the spot and return with him to the hotel, which I did slowly and sadly.
               Entering the hotel, I went directly to my room, and laved my face and eyes in cold water, to remove the traces of the tears I had shed; then sat down, to think calmly and dispassionately on my future course of action.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Yes, it was love, if thoughts of tenderness
                           Tried in temptation, strongest by distress,
                           Unmov'd by absence, firm in every clime,
                           And yet, O, more than all!—untir'd by time;
                           Which naught removed, nor menac'd to remove—
                           If there be love in mortals, this was love.
                        
                     
                     BYRON
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Ah! it is sad when one thus link'd departs!
                           When Death, that mighty sev'rer of true hearts,
                           Sweeps through the halls so lately loud in mirth,
                           And leaves pale sorrow weeping by the hearth!
                        
                     
                     MRS. NORTON.
                  
               
               AS I sat buried in thought, wondering what step I should next take, a white mist gathered before my eyes, from which appeared to rise the spirit of the Past. Assuming form and shape, it passed in panoramic view before me, and I saw all and every thing that had transpired with me, from my first years, as plainly as though it had been painted upon canvas. Slowly and fearfully distinct did it pass, to the last scene, when it went suddenly out, and left me in darkness as to the future.
               After spending some two hours, in vain endeavors to arrive at some conclusion as to my future course, I left the hotel, and walked around the village for an hour, when I returned, and seating myself at a desk, wrote a long letter to my parents, and told them that I was in pursuit of the idol of my heart, and should never return home, unless I found and, brought him with me.
               Folding and sealing the letter, I took it to the post-office, returned, paid my bill, took the cars, and the next morning found myself in Charleston, S.C., where I took ship the same day, and after six days' rough sailing, found myself in Baltimore, where I expected to find the bright particular star of my destiny—the idol of my soul. O, how my pulse beat, and my heart palpitated, as I saw, for the first time, the "Monumental City," and thought of soon meeting him for whom I had left father, mother, home, and every thing, and had launched my frail bark on an unknown sea, almost without chart or compass!
               Landing at Fells Point, I was soon conveyed to a hotel, where I registered an assumed name, and retired to my room; first ordering pen, ink, and paper, which was soon brought and laid upon the table. Seating myself at the table, I wrote the following advertisement: 
                     WANTED.—Information wanted of Albert A —— originally from L——, Connecticut, but late of A——, Ga. Any. information that will lead to his whereabouts will be liberally rewarded by G. P. W., at the M—— House.
                  
               
               Immediately after writing the above mentioned advertisement, I went to the office, inquired what paper had the largest circulation in the city, was informed, and at once took it to the office of that paper, and paid for three insertions. The next morning it was to appear, and at an early hour I arose, and went to the reading-room just in time to get the paper as it was thrown in by the carrier. With eager eyes, I looked over the sheet till I saw my advertisement, which I saw was all right, and I felt confident that I would soon see Albert coming in answer thereto.
               With a light heart, I read the, paper till breakfast; after which I walked out to take a look at the city, for I had heard it highly spoken of. Wending my way to Baltimore street, I walked up that to Charles street, where I saw Washington's monument, distant a little way up the street; and so I walked up to it, and was much pleased at the sight of it. Satisfying my curiosity, I went out Monument street to Calvert street, down which I went to the Battle Monument, which I found to be another fine pile erected to commemorate the deeds of brave men. Leaving Battle Monument, I went down Fayette street to the Shot Tower, into which I went, and ascended to the top, where I had a fine view of the "Monumental City." Descending, I wended my way back to my hotel, where I felt sure Albert must be waiting for me. But on arriving there, and making inquiry Of the book-keeper and bar tender, I found that neither Albert nor any one else had been there, and I felt disappointed.
               Slowly the hours passed till night came, and still no one came to inquire for G. P. W., and I retired at ten P. M., with a heavy heart. The next day came and went, without any tidings of my truant lover, and I became almost sick with worrying and fretting about him. It was with a sorrowful heart I saw the bright eye of the universe rise, with purple face, the third day; for I knew not what to do, if I had no news of Albert before the sun would set that night. I tried to be calm, however; made my toilet with dispatch, and hastened down to the reading-room, hoping that something would turn up to relieve me of the despair that was fast crazing me.
               As I entered the room, I noticed a stranger, who, after eyeing me pretty sharply for some moments, asked me if I was Mr. G. P. W, and being answered in the affirmative, he said, "I have the pleasure of knowing the gentleman you have advertised for, and if it is of any use to you, can tell you that he left here about two months ago, for the city of New York, having received an offer of a lucrative situation as editor of a new paper that was just being started there, at that time. I know him well," continued he, "and persuaded him to accept of the situation, as I thought it would occupy his mind, and thus relieve him of a load that seemed to be weighing down his spirits."
               "If you are a friend of his, as you say you are, I suppose he made a confidant of you, and told you the secret of his heaviness of spirit," said I. "Yes," said the stranger, "he did make a confidant of me, and told me the whole secret." "What is the secret?" "That I am not at liberty to tell, for it was told to me in confidence, and I consider such things sacred," said the stranger. "I agree with you, perfectly," said I, "but then I am a near and dear friend of his from Georgia; and to tell me would not be like telling any one else." "That may all be very true," said the stranger, "but if you are his friend, and knew him in Georgia, you must know his secret as well as I do, for it was there the thing happened." "If it is love," said I, looking archly and giving a sly wink, "I do know it, for I am intimately acquainted with the young lady he loves, and many has been the hour that I have sat by his side and talked with him on the subject." I see," said the stranger, "you understand it quite as well as I do; and now, may I ask you your name, and why you have advertised for our mutual friend, A—— ; for I take it you have news for him from Georgia." "Your questions are pertinent and perfectly fair," said I, "and I will answer them candidly, for I feel that you can be trusted. My name is Agnes A——, and I have ran away from home and come all this distance in search of Albert, and as you are his friend, I rely upon your honor to keep my secret. and help me find him." When I had ceased speaking, the stranger, whom I shall call William, extended his hand, and taking mine he shook it warmly, and said, "I thank you for reposing so much confidence in me, and when I prove recreant to the trust, may my right hand forget its cunning, and my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth."
               I returned his cordial shake of the hand, and then told him it was my intention to take the cars for Philadelphia and New York that afternoon, and I would never forget the kindness if he would accompany me.
               He assented to all I said, but suggested that it would be better for me to dress in the garb of my own sex. I told him I would willingly do so, if I had any female apparel with me; but that I had left my own clothes behind me, when I had assumed the male attire; and I did not wish to go and purchase any, for it might lead to suspicion.
               "O, if that is the only difficulty," said he, "I can manage that quite easily for you, as I have a sister living not far from here, who is just about your size, and you can go with me to her house and get what things you may want; for I know my sister will be happy to do anything in the world for you."
               After a little persuasion, I allowed myself to be led by his advice; so I settled my bill at the hotel, had my trunk brought down, and called a hack, into which we both got, and soon were driven to William's sister's door, where we alighted and went in.
               In a few minutes William had explained all to his sister, who, as soon as she understood how matters were, took me by the hand and led me to her room, where she provided me with female apparel from her own wardrobe.
               At the expiration of an hour, I had made my toilet, and I descended to the parlor, where I caused no little surprise to William and his sister, who could hardly believe I was the same person who had gone up stairs an hour before, so complete was the transformation.
               Becoming seated, we engaged in conversation, which lasted till one o'clock, when dinner was announced and we adjourned to the dining-room, where we partook of a sumptous repast, and I felt quite comfortable and happy once more, as I thought of my good fortune in meeting with such kind friends.
               The remainder of the afternoon, till 4 o'clock, was spent in making arrangements for our journey to New York, where I expected soon to see him who was dearer to me than all the world.
               At precisely half after four o'clock, William called a coach, and after bidding his sister good-bye, we were driven to the railroad depot, where we took the cars, and were on the way to Philadelphia, where we arrived about 10 P. M. and passed the night.
                  
                     A SOCIAL PARTY.
                   The next morning we took the early train, via Camden and Amboy, and at 11 o'clock landed in New York, and were driven to a hotel in Greenwich street.
               Leaving me at the hotel, William went in search of Albert, whom he felt certain he could find in an hour's time.
               O! how my pulse beat and my heart fluttered as I sat in the parlor momentarily expecting William to return with Albert. An hour passed, and he had not returned. I arose from the sofa on which I had been seated, and commenced walking the room, as I was alone; and as I passed by a large mirror, I looked at myself and saw that my face was red as a cherry, with emotions, and I tried to calm the agitation that I was in by going to the center-table and taking up a book, which I tried to read, but could not.
               Another hour passed, and still another, and yet he did not return. Dinner was announced in the ladies' ordinary, and I went in and tried to eat, but could not. Returning to the parlor, I went to the front window and took a station where I could look out on the street, and observe all the passers by. Hour after hour flew by on the wings of time, and I still kept my station at the window, and still he did not return to relieve me of the horrid suspense that I was in; and as night began to spread his sable mantle over turret, dome, steeple, spire and chimney-top, I felt desolate, for I thought he too had deserted me. Soon the lamp-lighter came along and lighted the street lamps, and anon the whole street seemed to be in a blaze, omnibuses, carriages, coaches, and drays rattled over the McAdamized road, making a noise like the booming of distant thunder, whilst myriads of human beings streamed along on either side of the street, and as they passed under the lamp opposite the parlor window, I peered into every countenance, hoping to see either William or Albert. But no such good fortune was mine.
               The brazen tongue that tells the passing hour, had struck the tenth hour from meridian, when William made his appearance, and with a doleful look told me he had searched high and low throughout the city ever since he had left me, but could find no trace of Albert.
               This was indeed sad news for me, after waiting so long, and I burst into a flood of tears. The sight of my tears seemed to affect him, and he took my hand gently in his, and tried to comfort me, by saying he felt confident he could find him on the morrow. After a little the paroxysm passed off, and I retired to rest, and spent the night in fearful dreams.
               At an early hour the next day I was astir, and hastening to make my toilet, I descended to the parlor, where William soon joined me, and we sat down and talked about Albert till the gong sounded for breakfast, when we went and partook of a slight meal, after which William started out in search of Albert once more, and I took my station at the window again.
               About ten o'clock he returned with a lugubrious countenance, which frightened me not a little. Slowly and solemnly he walked in and took a seat near me, but said never a word. Becoming more frightened at his silence, I gathered courage to speak, and said, "For heaven's sake tell me what is the matter?" "Prepare yourself for sad news," said he. At this I nearly fainted, but struggling with my feelings I gasped and said, "Tell me all; I am prepared for every thing." "If you are prepared for the worst, listen to what I am to read," said he, and with that he pulled a newspaper out of his pocket, unfolded it, and commenced to read an account of a terrible railroad accident, by which some forty persons lost their lives in a moment when they least expected such a catastrophe.
               He finished reading the account of the fatal accident, and the editor's comments on the same, and then looked up in my face with an expression as much as to say, "What do you think of that?" I looked at him for a moment and tried to read his thoughts, but could make nothing out, for his face was a perfect blank. For some moments we sat looking at each other's face as though we would read each other's thoughts, and I mechanically reached out my hand for the paper which he handed me. With fearful foreboding, I looked on the page where he had been reading, and ran my eyes rapidly over the column which contained the sad and mournful intelligence, and I soon noticed that he had omitted reading the names of the killed.
               As I read name after name a sickening giddiness seized me, my brain reeled, and cold chills ran through my frame. Oh, God! my feelings had foreboded all too right! Yes, there was the name Albert A——, fearfully distinct, next to the very last name on the list. It must be, it was the idol of my soul, who had been cruelly killed just as I was about to meet him—for the train was coming to the city—throw myself in his arms, and be repaid by his love for all that I had suffered.
               Oh, God! how fearfully was I punished for my disobedience to my parents! What a heavy retribution for my sins!
            
            
               CHAPTER V
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased;
                           Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow;
                           Raze out the written tablets of the brain;
                           Cleanse the foul bosom of that perilous stuff,
                           Which weighs upon the heart?
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           To what gulfs
                           A single deviation from the track
                           Of human duties leads.
                        
                     
                     BYRON'S SARDANAPALUS.
                  
               
               LONG and fixedly did I gaze upon that dear name, while my agonized mind was busy in the memories of the past, which appeared more like a dream than a stern reality.
               Soon my head became dizzy, my brain reeled, my eyes were dimmed and glossy, a throe of agony shot through my frame, and I fell in a swoon on the floor.
               When I returned to consciousness again I found myself in bed, in a large room, the blinds of the windows, of which were closed nearly, only allowing a very little light to enter.
               At the foot of the bed I could just see the dim outline of a figure, but could not make out whether it was a man or woman. I attempted to move, but the effort caused me so much pain that I gave a deep groan, which aroused the person at the foot of the bed, and a voice that I thought I recognized as William's spoke softly and said, "How do you feel now. Agnes?" "Is that you, William?" said I in a faint voice. "Yes," said he, and with that he came to the head of the bed, and taking a gentle hold of my hand stooped over and kissed me affectionately, at the same time saying, "Poor girl, how much you have suffered!"
               Then taking a seat he told me that I had been lying at the point of death for two weeks, and that he had despaired of ever seeing me return to consciousness, and that during all that time he had remained with and watched over me, expecting every hour to see me breathe my last.
               I attempted to thank him for his kindness, but he would not allow me to speak, as the physician had given strict orders that I must be kept perfectly quiet if I returned to consciousness during his absence. Then arranging the pillow nicely under my head, he glided softly back to the foot of the bed where he took up his position as before, and I fell into a gentle slumber.
               The next day I awoke quite refreshed, and when the doctor called he felt of my pulse, and said I could be bolstered up in bed and have some light food given me, as I was much better. Soda crackers and tapioca-root tea was then placed before me, and after I had partaken sparely of both I felt much better.
               
               In the course of a few days I was quite well again, and then for the first time since I had read of Albert's untimely end, did I begin to think of my situation, and what was to become of me. I could not think of returning home again after what had passed; my money was all spent, and I was a stranger in a strange city, with no one to befriend me save William, and I had been a burden on him entirely too long. What to do I did not know, and I hardly dared think, so dark and dreary did every thing appear to me. Every hour I would invent some plan which I would abandon as chimerical in the next; and thus I remained in a state of doubtful uncertainty for another week, vainly striving to arrive at some definite conclusion as to some future course of action.
               During all this time William was very attentive and kind to me, and begged me to consider both himself and purse at my disposal; and often would I detect him looking intently upon me as if he was more than ordinarily interested, and several times I thought I heard him sigh, as I had often heard Albert, and my vanity—for what woman is without vanity—led me to believe that he had become enamored of me, and I must say that I was not displeased, as he had been so uniformly kind and good to me that I could not but like him exceedingly.
               In such a state Saturday evening found me, when about eight o'clock William asked me if I would take a walk with him as the evening was too beautiful to remain in the house. I readily accepted his invitation, and soon we were in Broadway strolling toward the battery, where we soon arrived, and, seating ourselves we sat for an hour contemplating the sublime and beautiful prospect that was spread out before us.
               William was eloquent, and spoke like an enthusiastic worshiper of the sublime and beautiful, and I became completely carried away with his forensic eloquence. Leaving the battery in high spirits we walked up the east side of Broadway to Howard street, then turned and went up Howard to Crosby street; here we turned again, and went up Crosby street some distance, when suddenly William stopped in front of a house, and said he had a lady acquaintance living there, and asked me to go in with him for a few minutes. I readily gave my assent, and we stepped up and William rang the bell. The door was soon opened by a negress, and we passed in and walked up stairs into a small room, the door of which was thrown open by the negress.
               Not suspecting anything other than kindness at the hands of William, I sat down and he took a seat beside me.
               Seeing the room was quite small, and slimly furnished with a bed, two chairs, table, wash stand, &c., I supposed it was the room of some poor woman that he had assisted, and I expected she would make her appearance shortly.
               For some minutes we both sat in silence, but seeing the lady he had spoken of did not make her appearance, I broke the silence by asking him what detained her so long, and expressed a wish that she would soon show herself, at the same time I looked in William's face, and saw there was an unnatural brilliancy in his eyes, and that his face was flushed considerably.
               He saw with what wondering eyes I looked upon him, and at once fell on his knees at my feet and declared he loved me more than tongue could tell, and that unless I became his he would kill himself at my feet. I had half suspected as much, but was surprised that he should choose such a time, and such a place to declare his passion, although I was perfectly ignorant of the character of the house at that time, but I expected every minute to see the lady he had spoken of enter and catch him on his knees at my feet.
               I never could rightly remember all that passed the next hour, for I was in such a state of excitement, both from his declaration and the fear of the lady's coming in, that I was beguiled of myself by the artful William, and I left that house not the innocent person that I was when I entered it, nor did I feel sensible of the great and lasting wrong that I had done myself until I had bade my seducer good night, and had retired to my own room.
               Then and there I began to feel remorse of conscience, and bursting into tears, I tore my hair out by handfuls and vituperated myself for my folly till a late hour of the night, when I threw myself on the bed and finally went to sleep.
               The next day I could hardly bear the sight of him who had perpetrated so great a wrong upon me, but he protested his innocence of intending any wrong, and swore by all things earthly and divine that he loved me dearly, devotedly, blindly, and to prove it would lead me to the altar, and make me his wife, just as soon as he could hear from his friends in Baltimore, to whom he had already written.
               When he talked thus to me all my angry feelings toward him were silenced, and I could only vituperate myself the more for my weakness.
               A week rolled by but still he did not fulfill his vows and I became miserable. I begged and prayed for him to marry me, and relieve me from the pit into which I had fallen through his instrumentality. He procrastinated, offering this and that specious pretext, until another week had passed away. Then he said his funds were almost gone, and we must remove from the hotel to a private boarding house, where we could get board cheaper. I followed him blindly, and went with him, and we took board as married people. Two weeks more rolled by and still he did not redeem his promise, and I gave up all hopes of his ever doing so.
               I then wrote to my father, acknowledged my faults, and begged him to forgive me, and allow me to return home. At the expiration of three weeks I received a letter from him, and he wrote that neither he nor my mother could ever forgive me, that they never wished to hear from me again, and that as I had made my bed, so must I lie in it. When I read that cold heartless letter I felt truly desolate, and in a single hour my feelings regarding the world and society changed. My heart that before was soft and tender, became calloused, calcined, indurated. From that hour I hated and despised every biped, masculine or feminine, for I felt there was neither love, truth, or charity in the world only in name. Night came, but William did not come home as usual. Thinking that something unusual had detained him, I sat up till a late hour waiting his return; but twelve, one, two, and three was struck by the brazen tongue that tells of flying time, and still he was absent. Sick at heart I retired to rest, and after tossing about on my pillow, like a ship in a tumultuous sea, for two weary hours, I fell into a disturbed slumber and dreamed a strange and horrid dream. Methought I wandered through the low browed and dismal caverns where repose in silence the relics of my ancestors; my eyes dwelt with awe upon their marble tombs, with disgust upon mortality's sounding emblems. Suddenly a male form glided stealthily along the dingy vault. It was Albert. He smiled benignantly upon me and beckoned to approach. I did so, and my arms were already unclosed to clasp him, when suddenly his form changed, his face grew pale, and a stream of blood gushed from his bosom. Heavens! what a horrid spectacle! "We meet again once more," murmured his hollow voice. "Now rush to my arms, but first see what thy parents by their cruelty have made of me. Embrace me my bride, we must never part again." While speaking, the flesh fell from his bones, his eyes burst from their sockets, and a skeleton loathsome and meagre clasped me in his mouldering arms. His infected breath was mingled with mine, while his rotten fingers pressed my hands, and my face was covered with his kisses. Oh! how I trembled with disgust! And then blue dismal flames gleamed along the walls with a ghastly, horrible, and satanic-like effect, the tombs were rent asunder, and fierce devils rushed around me, and furiously they ground their teeth and wagged their demon tails, whilst they shrieked in chorus, "Welcome thou unchaste mortal! thou lost forever!" Horror burst the bands of sleep; distracted I flew hither, but my feelings, words are too weak, too powerless to express them. Surely this was no idle dream; it was a celestial warning, 't was my better angel that whispered, "Agnes, repent your former crimes, commit not new ones."
               No! it cannot be; I have put my hand to the plough, and will not turn back. I could not if I would. "The summer is gone, the harvest is ended," and my soul! —Oh, God! be merciful to me a sinner, for into thy hands I am about to commit my spirit.
               The bright eye of the universe is fast sinking below the western horizon, and I must prepare for my exit off the stage of action. Farewell father! farewell mother! farewell the world and all its charms! farewell hope and fear! farewell every thing on this globe! and when you read my sad history, dear reader—be you male or female—think of me as I was and am, "nor set down aught in malice," but think gently and kindly of one "who loved not wisely, but too well." Adieu!
            
            
               AGNES A——.
            
         
      
      
         
            NOTE.
            This Ms. was found in the room once occupied by the unfortunate female whose life you have just read, and believing its perusal will be of great benefit to the rising generation, in showing them—male and female—the danger and folly of daring to go behind parental counsel and rule, to choose for themselves, before they have arrived at years of discretion. We have thought proper to add the following lines by one of nature's noblest poets before handing it over to the publisher as we deem them quite apropos, and we do most sincerely hope that all who read this autobiographical narrative will be warned by the sad end of poor Agnes, and thus save themselves from a life of misery and a melancholy end.
            
               A. R. B.
            
         
         
            
               "One more unfortunate,
               Weary of breath,
               Rashly importunate,
               Gone to her death.
            
            
               Take her up tenderly,
               Lift her with care;
               Fashioned so slenderly,
               Young and so fair.
            
            
               Look at her garments,
               Clinging like cerements;
               Whilst the wave constantly
               Drips from her clothing;
               Take her up instantly,
               Loving, not loathing.
            
            
               Touch her not scornfully;
               Think of her mournfully,
               Gently and humanly;
               All that remains of her
               Now, is pure womanly.
            
            
               Make no deep scrutiny
               Into her mutiny,
               Rash and undutiful;
               Past all dishonor,
               Death has left on her
               Only the beautiful.
            
            
            
               
                  THE DEAD BODY OF AGNES FOUND FLOATING IN THE NORTH RIVER.
               
            
            
               Still for all slips of her's—
               One of Eve's family—
               Wipe those poor lips of her's,
               Oozing so clammily.
            
            
               Loop up her tresses,
               Escaped from the comb,
               Her fair auburn tresses:
               Whilst wonderment guesses
               Where was her home?
            
            
               Who was her father?
               Who was her mother?
               Had she a sister?
               Had she a brother?
               Or was there a dearer one
               Still, and a nearer one
               Yet, than all other?
            
            
               Alas, for the rarity
               Of Christian charity,
               Under the sun!
               Oh! it was pitiful!
               Near a whole city full,
               Home she had none.
            
            
               Sisterly, brotherly,
               Fatherly, motherly,
               Feelings had changed;
               Love by harsh evidence,
               Thrown from its eminence,
               Even God's providence
               Seeming estranged.
            
            
               Where the lamps quiver
               So far in the river
               With many a light
               From window and casement,
               From garret to basement,
               She stood with amazement,
               Houseless by night.
            
            
               The bleak wind of March
               Made her tremble and shiver,
               But not the dark arch,
               Or the black-flowing river;
               Mad from life's history,
               Glad to death's mystery,
               Swift to be hurled—
               Any where, any where
               Out of the world!
            
            
               In she plunged boldly,
               No matter how coldly
               The rough river ran,—
               Over the brink of it
               Picture it—think of it,
               Dissolute man!
               Lave in it, drink of it,
               Then if you can!
            
            
            
               Take her up tenderly,
               Lift her with care;
               Fashioned so slenderly
               Young and so fair!
               Ere her limbs frigidly
               Stiffen too rigidly.
               Smooth and compose them,
               And her eyes close them,
               Staring so blindly
            
            
               Dreadfully staring
               Through muddy impurity,
               As when with the daring,
               Last look of despairing
               Fixed on futurity.
               Perishing gloomily,
               Spurned by contumely,
               Cold inhumanity,
               Burning insanity,
               Into her rest.
               Cross her hands humbly,
               As if praying dumbly,
               Over her breast!
            
            
               Owning her weakness,
               Her evil behavior,
               And leaving with meekness,
               Her sins to her Saviour!"
            
            FINIS
         
      
   
