
     ----CITATION----
        Optic, Oliver (1822-1897). In Doors and Out, or, Views from the Chimney Corner .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5542
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                
                    In Doors and Out
                    or Views from the Chimney Corner.
                
                
                    Boston.
                    BROWN, BAZIN & CO.
                
            
            
            
                
                
                    IN DOORS AND OUT;
                    OR, VIEWS FROM THE CHIMNEY CORNER.
                
                BY OLIVER OPTIC.
            
                
                    BOSTON:
                    BROWN, BAZIN, AND COMPANY.
                
                
                Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by WILLIAM T.
                    ADAMS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of
                    Massachusetts.
                
                    STEREOTYPED AT THE BOSTON STEREOTYPE FOUNDRY.
                
            
            
                
                TO CHARLES KIMBALL, ESQ., This Volume IS RESPECTFULLY
                    DEDICATED, BY HIS FRIEND, WILLIAM T. ADAMS.
            
            
                
                
                PREFACE.
                SOME of the sketches contained in this volume have appeared in the Boston True
                    Flag, the American Union, and, one of them,-"The New Minister"-in Gleason's
                    Pictorial; the remainder have not been published before.
                A great variety of sketches has been introduced, nearly all of them practical in
                    their application, and illustrative of the social and domestic duties of life.
                    No attempt at "fine writing" has been made in them; they are simply
                        home thrusts at the follies of the parlor and the kitchen; of
                    the shop and the counting-room; in short, of life "in doors and out."
                The author is encouraged to collect these simple stories in a volume by the
                    advice of partial friends, and by a desire to redeem them from a kind of
                        literary
                    orphanage to which the unscrupulousness of some reckless man of paste and
                    scissors has reduced them. Many of them are now travelling over the country,
                    like a dog without a collar; but unlike that highly respectable puppy which
                    isn't any body's dog, they have an anxious friend at home, who takes this method
                    of calling them back to the fold again.
                
                    W. T. A.
                    DORCHESTER, Sept. 12, 1854.
                
            
            
                
                CONTENTS.
                
                    GETTING AN INDORSER 11
               
                    GOOD FOR NOTHINGS, 22
               
                    TWO DAGUERREOTYPES, 31
               
                    SIX HUNDRED A YEAR, 40
               
                    THE NEW MINISTER, 49
               
                    OUT NIGHTS, 63
               
                    BRING FLOWERS, 74
               
                    THE ACADEMY'S PRIZE, 84
               
                    THE DOMESTIC ELEMENT, 94
               
                    BANG UP, 104
               
                    THE NEW CLOAK, 114
               
                    EVERY THING COMFORTABLE, 125
               
                    FAMILY JARS, 138
               
                    LIFE INSURANCE, 153
               
                    LAST DAY OF GRACE, 163
               
                    MONTAGUE AND LADY, 174
               
                    TAKING THE NEWSPAPERS, 188
               
                    CIGARS FOR TWO, 198
               
                    
                    OUT OF BUSINESS, 208
               
                    SIX MONTHS AFTER DATE, 220
               
                    WORLD OF TROUBLE, 230
               
                    SEND FOR THE DOCTOR, 243
               
                    FOUR KINDS OF CAKE, 255
               
                    EXTREMES MEET, 265
               
                    THE MERCANTILE ANGEL, 276
               
                    CONFESSIONS OF A CONCEITED MAN, 286
               
                    THE BACHELOR BEAU, 295
               
                    THE GRAND RECEPTION BALL, 306
               
                    MARRYING A BEGGAR, 320
               
                
            
        
        
            
                In doors and out, or, Views from the chimney corner
                
                IN DOORS AND OUT.
                
                
                IN DOORS AND OUT.
                
                    GETTING AN INDORSER.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        MY friend, Frank Howard, was a dry goods dealer on Washington Street.
                            When I made his acquaintance, he was one of the most active and
                            successful salesmen in the trade, and being a prudent man, had saved a
                            small sum of money, with which and the credit he might be able to
                            obtain, he proposed to commence business on his own account.
                        Among his acquaintances he had the good fortune to include a wealthy
                            merchant, whose judgment had led him to form a lofty estimate of the
                            business capacity of my friend.
                        To him the young aspirant for mercantile honors stated his case, and the
                            conference ended in a voluntary proposition on the part of the merchant
                            to supply the goods necessary to stock his store, taking his notes, the
                            first of which would fall due in one year, in payment.
                        The arrangement was completed, and in a few days Frank found himself
                            installed in a convenient store, on the best part of the street, ready
                            to strike for his fortune.
                        
                        The notes had not been signed, and one evening, on some business
                            connected with them, Frank called, by appointment, at the princely
                            mansion of his worthy benefactor. He was ushered into the sitting room,
                            where the merchant was reading the evening paper. By his side sat a
                            beautiful young lady, to whom his patron politely introduced him.
                        My friend belonged to that anomalous class of beings styled "handsome
                            men;" at least the ladies all said he was handsome, though for the life
                            of me I never could tell wherein his beauty consisted. But as I have no
                            particular fancy for masculine beauty, it may have escaped my notice, or
                            the natural selfishness of mankind may have prejudiced my judgment.
                        My friend was acknowledged by all the ladies to be a remarkably handsome
                            man; and, probably, this was the secret of his immense success as a
                            salesman. Whether he reckoned his beauty as one of the items of his
                            stock in trade, when he went into business, I am unable to say; but I
                            have not the least doubt he based his hopes of success, to a great
                            extent, upon the influence of his prepossessing personal appearance.
                        Frank fixed his eyes on the young lady, as the merchant, who had, when he
                            entered, half read a money article in his paper, turned to finish it.
                            Miss Allen-such was the name by which she had been presented to him-was
                            busily engaged in crocheting a little silk purse, and as she bent over
                            the work, Frank was perfectly satisfied that he had never seen so pretty
                            a face in his life.
                        And then the neatest, most graceful little foot in the world protruded
                            from beneath a light silk dress-a foot which completely turned Frank's
                            head, so that he forgot all about the notes and the merchant.
                        
                        Without the least regard to etiquette, politeness, good breeding, and all
                            that sort of thing, he stared mercilessly at her, and never, for even
                            the fraction of a moment, removed his gaze, not even allowing himself
                            the luxury of winking, lest the time so employed should be lost.
                        Frank was perfectly sure that he had never before felt exactly as he did
                            at that halcyon moment. It seemed as though all the divinities of
                            paradise were concentrated in the fair form before him, as though he had
                            been transplanted to an Elysium of love.
                        And the maiden was not altogether unmoved. The embryo merchant several
                            times detected her in the act of stealing a glance at him through the
                            long, fringing eyelashes that adorned her peerless brow. He plainly saw
                            her blush; saw her bosom heave with a flutter as she caught his earnest
                            gaze.
                        Frank Howard was a handsome man; and somehow or other, men and women who
                            are favored in this respect always contrive to find it out. Frank knew
                            that he was a handsome man, and never in his life did he more devoutly
                            thank his stars, which had given him personal beauty, than at this
                            particular moment.
                        The lady had already found out that he was handsome, and if the stupid
                            fellow had not stared so furiously at her, she would no doubt have done
                            the same thing he was doing.
                        Mr. Allen finished the money article, and laid down the paper. Frank has
                            owned to me that he wished it had been twice, or even four times as
                            long.
                        The details of the business were discussed, and the papers drawn. While
                            it was in progress, Frank more than once detected the beautiful fairy in
                            the act of looking at him;
                            several times detected her in the very act of blushing, when their eyes
                            met.
                        The business was finished at last, much to the regret of my handsome
                            friend, who, when he got into the street, went straightway into a fit of
                            abstraction, and had walked half way across Charlestown bridge, on his
                            way home, before he happened to think that he lived at the South
                            End.
                        It was all up with poor Frank; he had fallen in love-was stark, staring
                            mad in love-with whom he knew not, for it was well known that Mr. Allen
                            had no daughter. She was a relative, however, for she bore his name.
                        But if Frank was in love, there was some consolation in the fact, that
                            the fair creature who had stolen his heart was in the same
                            predicament.
                        The next day, she came a shopping at his store, and the next, and the
                            next; indeed, almost every day. No conversation had passed between them;
                            and, though he had been introduced on the evening of his visit, he had
                            been too much overwhelmed to use words.
                        My friend, however, did not lack that necessary attribute of a successful
                            wooer, somewhat vulgarly termed "spunk." He had no further business with
                            the merchant; but then his case was a desperate one, and he made an
                            errand.
                        Miss Allen blushed as he entered, but she was social and agreeable to the
                            last degree, so much so that Frank staid till the bells rung for nine
                            o'clock before he knew it. The ice was broken, and my friend was in for
                            it.
                        The lady was a niece of the merchant, twenty-one years of age, and an
                            heiress. In the course of a few months, Frank's energy won the victory,
                            and it was understood that they were engaged.
                        
                        The merchant did not like it. Being somewhat exclusive in his ideas of
                            social intercourse, the prospective marriage of his wealthy niece to a
                            poor retailer was repugnant to the last degree, and he resolved to
                            thwart the purpose of the loving couple.
                        At first, he appealed to the lady; but she only laughed at him; told him
                            bluntly that she loved Mr. Howard, and would have him. Then
                            he reasoned with Frank on his ingratitude to him, his benefactor. The
                            young man was touched, and promised to consider it.
                        He did consider it, and his loving inamorata helped him consider it. After a hasty
                            deliberation, it was unanimously agreed to lay the whole matter "on the
                            table."
                        Mr. Allen was informed of the decision, and as old fogies always do when
                            they cannot do any thing else, bit his lip and swallowed his words,
                            fully resolved to do something dreadful, whenever an opportunity
                            occurred.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        A YEAR after my friend went into business, as I passed his store one
                            morning, I was not a little surprised to find it closed. Before the
                            window was that ominous white cloth, denoting that the occupant had
                            failed.
                        I entered the store. Frank stood at his desk, glancing with a most
                            woe-begone aspect at the pages of his leger.
                        "How's this, Frank?" I asked; and I never was more surprised in my
                            life.
                        "Bu'st up! don't you see?" replied he, rather petulantly.
                        "But what does it mean?"
                        
                        "Mean! Why, that I had a note of a thousand dollars, due yesterday, which
                            I could not pay; and this morning early, my amiable friend, Mr. Allen,
                            put in a keeper-that's all."
                        "How does it happen? I thought you were doing a rushing business."
                        "So I was. I had the money to pay this note six weeks ago, and let Smith
                            have it at two per cent. a month," replied he, with a ghastly smile.
                        "And Smith has failed?"
                        "Not exactly. He has stopped; but every body says he is good, if he has
                            time to turn himself."
                        "And you must make a fail of it in the mean time?"
                        "If I could only stave off Mr. Allen a couple of months, I could get out
                            of the scrape with flying colors."
                        "Won't he wait?"
                        Frank shook his head; he had mortally offended the proud merchant, and
                            there was no prospect that he would be lenient in the slightest
                            degree.
                        "Can't you raise the money?"
                        "No; times haven't been so hard for four years. Every body is failing,
                            and the money men wont trust their own fathers."
                        At this moment Mr. Allen entered the store. He looked stern and severe,
                            like one who has the power in his own hands, and is disposed to use it.
                            I seated myself near the desk, as he approached.
                        The merchant politely saluted the unfortunate dealer, smiling as blandly
                            as though nothing had happened; as though he had no niece, and Frank
                            were a Stoic.
                        "Mr. Howard, this is unfortunate; but in the midst of so much
                            commercial disaster, you perceive that it was my only course," said the
                            merchant, soothingly.
                        "I suppose it was; but you know the cause of my inability to pay the
                            note," returned Frank, with a doleful expression.
                        "Ah, young man, you ought not to have lent the money to Smith; if you had
                            asked my advice, I could have told you better."
                        "Smith was always supposed to be good."
                        The merchant shook his head.
                        "But, Mr. Allen, give me a short time, and I can pay the note. Smith
                            assures me he shall recover himself."
                        "Mr. Howard, I certainly wish you well; I have done all I could to give
                            you a fair start."
                        "So you have, sir, and I am very grateful to you."
                        "Are you?" and the merchant fixed a keen glance upon the young man.
                        "I assure you that I am."
                        "How have you manifested it?" continued the merchant, sternly. "But no
                            matter; we meet now as business men."
                        "Well, what shall be done? You have stopped me; can do no more."
                        "I don't wish to be hard. I would wait if prudence would justify it,"
                            said Mr. Allen, who was keenly sensitive in regard to his reputation for
                            generosity and fairness.
                        In fact, he was a man of good feelings, and only that he meant to punish
                            Frank for falling in love with his wealthy niece, would not have
                            disturbed him.
                        "You will be just as secure two months hence as now," pleaded Frank.
                        "I have not that confidence in you, Mr. Howard,-I say it frankly,-which I had once. You have
                            lost a thousand dollars. I doubt if your stock, under the hammer, would
                            pay my notes."
                        Frank looked savage, for though he was crestfallen, he was Frank Howard
                            yet, and felt keenly the unjust imputation of the merchant.
                        "I wish to be fair, and even indulgent," continued Mr. Allen, before
                            Frank had time to utter the ungracious sentiment that rose to his lips.
                            "Here is the note; give me one good indorser, and I will wait two
                            months."
                        Frank looked up, and smiled in contempt at the miserable subterfuge of
                            the merchant, who meant to crush him, and still preserve an appearance
                            of fairness. He knew it would be impossible for the young man, with his
                            stock encumbered, to procure the security.
                        "Will you take Smith?" asked Frank, hurriedly.
                        "Of course not," replied Mr. Allen, with a bland smile.
                        "I will see what can be done; but I think the case is hopeless."
                        The merchant withdrew, assured in his own mind that his revenge was sure,
                            and his reputation safe, at the same time.
                        Frank and myself canvassed the matter, but we could think of no person
                            whose milk of human kindness was sufficiently abundant to prompt him to
                            do such an insane act. While we were debating the matter, Frank was
                            struck up by the entrance of Miss Allen.
                        "How gloomy you look here to-day, Frank," said she, laughing, and showing
                            in the act the prettiest row of pearly teeth I ever saw.
                        "We are gloomy, indeed," replied Frank, mustering a sickly smile. "But
                            you know the reason?"
                        
                        "Why, what reason?" asked she, her merry expression relapsing into a
                            serious one.
                        "You see that man?"
                        "Yes."
                        "He is a keeper!" replied Frank, with tragic effect.
                        "A keeper! of what? Are you insane?" responded the lady, playfully; for
                            it must be confessed she was not acquainted with the technicalities of
                            business.
                        Frank laughed, and explained the disaster which had overtaken him.
                        "Poh!" exclaimed she, with an appearance of relief; and I really believe,
                            if the keeper and myself had not been in the way, she would have thrown
                            her arms around his neck, and kissed away his mortification.
                        I had before been introduced to the lady, and at this moment advanced to
                            join in the conversation.
                        "And my uncle is the wretch?" continued she, merrily. "But what can you
                            do? How can you get out of it?"
                        Frank explained the proposition to procure an indorser for the note. The
                            light-hearted maiden appeared to have but little sympathy for the
                            misfortunes of her lover, and asked all sorts of questions about
                            indorsers, notes, and business forms.
                        "Where is the note you are to have indorsed?" asked she.
                        "Mr. Allen has it."
                        "How can you have it indorsed, then?"
                        "I can write another," replied Frank, smiling at the innocence of his
                            betrothed.
                        "Then write one," said she, promptly.
                        Frank looked at her a moment, to ascertain what mischief was lurking in her mind. She smiled,
                            apparently without the power to prevent it.
                        The lover, impelled by curiosity as much as any other motive, wrote the
                            note and signed it.
                        "Now how do you indorse it?" asked she.
                        "By writing the name across the back."
                        The lady approached the desk, and turning the note, wrote, with two
                            dashes of the pen, "Isabel Allen," across it.
                        "It is indorsed," said she, with a smile, which told Frank all she
                            meant.
                        "But, Isabel-"
                        "Good morning, Frank," interrupted she, and hastened out of the
                            store.
                        "Bravo, Frank!" exclaimed I.
                        He smiled doubtfully. His pride was a little touched.
                        "Would you use it?" said he, after a long pause.
                        "Use it? to be sure!" and he did use it.
                        In the afternoon Mr. Allen called, satisfied in his own mind that he
                            should witness the complete humiliation of the young man, who had had
                            the audacity to fall in love with an heiress. Knowing at what hour he
                            would call, I was careful to be present.
                        "Well, Mr. Howard, how have you succeeded? I have really been in hopes
                            you will be able to secure the paper," said the merchant; and I could
                            plainly discern the malicious chuckle on his face as he spoke.
                        "I have succeeded, Mr. Allen; and I am infinitely obliged to
                            you for your good will."
                        The merchant was completely staggered at the reply. It was wholly
                            unexpected, and wholly unwelcome also.
                        "I trust you have procured a good one," said he, painfully.
                        
                        "A wealthy one, but a name unknown on State Street."
                        "Can't take it, then," answered the merchant, promptly, and with renewed
                            hope.
                        "But a name well known to you!" and Frank handed him the note.
                        Mr. Allen started back in surprise and anger, as he read the name of the
                            fair indorser.
                        "Very well, sir; when a man of any delicacy can resort to such a trick as
                            this, I have nothing more to do with him." And the crestfallen merchant,
                            after throwing the old note on the counter, hastened indignantly from
                            the store.
                        The keeper was withdrawn, and Frank heard no more from Mr. Allen. A week
                            after Smith paid the money, and Frank took up his note.
                        Before another of the notes came due, Isabel Allen had become Mrs. Frank
                            Howard. The stock and stand were sold out, the debts paid, and my
                            handsome friend is as happy as a beautiful wife, with a heart full of
                            love, can make him.
                    
                
                
                    
                    "GOOD FOR NOTHINGS."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "YOUR girl is a prize, Mrs. Bagley," said Mrs. Veazie, a lady whose
                            physiognomy was rather indicative of a sour temper.
                        "Bridget is a good girl," responded the lady addressed; "and she has been
                            with me over a year now."
                        "Indeed! Over a year! Well, I am astonished! For my part, if I
                                get a good girl, I can't keep her."
                        "I have been very fortunate in that respect."
                        "You have indeed. O dear! it is really terrible to think how much one is
                            dependent upon these Irish servant girls. They are such lazy, impudent,
                            good-for-nothing creatures, that it is enough to weary out one's
                            life."
                        "Some of them are. If I had been so unfortunate as to get such a one as
                            you describe, I should instantly discharge her. But very few are of that
                            description."
                        "Very few! Let me tell you that your girl is one in a thousand, Mrs.
                            Bagley. Where you find one who is honest, faithful, and respectful, you
                            will find nine hundred and ninety-nine who are just the reverse."
                        "I can hardly believe it," replied the good-natured Mrs. Bagley, with a
                            smile of incredulity upon her pleasant features.
                        
                        "It is as true as the gospel! Why, I have had no less than ten different
                            girls within a year."
                        "Ten! Is it possible?"
                        "And my family is no larger and the work is no harder than yours. Isn't
                            it singular?"
                        Politeness compelled Mrs. Bagley to answer that it was singular; but, at
                            the same time, she knew that it was not so very singular, after all. If
                            she had felt at liberty to do so, she could have given her friend a
                            solution of the mystery.
                        "And the girl I have now I shall be compelled to discharge. She is
                            discontented, impudent, and overbearing."
                        "I am sorry for you."
                        "She is a capital girl in every other respect, and I am sorry to part
                            with her. She is a good cook, and-what you don't find in many
                            girls-understands pastry, cake, and puddings."
                        "Too bad to lose her, isn't it?" said Mrs. Bagley, with a greater
                            appearance of sympathy in her speech than found a place in her
                            heart.
                        "It is; but one cannot put up with impudence, you know. I would send off
                            the best girl in the world before I would submit to it."
                        "Certainly; impudence cannot be tolerated. Can't you teach her
                            better?"
                        "No; she won't hear to any thing. It was only the other day, when I saw
                            her washing the potatoes in the wash-hands basin, that I merely called
                            her a nasty, good-for-nothing hussy; and, don't you think, the impudent
                            jade told me to mind my own business, and not to be sticking my nose
                            into her affairs! Did any one ever hear the like?"
                        Mrs. Bagley only smiled. If she had lived in a less civilized ilized era, perhaps she would
                            have been blunt enough to say that the fault was partly with the
                            mistress, and not wholly with the servant.
                        "And then she is so ugly," continued Mrs. Veazie, "that I dare not trust
                            my children with her."
                        "I leave the baby with Bridget for half a day sometimes, and feel
                            perfectly safe."
                        "My girl don't like children; I know she hates them. Why, only yesterday
                            I told her she might leave the washing for an hour or so, and take
                            Charley out in the little wagon; and, don't you think, she had the
                            impudence to tell me that, if I wanted Charley taken out, I might take
                            him out myself! I never was so provoked in my life."
                        Mrs. Bagley's good nature was all exhausted; and, at the risk of being
                            deemed uncivil, she had the hardihood to say she never took Bridget away
                            from her washing unless in a case of absolute necessity.
                        "Wasn't this a case of absolute necessity?" asked Mrs. Veazie, with a
                            rather uncompromising look upon her sharp features.
                        Poor Mrs. Bagley! She was in for it, and must needs defend the policy at
                            which she had incautiously hinted.
                        "I should say not," replied she, not a little fearful that she was about
                            to "stir up strife."
                        "What would you do? Charley ought to have the fresh air every day."
                        "I should have taken him out myself; for it is very annoying to a girl to
                            be called away from the wash tub. She has to change her dress, which is
                            a great deal of trouble, and leave her clothes in the water or on the
                            fire."
                        "Yes, girls are desperate 'fraid of a little trouble."
                        
                        "If they feel any pride about their work, they like to have it done up in
                            good season, you know."
                        "And she insists upon being absent every fourth Sunday."
                        "I let Bridget go every third Sunday."
                        "You do?"
                        "I think it very reasonable."
                        "Who gets your dinner Sundays?"
                        "What little we get I attend to myself. But we always have baked beans
                            Sunday, so that I don't have to stay at home from meeting."
                        "And you wash the dishes yourself!" exclaimed Mrs. Veazie, in utter
                            astonishment.
                        "Certainly. The fact is, these Irish girls are human beings, after all,
                            and need a little recreation as well as the rest of us."
                        "But they take advantage."
                        "If you give them no advantages, they will take them. I have found out
                            that, the better you use good girls, the more faithfully
                            they will serve you. I make it a point to treat my girl well; and,
                            having secured her good will, I feel a reasonable assurance that she
                            will do the best she can for me."
                        "You don't mean to say that I don't treat my girl well?"
                            said Mrs. Veazie, her features coloring under the insinuation she
                            believed was aimed at her.
                        "Certainly not. My remark was intended to be very general."
                        Mrs. Veazie went home; and, though she was a little angry with her
                            neighbor, she "set to thinking" upon what she had heard.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MRS. BAGLEY'S girl, Bridget, had a beau, and, in the course of events,
                            was married. Her mistress, though exceedingly sorry to part with her,
                            could of course make no objections to her working out her woman's
                            destiny. She was a good-hearted person, and did all she could to see the
                            faithful girl, who had been almost a mother to her children, comfortably
                            situated in her new relation.
                        Her first attempt to procure another good girl proved to be unsuccessful;
                            for the new servant was, beyond the hope of remedy, slovenly and dirty.
                            She was compelled to discharge her.
                        About this time Mrs. Veazie's girl was discharged. The lady, profiting by
                            the lesson she had received of her neighbor, had for a few months
                            treated Margaret with kindness and consideration. The change was
                            appreciated by the girl. She was ignorant and headstrong; but neither so
                            ignorant nor headstrong as not to be able to understand the meaning of
                            kind words and considerate actions.
                        Mrs. Veazie was astonished at the change in the temper of the girl; and,
                            for a time, she persevered in maintaining the new order of things. But
                            it is useless for any one to attempt to be gentle and kind in their
                            speech and action when there is neither gentleness nor kindness in the
                            heart. A "change of heart," in the language of the Scriptures, is as
                            necessary to make an ill-tempered person amiable towards others as it is
                            in the working out of the more technical "profession" of
                            religion. A "profession" of good nature is the first step towards
                            piety.
                        When Mrs. Veazie relapsed, Margaret relapsed, and there was strife again.
                            No sooner did the servant observe the unreasonableness of the mistress
                            than she was in open rebellion again, as saucy as ever.
                        "I am determined to send her off, Mrs. Bagley," said she, as she was
                            seated with her neighbor one afternoon.
                        "Send her off! Why, I thought she was doing nicely now."
                        "So she was; but this morning a couple of tons of coal came, and, as I
                            had no one to get it in, I told her she might do it. I am sure I spoke
                            very pleasantly to her," said Mrs. Veazie, with an abundance of
                            self-complacency.
                        Mrs. Bagley held up both hands in astonishment.
                        "What did she say?"
                        "She told me very coolly that she had rather not do it. But I was angry
                            then; I thought it was about time to be angry, too, when a girl answered
                            me in that way; so I told her she was a lazy, good-for-nothing
                            minx."
                        "Did you?"
                        "Indeed I did."
                        "Well, what did she say then?"
                        "'The same to yourself, ma'am,' says she. She has not been saucy before
                            for a good while."
                        "Didn't it occur to you that your request was slightly unreasonable?"
                        "I'm sure it didn't. Why, these girls are used to working in the fields
                            in Ireland, digging turf and pounding stones. I don't see why they
                            should be so stuck up when they come to America."
                        
                        "Well, I suppose, when they come to a country where even the rights of
                            the poor are respected, they think better of themselves-very naturally
                            too, I think. But, Mrs. Veazie, if you are going to discharge Margaret,
                            I should like to take her."
                        "You?"
                        "If you have no objection."
                        "Of course not; but she never will suit you, I know."
                        And Margaret went to live with Mrs. Bagley. She was an able, capable, and
                            industrious girl, and her mistress immediately took a great liking to
                            her. Margaret had her faults, the most prominent of which was a quick
                            temper, that often prompted her to give a saucy or a spiteful answer
                            before she was aware.
                        She had not been a week with Mrs. Bagley before, without a reasonable
                            provocation, she gave her mistress a short and crusty answer. No notice
                            was taken of it, though the point was insisted upon and carried. A few
                            days after, when she got a little perplexed, she was saucy; but Mrs.
                            Bagley was as firm as she was even in her temper, and calmly rebuked the
                            uncivil words. Margaret was abashed by the gentleness and decision of
                            the rebuke, and readily understood with what manner of person she had to
                            deal. She was conquered, and made as good a girl as the most obdurate of
                            servant hunters could possibly desire.
                        In the course of the year Bridget's husband was killed on the railroad,
                            and the poor girl found herself again compelled to go out to service.
                            Mrs. Bagley was well suited with Margaret, and did not feel at liberty
                            to discharge her, especially as both parties were satisfied.
                        Mrs. Veazie had tried half a dozen girls since Margaret had
                            left her, and, as usual, had been unable to retain them. It was with a
                            thrill of satisfaction she heard that Bridget, "the prize of a girl,"
                            wanted a place again, and she lost not a moment in making an engagement
                            with her.
                        About a week after this important event, Mrs. Veazie came in hot haste
                            over to Mrs. Bagley's.
                        "Don't you think," exclaimed she, out of breath, "that Bridget has given
                            me notice of her intention to leave."
                        "To leave?"
                        "Yes; I don't believe she meant to stay when she came."
                        "I think she did. Bridget wouldn't do a mean action, if she is an Irish
                            girl."
                        "I don't know about that."
                        "But how did it happen?"
                        "Why, she was as saucy as ever Margaret was in the world."
                        "Bridget? Impossible!"
                        "I asked her as politely as though she had been a lady if she wouldn't be
                            so kind as to black Mr. Veazie's boots."
                        "And she refused?"
                        "No; she did it. She said she would do it this time, but she had rather
                            not have it as part of her work."
                        "You couldn't blame her, could you?"
                        "Of course I could; and I told her she was a lazy, good-for-nothing
                            vixen, and that she'd have to do it every day, if she staid with me.
                            Why, Irish girls at home have to black their masters' boots."
                        "But it is not the custom here."
                        "It ought to be; and I told her, up and down, that she was not what she
                            used to be when she lived with you. Upon that she told me she would
                            leave. Did you ever see such
                            luck as I have?" and Mrs. Veazie puffed with excitement. She really
                            believed she was the most unfortunate woman in the world.
                        "To be plain with you, Mrs. Veazie, I don't think Bridget was in the
                            least to blame."
                        "Not to blame?"
                        "No. When you set your girls to getting in coal and cleaning boots, you
                            must expect them to be rebellious, especially when you follow it up with
                            such hard words."
                        Mrs. Veazie went out, and slammed the door after her. She has never
                            crossed the threshold of her friend's door since; but it was a small
                            loss.
                        The moral of our sketch is sufficiently apparent. When we hear ladies
                            complaining that they can't keep a servant, we are a little disposed to
                            doubt whether the fault is not in part upon their side.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE TWO DAGUERREOTYPES.
                    A TEMPERANCE TALE.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        JIM SCROGGINS, though in the main an honest, peaceable, quiet, harmless,
                            fellow, had a beastly habit of getting drunk whenever a fit opportunity
                            presented itself; and, unfortunately, because "where there is a will
                            there is a way," the opportunities were both fit and frequent.
                        Jim owned a little farm in the country, which, by his own industry and
                            economy, he had almost paid for. Mrs. Scroggins was a "real worker,"
                            and, no doubt, did her full part in buying the homestead. She was
                            endowed with a great deal of energy and good judgment, and people were
                            so malicious as to say that she was the smartest man of the twain. Be
                            this as it may, Mrs. Scroggins was an industrious woman, and took a
                            great deal of pride in the little place, which had been bought by their
                            united industry and economy, and the thought of having it wrested from
                            them by a cold-hearted creditor was in the highest degree disagreeable;
                            but to such a calamity her husband's infirmity, as the good minister of
                            the village called it, seemed to point.
                        The habit grew upon him, as it almost always does upon those who once get
                            into the way of imbibing too freely. The miseries of the drunkard's wife had
                            been too often presented to the good woman's understanding to be
                            regarded as simply creations of the imagination, and she looked forward
                            with alarm to the prospect of enduring them and losing the little
                            place.
                        But what could be done? She had exhausted all her eloquence upon the
                            infatuated man, without producing any thing more than a temporary
                            effect. She pointed out to him, kindly, the inevitable consequences of
                            his indulgence, and Jim promised to amend; but-alas, for the vanity of
                            human expectations!-he got tipsy the very next day.
                        Then she appealed to his love of money-to his sense of satisfaction in
                            being the owner of a cottage and ten acres of land. She assured him that
                            he would certainly lose it all, and warming up with the importance of
                            the subject, declared that she would not slave herself any longer to buy
                            the place, and then have it taken from them to pay a rum bill.
                        Jim listened patiently and without speaking a word to the indignant
                            dame's eloquence, and, as usual, promised to do better; but, also, as
                            usual, he came into the house the next day tight as a fiddlestring.
                        Mrs. Scroggins was in despair; "what to do she didn't know," as she
                            expressed it to Parson Allwise, who was a sincere sympathizer with her
                            in her distress. She had entreated, she had scolded, she had threatened,
                            and all to no purpose. "What could a body do?"
                        Parson Allwise himself, though he made it a point never to interfere in
                            the domestic affairs of his parishioners, was at last moved to try his
                            powers of persuasion on the poor fellow. But Jim, unfortunately for the
                            success of the appeal, had but a poor opinion of ministers in general,
                            and of Parson Allwise in particular, and as good as told the
                            worthy pastor that he had better mind his own business.
                        Mrs. Scroggins was shocked at the boldness of her spouse in answering a
                            minister of the gospel in such a pointed manner, and was led to believe
                            that the case was now hopeless, indeed.
                        But woman's wits are equal to almost any emergency; and, though she had
                            professedly given Jim over to the tender mercies of the devil, she could
                            not help thinking it would be a good thing if he could only be saved
                            from himself.
                        One day circumstances seemed to conspire in favor of an experiment, which
                            had suggested itself to her fertile brain, and she immediately carried
                            it into effect with the most happy success, as the sequel will show.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        JIM had been cleaning out the pig pen, and as the operation was a rather
                            disagreeable one, he had fortified his olfactories by drinking an
                            inordinate quantity of vile New England rum.
                        The filthy stuff happily did not take effect on his brains till the job
                            was done. The pig pen was cleaned out, but Jim was in a condition which
                            better fitted him to occupy it, than the neat, white-floored kitchen of
                            his cottage. But Jim did not realize this unpleasant truth, and leaving
                            his shovel and hoe in the sty, staggered into the house.
                        "He was a sight to behold," as Mrs. Scroggins told the minister. The job
                            he had just completed was eminently a nasty one, and Jim, as we have
                            before remarked, being a prudent
                            man, had prepared himself to perform it, without any detriment to the
                            neat garments he ordinarily wore.
                        He was dressed in a suit of ragged clothes, and on his head rested a
                            "shocking bad hat," with the crown stove in, and the brim half torn off.
                            As the liquor began to fuddle him, he had moved it over from its
                            perpendicular position, so that it rested jantily on one side of his
                            head.
                        Jim settled himself heavily in a chair by the cooking stove, looked
                            silly, and seemed disposed to address himself to slumber, his usual
                            resort when inebriated.
                        Mrs. Scroggins was mad at first; for it was only the day before that Jim,
                            for the hundred and first time, had promised never to drink another
                            drop, not even in case of sickness.
                        But what was the use of being mad with such a poor, silly, imbecile being
                            as he was at that moment? He was not in a condition to appreciate a
                            regular matrimonial "blow up," and she wisely resolved to reserve the
                            vials of her wrath to be poured out at a more convenient season.
                        She looked at him, and thought of losing the little place, of penury,
                            degradation, misery, and the poorhouse. A lucky thought rose, like the
                            phoenix from the flames, out of the contemplation of the dark picture;
                            and after a few minutes deliberation, she put on her bonnet and cloak,
                            and hurried over to the village, not half a mile distant.
                        During the previous week, a young daguerreotypist, with a portable
                            saloon-a kind of overgrown omnibus-had been delighting the villagers by
                            giving them the semblance of their faces at prices varying from nine
                            shillings to three dollars a head, depending upon the value of the
                            case.
                        All the people in town had been daguerreotyped, and the omnibus man was
                            the most popular person in the village.
                     
                            
                                TWO DAGUERREOTYPES.
                            
                      All the dames and maidens were taken, and every
                            Jonathan and Jehiel who could boast of a Susan, a Ruth, or a Sally, was
                            taken, with her by his side in the picture, his arm thrown lovingly
                            round her neck, and both looking unutterably affectionate.
                        But Mrs. Scroggins was not sentimental; she had gotten over all that long
                            before Jim took to drinking. She proposed to put the skill of the
                            daguerreotypist to a more practical use than that of propitiating a
                            lover.
                        She entered the saloon, and though her heart did beat a little at the
                            degradation of exposing her domestic matters to an entire stranger, she
                            demeaned herself with all the firmness necessary for the trying
                            occasion.
                        Fortunately for her, all the people in town "had been taken," and it was
                            a dry time with the artist. In as few words as possible, she stated the
                            case to him, and the young man readily promised his cooperation.
                        Taking his apparatus under his arm, he accompanied Mrs. Scroggins to the
                            cottage, where Jim was sleeping off the effects of the
                                    
                        villanous
                        villainous
                     
                            "New England."
                        The inebriate sat in precisely the same position in which his wife had
                            left him. He was asleep in a high back chair, which kept his head up so
                            that every thing was favorable for the sitting.
                        In a trice Jim Scroggins, old hat, ragged clothes, long beard, dozy,
                            drunken expression and all, were transferred to the plate.
                        But the picture did not suit the artist; he thought one taken when the
                            sitter was awake would be a more correct representation. Mrs. Scroggins
                            thought so too, and after the daguerreotypist had put in a new plate,
                            she waked him up.
                        
                        "What d'ye want?" growled Jim.
                        "Wake up!" and the lady gave him a smart pinch, which opened his eyes,
                            thus completing the expression of the drunkard.
                        The artist was prompt, and in an instant the second edition of Jim
                            Scroggins was on the plate.
                        The original, not being required for further use, was suffered to sink
                            away and complete his nap.
                        The pictures were put in a frame, and Mrs. Scroggins produced her
                            money.
                        "Nothing, ma'am; I shall not charge you any thing."
                        "But, sir, I am able to pay."
                        The artist shook his head, and resolutely refused to touch her money.
                        Of course Mrs. Scroggins was grateful, and gave the young artist an
                            invitation to take tea with her, which he accepted. In the course of the
                            meal-the table being laid in the little front room-the daguerreotypist
                            told the story of his own life; how he had been brought up in the midst
                            of intemperance, and knew all about it. His father had died a drunkard,
                            leaving his mother penniless, and he supported her by the profits of his
                            portable saloon. Mrs. Scroggins, of course, sympathized with the young
                            man, and readily understood why he would not take pay for the
                            pictures.
                        But what was better than all, the young artist took quite a fancy to
                            Jim's only daughter, a pretty little girl of eighteen, and after tea
                            insisted upon taking her daguerreotype. And the sly rogue pretended that
                            the first was not a good one, and took another, which he carried away
                            with him, professedly for a show specimen, though, to my certain
                            knowledge, he never exhibited it.
                        
                        The tea things were cleared away, and still the young gentleman lingered,
                            and talked a great deal with the pretty little Susan. But when he did
                            go, the poor girl's heart followed him, and half the night she lay awake
                            to think of him.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        JIM SCROGGINS recovered from his debauch; but the first thing he saw when
                            he came into the kitchen, in the morning, was the case containing the
                            two daguerreotypes, which lay open on the table.
                        He picked it up, and started back in confusion, when he recognized his
                            own distorted features in one of the pictures.
                        He examined the other. It was the counterpart of the first, with the eyes
                            open, and looking ten times more hideous than the sleeping picture.
                        "Good gracious!" exclaimed he; "did I ever look so infarnal homely as
                            that?" and he proceeded to scrutinize the pictures a second time.
                        "Hang me! if I thought I ever looked so cussed mean as that, I'd go down
                            and jump into the river."
                        "I've seen men though, that looked just like that 'ere," continued he;
                            "but them was drunkards. Now, I an't a drunkard, though I sometimes git
                            a little sizzled. I never lit my pipe at the pump, though. Howsomever,
                            them was took for me, though when or where I've no kind o' notion.
                            There's the old hat, and that's the old coat-no mistake."
                        The footsteps of his wife caused him to drop the pictures, and he
                            hastened out of the house to avoid the tempest which he thought his
                            wickedness would call down upon his head.
                        
                        It is a notable fact that he omitted his morning dram on this occasion,
                            and his wife took courage. Like a prudent woman, as she was, she did not
                            say a word about the occurrences of yesterday, and permitted him to eat
                            his breakfast in peace.
                        He got through that day without drinking a drop; but on the following day
                            the old appetite clamored for the usual dram, and in the afternoon,
                            while his wife was in the sitting room, he went to the closet where he
                            kept the bottle.
                        But the first thing that met his gaze was the two daguerreotypes resting
                            against the black bottle. There was Jim Scroggins drunk asleep, and Jim
                            Scroggins drunk awake.
                        "Them cussed dogerytypes!" muttered he, starting back in confusion at the
                            miserable-looking object they so faithfully shadowed to him.
                        Jim stopped to think. He fully resolved never again to be the loathsome
                            being they represented him to be. Taking the black bottle, he went to
                            the door with it, and with right good will hurled it on the door stone,
                            where it was smashed into a thousand fragments, and the delectable stuff
                            irretrievably lost.
                        "Halloo! what are you about?" said a young man, entering the yard.
                        "Smashing my rum bottle," replied Jim with admirable coolness.
                        "Bravo! I commend your resolution," replied the young man.
                        "You are the dogerytype man, an't you?" said Jim.
                        "I am."
                        "Walk in, if you please;" and Jim ushered Mr. Shadow into the sitting
                            room, where his wife and daughter were.
                        
                        "Wife," said he, "you had them picters taken?"
                        "I did, James."
                        "I've broke the bottle; and as to looking like them creturs, I never will
                            again."
                        "Thank God, James; I hope you never will."
                        "Here is the pledge," said Mr. Shadow, who was a temperance man in theory
                            as well as practice.
                        "I'll sign it, by mighty!" and Jim did sign it.
                        "Now, wife, will you rub them things out?"
                        "Certainly, James;" and Mrs. Scroggins went for the pictures.
                        "And now, Mr. Scroggins, if you will walk over to my saloon, I shall be
                            happy to take the real man as God made him."
                        "I'll do it; and, Betsey, you shall come, too; and Susey."
                        Susey went with her father and mother, though her picture had been taken.
                            On the way Mr. Shadow walked by her side, and said a great many silly
                            things, with which I will not trouble the reader.
                        The daguerreotypes were taken, and Jim was surprised at the difference
                            between the picture of a drunken man and that of a sober man.
                        He drank no more liquor; and though this incident happened three years
                            ago, he is still a sober and reputable man in the village. The little
                            place is all paid for, and Mrs. Scroggins is superlatively happy.
                        Susan, in less than a year, became the wife of Mr. Shadow, who,
                            notwithstanding his name, is a man of substance, and loves his wife all
                            the more because he was instrumental in saving her from the degradation
                            of being a drunkard's daughter.
                    
                
                
                    
                    SIX HUNDRED A YEAR.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "WELL, Dixon, what is it?" asked Mr. Phogie of his assistant bookkeeper,
                            who had been patiently waiting for half an hour in the private counting
                            room of the merchant for an opportunity to speak with his employer.
                        "My second year in your service will begin to-morrow, sir; and I have
                            taken the liberty to request your attention to a matter which, though of
                            little consequence to you, perhaps, is of considerable moment to
                            me."
                        The young man paused as if to note the effect of his words upon his
                            employer.
                        "Indeed!" ejaculated the merchant, not half liking the cool and dignified
                            way the young gentleman had of introducing himself.
                        To his mind there was a lack of that cringing, subservient tone and
                            manner which his old-fashioned notions had taught him to believe was a
                            dangerous deficiency in a clerk.
                        "I refer to my salary, sir."
                        "Well?"
                        There was a gathering frown upon the brow of the merchant.
                        "I have endeavored to serve you faithfully," continued the clerk, rather
                            discouraged by the coldness with which he was received.
                        
                        There was an awkward pause. Mr. Phogie's philosophy did not permit him to
                            speak; and the young man was too much embarrassed to proceed with his
                            application.
                        "My salary for the past year has been five hundred dollars," stammered
                            Dixon, when he found his employer was bent on holding his peace.
                        "Well?" said Mr. Phogie, who still provokingly refused to take a
                            hint.
                        "The object of my present visit is respectfully to request you to raise
                            it to six hundred," continued Dixon, more boldly, as he began to
                            appreciate the humor of his employer.
                        Mr. Phogie stared, aghast with astonishment and horror, at the
                            supplicant. Cruikshank or Johnston would have accounted the scene quite
                            equal to that in the workhouse, where Oliver Twist, in a less important
                            matter, had the unheard-of presumption and impudence to "ask for
                            more."
                        Dixon lost all hope.
                        "I trust, sir, I am not unreasonable," said he, excusing his
                            boldness.
                        "Forty years ago, Dixon, when I was of your age," began Mr. Phogie, with
                            solemn deliberateness, "I should have been glad to have received one
                            half of your present salary."
                        The merchant looked complacently at the clerk, to note the effect of this
                            astounding declaration.
                        Dixon ventured to suggest that the times had changed.
                        Mr. Phogie admitted it, but was quite sure the change had been for the
                            worse.
                        "That is a matter of opinion, sir."
                        "Humph!"
                        "It costs much more to live now than it did then."
                        
                        "Young men didn't drive fast horses then, nor go to the opera, nor board
                            at fashionable hotels," sneered Mr. Phogie.
                        "I am guilty of none of these follies, sir," replied Dixon, a little
                            indignant at the coarseness of the implication.
                        "Perhaps not; but five hundred dollars a year is a good salary for a
                            prudent, careful young man."
                        "For one who can do no better it is very well."
                        "Clerks are vain nowadays, and over-estimate themselves," said Mr.
                            Phogie, rebuking the complacence of his servant.
                        "I do not ask an increase of salary, sir, because I cannot
                                live on five hundred dollars, but because I wish to
                            advance myself, and, if you will pardon my vanity, because I think my
                            services are worth more."
                        "Very well, sir; when young men get above their business, there is no
                            knowing where they will stop. I cannot accede to your demand;" and Mr.
                            Phogie, to show his indifference, busied himself in arranging some
                            papers on the desk before him.
                        "Then, sir, I shall be obliged to give you notice of my intention to
                            leave your service," returned Dixon, evidently relieved by the fact that
                            the interview was concluded, even in this unsatisfactory manner.
                        Mr. Phogie paused in his occupation, and looked with surprise upon the
                            clerk. It was doubtful whether Dixon meant so.
                        "Got another situation?" asked he.
                        "No, sir."
                        "Nothing in view?"
                        "Nothing, sir. Of course I could not make an arrangement till I had
                            consulted you."
                        
                        Mr. Phogie was not pleased with the result of the interview. Dixon was an
                            honest, faithful, and devoted clerk, and the idea of parting with him
                            was not agreeable. But to retract what he had hastily said would be an
                            indication of weakness; besides, he knew that any quantity of clerks
                            could be obtained for four, or even three hundred dollars a year; and he
                            reasoned with himself that he should be a fool to pay Dixon six when he
                            could get one for three.
                        Accordingly Dixon gave formal notice of intention to "quit;" but, having
                            already earned a reputation for integrity and fidelity, he could easily
                            obtain a situation at the salary he had demanded of Mr. Phogie.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        "Good morning, Mr. Phogie," said Mr. Wyman, a liberal-minded merchant, as
                            he entered the counting room of the former.
                        "Good morning, sir. Any thing new stirring?"
                        "No; I called to see you about a young man who has been in your employ; I
                            mean Dixon."
                        Phogie was all attention.
                        "I want a bookkeeper, and he has applied for the situation. How is
                            he?"
                        Phogie did not very well like to say he was a competent man, honest,
                            faithful, and zealous; he did not dare say he was any thing else; so he
                            was compelled to compromise the matter for the moment by saying
                            nothing.
                        "I was very much surprised to hear from him that he had left your
                            service. Any thing unpleasant?"
                        
                        "No."
                        "Blot the books?"
                        "No."
                        "Inaccurate?"
                        "No."
                        "Off too much?"
                        "No; nothing of the kind."
                        "But he was always considered one of the most promising young men on the
                            street."
                        "Yes."
                        Wyman was perplexed by the taciturnity of the other.
                        "I don't ask from idle curiosity; I want a bookkeeper."
                        Phogie was dumb.
                        "Has the young man any fault?" and there were visible evidences of
                            impatience in the tones and manner of the matter-of-fact merchant.
                        "Not that I know of."
                        "O, you didn't want him?"
                        "No-that is-yes-but-"
                        "Exactly so!" exclaimed Wyman, laughing.
                        Phogie laughed too; he could not help laughing when he saw what a figure
                            he was making; besides, a laugh is sometimes a great relief to a man in
                            a quandary.
                        "If you must know, Wyman, I'll tell you. I gave him five hundred for the
                            last year; he wants six for the next. I won't give it."
                        "No?"
                        "Yes; that is the whole story."
                        "Wait a minute till I have secured him, and then I will talk with you;"
                            and Wyman moved towards the door.
                        "Give him six hundred?" asked Phogie, not a little astonished
                            to find his neighbor so eager to complete the engagement.
                        "Yes; seven if he demands it."
                        "I can send you half a dozen in an hour who will engage for three."
                        "Will you give bonds for their integrity and fidelity?" asked Wyman, with
                            a sneer.
                        "Pooh!"
                        "Pooh? The fact is, I have suffered enough from cheap clerks. Assure me
                            that a young man is honest and true to my interest, and I never will let
                            him leave me on account of any reasonable difference about salary. All
                            that Solomon said about a virtuous woman I believe in with regard to an
                            honest and faithful clerk."
                        "I can't afford to pay these big salaries; and a young man gets above his
                            business when you pay him too much."
                        "Nonsense! He will respect himself, which every man must do in order to
                            keep himself honest."
                        "You are a transcendentalist."
                        "I'm common sense. You say you cannot afford to pay high salaries. Can
                            you afford to have a semiannual deficit in your cash account of three
                            hundred dollars, botched up with false entries, lying balances, and the
                            like?"
                        Mr. Phogie had never been troubled in this way, and there was no
                            probability that he ever should be; he looked out for his business
                            himself, and he should like to see the clerk that could "bamboozle"
                            him.
                        Mr. Wyman thought otherwise, and took his leave, wondering at the
                            stupidity of his friend. It occurred to him, as he left the counting
                            room, that it was not so very strange, after all, that clerks on three hundred
                            a year can drive 2:40 horses and go to the opera three nights in a week;
                            not very strange, either, that petty defalcations were discovered
                            occasionally, and that young men on small salaries got ahead amazingly
                            fast.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        WYMAN engaged Dixon, and Phogie procured the services of an ill-looking
                            fellow for three hundred dollars. The next time he saw Wyman, he
                            indulged in a little innocent raillery over the fact that he paid his
                            new clerk but just half the salary Dixon received; and Phogie thought he
                            was even a better bookkeeper than Dixon, wrote a plainer hand, and could
                            run up a column of figures rather quicker. As to the new clerk's
                            honesty, he had a bundle of testimonials as big as the invoice book; and
                            his maternal uncle was president of the Soap and Candle Makers' Bank. Of
                            course he was honest!
                        Things went on swimmingly for six months. The new assistant was a jewel;
                            and when Mr. Quilldriver, the head bookkeeper, was taken down with
                            rheumatism, which proved to be chronic, Mr. Phogie had so much
                            confidence in this notable nephew of a notable uncle that he gave him
                            the entire charge of the books, and, in the liberality of his big heart,
                            advanced his salary voluntarily to four hundred dollars a year.
                        On the first of January, however, when Mr. Phogie called for the balance
                            sheet, it was not ready. The trial balance didn't come out
                            right, and the profit and loss account looked "thundering strange," as
                            Mr. Phogie classically expressed it. Three days were hopelessly used up
                            in "taking stock;" but the thing couldn't be figured out.
                        Mr. Phogie began to be alarmed. The general-a noted expert in unsnarling
                            complicated and difficult accounts-was called in to examine into
                            affairs; but no sooner did the smart nephew of the president of the Soap
                            and Candle Makers' Bank see the well-known gray locks of the expert bent
                            over the obstinate folios than he stepped out to lunch, and, by some
                            singular oversight, forgot to return.
                        The upshot of the whole matter was, that the general discovered an
                            "absquatulation" of some fifteen hundred dollars-just enough to keep the
                            dapper little bookkeeper in opera tickets and 2:40's during the past
                            season.
                        Of course the thing went up and down the street; and the little ragged
                            news boys in State Street bellowed it at the top of their lungs into the
                            ears of the passer by.
                        "Why, Phogie, how's this?" said Mr. Wyman, meeting the supporter of the
                            cheap clerk system.
                        Mr. Phogie used a very hard word, which only the ministers are permitted
                            to use in stirring sermons.
                        "Pay 'em well, Phogie, and they won't steal; and when you get a faithful
                            servant, don't part with him."
                        Phogie scowled and edged off.
                        "By the way, Dixon has brought every thing out as square as a brick.
                            Trial balance, balance sheet, every thing foots up without the variation
                            of a penny," continued Wyman, maliciously, as Phogie increased his
                            speed.
                        Poor penny-wise, pound-foolish merchant! He learned better after
                            that.
                        
                        For the satisfaction of the reader, I may as well add, that Dixon got a
                            thousand for his next year's service, and that he is now engaged to his
                            employer's pretty daughter, with the prospect of immediately becoming a
                            partner in the concern.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE NEW MINISTER;
                    OR, "CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "IT is abominable hypocrisy for you to talk so, Susan; you don't care any
                            more about the missionaries than you do about the fifth wheel of a
                            coach," exclaimed Louise Percy, the village schoolmistress, to her
                            friend, Susan Maylie, at whose father's house she boarded.
                        "Why, Louise, how rude you are! You wouldn't like it if I should talk so
                            about you," replied Susan, an angry flush gathering upon her cheek.
                        "Perhaps I shouldn't; but if it were true, I don't know that I could
                            blame you for it."
                        "It is not true, Louise."
                        "Why, it is only two months since you refused to put any thing into the
                            contribution box for the missions. You said you thought the missionaries
                            were a set of lazy vagabonds, who had a good deal rather preach than
                            work for a living. Now, since the new minister has come, all of a sudden
                            you are a strenuous friend of missions and missionaries."
                        "Can't a body change her opinions, when they are found to be wrong?"
                            replied Susan, petulantly.
                        "Certainly you can; but is your opinion really changed?"
                        
                        "How strange you talk, Louise!"
                        "May be I do; truth is stranger than fiction."
                        "You must confess that our new minister's eloquence has been quite enough
                            to convince any reasonable person that the propagation of the gospel
                            among the heathen is a holy and beautiful work."
                        "Undoubtedly, it is a good work; and if you really feel called upon to
                            labor so earnestly in the cause, I am sure I should be the last one to
                            reprove you for it."
                        "You don't believe I am sincere, then?"
                        "I think you are very fond of the new minister. If an old man, with a
                            wife and half a dozen children, had preached those missionary sermons, I
                            hardly believe you would have felt so much interest in the work."
                        "Why, Louise, you astonish me! I really believe you hate the
                            missionaries."
                        "On the contrary, I have the highest respect for them. I have always
                            contributed my mite to sustain them. I think I was quite as strongly
                            attached to the cause before this young and handsome Mr. Rogers made his
                            appearance among us as I am now;" and Louise laughed merrily.
                        "He is handsome, isn't he?" said Susan, catching the playful
                            spirit of her companion and confidant.
                        "I grant that with the greatest pleasure; but if you expect to catch him,
                            you had better moderate your missionary ardor, and act yourself."
                        "Nay, Louise, I really feel an interest in the cause;" and Susan looked
                            as sober as though she had been a missionary herself, just on the point
                            of starting for the interior of Africa.
                        Louise laughed merrily again, as she looked doubtfully into the face of
                            her friend.
                        
                        A knock at the door started them from the revery into which both had
                            fallen.
                        "Mr. Rogers, as I live!" exclaimed Louise, catching a glance at the new
                            minister as he stood on the door stone.
                        "Pray, don't be rude, Louise," said Susan, as she adjusted her dress
                            before the glass.
                        "Be rude! of course not; but I shall say just what I think."
                        "Don't, Louise. Be a friend of missions, for my sake."
                        Susan opened the door, and Mr. Rogers entered the house.
                        "I have called, Miss Maylie, to propose a plan for a tea party in aid of
                            the missions," said he, after the common place introductories had been
                            disposed of. "I look to you, who have been first and foremost in this
                            good cause, for sympathy and cooperation."
                        "I shall be very glad, indeed, to do all I can to forward the good work,"
                            said Susan, demurely, "and so will Miss Percy."
                        "You must excuse me; my time is so much occupied that I do not think I
                            shall be able to render any essential aid," interposed Louise, scarcely
                            able to restrain a laugh at the prompt tender Susan had made of her
                            services.
                        "Perhaps you are not interested in the missions," suggested Mr.
                            Rogers.
                        "To some extent, I am, sir."
                        "I trust, then, we shall be able to enlist your sympathies. Certainly the
                            heathen, perishing in their sins, demand a noble effort on the part of
                            the Christian world."
                        "I do not question the lofty character of the missionary enterprise, but
                            I do think charity ought to begin at home."
                        "Why, Louise, how strange you talk!" exclaimed Susan.
                        
                        "True, Miss Percy, but it ought not to end there. I see you favor the
                            home missions."
                        "I do. I favor a mission nearer home than any society has been formed to
                            advance, in our village at least-the mission to the poor and
                            destitute."
                        "The gospel is preached for all," said the minister.
                        "For all, but not to all. There is poor Mrs.
                            Weston, who cannot afford to buy clothes to send her children to
                            meeting."
                        "Indeed!" ejaculated the minister.
                        "Her husband is a poor, miserable drunkard," added Susan. "You don't
                            think her a worthier object of charity than the poor, suffering, dying
                            heathen, who are perishing in their ignorance and sin?"
                        "Indeed, I do!" returned Louise.
                        "Her case ought to be attended to immediately," said Mr. Rogers.
                        "She ought to go to the poorhouse; the overseers offered to take her,"
                            continued Susan.
                        "The poorhouse! Mrs. Weston has seen better days, and, I doubt not, would
                            rather die than be subjected to such a bitter humiliation."
                        "Her own fault, then; if she won't let the town help her, what more can
                            be done?"
                        "She went to Deacon Hapgood, who owns the hovel in which she lives, to
                            get him to take off ten dollars a year from her rent. But the deacon
                            didn't see how he could afford it, and the poor woman left him, to
                            continue alone her struggle with the demon of poverty as best she might.
                            Yet the deacon can afford to give a hundred dollars a year to the
                            missions, and says he never feels the sacrifice."
                        
                        "I will see Deacon Hapgood," said the minister, musingly.
                        "I hope you will teach him that 'charity begins at home.'"
                        "The hungry can be fed, the naked clothed, the houseless sheltered, and
                            still there will be means left to carry on the missions. We are
                            commanded to 'preach the gospel to all nations.'"
                        "And reminded that the poor are always with us. There is Farmer Jones; he
                            can't afford to buy a spelling book for his daughter, but he gives large
                            sums of money to the missionary society."
                        Mr. Rogers, who was an earnest seeker after truth, and who nobly
                            endeavored to do his duty, began to feel that there was a great deal of
                            practical wisdom in the remarks of the schoolmistress.
                        After a little more conversation, in relation to the proposed tea party,
                            he took his leave.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        LOUISE PERCY, without being very beautiful or very bewitching, was a very
                            sensible, earnest, straightforward girl. With a warm heart and a
                            generous disposition, she was free, open, and sincere in her intercourse
                            with the world.
                        Just the opposite was her friend and confidant, Susan Maylie, though, as
                            the world goes, she passed for a good-hearted person. She lacked that
                            transparency of motive which was so eminently the characteristic of
                            Louise's temperament. Where no strong prejudice actuated her, she was generally prompt in her
                            choice of the good from the evil, though sometimes the most intimate
                            friend was involuntarily led to suspect her motive.
                        Six months before we introduce them to the reader, the village in which
                            they resided was thrown into commotion by the arrival of the new
                            minister, who had been called to officiate in the parish church.
                        He was young, handsome, and, more than all, unmarried. Straightway, one
                            half of the eligible maidens in town became interested in "serious
                            things." The prayer meetings and the conference meetings were all at
                            once found to be seasons of special interest. All the charitable
                            societies connected with the church suddenly became prosperous. The
                            missionary society, which was composed of ladies, who met once a month
                            at the sewing circle, received a new impetus from the arrival of Mr.
                            Rogers.
                        The young clergyman made it a point to attend these meetings, for he was
                            particularly interested in the enterprise of sending the gospel to the
                            heathen. He had preached several sermons on his favorite topic, and his
                            exertions were rewarded by the creation of a strong and unusual feeling
                            on the subject.
                        Susan, all at once, found her mind intently engaged in the engrossing
                            subject. It is true she had learned from her father to ridicule and
                            despise the missions; but then her heart was hard, and the ministrations
                            of the handsome young clergyman had turned her mind from the vanities
                            and vexations of life, to the lofty and substantial realities of
                            "serious things."
                        Louise could not help noticing the sudden and remarkable change; but then
                            Susan so constantly spoke of the minister's ter's handsome
                            face; so often sneered at the thought of sundry village belles, whom she
                            was malicious enough to accuse of attempting to "catch" him, that she
                            readily fathomed the occasion of the singular transformation.
                        Louise got out of patience with her friend's duplicity, but suspecting
                            that it might be involuntary, or the consequence of a want of
                            consideration, she had plainly pointed out the inconsistency. Susan
                            could hardly deny the fact, and feeling that Louise was a true friend,
                            one who would not proclaim her infirmity to the world, she suffered the
                            charge to pass unrefuted.
                        "I am going to set up an opposition to the missionary society," said
                            Louise, after Mr. Rogers had gone.
                        "Pray, what mad scheme have you got in your brain now?" asked Susan.
                        "I am going to do something for the relief of Mrs. Weston."
                        "How foolish you are!"
                        "Am I?"
                        "You are, very foolish. It is the town's business to look out for
                            paupers."
                        "It is my business, too, and yours, Susan."
                        "I am sure I shall not meddle with it."
                        "We have each of us reserved five dollars for charitable purposes, you
                            know."
                        "Well?"
                        "I shall give mine to Mrs. Weston."
                        "And I shall give mine to the missions. I thought you were going to do
                            the same."
                        "I have altered my mind. I cannot send my money across the ocean, when
                            there is an abundance of heathen growing up in ignorance around us. Now, if you
                            will put your five dollars with mine, it will just make up the amount
                            the poor woman asked the deacon to abate her rent."
                        "I shall do no such thing, I assure you. I am too much interested in the
                            missions to throw my money away upon the town's paupers."
                        "Very well; I will not urge you."
                        "What do you suppose Mr. Rogers would say if I should give nothing to the
                            missions?"
                        "Are you beholden to him to render an account of your stewardship? For my
                            part, I shouldn't care what he thought. Do your duty, Susan, let folks
                            think as they may. If I had money enough, I would contribute handsomely
                            towards having the gospel preached to such heathen as Deacon Hapgood,
                            Farmer Jones, and some others who support missions, while they starve
                            their own souls and those of their families."
                        Susan, knowing how obstinate Louise was when excited, refrained from
                            opposing the purpose she had announced, and Louise retired to her
                            room.
                        "Five dollars," said she, musingly; "it is more than a week's pay; but
                            she shall have it; yes, and more too. Since Susan has refused to join me
                            in this work of charity, I will give another five dollars; and then how
                            happy the poor creature will be!"
                        The face of the gentle-hearted girl lighted up with an involuntary smile,
                            as she opened her drawer and took therefrom the ten dollars. It was a
                            large sum for her; but she cheerfully resigned the pleasures it would
                            purchase, and looked forward to the joy she was about to carry to the
                            cottage of the drunkard's wife.
                        With a light heart she tripped down the road to execute her
                            charitable mission. As she entered the hovel, she shrank back at the
                            scene of wretchedness presented to her view. The poor woman, pale and
                            haggard with care, apparently with one foot in the grave, was surrounded
                            by half a dozen ragged children, whom her utmost exertions could hardly
                            feed with the coarsest fare, and clothe even with the miserable garments
                            that only half covered their nakedness.
                        Stating the object of her visit, Louise handed to her the ten
                            dollars.
                        Mrs. Weston started back in amazement. Such unheard-of liberality
                            overwhelmed her with confusion. If Deacon Hapgood could not afford to
                            take off ten dollars from her rent, how could a poor girl afford to give
                            her that sum outright? Before she could recover her self-possession
                            sufficiently to express her gratitude, the young minister entered the
                            house.
                        Mr. Rogers was almost as much astonished at the generosity of Louise as
                            Mrs. Weston had been; and when he took his leave, he gladdened the poor
                            creature's heart by adding another ten dollars to the gift.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        AFTER their departure from Mrs. Weston's, Mr. Rogers walked by the side
                            of Louise towards her residence. The conversation was earnest, and at
                            times warm, for Louise had opinions of her own, and was not diffident in
                            maintaining them, even against the eloquence of the parson.
                        Mr. Rogers was not less pleased with the spirit and independence of his
                            companion than he was with her warm heart and charitable disposition. And
                            when he bade adieu to her at the door of Mr. Maylie's house, he could
                            not banish her from his mind.
                        The following day was Sunday. Oddly enough for him, the minister had not
                            a word to say about missions or the heathen. His text was, "The poor ye
                            have always with you."
                        It was a noble sermon, showing that the poor, by being continually before
                            the eye, came to be regarded with indifference and neglect, while
                            objects of charity far removed by distance excited the liveliest
                            sympathy and commiseration. He demonstrated that the first duty of all
                            was to relieve distress in their midst; in fine, that "charity begins at
                            home." It was shown, very much to the edification of Deacon Hapgood, who
                            sat in the broad aisle, wondering "what the minister was driving at,"
                            that a rich man could not blind the eye of his Maker by giving large
                            sums to the missions, while he oppressed the poor, and turned a deaf ear
                            to their prayer for help.
                        Louise was deeply interested in the sermon, while a majority of the
                            congregation arrived at the conclusion that Mr. Rogers had gone crazy.
                            It was a reflection of her views, and a feeling of proud satisfaction
                            pervaded her mind, as she reflected that she had been instrumental in
                            calling the minister's attention to the subject.
                        The effect of the sermon was immediate and substantial. Every one of the
                            "eligible young ladies" straightway emptied the contents of their purses
                            into Mrs. Weston's lap. A society was proposed for ameliorating the
                            condition of the poor, whom they always had with them. But Mr. Rogers
                            cruelly vetoed the measure, not thinking an organized effort
                            necessary to complete the work, especially as Mrs. Weston, who was,
                            perhaps, the only destitute person in town, had money enough to pay a
                            year's rent, and three months' provision in her cellar.
                        In the mean time, Mr. Rogers manifested a laudable interest in the
                            welfare of the village school, and even preached a sermon on the duty of
                            parents to their children. He visited the school three times in one
                            week, besides conferring four distinct and separate times with the
                            schoolmistress at her boarding-place in the evening.
                        Well, every body-except the eligible young ladies-said it was the
                            minister's duty to look after the school, and see that the mistress did
                            her duty; so every body, with the exception mentioned, agreed that Mr.
                            Rogers was particularly faithful in the discharge of his
                            duty.
                        Susan was intensely astonished at the course of events, and more
                            especially was she pained at the comparative neglect with which the
                            missions had come to be regarded. Other charities, nearer home, shared
                            the sympathies of the young and handsome pastor, and she suddenly
                            realized that her extraordinary exertions in spreading the gospel among
                            the heathen had failed to accomplish the purpose she had in view. But
                            hope had not yet deserted her. Her eyes were not as wide open as they
                            might have been, and she did not yet fully understand the "signs of the
                            times."
                        "What a blessed field of usefulness is open to the teacher of the
                            district school!" exclaimed she, one day, to her confidant, the
                            schoolmistress.
                        Louise looked up from the book she was reading, astonished at the
                            remark-not at the important truth involved in it, but that it should
                            proceed from such a source.
                        
                        "It is, indeed, an interesting field of labor to those who can appreciate
                            it," replied she, a smile of intelligence crossing her good-natured
                            countenance.
                        "I have been thinking, Louise, that I might be useful in that
                            capacity."
                        "I do not doubt it."
                        "And I understand that the school in the south district will be vacant in
                            a few weeks; don't you think I could procure the appointment?"
                        "Why, Susan, you do not really intend to become a teacher, do you?"
                        "I certainly do. I feel that I have suffered too many years of my life to
                            pass away in idleness. I intend to redeem the time."
                        "You cannot mean it!"
                        "I am in earnest. Do you think I could get the appointment?"
                        "I can point you to a place nearer home, if you are really desirous of
                            becoming a teacher."
                        "What place?"
                        "You may have mine in the course of a month or two."
                        "Yours, Louise!"
                        "I shall send in my resignation next week."
                        "Why, Louise, I had no idea that you intended to abandon teaching," said
                            Susan, with undisguised astonishment; and, as she had regarded the
                            attentions her friend received from the handsome young minister with a
                            jealous eye, perhaps the announcement was received with some small
                            degree of satisfaction.
                        "I had no such intention a few days ago. But if you wish for my
                            place, you can have the opportunity of making the first
                            application."
                        "I shall be delighted to get it."
                        "I will mention the subject when I send in my resignation."
                        "But, Louise, you have never told us any thing about this. Pray, what is
                            going to happen?"
                        "I suppose I must tell you the secret. Of course you will not betray my
                            confidence?"
                        "Certainly not."
                        "I am going to be married this fall;" and Louise blushed up to her
                            eyes.
                        "Going to be married! My goodness! And we never even found out that you
                            had a beau."
                        "It has been rather sudden."
                        "I should think it had. Who is the fortunate gentleman?"
                        "Mr. Rogers."
                        "Mr. Rogers!" exclaimed Susan, starting back in blank amazement, while
                            the color deserted her cheeks, and her heart fluttered with emotion.
                        "Just so. From the time we met at Mrs. Weston's, when I gave the poor
                            woman my money, he has been very attentive-and, in short, the matter is
                            now settled."
                        "Well, I am astonished!"
                        Susan was astonished.
                        "I cannot wonder; I am astonished myself. But, Susan, I think I shall
                            carry in my resignation to-morrow, and you had better have a written
                            application ready."
                        Susan bit her lips with vexation, and even wondered that she had not been fool enough to give her
                            money to Mrs. Weston, instead of the missionary society.
                        "I think, on the whole, Louise, that I shall not become a teacher at
                            present," said she, as she turned, and abruptly left the room.
                        In the fall Mr. Rogers and Louise were married. The parsonage is the home
                            of peace, love, and charity. Mrs. Rogers is a model minister's wife, and
                            though the missionary cause receives an earnest support, she still
                            believes, and acts upon the belief, that "CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME."
                    
                
                
                    
                    "OUT NIGHTS;"
                    OR, BELONGING TO THE "SONS."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "DON'T go out to-night, Charles," said Mrs. Prescott, a pretty,
                            sweet-smiling lady, who had been married just six months, to her
                            husband.
                        "Really, Carrie, I am very sorry; but I do not see how I can be absent
                            from the meeting to-night," replied the young husband, as he brought his
                            great-coat from the entry.
                        "You always say so. I wish you did not belong to the 'Sons.' Can't you
                            leave them?"
                        "I could, my dear, if I desired; I have no wish to do so."
                        "Wouldn't you do it to please me?" said the lady, smiling so sweetly that
                            one could have found it in his heart to do almost any thing for her.
                        "You do not seriously wish me to do so."
                        "Nay, I do."
                        "Think, Carrie."
                        "I am jealous of that society."
                        "Fie!"
                        "You leave me here all alone, and you can't think how lonesome I am."
                        "I am very sorry to leave you; but, really, I feel it to be my duty to sustain so good an
                            association as the 'Sons of Temperance.'"
                        "There are enough without you."
                        "All might, with equal propriety, say so."
                        "They do not all leave a wife alone at home."
                        "Perhaps not."
                        "Can't you belong to them without going to the meetings every night?"
                        "I should not wish to do that. To be a merely nominal member of the Order
                            is to be nothing at all."
                        "You would be giving your name and influence to the cause of temperance
                            just as much as you do by attending the meetings."
                        "What is the cause of temperance, Carrie? I fear you give it a very vague
                            construction, like many others in the community."
                        "Why, preventing and curing intemperance."
                        "Preventing and curing it in whom?"
                        "Every body, I suppose-all your friends and neighbors."
                        "But not yourself."
                        "There is no danger of you, Charles."
                        "But I joined the Sons quite as much for my own sake as for that of
                            others."
                        "You don't think you are in any danger of becoming a drunkard, do you?"
                            asked Mrs. Prescott, with a smile of incredulity.
                        "Not while I am as strongly fortified against the vice of drinking as I
                            am now."
                        "Pooh! I would risk you, even if you did not belong to the Sons."
                        "Suppose I should abandon them, and permit myself to be
                            influenced by the example of those around me-of your brother Frank, for
                            example? Suppose I should shake off my allegiance to the principle of
                            total abstinence, how long would it take me to get rid of all my
                            scruples against drinking a glass of wine?"
                        "Can't you adhere to the principle without belonging to a society?"
                        "Association strengthens principle."
                        "You don't steal, Charles; on principle, you would not steal; but is it
                            necessary that you should belong to an anti-thieving society?" and the
                            pretty young wife's features wore an expression of triumph.
                        "Drinking is a fashionable vice; stealing is not. When the community
                            regards the fashionable wine bibber as it does the thief, there will be
                            no occasion for associated effort to restrain it. Popular opinion will
                            do the work which the Sons are now doing."
                        "But I don't think there is any need of going so constantly," replied the
                            wife. "Do stay with me to-night; I feel so lonesome."
                        "The Order acts upon some particular business to-night, and-"
                        "Particular business again!" exclaimed Mrs. Prescott, with a good-natured
                            laugh.
                        "It does indeed."
                        "Always so."
                        "Besides, I am W. P., you know."
                        "W. T., you mean."
                        "What's that?"
                        "Wife tormentor."
                        "Nay, Carrie-"
                        
                        "Go along; I will excuse you to-night; but don't stay late."
                        "No, dear."
                        "It was eleven o'clock before you got home last Saturday night."
                        "I will be home by ten to-night;" and Charles Prescott kissed his pretty,
                            smiling wife-we beg the reader to remember that they had been married
                            but six months-and left the house.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MRS. PRESCOTT did not appear to be half so lonesome as she had pretended
                            she was; for, as her little white hand delicately and daintily grasped
                            the needle, the same involuntary smile played on her pretty lips that
                            had been there while her husband was present.
                        Her thoughts must have been very pleasant, or she could not have worn
                            that bewitching smile. Her soft, gazelle-like eye, too, beamed forth the
                            language of a pure and beautiful soul-a soul at rest among the flowers
                            of its own tender rearing.
                        She was thinking, and her thoughts were full of joy. What a happy wife
                            she was! But perhaps her view of matrimony was mingled with something of
                            sentiment-a few grains of that amiable moonshine which strews flowers
                            and perfumes in the pathway of the young wife.
                        Alas that the blight of coldness should ever come to wither those flowers
                            which the young and loving wife scatters in her pathway! Alas that the
                            cares and trials of life should ever come and cast a great, broad shadow
                            over that moon of her dreams.
                        
                        Mrs. Prescott was happy, and she was thinking how happy she was. Charles
                            was all love and devotion. He was industrious, frugal, and temperate;
                            and, though they lived in a humble house and in a humble street, she
                            sighed not for the fine things her neighbors had.
                        They lived comfortably; and, while her husband loved her, she cared not
                            for tapestry carpets and velvet-covered lounges.
                        Charles had only one failing; and that was, an earnest devotion to the
                            Order of the Sons of Temperance, which drew him away from her side every
                            Saturday night. He never left the house any other evening without her;
                            and undoubtedly he would have insisted on her joining the order, only
                            that it was a secret society; consequently no women could be tolerated
                            within its pale.
                        Mrs. Prescott could not see why her husband should be a "Son;" he was
                            strictly temperate in his habits. Poor wife! She neglected to inquire
                            into the reason of his being so.
                        She plied her needle, and smiled forth the joy that was in her heart. She
                            was so happy and contented that there was only one thing left her to
                            wish for-that her husband was with her.
                        About half an hour after Charles had gone, her brother Frank, who had
                            been married nearly a year, called with his wife.
                        "I have got to go down to the store and post up the books, Carrie, and I
                            have brought Lucy to stay with you; she was afraid to stay alone," said
                            Frank Winslow, after the two wives had kissed each other, and said
                            sundry pretty things about the weather and the walking.
                        
                        "I am glad you did; I am all alone myself."
                        "Where's Charley?"
                        "Gone to the lodge."
                        "What lodge?"
                        "I don't mean the lodge-the meeting of the 'Sons.'"
                        "Bah!"
                        "He goes every Saturday night."
                        "What a pity! Charley is a good fellow, and it is a great shame that he
                            should herd with those fanatics," said Frank Winslow.
                        "Don't you talk so about my husband, Frank," interposed the loving wife.
                            "He is not half so much of a fanatic on temperance as you are on cognac
                            and sherry."
                        "Fie, sis! I believe in all sorts of good things; and being a Son is, in
                            my opinion, the next thing to being a fool."
                        "Why don't you tell him so?"
                        "I would if he were here. You don't think I am afraid of him, do
                            you?"
                        "No; but the last time you argued the question with him-"
                        "Bah!" exclaimed Frank, impatiently.
                        Promising to call for his wife by ten o'clock, he left the house.
                        "I hope our husbands won't quarrel over this temperance question," said
                            Mrs. Winslow.
                        "I hope not."
                        "But this 'Sons' business does seem so silly to me that I cannot wonder
                            Frank laughs at him."
                        "Well, I don't care any thing about it, only that Charles is out so late
                            every night at the meetings."
                        
                        "And leaves you all alone?" asked Mrs. Winslow.
                        "Yes."
                        "I wouldn't let him! It is a shame! Why, I should go into fits if my
                            husband left me alone till eleven o'clock!" and Mrs. Winslow was
                            horrified at the very thought.
                        "I have said a good deal about it."
                        "Said! Why, I would tip the house over before I would submit to it."
                        "He is so deeply interested in it."
                        "He ought to be deeply interested in his wife too."
                        "Nay, nay, Lucy, you wrong him. He loves me with all his soul."
                        "And leaves you alone till eleven o'clock?"
                        "I'm not afraid to stay alone."
                        "Why, it's almost as bad as having a drunken husband to sit up for."
                        "O, no, I'm sure it is not."
                        Charles Prescott was warmly condemned by the visitor, and warmly defended
                            by the wife, who, poor thing, though she wished he would stay at home,
                            could not bear to hear a word said against him.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        BEFORE ten o'clock, the two ladies had settled the question of Charles's
                            defection, and passed naturally enough into mousse de laines, laces, and
                            the newest fashions. Mrs. Winslow did not like to say that he was a
                            monster in the hearing of his wife; but she fully believed it; and Mrs.
                            Prescott, moved by the arguments of her friend, concluded that she was used much more hardly than
                            she had ever suspected.
                        Punctual to his appointed hour, Charles came home. Mrs. Winslow playfully
                            upbraided him for his want of constancy in leaving his wife to spend the
                            evening alone; but the husband made a "moral question" of it, and
                            proceeded to discuss the topic at length.
                        An hour was used up in the unprofitable argument, and the clock struck
                            eleven.
                        Mrs. Winslow yawned, and wondered why Frank did not come-began to think
                            the books must have gotten into a snarl to keep him so late.
                        It was half past eleven before he came.
                        "How are ye, old boy?" said he, grasping the hand of Prescott. "How are
                            the Sons to-night?"
                        "As usual-thriving."
                        "What makes you so late, Frank?" asked Mrs. Winslow. "You promised to
                            come at ten o'clock."
                        "The books got a little twisted. But sit down, Suke; I want to talk with
                            Charley;" and Frank threw himself into a rocking chair before the
                            fire.
                        "No, no, Frank; it is almost twelve o'clock."
                        "Never mind; sit down. They say there is more liquor drank since the
                            Maine law was made than ever before," said Frank, turning to Charles
                            Prescott.
                        "And there is more cheating, killing, and stealing since the ten
                            commandments were made than ever before. What does that prove?"
                        "Bah!"
                        "You refer to the golden calf?"
                        "Seriously, Charley, in my opinion, the fanatics who made that
                            law ought to be held responsible for half the drunkenness in the
                            community."
                        "And Paul, Peter, and John for half the sin the gospel was intended to
                            prevent."
                        "You talk like one of the fanatics," said Frank, his cheek reddening with
                            anger.
                        "I merely change the application of the principles which your remarks
                            cover."
                        "You distort them. A fanatic can't argue the question fairly. Come, Suke,
                            let's go home."
                        Frank Winslow rose from his chair, but instantly sank back again.
                        "What is the matter, Frank?" asked his wife.
                        "Nothing; don't you see?" and he attempted to rise again, but without
                            success.
                        "What ails you? How strange you act!"
                        "Your Sons and your Maine laws are a humbug, Charley; there's no rubbing
                            that out. Tell me about your-hic-Maine law!"
                        "O Heavens!" groaned the poor wife.
                        "What the deuse's the-hic-matter now?"
                        It was too plain to be longer concealed; Frank Winslow was drunk! The
                            heat of the room was revealing the terrible truth to the poor wife, to
                            the fond sister, that the husband and brother was helplessly
                            intoxicated!
                        Charles Prescott was shocked; Carrie's cheek was pale, and her frame
                            trembled; that smile was gone, for the loving brother was a
                            drunkard!
                        It was an agonizing moment to the fond wife. Mountains of sombre clouds
                            came rolling down before her bewildered senses, and the future was dark
                            with poverty, woe, disgrace,
                            and death. The drunkard's grave yawned like a cavern of hell in the path
                            of her husband.
                        "O, Frank, Frank!" exclaimed she, throwing herself into his arms, and
                            bathing his brow with her woman's tears.
                        "What in -- ails you all?" said Frank, gazing round him with a drunken
                            leer.
                        Charles attempted to get him upon his feet; but he was utterly
                            helpless.
                        "Let me-hic-alone. I am none of your cussed-hic-fanatics, that can't go
                            alone;" and he fell at full length upon the floor.
                        Mrs. Winslow threw herself into a chair, and sobbed in bitterness of
                            spirit. Carrie wept upon her bosom. It was a sad sight, that group of
                            weepers over the drunken body of a noble-hearted, generous young man.
                            Angels weep over such pitiable objects.
                        With much difficulty Charles Prescott succeeded in putting him to bed;
                            but, to all save the besotted inebriate, it was a sleepless night. Tears
                            stained the pillow of the wife and sister, and silent prayers rose to
                            heaven for the preservation of the erring young man.
                        Morning came, and Frank had slept off his debauch. He was conscious of
                            his position, and with shame and humiliation he presented himself in the
                            breakfast room of his friend. The pale, anxious faces, the red and
                            swollen eyes of his wife and sister, told him what they had
                            suffered.
                        Like a true man, he acknowledged his fault, and promised to amend.
                            Charles pointed out the necessity of making a principle of abstinence,
                            to which he assented, and promised to connect himself with the Sons. He
                            kept his promise, and in a few weeks was initiated.
                        
                        Mrs. Prescott, after the impressive lesson she had received from the
                            experience of her brother, was convinced that active membership in a
                            temperance society, or at least a cherished principle of
                            abstinence, was necessary in these degenerate days for the salvation of
                            the young man.
                        Her husband had resisted temptation through the salutary influence of the
                            "Sons;" and she could not but reflect how unreasonable she had been in
                            attempting to lure him away from the fountain of his principle.
                        Even Mrs. Winslow has so far overcome her timidity as to be content to
                            stay alone every Saturday night while her husband attends the meetings
                            of the Order. It is a blessed thing for the wife to be assured that,
                            while he is away from her in those hours which properly belong to her,
                            he is fortifying his soul against the temptations that every where beset
                            him.
                    
                
                
                    
                    BRING FLOWERS;
                    OR, GOING INTO MOURNING.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "I AM sure they cannot care much for their sister, for not one of them
                            had even a black ribbon on her bonnet," said Mabel Grant to her invalid
                            sister.
                        "Nay, Mabel, you must not judge them harshly."
                        "But only think of it! Even her mother did not so much as change her
                            bonnet."
                        "Probably they have views and opinions of their own upon the subject,"
                            replied Mary Grant, feebly, for she was in the last stage of
                            consumption,-that dreadful scourge of our northern clime,-and even the
                            exertion of speaking a few words was exceedingly tiresome.
                        "And poor Ellen Lawson, our dear friend and schoolmate, one of the
                            fairest and truest girls in the village-to think that she should go down
                            to her early grave without even a show of mourning in her own family. It
                            looks like sacrilege to me."
                        "Nay, Mabel, your respect for a mere custom causes you to disregard the
                            plainest dictates of charity."
                        "I do not mean to be uncharitable."
                        
                        "I know it, Mabel; but you must remember that the practice of putting on
                            mourning is only a custom; and there is no sacrifice of love or
                            principle in disregarding the custom."
                        "Well, I don't know; I cannot think they loved poor Ellen as she deserved
                            to be loved."
                        "Why not?"
                        "Because, if they had, they would at least have shown a decent respect
                            for her while they stood around her bier."
                        "Did they seem to be cold, indifferent?" asked the invalid, with a great
                            deal of interest.
                        "No; Mrs. Lawson was very much affected while in the cemetery. She sobbed
                            as though her heart would break."
                        "Indeed!"
                        "But it did not seem to be real, her dress was so inappropriate."
                        "You wrong her, Mabel."
                        "I hope I do."
                        "You cannot see into the heart."
                        "And her sisters, too, if they had not worn white bonnets, would have
                            seemed like real mourners."
                        "The heart weeps, Mabel, not the dress, nor even the tearful eye. Many a
                            one in sable weeds has felt no sorrow for the loss of a parent or a
                            friend."
                        "That may be; but don't you think yourself that white bonnets and blue
                            dresses are very improper at the funeral of a near friend?"
                        "It would not be my taste, Mabel," replied Mary, with a faint smile. "But
                            I wish to accord to every one the privilege of doing as they please in a
                            matter of this kind."
                        "So do I; of course they have the right to wear what they please."
                        
                        "You censure them, though."
                        "Not censure them, Mary; I only say that it looks as though they did not
                            care much for poor Ellen."
                        "You impugn their motives; you ought to be charitable to them, however
                            strange they may seem to act."
                        "I will, sister; but if I had lost a friend, I should feel as though I
                            was deficient in respect to the memory of that friend, if I did not put
                            on mourning."
                        Mary sighed; she knew not how soon that dear sister would be called upon
                            to put on mourning for her. Even another day of existence might not be
                            permitted her. She was calmly waiting the hour that would bear her from
                            the scenes of earth to that brighter realm beyond the dark grave.
                            Already she heard the music of the angel's fluttering wing, and was
                            ready to lay her head upon the lap of earth.
                        Mabel penetrated her sister's thoughts, and turned away to hide a tear,
                            which sprung unbidden to her eye.
                        "There are many things to be considered, Mabel, in relation to the custom
                            of wearing mourning. For my part I think it would be far better if the
                            practice was entirely discontinued."
                        "Why, Mary! how strange you talk!"
                        "You can conceive how very disagreeable it must be for those who are
                            waiting to consign the remains of a dear friend to the tomb, to be
                            compelled to attend upon mantuamakers and milliners."
                        Mabel had never thought of that before.
                        "No sooner has the spirit taken its flight, than the house of death is
                            made the scene of commotion and confusion by the preparations to appear
                            in black. That holy sorrow, which craves solitude, is broken in upon by
                            the cares of business ness-by the necessity of conforming to a
                            mere fashion which requires the mourner to make a vain show."
                        "Perhaps you are right, Mary; pray, do not talk any more. You are quite
                            exhausted."
                        Mary said no more. A shade of deep thought rested upon her pallid
                            features. She was thinking how much more soothing it would be, when her
                            redeemed spirit sped its flight, if her friends could only think of her
                            while her lifeless clay remained with them, without the intrusion of
                            milliners and dressmakers.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        IT was spring time, and the joyous birds sung their cheerful notes upon
                            the blossoming trees. The flowers were blooming upon the hill side, and
                            Nature was assuming her verdant robes.
                        Under the influence of the mild, balmy air of the spring, Mary Grant
                            seemed to revive. Her strength appeared to return with the opening buds,
                            and her friends dared to hope that she might be spared to behold the
                            profusion of another summer, the glories of another autumn. But the
                            disease was deceptive. While hope smiles, the destroyer comes.
                        The physician, after giving the parents of Mary, all the encouragement he
                            could, directed his patient to ride out as often as the weather would
                            permit.
                        The invalid was happy in the privilege of once more inhaling the balmy
                            breezes, of once again visiting the cherished scenes, where, in the full
                            vigor of health and joy, she had gayly and thoughtlessly roamed.
                        
                        The village cemetery had always been a hallowed and beautiful spot to
                            her, and she expressed a desire to visit it again, ere her inanimate
                            form should be laid away to slumber beneath its peaceful bosom.
                        With Mabel for her companion, the carriage was slowly driven through the
                            garden of graves. Mary was silent and thoughtful; and more than once a
                            tear rose to the eye of Mabel, when she thought how soon she might be
                            called upon to follow the cold form of the loved one to her
                            resting-place.
                        The invalid was thoughtful, but not gloomy. Already the spirit had
                            reached forward to the glories of that better world where there is no
                            death, no sorrow. The grave had no terrors to her; it was a place of
                            rest. Death was not a hideous, quaking skeleton to her imagination, but
                            a white-winged angel, who would fold her upon his bosom, and bear her
                            across the dark valley to the "house with many mansions, eternal in the
                            heavens."
                        With introverted thoughts she gazed upon the memorials of the slumbering
                            dead. The funereal fir, the pendent willow that swept over the green
                            graves, diffused a heavenly calm in her heart, and she felt ready to
                            join the great company that slept beneath them.
                        "There is a new-made grave," said she, as the carriage turned the angle
                            of one of the avenues.
                        "It is the grave of poor Ellen Lawson," replied Mabel. Mary requested the
                            driver to stop.
                        On the grave, over which no marble had yet been reared, were several
                            bouquets of fresh flowers. Some little white blossoms, which had been
                            transplanted near the head, were opening their tiny buds.
                        "Still remembered, Mabel," said Mary, as she pointed to the flowers.
                        
                        "They place fresh flowers upon her grave every day."
                        "And do you think they did not love her, Mabel?"
                        "O, sister, I know they did!"
                        "And wore no black at her funeral?"
                        "I was wrong, Mary."
                        "These are meet emblems of the heart's remembrance. When I go hence, may
                            the flowers of spring blossom upon my grave. May some loving hand place
                            flowers upon the sod that hides me from those I loved on earth."
                        "You are sad, sister; do not speak so gloomily."
                        "Nay, Mabel, I am not sad; I am happy."
                        Mabel shed a flood of tears upon the bosom of her sister.
                        "Do not weep, Mabel; we shall meet in heaven, and be happy there
                            forever."
                        "You are better, dear sister; do not speak so hopelessly."
                        "Only a little while longer, and I shall rest beneath this sod. But do
                            not be sad; I am happy: I am not afraid to die. I feel as though the
                            angels were with me now, waiting to bear me to my home in the
                            skies."
                        Mabel cast another glance at the flower-decked grave of Ellen Lawson, as
                            the carriage drove on, and she felt that the heart could more eloquently
                            express its remembrance of the loved and lost, than by a display of the
                            sable weeds of the mourner.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        MARY GRANT went out of the house no more. In another week her waiting
                            spirit bade farewell to earth, and winged its way to its native skies.
                            Calmly and trustingly, while a
                            heavenly smile played upon her irradiated features, she breathed her
                            last in the arms of Mabel.
                        She was gone! Her wasted form, from which the undying soul had just taken
                            its flight, lay in rigid silence before her. She was beautiful in
                            death-so beautiful that Mabel could hardly believe she was dead; that
                            those lips, parted in a placid smile, could no more speak gentle counsel
                            to her; that those eyes, now motionless and sealed, could no more
                            reflect the love of that affectionate heart upon her.
                        But a moment before, she had bidden her farewell. Could she be dead? Was
                            it indeed true that those smiling lips were forever sealed; that another
                            note of sisterly love could not proceed from them?
                        Kind friends were waiting to prepare the body for the sepulchre, and a
                            gentle hand led her away from the inanimate form. Then, then she
                            realized that her sister was indeed dead, and a torrent of woe swept
                            wildly into her heart.
                        Flying to her chamber, she gave free vent to her grief.
                        "She is gone! She is gone!" sobbed she, as she buried her face beneath
                            her hands, and trembled in the agony of her emotion.
                        Mary died as the sun was sinking behind the western hills. Her pure
                            spirit had fled with the day; but the change bore her to an endless day,
                            where there is no night and the sun never sets.
                        Mabel passed a sleepless night. Her pillow was wet with her tears. She
                            rose in the morning, and hastened to gaze again upon the form of Mary.
                            She was arrayed for the grave, and as Mabel bent over her, and printed a
                            kiss upon the pallid, cold lips, the memories of the past rushed vividly
                            into her heart. Her eyes rained tears upon the marble beauty of the
                            corpse.
                        
                        And there she stood for an hour communing with the days which were now no
                            more; which could never be again, because the heart that made them glad
                            was now still in death.
                        The formality of the morning meal was disposed of,-it was nothing more
                            than a form to the weeping household,-and Mabel returned to the side of
                            her departed sister. She kissed the cold lips again, and gave herself up
                            to the flood of irresistible grief which faithful memory forced upon
                            her.
                        "Excuse me, Miss Grant," said one of the neighbors, who had come in to
                            assist the family, "but Miss Barnes, the dressmaker, is waiting to fit
                            your dress."
                        Her dress! There was something heartless, cruelly repulsive in the word.
                            Her dress at such a time as that! Must she leave the bier of her dead
                            sister to converse upon the details of a garment? Must her mind abandon
                            the thought of the dead to dwell upon the fashion of a dress?
                        Without a word she went to the sitting room. It was a busy scene for the
                            house of mourning, and she learned that the mantuamaker had been there
                            all night, for the weather was warm, and the funeral must take place on
                            the following day.
                        The conversation of the apartment sounded loathsome to her. It was not of
                            her dead sister, it was of the latest fashions, of the propriety of this
                            and that; the fitness of one article and the unfitness of another.
                        They asked her how she would have her dress cut; but her thoughts were
                            with Mary, and she answered not. As soon as she could be spared, she
                            left the dressmakers, and returned to the chamber of the dead.
                        Again she wandered back with Mary to the scenes of their happy childhood.
                            Again the tears flowed freely down her cheeks, and the spirit of the loved one
                            seemed to speak to her from the heaven to which she had ascended.
                        "The milliner has come, and wants to try on your bonnet," said the
                            servant girl.
                        Mabel attended the summons and returned. Her grief was too deep to permit
                            her to participate in the occupations of the sitting room, though her
                            mother was compelled to be there, and had been there all night.
                        "Please ma'am, the shopkeeper has come over with some gloves, and they
                            want you to pick out a pair," said the girl again.
                        She had scarcely disposed of this matter before another demanded her
                            attention; and thus it was all day long. The house was full of bustle
                            and confusion. The tailor, the hatter, the hosier, and a score of female
                            artisans, were constantly coming and going.
                        The solitude which her weeping heart craved was denied her. On the morrow
                            that loved form was to be borne away and placed in the ground. They
                            could never behold it again; but from the hour that Mary had breathed
                            her last, to the arrival of the funeral guests, she heard more of
                            business, of the repulsive details of dress and fashion, than of those
                            more appropriate words which solace the mourner in the hour of
                            trial.
                        The mourning garments were completed; but when Mabel was arrayed in them,
                            they carried, no comfort to the heart. She could not even feel that the
                            wearing of them was a token of respect to her dead sister; for they had
                            robbed her of the blessed privilege of weeping over her bier.
                        More than once she recalled the uncharitable judgment she had passed upon
                            the Lawsons; but they had been privileged ileged to mourn
                            without interruption over their dead. The course they had chosen was
                            reasonable; and she could not but feel that if the heart alone were
                            consulted, it would not weep in nodding plumes and sable weeds.
                        Around the grave of Mary the devoted sister planted the flowers she had
                            loved so well, and every evening, as the sun sank away, she placed a
                            fresh bouquet upon the green sod above her.
                        And close by, the hand of affection strewed flowers upon the grave of
                            Ellen Lawson; and all summer long, and when the chill winds of autumn
                            swept the cemetery, these floral offerings told the passer by that the
                            dead were remembered every day.
                        Bring flowers! Scatter them upon the graves of the dead; for they are a
                            far more grateful tribute to the memory of the departed than all the
                            trappings of fashionable woe!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE ACADEMY'S PRIZE.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        M. ST. PIERRE was the most noted artist in Paris, and his fame extended
                            all over Europe. His studio was thronged with students from every
                            country on the continent. To have been a student of M. St. Pierre was a
                            passport to distinction.
                        Among the pupils of the noted master were two young Frenchmen, Jean and
                            Paul Murot. They were cousins, and M. St. Pierre deemed them the most
                            promising of all the students. They were about equally advanced in their
                            art. An indifferent critic would hardly have been able to distinguish
                            the works of one from those of the other.
                        But, equally endowed as they were in that genius which makes a painter,
                            they were essentially different in disposition and character. Jean, the
                            elder, was cold, dark, and revengeful, while Paul was gentle hearted,
                            kind, and forgiving.
                        The ladies who frequented the studio of the great master were so
                            impartial as to say that both the young artists were equally well
                            endowed in the attributes of personal beauty. They were universal
                            favorites. If the light blue eye of Paul. seemed to exhale a profusion
                            of smiles from his very heart, the dark, flashing eye of Jean spoke a
                            soul full of manly energy, firmness, and decision.
                        
                        
                            
                                THE ACADEMY'S PRIZE.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                        M. St. Pierre had an only daughter, Emilie-a beautiful, simple-hearted
                            maiden, upon whom her father lavished a world of endearments. The artist
                            had a soul for beauty; and, if there had been no natural tie to bind him
                            to the fair being, his soul would still have clung to her.
                        Emilie was a pupil of her father, and as earnestly devoted to her art as
                            even the master himself. By the throng of students with whom she was
                            associated she was almost worshipped as an angel of light.
                        Among those who bowed at her shrine were Jean and Paul Murot. They were
                            both inspired by the genius of the art she loved, and, turning from the
                            mediocrity of the mass, she dwelt with interest upon their lofty
                            productions.
                        Both loved her; both had sought to win her heart, to make her choose
                            between them; but Emilie was obstinate, and refused to smile more upon
                            one than the other. Her heart had not yet been touched by any other love
                            than that of the divine art.
                        The National Academy had offered a most magnificent premium for the best
                            picture which should be submitted, before a given day, by the students
                            of Paris. Jean and Paul were both competitors for the prize. For months
                            they labored and studied with the most assiduous devotion; for he who
                            should bear off the prize of the National Academy would already have won
                            a fame which a lifetime might not accomplish.
                        M. St. Pierre was one of the umpires. From him Emilie learned, with an
                            unspeakable satisfaction, that one of her favorites was sure of the
                            premium. Her father's judgment to her was infallible, and she gloried in
                            the laurels which were to be worn by Jean or Paul.
                        
                        One day, she entered the apartment where the two pupils labored. Jean
                            alone was there; but Paul's picture, sketched on the canvas, nestled on
                            its easel.
                        "Jean," said she, smiling sweetly upon him, "you cannot both win the
                            prize."
                        Perhaps neither of us," responded Jean, with a sigh.
                        Nay, one of you will; my father says so, and he knows the ability of
                            every student in Paris."
                        "Said he so, Emilie?" said Jean, smiling.
                        "He did."
                        "But, Emilie-beautiful Emilie," said Jean, laying down his crayon, and
                            fixing a tender glance upon her, "there is another prize we have both
                            sought to win."
                        "Another prize!"
                        "One worth infinitely more than that the National Academy has
                            offered."
                        "You speak in enigmas, Jean," said she, with a coquettish blush.
                        "Let me speak plain, then; I mean yourself, beautiful Emilie," continued
                            Jean, throwing himself at the feet of the fair maiden.
                        "Ah, Monsieur Murot, you are losing your brains again; pray rise,"
                            answered Emilie, laughing.
                        "Nay, Emilie, I have not lost my brains, but my heart. I love you.
                            Without you the prize of the Academy would be worthless to me. I would
                            throw myself into the Seine, with the bawble in my hand."
                        "You are extravagant, Jean."
                        "Nay, I love you; bid me hope, and the prize is mine-the prize of art and
                            the prize of beauty."
                        "And Paul,-he loves me too," pleaded Emilie, smiling.
                        
                        "Choose between us; choose him, and let me die."
                        "No, Monsieur Murot, you will not die."
                        "I swear to kill myself when you refuse me."
                        "And will Paul kill himself, too, if I refuse him?" said Emilie, laughing
                            gayly; for she seemed not to regard seriously the ready hyperbole to
                            which her countrymen are addicted.
                        "Nay, I know not, Emilie; I will challenge him. One of us shall die, that
                            your choice may be made."
                        "Fie, Monsieur Murot; if you do, the survivor shall never see my face
                            again."
                        "Cruel Emilie!"
                        "But, Jean, I will decide; I love you both. He who wins the prize of the
                            Academy shall win my hand and heart with it."
                        "Hist! Here is Paul."
                        "He shall know all."
                        The fair girl then related to Paul Murot the substance of the
                            conversation that had just transpired. He, too, had declared his love to
                            Emilie, and entered the lists with even more willingness than Jean had
                            evinced.
                        "Bless you, Emilie," said he; "we shall both strive to win the
                            prize."
                        The brow of Jean darkened as he saw the mild, soft eye of Paul fixed
                            lovingly upon the peerless maiden.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        THE period allotted for the completion of the pictures had passed away.
                            Jean and Paul were putting the finishing touches to their productions,
                            and the heart of each beat high
                            with hope. The laurel wreath of fame was almost within their grasp, and
                            the heart and hand of the most beautiful maiden in Paris was also to be
                            the guerdon of the victor.
                        Paul was sad-sad because both could not be equally fortunate. The most
                            lively friendship had always subsisted between them; at least, the heart
                            of Paul was sincere, and that of Jean appeared to be so. But the
                            gentle-hearted student grieved to think that his own success might be
                            the herald of Jean's discomfiture-that it would, perhaps, mar his
                            prospects for life, and forever imbitter his existence.
                        As he gazed with affectionate interest upon the canvas from which his
                            genius spoke like the tongue of an angel, he could not help thinking of
                            poor Jean, if his own picture should be the successful one. Forgetful of
                            self, the thought of marring some of the fine effects of his painting
                            occurred to him, that he might win the happiness of seeing his friend
                            the victor in the lists.
                        A single stroke of the pencil across that gorgeous tint of summer sky,
                            one dash over that striking contrast of light and shade, one touch over
                            the reflected light on the trunk of that English oak, would utterly
                            disqualify it to compete with the glowing wealth of Jean's
                            production.
                        With an impulsive energy, he grasped the pencil, and moistened it with
                            color from the palette. It seemed like a sacrilege to mar the beautiful
                            work; but the happiness of Jean was in his hand, and he raised the
                            pencil to impart the Vandal touch.
                        His hand dropped, Ah, Paul, know you not that you are sacrificing the
                            fair Emilie? that you are shutting yourself out from the treasures of a
                            paradise?
                        Paul could not do it. The love of Emilie could not be given
                            up-no, not even for Jean. Had the prize of the Academy been all there
                            was at stake, Paul had had the courage to make him the victor.
                        Throwing down the pencil with an impatient gesture, as though he was
                            ashamed of his own selfishness, he left the apartment just as Jean
                            entered it.
                        The dark eye of the student kindled as he glanced first upon his own
                            picture and then upon that of Paul. The trying hour of his lifetime had
                            come. He should either be lifted to the pinnacle of distinction, and win
                            the hand of Emilie, or be plunged into the abyss of disappointment. It
                            was a vast chasm that yawned between success and failure, and he had no
                            patience to look upon the darker side of the event.
                        If he failed, there was nothing in life worth living for, and again he
                            glanced at the painting of Paul.
                        A single daub would ruin it-would insure him the hand of Emilie and the
                            coveted prize. It was a thought born of the devil; but Jean's heart was
                            black enough to harbor it.
                        It was nearly dark, and to-morrow would decide his fate. He took up the
                            pencil.
                        Black-souled Jean! Couldst thou have read all that passed through the
                            heart of thy friend an hour before, the devils within thee had grappled
                            with thy soul!
                        He advanced to Paul's picture; but the entrance of two artisans, who had
                            come to prepare the pictures for transportation, defeated his
                            purpose-nay, only delayed it. Bidding the artisans defer their task till
                            morning, he left the room.
                        He had scarcely gone before M. St. Pierre and Emilie ilie entered the studio to see the
                            paintings of the students.
                        "Ah, my father, Jean has won the prize," said the fair maiden.
                        "Nay, Emilie, the evening light falls unfavorably upon Paul's. Let us
                            change them, and you will see the effect."
                        The master changed the position of the two paintings, placing Paul's
                            before the window where Jean's had stood. The pictures, though not
                            identical, were similar. A large tree occupied the foreground in
                            each.
                        "You are right, my father, and poor Paul's hope is not yet blasted."
                        The master was silent for a while.
                        "Paul has been nervous," said he, at last, with a sigh.
                        Poor Emilie! How her heart grieved for the gentle-hearted student!
                        The shades of night had gathered when Jean rentered the studio. It was
                            too dark to distinguish objects; but the heart of Jean was also black,
                            and he groped about for the pencil.
                        Standing opposite Paul's picture, he endeavored to distinguish its
                            outlines. Only the great tree in the foreground could be dimly made out
                            by the light of a back window, near which it stood.
                        With remorseless hand, he drew the brush across the trunk of the tree;
                            and the beautiful light reflected from a golden cloud which was the
                            crowning glory of the picture,-across that he drew the pencil, and the
                            labor of Paul was ruined!
                        With a cloth he wiped down the canvas, so as to remove the evidences of
                            an intentional daub, and left the room.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER III.
                        THE board of umpires was still in session. It was whispered through the
                            mansion of M. St. Pierre that a decision had been made, and that it lay
                            between Jean and Paul Murot, as every body had expected; but no one knew
                            which was the fortunate artist.
                        "The picture of one has been thrown out because it is disfigured,"
                            continued the bearer of the news.
                        "Thrown out! Mon Dieu!" exclaimed Jean.
                        "Thrown out!" repeated Paul, bewildered with astonishment.
                        Perfidious Jean! How his black heart leaped at the prospect of the
                            victory! The stern judges had not troubled themselves to inquire into
                            the origin of the defacement of Paul's picture, and he was safe. Already
                            he congratulated himself on folding the beautiful Emilie to his heart,
                            and calling her all his own.
                        Poor Paul! The tears trickled down his cheek as he thought of the
                            disappointment that awaited one of them. Treading down the selfishness
                            which he had combated unsuccessfully on the previous night, he even
                            hoped that it might be his own which had been rejected.
                        But ah, there stood Emilie, beautiful as an angel. She was silent, for
                            she, too, felt that the present was an eventful moment.
                        How could the painting have been disfigured? Poor, gentle-hearted thing!
                            She dreamed not of the
                                
                        villany
                        villainy
                      that had
                            been perpetrated. She knew not that the heart of one of her lovers was as black as a demon's.
                            If Jean was the winner, she knew not to what wicked arms she would be
                            consigned.
                        But Jean felt that the victory was his. He only knew that it was Paul's
                            picture that was rejected, and he could hardly refrain from revealing
                            the abundant joy that filled his mind.
                        The arrival of M. St. Pierre awakened the silent group from their
                            lethargy.
                        "Ah, my father, who has won the prize?" exclaimed Emilie, breathless with
                            anxiety, while a crimson blush suffused her beautiful features.
                        "It lay between Jean and Paul," replied the master.
                        "But which, my father?"
                        "Nay, Emilie, I hardly dare say."
                        "Speak, M. St. Pierre," said Paul. "I can bear disappointment."
                        "So can I, my master," added Jean.
                        "One of the pictures was sadly disfigured."
                        "Mon Dieu! how could it happen!" exclaimed Jean.
                        "Indeed, I know not; but the majority of the umpires decided that it was
                            done by carelessness, and, against my earnest remonstrance, threw the
                            picture out of the competition."
                        "How unfortunate!" said Emilie, deeply grieved.
                        "It was, since I am confident it would otherwise have won the prize."
                        Jean's heart leaped when he thought how prudent he had been in wantonly
                            ruining Paul's picture. If his conscience had been less scrupulous, Paul
                            had been the victor!
                        "Here is the award, Emilie; you shall read it," continued ued
                            M. St. Pierre, giving her a roll of parchment, and leaving the room.
                        Emilie, with trembling hand, unrolled the parchment.
                        Jean stood firm, while Paul trembled with emotion.
                        "Award to Paul Murot," continued she, reading.
                        "To Paul Murot!" shouted Jean, staggering forward with
                            amazement, and clutching the parchment.
                        With quivering lip, he gazed at the fatal words.
                        "Hell and furies!" exclaimed he, while his dark eye flashed with anger,
                            "this is wrong."
                        Emilie and Paul started back, shrinking from the fury of the disappointed
                            student.
                        "Jean is right; there is some mistake," said Paul.
                        "There is no mistake," replied M. St. Pierre, reentering the room.
                            "Jean's was thrown out for being carelessly daubed."
                        "Was it mine that was thrown out?" said Jean, wildly.
                        "It was; your name was upon it. How was it defaced?"
                        "I know not."
                        "Last night it was in perfect condition when Emilie and myself visited
                            the studio. I was sure then that you would be the victor; but, to form a
                            better judgment, I changed the position of the pictures, so as to get a
                            different light upon Paul's."
                        "You changed them!" gasped Jean, staggering to a chair.
                        "I did. Are you ill, Jean?"
                        Jean had daubed his own picture!
                        He was ill; a fever laid him at death's door, and remorse extorted a
                            confession of his
                                
                        villany
                        villainy
                     .
                        Emilie became the bride of Paul Murot. His painting that won the
                            Academy's prize and the beautiful wife he still adores hangs in the
                            Louvre.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE DOMESTIC ELEMENT.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "JULIA has been to the public schools long enough," said Mrs. Mason to
                            her husband. "She is fifteen years old, and I am sure she can learn
                            nothing more till she is sent to a boarding school."
                        "Nonsense!"
                        "Besides, Mrs. Benson's daughter has left, and Julia don't want to go any
                            longer."
                        "Let her stay at home then."
                        "Stay at home! Don't you mean she shall have any polish?"
                        "Can't you polish her, my dear?" asked the easy husband, with a
                            good-natured smile.
                        "How absurdly you talk!"
                        "Why, my dear, you have got quite polish enough for the wife of a small
                            merchant. I would not give a copper to have you any more of a lady than
                            you are."
                        "But Julia may be the wife of a rich man; what would she be then without
                            music, French, and painting?"
                        "And she may be the wife of a poor mechanic, and these accomplishments be
                            useless and burdensome."
                        "She never shall be the wife of a mechanic if I can help it," retorted
                            Mrs. Mason, smartly.
                        
                        "Fie, Mary; you are unreasonable. Why should she look higher than a
                            mechanic, especially as some of our best and most reputable men are
                            mechanics?"
                        "She shall not be the wife of a mechanic if I can help it," repeated the
                            lady.
                        "Why not?"
                        "She shall do better, and that is the reason why I want her better
                            educated."
                        "She may do worse. What are we, my dear, that we need look among the
                            nabobs for a husband for our daughter?"
                        "Are you not a merchant?"
                        "Only a small shopkeeper."
                        "Well, that's a merchant; and I mean Julia shall marry a merchant."
                        Mr. Mason yielded the point, and agreed that Julia should marry
                            whomsoever she and her mother might choose.
                        "But she must be educated for her future station."
                        "True, she must."
                        "She must go to a boarding school, and learn French, music, painting, and
                            German."
                        "And Chinese," interposed Mr. Mason.
                        "She must learn all the fashionable things."
                        "I believe English grammar, writing, and arithmetic are not in
                            fashion."
                        "Pooh! she knows all about these things."
                        "I asked her to tell me how many bushels of potatoes a wagon seven feet
                            long by four wide and three high would contain, and she could not make
                            the first figure towards it."
                        "I suppose there was no such question in her book."
                        "Perhaps not; and she could not tell me where Sevastopol topol was-whether it was in China or the
                            Sandwich Islands."
                        "How foolish you are! I think likely she never happened to see the place
                            on the map."
                        "And that letter she wrote to her uncle was such horrible grammar that I
                            was ashamed to send it."
                        "No matter for that; she understands grammar very well."
                        "May be she does; but she has an awkward way of showing it. I suppose
                            washing, cooking, and baking are not fashionable either."
                        "There it is again."
                        "I think you would do better by her if you took her into the kitchen, and
                            taught her these things. If she happens to marry a poor man, they will
                            be of some service to her."
                        "Time enough for these things."
                        "Well, well, do as you please; but I am opposed to boarding schools; I
                            think they do more harm than good."
                        "That's just like you! Opposed to boarding schools! Who ever heard of
                            such a thing?"
                        "They spoil more young ladies than they ever benefit."
                        "How in the world can it spoil them?"
                        "Home is the place for girls. The first thing they should be taught to
                            love is the fireside; they ought never to be weaned from it by sending
                            them away to undergo monastic discipline in a boarding school."
                        "How foolish!"
                        "It gives them bad habits-makes them romantic-fills their silly heads
                            with moonshine; and if you send Julia, ten to one she will run away with
                            some bearded puppy."
                        
                        But it was no kind of use for Mr. Mason to argue with his wife on such a
                            topic as this; she was bent on sending Julia to the boarding school. He
                            was a man of peace, and, rather than make a tempest, he withdrew from
                            the combat.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        JULIA MASON did not possess a very brilliant intellect. Nature had never
                            intended her for a "blue stocking," and, live as long as she might,
                            there was no probability that she would ever become even a
                            "strong-minded woman." She had for many years attended one of the public
                            schools, but had never risen above the second class, and the master did
                            not believe she ever would.
                        Yet, for all this, Julia was a good-hearted, generous, whole-souled girl.
                            What Nature had neglected to place in her head, she had beneficently put
                            in her heart. She had a nice, womanly, domestic temperament, was quiet
                            and unobtrusive in her manners, and, without doubt, if no pains had been
                            taken to spoil her, would have made somebody a very loving if not a very
                            brilliant wife.
                        She was a little disposed to be romantic and sentimental-would have fed
                            well and thriven on moonshine-a temperament which requires a great deal
                            of prudent management on the part of the parent or guardian.
                        Julia went to the boarding school; but she had not been there three weeks
                            before she wrote to her mother, begging her to take her away, or she
                            declared she should certainly die.
                        The poor girl was homesick. Monastic discipline was an outrage upon her affectionate, domestic
                            nature. She had been accustomed to spend her evenings by the fireside at
                            home, with her parents and younger brother and sisters; and it was a sad
                            deprivation to her to be driven, at the stroke of a bell, into her
                            chamber at seven o'clock, there to sit in painful silence with her
                            roommate, and study her lesson. She was not a genius, and she hated
                            study; it was uncongenial in the highest degree.
                        At nine o'clock, at the stroke of the bell, she must retire, and in
                            fifteen minutes her light must be put out, or a black mark was made
                            against her name on the following day; and so it was all day long, week
                            in and week out. Her existence was odiously mechanical. Her life was
                            regulated by that everlasting stroke of the bell. She was obliged to do
                            every thing by rule-eat, drink, sleep, study, play, walk, by rule.
                        It was unnatural, and her soul cried out within her against such
                            monstrous formality. She could not learn, her heart grieved so under the
                            repulsive mechanism of her existence. Even the music lesson, which she
                            had anticipated with the liveliest pleasure, was gloomy and distasteful.
                            She was conscientious, and, though her companions laughed at her for it,
                            she at first paid the most implicit obedience to the rules of the
                            institution. Her roommate devised various happy expedients for relieving
                            the tedium of their lives; but she refused to avail herself of them.
                        Her mother begged her to persevere for a time, assuring her that she was
                            only homesick-a disease which a few weeks would effectually cure. She
                            did persevere; but her "chum" finally succeeded in overcoming her
                            conscientious scruples; and the evenings, instead of being passed in
                                study, were devoted to a "good time generally." It is
                            true, Julia got innumerable black marks for failures in her recitations;
                            but the horrible bugbears soon became so familiar that they ceased to
                            have any terrors. Before the first term had expired, she had so
                            completely weaned herself from her domestic memories that home had lost
                            all its charms.
                        She had learned a great many "new tricks." Indeed, the preceptor, in his
                            report to her parents at the close of her first term, felt it his duty
                            to say that her conduct had not been altogether satisfactory. She had
                            gone to the boarding school the quietest person in the world; she
                            returned a romp, her head full of strange notions about lovers, and her
                            heart as washy as the moonshine in her head.
                        On the first evening after her return home she insisted on going to the
                            opera; the second to a concert; the third to the theatre; the fourth to
                            a lecture; the fifth to a party; the sixth to a conference meeting; and
                            so on every evening.
                        "What in the world has got into you, Julia? You did not use to be fond of
                            'kiting' round in this manner," said the astonished Mrs. Mason.
                        "O mother, it is so insufferably dull at home! Besides, it is not
                            fashionable to stay at home in the evening," drawled Julia.
                        "What has got into you?"
                        "Boarding schools," said Mr. Mason.
                        "I should die of ennui to stay at home an
                            evening," continued the daughter, with a languishing sigh.
                        "You had better give her a lesson on the pots and kettles now,"
                            interrupted Mr. Mason.
                        "O papa, how cruel you are! Pray go to the opera with me."
                        
                        Mr. Mason was an indulgent papa, and he was obliged to go; but he could
                            not help wondering what Julia would finally come to if she was permitted
                            to go on in this manner.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        JULIA returned to the boarding school, and, in spite of the weak efforts
                            of her father to avert the fashionable fate that awaited her, she
                            continued there for nearly two years. In music and painting she made
                            rapid progress; but in literature and science she failed to make even a
                            decent proficiency.
                        She was an altered creature. She was vain, affected, romantic, and
                            transcendental, cherishing all sorts of visionary notions about life,
                            and especially about lovers and husbands, who filled a long space in her
                            daily meditations. She had lost her domestic nature, and that was the
                            saddest loss of all. Her heart was not actually corrupted; but it was so
                            buried up in the weeds of vanity and folly that its gentle influence was
                            almost entirely lost upon her life and character. If not unsexed, she
                            had lost that hold upon woman's sphere which confers her chief charm in
                            society. She was a creature for the ball room and the opera, and not for
                            the quiet shades of home.
                        Perhaps a boarding school does not always make such sad havoc in the mind
                            and heart of the young female; but such is the tendency of its
                            artificial manner of existence. Monastic discipline spoils woman; it
                            removes her from, and unfits her for, her social, domestic position.
                        When the two years had nearly expired, Mr. Mason one day
                            received a letter from the principal of the seminary, containing the
                            astounding intelligence that Julia had eloped with a young gentleman who
                            had come from the city on a visit in the neighborhood.
                        "The grand finale of the drama," said Mr.
                            Mason, throwing the letter to his wife.
                        "Good Heaven! who is this Mr. Winchel?" exclaimed Mrs. Mason, when she
                            had read the letter.
                        "A son of Winchel, the merchant in -- Street."
                        "Rich?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Thank God it is no worse!" replied Mrs. Mason, so far relieved that a
                            pleasant smile played upon her lips.
                        A few days after, Julia and her husband presented themselves at the home
                            of her father. They were received with open arms. Mrs. Mason was too
                            much pleased with the match to make a fuss about it, and Mr. Mason
                            followed his wife's "lead."
                        A few weeks after, they were comfortably settled in a pleasant house; for
                            Mr. Winchel, who had some very clearly defined aspirations for the quiet
                            joys of a fireside of his own, insisted upon going to housekeeping
                            instead of boarding.
                        This kind of life was novel to Julia, and for the first six months, while
                            her husband consented to take her every evening to the opera, a ball,
                            party, or concert, she was tolerably contented.
                        But Mr. Winchel got sick of such an incessant round of amusement, and
                            sighed for that paradise of home which his imagination had years ago
                            painted. He reasoned with his giddy wife; but she hated home, and
                            reproached him for attempting
                            to imprison her in the house, and thus make her life miserable.
                        Mr. Winchel was firm, and positively refused to go to any more operas,
                            balls, parties, or concerts.
                        Julia was forced to accede to his reasonable desires; but home, even in
                            the presence of her husband, had become an intolerable place. Indeed,
                            the romance of a husband had worn itself away. He had fallen in love
                            with her in the most natural way in the world, and had proposed to wait
                            upon her father, and arrange the preliminaries for their marriage; but
                            Julia was not content to be united to him in such a tame manner as that,
                            and insisted upon an elopement. Her lover gratified her-to his sorrow,
                            he now discovered.
                        Julia was unhappy. Her husband, disgusted at her folly, returned to the
                            club he had abandoned when he married her, leaving her to comfort or
                            amuse herself as best she might. And she found comfort and amusement in
                            the society of a gay and dashing Lothario, who consoled her for her
                            husband's absence by making love to her. It was not long before the
                            world was again astonished by the publication of an elopement-not a
                            harmless, sentimental affair, but criminal elopement.
                        Julia was too romantic to consider the moral turpitude of the act. The
                            pious preaching and praying of the boarding school had been lost upon
                            her in the variety of more congenial topics that were there presented to
                            her. The elopement was romance; she thought not of the crime.
                        Mr. Mason and his wife were in the deepest distress. Mr. Winchel called
                            at her father's store, and stated the particulars of their domestic
                            experience. It was plain to both that the distaste for home
                            was traceable to the loss of the domestic element of the misguided
                            wife.
                        Julia and her seducer-we wrong him-both were guilty-were heard from in
                            New Orleans; but the villain soon became tired of her whims, and left
                            her, and she died a few years later, a ruined, abandoned, off-cast
                            creature, the victim of a false education.
                        Mr. Mason's remaining daughters were not sent to the boarding school.
                            They received the best education to be had in the city, and there are
                            noted institutions of learning there. They were thus kept constantly
                            under the watchful care of their parents, and the domestic element in
                            their natures was not unsettled by absence from home while the plastic
                            mind was being moulded into its shape for life.
                    
                
                
                    
                    "BANG UP!"
                    OR, THE RESULTS OF ADVERTISING.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "ANY thing over, Ben?"
                        "Not a dollar; I just paid the Journal's bill for advertising, which has
                            pretty much cleaned me out."
                        "How much?"
                        "Forty-two dollars and twenty-five cents."
                        "Ben, I don't like to tell you that you are the biggest fool on the
                            street; but you are."
                        "Wait, Joe, and see," returned the other, with a confident smile.
                        "Forty-two dollars for advertising!"
                        "Just so, and for three months' advertising."
                        The applicant for "any thing over" gave a peculiar whistle to define the
                            length, breadth, and depth of his astonishment.
                        This conversation occurred in the store of Benjamin Weston, a young and
                            enterprising merchant, who had just commenced business on his own
                            account. The other person, who, to use his own classic expression, was
                            "bang up," and wanted to borrow fifty dollars to make up the
                            amount of a note due that day, was Joseph Weston, a cousin of the other.
                            They had been playmates in youth and stanch friends in maturity. Though
                            there was a great diversity of opinion on many topics, a strong sympathy
                            existed between them.
                        They had commenced business at about the same time, and under nearly the
                            same circumstances, both being obliged for the want of sufficient
                            capital to mortgage the stock in their respective stores.
                        Thus far they had done well, and the prospect was, that both would become
                            wealthy and distinguished merchants.
                        They had married sisters, and occupied tenements in the same block. Their
                            houses were furnished in substantially the same style, and with no
                            material difference of expenditure. Both had been brought up to business
                            habits, and educated into the principles of a rigid economy.
                        "Forty-two dollars for advertising," repeated Joe.
                        "And if I had the money to spare, I would spend double that sum," replied
                            Benjamin.
                        "What benefit do you expect to realize from it?"
                        "You are behind the times, Joe. Benefit! What a question! I expect to
                            make my fortune by it."
                        "Humbug!"
                        "Look at Brandreth and Swaim."
                        "Both humbugs."
                        "No matter for that; if these fellows have been able to make princely
                            fortunes by advertising humbugs, how much more so will he who deals in
                            substantial realities!"
                        "All gammon!"
                        "We differ; time will tell who is in the right."
                        "Seriously, Ben, you will ruin yourself if you go on in this manner. Forty-two dollars a quarter
                            for advertising!"
                        "I shall spend a hundred the next quarter."
                        "Don't do it, Ben."
                        "How does it happen, Joe, that you are in the street borrowing money? I
                            never did such a thing since I commenced business."
                        "How does it happen, Ben, that you haven't got any money to lend?" asked
                            Joe, with a smile.
                        "Because I spent it in advertising."
                        "Better have spent it for opera and 2:40's."
                        "Wait, Joe, wait."
                        "I spent nothing for advertising, but I will bet you the oysters my sales
                            for the last quarter are as large as yours."
                        "I will take you up on the next quarter."
                        "Why not the last?"
                        "Advertising is somewhat like planting potatoes; you must wait for the
                            crops."
                        "Don't believe in it, Ben. When I have a fifty spot that I don't know
                            what to do with, I shall put it into my family. Buy a library, a new
                            sofa, or something of that sort. I should rather go to the White
                            Mountains with it, than throw it away upon newspapers."
                        "You don't know your own interest, Joe."
                        "Don't I? Some kinds of business might thrive on advertising; but ours,
                            never. Do you believe the women look in the newspapers before they go
                            shopping?"
                        "Well, there was a lady in here just how, who said she saw such and such
                            goods advertised by me."
                        "Pshaw! and on the strength of that you intend to spend fifty dollars
                            more in advertising! Ben, you are crazy;" and Joseph Weston
                            turned upon his heel and left the store, assured in his own mind that
                            his friend was going to ruin.
                        In his estimation such loose principles would eventually bring him to
                            bankruptcy. But Ben was his friend, and he deeply commiserated him
                            because he clung to such weak and pernicious doctrines.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        BUSINESS prospered with the young men. By prudent and careful management,
                            each had not only made a living, but had been able to pay a small
                            portion of the mortgage on the stock, at the end of the first year.
                        Joseph had the advantage of his friend in possessing a better location,
                            and though his rent was somewhat higher, the difference was more than
                            compensated by the increased facilities it afforded him. The prospect
                            was decidedly bright to him. If his business increased as it had done,
                            he would be enabled to clear himself of debt in another year.
                        Under this encouraging aspect he ventured to expend a hundred dollars in
                            additions to his furniture, which his wife insisted was absolutely
                            necessary for their comfort and happiness. The house had been furnished
                            altogether too plain for this progressive age, in her estimation. She
                            was behind some of her friends, who, she was sure, were doing no better
                            than her husband.
                        Joseph was a little obstinate at first; but then there was something so
                            decidedly comfortable in a set of stuffed chairs and a lounge, that he
                            did not hold out in his opposition. He was doing well, and the expenditure
                            would not seriously embarrass him.
                        With a nice new Brussels carpet and the new furniture, Mrs. Weston's
                            little parlor looked exceedingly pleasant and comfortable. Besides, it
                            looked as though her husband was prospering in his business.
                        It was so very nice that the young wife could not bear the idea of having
                            the parlor shut up, so that no one should see it till the furniture had
                            grown rusty; consequently she made up her mind that they must have a
                            party.
                        Their friends had parties; why shouldn't they? It looked stingy not to
                            have one. Mrs. Weston was an eloquent debater, and she gained the day in
                            this matter. It is true the party was not a very extravagant affair; but
                            it cost Joe some fifty dollars. In the mean time Benjamin had paid quite
                            as much for advertising as his friend had for new furniture and the
                            party. Joseph laughed at him, and finally came to believe that he was
                            insane, and would certainly come to ruin within another year.
                        Mrs. Ben Weston, too, felt decidedly unpleasant about the improvements
                            which had been going on in her sister's house.
                        "Why can't we have a rosewood table and a set of stuffed chairs,
                            Benjamin?" asked she, pouting her pretty lips into a very unamiable
                            position.
                        "Simply, my dear, because I cannot afford it," replied the philosophical
                            merchant.
                        "How can Joe afford it?"
                        "I presume he knows his own business best."
                        "He has put over a hundred dollars into his house."
                        Ben whistled "T'other Side of Jordan," and made no reply.
                        
                        "Do, Ben, buy some new chairs."
                        "Can't afford it."
                        "Yes, you can."
                        "No, I can't."
                        "You can afford it as well as Joe."
                        "Perhaps I can."
                        "Do buy some."
                        "I should be very glad to gratify you, but I cannot take the money from
                            my business. A year hence, if business prospers with me, you shall have
                            them."
                        "A year hence," pouted the wife.
                        "I must spend a hundred dollars in advertising the next quarter."
                        "How foolish!"
                        "Very foolish, my dear; but it must be done."
                        "That's the way you throw your money away. You don't catch Joe to do such
                            a trick as that."
                        "True; but though he has the advantage of having a corner store, I paid
                            three hundred dollars more on my mortgage note than he did."
                        "Then you can afford the table and chairs."
                        "Nay, my dear, I will not spend a dollar for superfluities while I am in
                            debt."
                        Mrs. Ben Weston felt very bad about it, but her husband was firm, and she
                            was forced to content herself with the plain furniture.
                        Mrs. Joe Weston enjoyed her nice parlor till the novelty wore away, and
                            then she discovered that there were a great many other articles wanted
                            to make things look uniform. The two windows must have drapery curtains,
                            a pier glass was needed, and some pictures were wanted to relieve the walls. Her husband, who had
                            once exceeded the limits of his means, found no great difficulty in
                            doing so again, and the things were bought.
                        But Joe had some scruples about it. His notes began to be troublesome,
                            and every day he was in the street borrowing money. His business, too,
                            had not met his expectations. Instead of increasing in the ratio of his
                            first year's experience, it hardly held its own, and the poor fellow
                            began to have some serious misgivings about the future.
                        Before the year had half expired, he was obliged to introduce a rigid
                            system of retrenchment into his family and business affairs, in order to
                            keep his expenses within his means.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        ANOTHER year had passed away in the business experience of the young
                            merchants. The books had been balanced, and the results stood in black
                            and white before them.
                        Ben had followed up his system of advertising through the year. He had
                            expended large sums, but had made the outlay with judgment and
                            discretion.
                        The result exceeded his most sanguine expectations. His store was crowded
                            with customers; with genuine, bona fide
                            customers, and with but a small proportion of gadders and fancy
                            shoppers. The newspapers had borne to the best families in the city and
                            country full descriptions of his stock. His name was as familiar as
                            "household words" in the dwellings of the rich and poor, of the farmer,
                            the mechanic, and the laborer.
                        Truly, the harvest was abundant, and Ben rubbed his hands with
                            delight as he cast his eyes over the figures which conveyed to him the
                            pleasing results of his year's operations. He had the means, not only of
                            clearing himself of debt, but also of gratifying his wife by giving her
                            all the new furniture she required, besides a handsome surplus with
                            which to increase his business.
                        The new furniture was bought and set up; every debt was discharged, and
                            the importers and jobbers were eager to give him unlimited credit.
                        One day, while he was ruminating upon this pleasant state of things, Joe
                            Weston entered the store. For some months past, the intercourse between
                            the young merchants had not been as cordial as formerly. Joe's nice
                            things had rather "set him up;" some of the upper ten had condescended
                            to visit him; and he had attended the "Almack" parties with his
                            wife.
                        He was getting ahead fast in his own estimation, and cherished a supreme
                            contempt for the slow motion of his friend. But when, in the middle of
                            the year, he found himself running down hill, and discovered that Ben's
                            store was crowded with shoppers, while his own was empty, a feeling of
                            envy took possession of him. Ben must be underselling, he concluded, and
                            sooner or later the consequences would appear.
                        The prosperous merchant could not but notice the sad and dejected mien of
                            his friend, as he entered the store.
                        "How are you, Joe? You are almost a stranger, lately. Where do you keep
                            yourself?" said Ben.
                        "Business, Ben; business!" replied Joe, demurely.
                        "Good! Business before pleasure."
                        "Any thing over to-day?" asked Joe; but the query was not put in that buoyant, elastic tone,
                            which had distinguished him in former times.
                        "A trifle; how much do you want?" returned Ben, promptly.
                        "To tell the truth, I am 'bang up.' I have got a note of four hundred to
                            pay, and I have not yet raised the first dollar towards it."
                        "You are late; it is half past one now," replied Ben, consulting his
                            watch.
                        "Ben, I am in a tight place," said Joe, in a low, solemn tone.
                        "Indeed! I am sorry to hear it," and Ben's face wore an expression of
                            sincere sympathy. "Nothing serious, I hope?"
                        "I am afraid so."
                        "What can I do for you?" and the young merchant took down his check book,
                            and examined the state of his bank account.
                        "I can give you a check for three hundred, if that will do you any good,"
                            continued he, taking up the pen to fill out the blank.
                        "Thank you, Ben; you are very kind; but I don't know as I ought to take
                            it."
                        "Not take it! Why not?"
                        "If I should pay this note, there is hardly a possibility that I could
                            get through the month."
                        "So bad as that? 'Pon my soul, I am sorry to hear it."
                        "Smith and Jones advise me to make an assignment."
                        "How does it happen? I thought you were doing well?"
                        "Business has been very dull for the last six months. Haven't you found
                            it so?"
                        "Well, no; it has been driving with me."
                        
                        Joe knew it had; indeed, his present visit was not to borrow money, but
                            to prepare his friend for the "smash," which was now unavoidable.
                        "My sales have been light," continued he; "I can't account for it."
                        "I can; look here, Joe."
                        Ben took down his leger, and pointed to the account "Charges," where the
                            sums, paid for advertising had been entered. On a slip of paper he had
                            footed them up.
                        "Five hundred and sixty-five dollars for advertising, Joe! That's what
                            did the business."
                        Joe was astonished. It was quite as much as he had paid for fine things
                            for his house, and for parties, and the opera; but the investment had
                            been vastly more profitable, inasmuch as, taken in connection with his
                            careful management of his business and his economical manner of living,
                            it had laid the foundation of his future fortune. It had given him a
                            good start in business, and a good beginning is half the battle.
                        Joe Weston failed, and paid only twenty cents on a dollar. His fine
                            furniture was all sold, and he was obliged to board out. But in his
                            extremity Ben was his true friend. He received him into his house, and
                            when his business was settled up, took him into partnership.
                        The firm is now one of the most respectable and prosperous in the city.
                            Joe, ever since he was "bang up," believes in advertising, and any one
                            who opens the Journal, or, indeed, any of the daily papers, cannot fail
                            to notice the conspicuous advertisement of "Weston & Co."
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE NEW CLOAK;
                    OR, "MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "THERE! I declare, if Mrs. Burton hasn't got a new cloak!" exclaimed Mrs.
                            Waxwell to her intimate friend, Miss Viney, as they came out of church
                            one Sunday.
                        "I see she has," replied Miss Viney, very quietly.
                        "I know her husband can't afford it; she will be the ruin of him
                            yet."
                        "I suppose they know their own business best. At any rate, it is a
                            blessing that you and I are not accountable for her misdeeds," said Miss
                            Viney, who, though what is technically termed an "old maid," was not of
                            that class who have been slanderously styled gossips and busybodies; and
                            we have purposely introduced her to refute the foul calumny that "old
                            maids" are all meddlers, and we are sure that all spinsters will be
                            grateful to us for the service.
                        "I don't know about that," returned Mrs. Waxwell, with a dubious shake of
                            the head. "Mr. Burton owes my husband three hundred dollars, and I don't
                            believe he will ever get his pay if things go on in this way. That cloak
                            couldn't have cost less than thirty dollars."
                        
                        "I presume they could afford it, or they would not have bought it. At any
                            rate, they ought to know best."
                        "Mrs. Burton is a vain, conceited, proud woman, and pride will have a
                            fall one of these days."
                        "I hope not."
                        "I hope she will have a fall; she would drop some of those airs
                            then."
                        "I never thought she was what might be termed a vain woman."
                        "She is; she is an impudent minx, and the sooner she is brought down to a
                            level with her circumstances, the better for her and the world."
                        "She has the reputation of being a very kind-hearted person and an
                            excellent neighbor."
                        "I don't care if she has; she likes to 'lord' it through the village, and
                            for one I won't be ruled by her."
                        "Really, I do not understand you; she is as amiable and humble as any one
                            need be."
                        "Amiable and humble indeed! What did she buy that new cloak for except to
                            excite the envy of half the town, and make them think she is
                            somebody?"
                        "I hope there is no one so silly as to envy her;" and Miss Viney cast a
                            significant glance full into the face of her companion.
                        "I don't, for one; but I should like to teach her that she is no better
                            than the rest of the world."
                        "She don't profess to be; she visits the neighborhood; and I'm sure there
                            is no better person in sickness than she is."
                        "All that may be."
                        
                        "When you had the erysipelas, you remember she watched with you when no
                            one else would."
                        "I know it; but is one to be tyrannized over forever because she watched
                            a few nights with me?"
                        "How strange you talk!"
                        "Do I? Didn't she buy that cloak on purpose to cut a figure through the
                            town, and make every body feel cheap?"
                        "No, I am sure she did not; she had no such motive," replied Miss Viney,
                            smartly.
                        "I don't believe it, there!"
                        "She is not such a woman as that."
                        "Yes, she is, just such a woman as that."
                        "I have seen no one but you who feels bad about it."
                        "But me! Lor' sake! I wouldn't have you think I feel bad
                            about it. She can wear what she's a mind to for all me; only I hope she
                            can afford it-that's all."
                        "I think she can; she has the reputation of being a pretty careful
                            woman."
                        "I don't care; but I feel it my duty to warn my husband to look out about
                            his debt. When folks get to be so awful extravagant, there's no knowing
                            what may happen."
                        "Mr. Burton is doing a very good business, people say."
                        "Nobody knows any thing about what he is doing. All I know is, that when
                            Squire Smith sold him two cords of wood last week, and carried in the
                            bill, he couldn't pay it. He actually put the squire off till next week.
                            That looks as though they could afford thirty dollar cloaks, don't
                            it?"
                        With these sage reflections, Mrs. Waxwell turned down the lane that led
                            to her home, leaving Miss Viney to pursue her way and ponder the
                            extravagance of "some folks."
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MRS. WAXWELL loved fine clothes quite as much as any other woman of the
                            nineteenth century, and this is saying a great deal; but then her
                            husband was parsimonious, and she was parsimonious; and, though she
                            loved "nice things" very much, she loved money more, which, we take it,
                            amounts to nothing more nor less than meanness.
                        Mr. Waxwell was a farmer, and well off in the world. The advent of the
                            railroad into his native town had turned things topsy-turvy in general,
                            and "put the devil into the women" in particular, to use Mr. Waxwell's
                            classic language. Time was when they were content to wear a straw bonnet
                            and a calico gown to meeting; but now they had to rig out in silks and
                            satins, with flounces and furbelows, and all sorts of rigging hitched to
                            'em, for all the world just like a clown in the circus. Such were Mr.
                            Waxwell's views of the social influence of the railroad.
                        Society began to be a little "select;" folks put on airs, and were so
                            "stuck up" that you couldn't touch them with a ten foot pole.
                        Farmer Waxwell did not much like this state of things; it cost money on
                            the one hand, and he did not like to be thrown into the shade on the
                            other. He was about the richest man in the place; but ten dollar bonnets
                            and thirty dollar cloaks were abominations that he could not tolerate.
                            Mrs. Waxwell didn't like to be outdone in the matter of dress, and when
                            she bought a new merino cloak the previous season, she had not a doubt
                            but it would be unsurpassed for two seasons at least. When Mrs. Burton came out with the thirty
                            dollar velvet, she found the wind was taken entirely out of her sail,
                            and she was as indignant as the case demanded.
                        In the rise and progress of the village since the advent of the railroad,
                            two new stores had gone into operation, one of which was conducted by
                            Mr. Burton, an enterprising young man from the metropolis, who had
                            brought a city wife and a great many city notions into the place with
                            him.
                        As with a great many who go from the city to the country, he was
                            exceedingly annoyed by that disinterested, charitable attention to other
                            people's business which so extensively prevails in many rural districts.
                            He kept his affairs to himself, and this bothered and perplexed the
                            gossips. His wife had a way of attending to her own concerns; she had
                            been brought up where people do not even know their next door neighbors.
                            If she wanted a new dress or a new bonnet, she never deemed it necessary
                            to consult the neighbors in regard to her ability to afford it, or about
                            the style and material.
                        But, in spite of these peculiarities, she was a popular person in the
                            village. She was amiable and kind to all, a friend and a comforter to
                            the sick, and quite a useful person in the society of the place. She
                            understood matters and things, had a larger experience of the world than
                            those who had seen nothing of it; and the consequence was, that when a
                            party was to be given, a picnic projected, or a ball got up, she was
                            consulted, and her advice followed. She understood all these things, and
                            was happy to explain the "fashion" in regard to them to all who asked
                            her counsel.
                        Poor Mrs. Waxwell! Her star began to decline when Mrs. Burton
                            came to the village. She was no longer the leader of the ton, and her heart was bursting with envy.
                            Though she had often received the kind offices of the storekeeper's
                            wife, both in sickness and in health, she would willingly have crushed
                            her. That new cloak was the capsheaf of the indignities which she
                            fancied had been heaped upon her, and she determined that her
                            unconscious rival should suffer the consequences of her temerity.
                        Her first demonstration was upon her husband, whom she found no
                            difficulty in convincing that Mr. Burton must be ruined by the
                            extravagance of his wife, and that, unless he immediately collected his
                            debt, he would certainly lose it.
                        As soon as she had done her washing on Monday, she "made some calls," and
                            embraced the opportunity of commenting freely upon that new cloak. The
                            women told their husbands that Mr. Burton would certainly fail; and
                            before three days had elapsed there was quite a ferment in the
                            place.
                        Nobody knew any thing about Mr. Burton's affairs; he seemed to be doing a
                            good business, though no one knew of his having any money. He did not
                            even own the house in which he lived; he had no property, apparently,
                            but his stock. The careful old farmers, to whom in the course of trade
                            he had become indebted for produce which he sent to Boston, began to be
                            alarmed by these rumors.
                        It was in the State of New Hampshire; and at the time of which I write,
                            the "grab law" was in force, and is still, for aught I know.
                        One morning, as Mr. Burton returned from a journey to a neighboring town,
                            he found his stock attached on the claim of Farmer Waxwell, and all on
                            account of that new cloak
                            which his wife had worn to meeting on the preceding Sunday.
                        He had not the means to pay the note at that moment, and while he was
                            considering a plan to extricate himself from the dilemma, the news that
                            his goods had been attached spread all over the place. All the creditors
                            were in hot haste to follow the track of Farmer Waxwell; for it was
                            "first come, first served," and in less than two hours a dozen had
                            fastened upon the stock of his store.
                        This was a tremendous result to follow in the train of a thirty dollar
                            cloak and a gossiping old woman.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        "WHAT do you think now, Miss Viney?" asked Mrs. Waxwell, as they met,
                            soon after the storekeeper's disaster had been made public.
                        "I hope Mr. Burton will be able to pay his debts."
                        "But he won't-I know he won't."
                        "Probably, if they had given him any notice of their intention to demand
                            the payment of their claims, he would have been prepared to meet
                            them."
                        "I guess Mrs. Burton will not feel quite so stuck up after this."
                        "I hope you have done nothing to bring about this sad
                            result."
                        "But I have; I made my husband sue his note, and when he put on, the
                            others did. Thirty dollar cloak indeed!"
                        "I am sorry you have done this; you may ruin Mr. Burton by it."
                        
                        "That's just what I mean to do!" and Mrs. Waxwell's malignant expression
                            betrayed the jealousy she had so long harbored.
                        "You did? It was very unkind and ungrateful in you to do so," replied
                            Miss Viney, indignantly.
                        "Humph!"
                        "Any trader would be likely to come out badly to have all his creditors
                            pounce upon him without giving him a chance to collect his debts."
                        "I don't believe he has any to collect."
                        "Even your husband, as well off as he is, might be embarrassed if
                            suddenly called upon to pay his debts;" and Miss Viney looked
                            significantly at her angry companion.
                        "I doubt it."
                        "He may have a trial," said the maiden lady, as she moved towards the
                            store.
                        "What can she mean by that?" thought Mrs. Waxwell.
                        Miss Viney had some property of her own, and it was all in the hands of
                            Farmer Waxwell, who had, on his own account, invested the greater part
                            of it in railroad stock.
                        This is what she meant. She would claim the three thousand dollars her
                            husband owed her, and a cold chill passed through her veins as the
                            thought struck her. Farmer Waxwell was rich in houses, lands, and
                            stocks, all of which yielded him a good income; but he had not three
                            thousand dollars in money, and it might cost him some trouble to raise
                            it.
                        "Don't cry, my dear; I have enough due me in Boston to pay these debts
                            ten times over," said Mr. Burton to his wife, who was much alarmed by
                            the storm which threatened them.
                        
                        "What will people think?"
                        "What will they think when I pay them all? The whole amount is not above
                            nine hundred dollars."
                        Just then Miss Viney entered the house. In a few words, she explained the
                            circumstances which had led to the sudden "strike" among the
                            creditors.
                        Mrs. Burton, kind soul, shed a flood of tears when she heard how cruel
                            Mrs. Waxwell had been-she whom she had nursed with all the tenderness of
                            a mother when her frightened neighbors fled from the contagious
                            disease.
                        "Never mind it, my dear. We may expect any thing from a meddler, a
                            gossip, a slanderer," said Mr. Burton. "I must start for Boston in the
                            noon train."
                        "Allow me, Mr. Burton, to offer you the money to discharge these
                            liabilities. I have three thousand dollars in the hands of Mr.
                            Waxwell."
                        "You are very kind, and I accept your offer," replied Mr. Burton, "and
                            next week I shall have the means of repaying you. I assure you I am
                            worth at least five thousand dollars."
                        In proof of his assertion, he showed her various notes, mortgages, and
                            certificates of stock.
                        "I presume, if the people here knew that I was not a bankrupt, they would
                            not have molested me. In spite of all my amiable neighbor, Mrs. Waxwell,
                            may say, I think I am abundantly able to give my wife a thirty dollar
                            cloak."
                        "I never doubted it," replied Miss Viney, as she hastened to the village
                            lawyer to put her note in course of collection.
                        Farmer Waxwell was at dinner when the lawyer, who was a personal friend,
                            called upon him.
                        
                        "Sorry to trouble you, but I am instructed to collect this note," said
                            he.
                        "The devil!" exclaimed Farmer Waxwell.
                        "The ugly hussy!" added Mrs. Waxwell, as she perceived that Miss Viney's
                            prophetic words had been burdened with a meaning.
                        "I beg your pardon, madam," said the lawyer; "but if I understand it
                            rightly, you have publicly boasted that you brought about all this
                            difficulty."
                        "I?"
                        "Yes, madam; that new cloak did the business. You set your husband on,
                            and all the rest followed him; so Miss Viney tells me."
                        "My gracious!"
                        "And now she wants the money to assist Mr. Burton out of the difficulty
                            into which you have plunged him."
                        "That's plain speech, squire," said the farmer.
                        "But true."
                        "I can't raise the money."
                        "Then I must sue."
                        "Can't we compromise?"
                        "Burton is worth at least five thousand dollars, and, when he gets a
                            remittance from Boston, will pay all."
                        "I will dissolve my attachment, and be bound for the payment of the
                            others. Will that do it?"
                        "Yes, if Miss Viney will consent."
                        Miss Viney did consent,-she was a kind-hearted lady,-and the matter was
                            compromised.
                        "Now, wife," said Farmer Waxwell, on the following week, as he put the
                            three hundred dollars in his pocket which Burton had paid, minus thirty
                            which he held in his hand,
                            "here's thirty dollars, and I think you'd better go and buy one of them
                            'ere cloaks. Your foolish envy like to have got me into the cu'sedest
                            scrape I ever got into in my life."
                        She would not take it; she was too mean to dress well herself, and too
                            envious to permit others who were able to do so in peace. But she
                            gathered from the events of our story a healthy experience of the wisdom
                            of that excellent maxim-"MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS."
                    
                
                
                    
                    "EVERY THING COMFORTABLE."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "YOU have every thing comfortable, Maria," said Mrs. Belladonna
                            Buttercup, to her sister-in-law, Mrs. Sparrow, at whose house she was
                            making a visit; "every thing comfortable."
                        The speaker placed a very significant emphasis upon the last word, which,
                            in connection with her peculiar tone of voice, and the half apparent
                            sneer on her lips, was equivalent to saying, "You have all that is
                            absolutely necessary to make your house habitable; you have beds, and
                            chairs, and tables, but your furniture is of the most ordinary
                            description-plain, cheap, and old-fashioned. It would not suit me."
                        Mrs. Belladonna Buttercup was a New York lady; that is to say, she had
                            formerly been a shop girl in Boston, and, having considerable talent at
                            diplomacy, had captivated the senses of a dry goods clerk on four
                            hundred dollars salary, become Mrs. Buttercup, and moved to New York.
                            She was an ambitious person, and though she had been brought up in a ten
                            footer in an obscure street, she earnestly desired to become what is
                            technically called a "lady." Fashion was her god. To dress well, to live
                            in a fine house, furnished
                             la mode, and to move in fashionable
                            society constituted her highest ideal of human happiness.
                        Mr. Buttercup entertained similar views. It is true, he was only a poor
                            clerk when he married,-he had married to redeem his wife from the
                            drudgery of her occupation,-and when he went to New York he had a hard
                            struggle to support her, even in a five dollar boarding house. At the
                            end of a year, circumstances so favored him that he was enabled to go
                            into business on his own account. In a small shop, which his former
                            employer stocked for him, taking a mortgage with interest at the rate of
                            twenty per cent. per annum, he rushed boldly into the stream, assured it
                            would bear him to opulence and an influential position in society.
                        Fortune favored him, and the first year showed a gain of a thousand
                            dollars. The young man was elated, and having lived within his means, he
                            had a considerable surplus on his hands. Taking a larger store and
                            employing two additional clerks, he commenced his second year. He was
                            the biggest man on Broadway; talked magnificently about his business
                            operations, and innocently magnified his last year's profits to five
                            thousand dollars. Things looked so promising with him that the importers
                            and jobbers gave him all the credit he desired. Mr. Buttercup was
                            perfectly satisfied that he was on the high road to fortune. As
                            Richelieu says in the play, there was no such word as "fail" in his
                            vocabulary.
                        Of course, a five dollar boarding house could no longer be tolerated, and
                            to Mrs. Buttercup's inexpressible satisfaction, her husband engaged a
                            room in a fashionable establishment "up town." It was only one room, and
                            Mr. B. had contracted to pay twenty dollars a week for it, washing
                                and "sundries" extra. The ambitious lady went a shopping a
                            few days after, and contrived to get rid of a hundred dollars, which the
                            complacent shopkeeper in an impulsive moment had placed in her hands.
                            Milliners and dressmakers were in demand for a time, and Mrs.
                            Buttercup's present ambition was fully satisfied. It is true, she could
                            see in the distance an establishment of her own, with imported carpets
                            and mirrors, with a train of liveried servants, a carriage with the
                            Buttercup arms blazoned on its panels; and a faint whisper from the
                            admiring crowd, "There goes the elegant Mrs. Buttercup!" reached her
                            ears. The future was full of glorious visions, full of royal splendors,
                            full of every thing that the heart of vanity could conceive. But for the
                            present, she was satisfied.
                        Things went on swimmingly at the new store, and when Mrs. Buttercup
                            proposed a tour to the east, her husband readily assented. Our lady of
                            magnificent aspirations had considerable difficulty in deciding whether
                            she should propose Saratoga or home for the summer excursion. On the one
                            hand, Saratoga was fashionable, and she would have abundant opportunity
                            to make the acquaintance of the exclusives. But on the other hand, if
                            she went home, she could create a tremendous sensation among her own and
                            her husband's friends and relatives. She could carry the New York
                            fashions among them; could astonish them with a display of her elegant
                            silk, made by Madam Hippolyta Hyfalutin, from Paris, and her splendid
                            new bonnet from the celebrated rooms of Madam Hesperiana Blomereaux,
                            also from Paris. These things would scarcely be noticed by the
                            fashionables of Saratoga-the absence of them alone would make a noise
                            there.
                        
                        And then her husband's glorious prospects in the dry goods line, as well
                            as the immense business he at present transacted-it would be so
                            delightful to hear Tim tell them all about it! How his old father's eyes
                            would stick out when he heard his son talk about a hundred thousand
                            dollars so beautifully and so indifferently; how he would open his mouth
                            with wonder, when Tim should tell him that the firm of Funk, Hunk, and
                            Co.-the most extensive dry goods establishment in New York-had offered
                            him three thousand dollars salary to superintend their retail
                            department, and how indignantly he had rejected the offer. Tim had such
                            a graceful way of telling these things; indeed, she knew that he could
                            make the most out of a very small matter.
                        They could create a sensation at home, and the prospect of being the
                            "bright particular star" of a circle of admiring and wondering friends
                            enabled her to decide between Saratoga and the east. The preparations
                            were completed, and in due time they reached the "village of Boston," as
                            Tim facetiously termed it.
                        Father and mother were duly astonished when the magnificent Mr. Buttercup
                            spread himself. The old gentleman's eyes stuck out, and his mouth was
                            all agape with wonder. He "couldn't exactly see how Broadway, if 'twan't
                            more'n a hund'ed foot wide, could hold all the carriages Tim telled on
                            stoppin' afore his door."
                        In the course of events, Tim and his accomplished lady called on his
                            sister, Mrs. Sparrow, whose husband was the secretary of an insurance
                            company. Mr. Sparrow lived in his own house-a small, but neat and
                            convenient structure. It was plainly furnished; but reasonable people
                            said they were prettily situated, while those who knew them best were
                            sure they were contented and happy.
                        
                        Mrs. Belladonna Buttercup looked over the house, and turned up her nose
                            at it. Tim's mother was with them, and the simpleminded old lady was so
                            indiscreet as to ask her magnificent daughter-in-law how she would like
                            just such an establishment. She should not like it; it would not suit
                            her. When she went to housekeeping, not less than six thousand dollars
                            would furnish her house. At present, she preferred boarding.
                        "Then you don't like my house, Belladonna?" asked Mrs. Swallow, with the
                            slightest appearance of disappointment on her smiling face.
                        "Well, I can't say that I do, Maria," replied Mrs. Buttercup,
                            languidly.
                        "It is as good as any body need have," added Mrs. Buttercup, Senior. "If
                            I ever see Tim as comfortably settled as Charles is, I shall be
                            perfectly satisfied."
                        "Dear me! Tim wouldn't look at such an establishment."
                        "He may be glad to yet."
                        "I am sure I always liked my house very much indeed," said Mrs.
                            Swallow.
                        "You have every thing comfortable, Maria; every thing
                                comfortable."
                        "It is as good as my husband can afford; and housekeeping is so much
                            preferable to boarding."
                        "Do you think so? I would not go to housekeeping for all the world."
                        Mrs. Swallow shook her head.
                        "But then it depends, of course, upon whether you get a good boarding
                            house," continued Mrs. Buttercup. "We are delightfully situated. Some of
                            the first families in the city board there. Besides, there is so much society in New York, I really
                            don't think I could find time to keep house. Why, there is the Hon. Mr.
                            Flunkey-he is a member of Congress, you know-invited us to go out to his
                            country seat on the Hudson and spend the summer. Mrs. Flunkey pressed
                            and insisted, and would not take 'no' for an answer."
                        "Did you go?" asked Mrs. Buttercup, Senior.
                        "Why, no; we couldn't go. Tim's business drove him so, that the poor
                            fellow couldn't sleep nights. And there are the Smallheads-they live
                            next door to N. P. Willis, out to Lazywild-"
                        "Idlewild," suggested Mrs. Swallow.
                        "So it was; well, they would have us come and spend a month with them.
                            They are very fine folks. General Smallhead was an aide-de-camp with
                            General Washington at Braddock's defeat, you remember."
                        "Indeed! then he must be a very old man," added Mrs. Swallow.
                        "About fifty."
                        "Why, Braddock's defeat occurred a hundred years ago!"
                        "O, no; you are mistaken," replied Mrs. Buttercup, blushing a little.
                            "But no matter; he insisted on a visit. What could I do with a
                            house?"
                        "Very true," answered Mrs. Swallow, politely.
                        "And then Tim has a season ticket at the opera. He paid two hundred
                            dollars for a choice of seats last season."
                        "Did he?" said the mother-in-law, with a frown.
                        "And it is so pleasant when you are away so much to be rid of the
                            responsibility of keeping house."
                        
                        Mrs. Swallow did not think so. But Mrs. Buttercup had others in view whom
                            it was her purpose to astonish, and she took her leave soon after.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        FOR the first time in her housekeeping experience, Mrs. Sparrow felt a
                            little discontented, after her sister-in-law had gone. Her pleasant
                            little house looked smaller than ever before; its plain, substantial
                            furniture looked coarse and common. Why couldn't her husband have some
                            of the fine things that other people had? Why couldn't she have a carved
                            rosewood table, antique chairs, a tapestry carpet, and velvet draperies
                            at the windows? Her husband owned the house in which they lived, and had
                            over a thousand dollars in the bank. Mrs. Walbend, in the next house,
                            had all these fine things, and her husband got but a thousand dollars a
                            year, while Mr. Swallow got fifteen hundred.
                        "Charles," said she, when her husband came home to tea that evening, "I
                            have been thinking of something."
                        "Have you, indeed! That is rather remarkable," replied Mr. Swallow, with
                            a smile.
                        "You don't want to know what, I suppose."
                        "I do! I am 'dying with curiosity,' as the ladies say."
                        "Well, then, I will tell you; but don't be cross about it."
                        Mr. Swallow promised not to be cross about it.
                        "I have been thinking about having some new furniture."
                        The husband stuffed a tea roll into his mouth. Evidently the subject was
                            not a very inviting one to him.
                        "I want you to entirely refurnish the house."
                        
                        Mr. Swallow upset his tea.
                        "You can afford it, can't you?"
                        "I think not, my dear."
                        "Yes, you can, Charles."
                        "What has got into you, Maria?" asked her husband, very seriously.
                        "You promised not to be cross."
                        "I won't be; but I am very much surprised. I thought you were perfectly
                            satisfied with your house and furniture."
                        "We have every thing comfortable, but-" Mrs. Swallow paused.
                        "What more do you want?"
                        "Our furniture is not in fashion."
                        "The d-euse it isn't!"
                        "No; and I want some antique chairs, a carved centre table, a tapestry
                            carpet, and velvet draperies, for the windows-"
                        "What else?"
                        "And a mirror seven feet high to go between the windows."
                        "Call it twelve, my dear."
                        "If you could only hear Belladonna tell of the houses in New York. Why,
                            she says the Hon. Mrs. Chopstick has a mirror in her parlor which is
                            twenty feet high by fifteen wide."
                        "Did she tell you how big the doors of that house were?"
                        "And the carpet which General Smallhead bought last winter cost nineteen
                            dollars and a half a yard."
                        "And a half?"
                        "Yes; they asked twenty, but the general bought so much that they took
                            off half a dollar."
                        
                        "Our rooms are so small that we should have to pay twenty, then," added
                            Mr. Swallow, with a laugh.
                        "Other folks live so fine, why can't we?"
                        "Other folks have money."
                        "So have you."
                        "A little; but I mean to keep it in preference to buying this trumpery
                            with it."
                        "Since Belladonna has been here, I feel quite discontented."
                        "Belladonna is a silly creature, and I thank my stars that my wife is not
                            like her," replied Mr. Swallow, chucking the pretty little pouting wife
                            under the chin.
                        "But she knows what the fashions are."
                        "And that is all she does know."
                        "She says we have 'every thing comfortable.'"
                        "Which is very true."
                        "But we are not in style."
                        "Pshaw!"
                        "Won't you buy some more stylish furniture, Charles?"
                        "No, my dear; I cannot afford it."
                        "If you could only hear Belladonna talk!"
                        "Probably she makes things appear full as bright as they are."
                        "Tim is doing a great business; making thousands and thousands of
                            dollars."
                        "I hope he is."
                        "Why, Charles! he has taken a great store in Broadway, and keeps, I don't
                            know how many clerks he said-fifty or a hundred."
                        Mr. Swallow's cough troubled him.
                        "Maria, you used to be very contented and happy. Don't let this silly idea get possession of
                            you. Our house is furnished very well. If I had twenty thousand dollars,
                            I would not furnish it any better-that is, not to please myself. If Tim
                            can afford to live in better shape than I do, let him; it will not
                            disturb me. Don't think any thing more about it."
                        "I won't, Charles; but I felt so cheap when Belladonna talked so
                            familiarly of all those fine things, and of her acquaintances among the
                                lite; I felt as though I was
                            nobody."
                        "Wait, my dear, wait a while. Time will show what all these great
                            pretensions amount to. I hope Tim will do well; but with such loose
                            ideas of economy as he appears to have, and, more than all, with such a
                            silly, extravagant wife, there is much to fear."
                        Mrs. Swallow was satisfied. The words of her more experienced husband
                            banished the feelings of chagrin and discontentment she had permitted
                            herself to harbor. A careful reconsideration of Belladonna's extravagant
                            stories convinced her that some of them, if not made out of "whole
                            cloth," were greatly exaggerated, and she came to the conclusion that
                            her sister-in-law was no more of a lady in reality than she was
                            herself.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        ABOUT six months after the events we have detailed, as Mr. and Mrs.
                            Swallow were sitting down to breakfast, they were surprised by the
                            abrupt appearance of Tim and his wife.
                        "This is unexpected," said Mr. Swallow.
                        "Rather sudden," replied Tim, more seriously than he was wont to
                            speak.
                        
                        "I am glad to see you. Breakfast is all ready."
                        "We have left New York for good," interposed Belladonna, after she had
                            kissed and hugged her sister-in-law twenty times-an exhibition of
                            affection which she had not before manifested since she became Mrs.
                            Buttercup.
                        "Indeed!" exclaimed Charles and Maria together.
                        "Fact!" said Tim, with a melancholy laugh.
                        "And I am so glad to get away from there! I always hated New York!" added
                            Belladonna.
                        "Why, I thought you liked New York. Pray, how are your friends the
                            Smallheads, the Flunkeys, and the Chopsticks?"
                        "I hate them all!"
                        "Going into business in Boston, Tim?" asked Mr. Swallow.
                        "Is it possible you have not heard of it?" said Tim, looking his
                            brother-in-law hard in the face.
                        "Heard of what?"
                        "My misfortunes."
                        "What?"
                        "Bu'st up."
                        "I am sorry to hear it."
                        "Sad, but true;" and Tim essayed a stroke of humor. "Yes, sir! bu'st up;
                            not a sixpence left-poor as a church mouse-borrowed the money to come on
                            with."
                        "Tim makes the best of it, you see," added Belladonna, with a laugh. "For
                            my part, I was almost glad he failed, I was so rejoiced to get away from
                            New York. But, Maria, how have you been since I saw you?"
                        "Very well indeed."
                        "And how is little Charley? the dear little fellow!" continued Mr. Buttercup, tenderly
                            kissing the little boy, who sat in the high chair at the table, and who
                            had contrived to daub his mouth pretty thoroughly with the molasses on
                            his buckwheat cakes.
                        "How long since this affair happened?" asked Mr. Swallow, when the party
                            had seated themselves at the table.
                        "Three weeks," replied Tim. "Took every thing I had-tried to get a
                            situation-couldn't find one."
                        "But where were Funks, Hunks, and Co.? Didn't they want you?" asked
                            Maria.
                        Tim looked at her-looked queer.
                        "No; they have a man now," replied he.
                        "What are you going to do?" inquired Mr. Swallow.
                        "I happened to meet White in New York, and told him how I was
                            situated-offered me five hundred a year to come on as salesman-accepted
                            his offer."
                        Maria looked at Belladonna, and thought of furnishing a house at an
                            expense of six thousand dollars.
                        After breakfast, when Tim and Charles had gone out, Mrs. Buttercup
                            introduced another topic.
                        "How pleasant it would be if we could board with you!" said she
                            abruptly.
                        Mrs. Swallow did not think it would be so pleasant; but of course she
                            could not say so, and, being too honest to belie her own heart, she
                            remarked that they did not live in very good style.
                        "Good enough for any body, Maria."
                        "But if your friends, the Smallheads or the Flunkeys, should happen to
                            visit you-"
                        "O, there is no fear of that; if they did, I should not care."
                        
                        "But we live so plainly compared with your fashionable boarding
                            houses."
                        "You live well enough; and your house is so nice and convenient-O, I
                            should be so happy!"
                        "We have every thing comfortable," added Maria, slyly.
                        Mrs. Belladonna Buttercup stopped to think. That remark sounded familiar
                            to her ears.
                        "Very comfortable, and nice, and pretty! I wish Tim had just such a
                            house!"
                        "You have altered your mind."
                        "And just such furniture-I should be so happy!"
                        At dinner time the matter was still further discussed. Though Mr. Swallow
                            liked Tim very well, he did not like his wife; but in consideration of
                            their unfortunate condition, he consented to receive them as
                            boarders.
                        Mrs. Buttercup never says a word now about an establishment, and Tim has
                            a more serious and respectful way of speaking of a hundred thousand
                            dollars. The Smallheads are never mentioned, and Tim thinks he missed it
                            when he moved into a larger store. Belladonna declares she never heard
                            of such a thing as a mirror twenty feet long by fifteen high, and is
                            quite sure the Smallhead carpet did not cost above three dollars a
                            yard.
                        Mrs. Swallow is satisfied that fine furniture does not make a happy wife.
                            She regards the New York experience of her brother and his wife as an
                            excellent commentary on the vanity of magnificent pretensions. And
                            though her husband has been elected cashier of the Bay State Bank, with
                            a salary of twenty-five hundred dollars per annum, she is still content
                            with having "EVERY THING COMFORTABLE."
                    
                
                
                    
                    FAMILY JARS.
                    A LESSON FOR WIVES.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "HE'S real ugly, there! He treats his wife shamefully!" exclaimed Mrs.
                            Benson, a pretty little woman, who had been a wife just eleven months
                            and twelve days.
                        "Perhaps not, my dear," replied the young husband, quietly crossing his
                            legs over the top of the fire frame, and puffing out a long wreath of
                            smoke from his mouth as he removed the fragrant regalia.
                        "Perhaps not! Why, haven't I seen it myself?"
                        "You are not acquainted with all the circumstances."
                        "Pshaw! A man that can treat his wife so rudely is a perfect brute; I
                            don't care what the circumstances are."
                        "Brown always was a good-hearted fellow, and if he is changed at all,
                            matrimony has done it."
                        "Thank you, Charles; you are very complimentary. I wonder if matrimony
                            has changed you."
                        "Why, Julia, we have not been married quite a year yet," replied the
                            husband, smiling.
                        "Indeed!"
                        "Brown has been married five years," replied Mr. Benson, with admirable
                            self-possession.
                        
                        "Then you think I have not shown out what I am yet?"
                        "Bah! My dear, you are making quite a personal matter of it. We were
                            speaking of Brown."
                        "Brown is a brute-a hog!" said the lady, in a pet.
                        "What has Brown done?"
                        "Done? Why, good gracious! he is enough to wear out a woman's
                            patience."
                        "I dare say, my dear; but what has he done?"
                        "Every thing. He is wearing his poor, patient wife out; she will
                            die-poor, weak, sensitive thing-under such treatment."
                        "No doubt of it; but you do not tell me what he has done."
                        "I don't mean to say that he beats her."
                        "No."
                        "Nor starves her."
                        "Does he scold at her?"
                        "No; if he would only scold, it would be a relief to her."
                        "Poor Mrs. Brown!"
                        "He is so cold and distant; I am sure he married her for her money."
                        "Quite likely; but how is it with Mrs. Brown? Is she an
                            angel?"
                        "I don't know as she is an angel; but she bears her sorrows
                                like an angel. The poor thing had been crying, I know,
                            when I called there this afternoon."
                        "Did she tell you what the matter was?"
                        "Yes; you know we were children together, and never had any secrets,"
                            replied the young wife, with a troubled expression; for she had some
                            doubts as to the propriety of what she had done.
                        
                        "Don't meddle with a quarrel between man and wife, Julia," said Mr.
                            Benson, shaking his head.
                        "I could not bear to see her suffering; so I asked her what the matter
                            was."
                        "I am sorry you did."
                        "I could not help it, Charles; I pitied her so, and I was pretty well
                            satisfied as to the cause of her grief."
                        "And her husband illtreats her?"
                        "He does not love her. She says he has been two or three days without
                            speaking to her."
                        "That is bad; but who is to blame?"
                        "Who is to blame? Why, he, of course;" and the pretty little
                            Mrs. Benson looked up in astonishment from the little cap she was
                            embroidering.
                        "Why 'of course'?"
                        "He don't consult her tastes in regard to his dress. If she asks him to
                            bring her home any thing from down town, ten chances to one he forgets
                            it. He don't seem to care for her feelings. The poor thing says she has
                            cried for an hour in his presence, and he has sat like a log, perfectly
                            unmoved-so different from you, Charles."
                        "Perhaps Mrs. Brown is not in every respect like you, my
                            dear."
                        The young wife looked up with a smile of gratified pride. She was yet
                            young and beautiful, and, what was far better than youth and beauty, she
                            was good tempered, kind, and reasonable. Mrs. Brown's case excited all
                            her sympathies, and she proceeded to detail to her husband a list of the
                            poor lady's trials. But, as the reader will be better able to appreciate
                            them by being present during the scene described, we will introduce the
                            injured lady and her unfeeling husband.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MRS. BROWN sat by the fire in the parlor, turning over the pages of the
                            last new novel. Occasionally she sighed, as though the world had used
                            her badly, and she had not the means of paying off the world for its ill
                            treatment.
                        Mr. Brown kept a dry goods store, and, being a prudent, industrious man,
                            he substituted his own services for those of an extra clerk, which kept
                            him busily occupied from an early hour in the morning till late in the
                            evening.
                        He had been married five years, and, for some reason unknown beyond the
                            pale of his own home, his matrimonial experience, without being
                            decidedly stormy, was very far from being pleasant and profitable to
                            either party. Brown was a good-hearted fellow, and always looked on the
                            bright side of things. If the world would only move along smoothly, he
                            was perfectly satisfied, and never felt disposed to quarrel with any
                            body.
                        Mrs. Brown's disposition was not particularly objectionable; she was
                            kindhearted, clever, and amiable, as the world goes; but some how
                            nothing ever went right with her. It seemed as though every body took a
                            malicious pride in tormenting her-Brown in particular. If Brown bought
                            sausages for dinner, she was sure to want mutton, and if mutton, she was
                            sure to want sausages.
                        Brown could not understand it. Whatever he did was sure to be exactly
                            wrong. But Brown was a philosopher; and, though he sometimes got so
                            disgusted that he held his
                            tongue for several days, he maintained a very tolerable degree of good
                            nature.
                        Brown treated himself to a new overcoat. Being reasonably independent in
                            such matters, he had assumed the responsibility of purchasing the
                            garment without consulting his wife.
                        Imprudent Brown, thus to expend the sum of eighteen dollars without
                            consulting Mrs. B.! Reckless Brown, thus to buy that brown coat, when
                            all the experience of the past pointed to the appalling consequences!
                            Did you not remember the last time you purchased a pair of pants, that
                            neither the hue nor the texture suited your amiable partner? Did you not
                            call to mind the last curtain lecture on this very topic, when you
                            audaciously ordered the tailor to make you a coat off that piece? Knew
                            you not that Mrs. B. likes not black, drab, green, brown, olive, blue,
                            nor any thing of the fancy order?
                        But Brown recklessly ordered the coat, and when it was done, he
                            recklessly put it on. What made the offence a hundred fold more
                            horrible, he coolly marched, with the coat on, into the parlor where
                            Mrs. B. sat by the fire, turning over the pages of the last new
                            novel.
                        The lady was thunderstruck; but she was not one of your spitfires, who
                            make a tremendous tempest in your presence when any thing does not suit
                            them. She was meek, patient, suffering, under any indignity, even one so
                            pointed and wicked as in the present case.
                        The lady looked up from her book, and bestowed a languid smile upon the
                            partner of her joys, and, alas! of her sorrows too.
                        Brown smiled in return; he could not do less than smile. He
                            even looked innocent, as though he had done nothing wrong-as though he
                            had not aimed a blow at the peace of his amiable lady.
                        "What have you got on, Jonas?" asked she, mildly.
                        "An overcoat," replied Brown, sententiously.
                        "A new one?" sighed the lady.
                        "Just from the tailor's shop," answered Brown, screwing up his courage to
                            meet the onslaught.
                        "You know I don't like brown, Jonas."
                        "I do," replied Brown, valorously.
                        "You know I never liked brown."
                        Brown had half a mind to construe the remark into a pun; but he was
                            forbearing, thought no evil, and so kept silence.
                        "It's a sack too; you know I never liked a sack."
                        "I always did."
                        "A surtout would become you much better."
                        "I like a sack."
                        "It is a horrid-looking coat," sighed Mrs. Brown.
                        "Muddle says it is the best looking coat I ever had on."
                        "Muddle! Of course he would say so."
                        "Temple said so too."
                        "Temple has no taste."
                        "I agree with Temple."
                        "You never will wear a coat that suits me."
                        Brown thought this was strictly true, but, being a prudent man, he held
                            his peace.
                        "You still persist in letting Muddle make your clothes, though he charges
                            you more than any one else would."
                        "His prices are reasonable."
                        "I wish you would let some other tailor make your coat; Muddle's clothes
                                never set well."
                        
                        "Fit me to a T."
                        "If it had only been black!"
                        "But, my dear, you forget that my last coat was black, and you did not
                            like that."
                        "It suits your figure better than brown."
                        Just at that moment the door bell rang, and the servant brought in a pair
                            of pants.
                        "What is that?" asked the lady.
                        "Pants."
                        Mrs. B. eagerly opened the bundle. The garment was black.
                        "Black pants!" exclaimed the lady, holding them up before her; "you
                                know I don't like black pants."
                        "Indeed, my dear, you just now said you did like black."
                        "Not black pants; you know I never did like
                            them; besides, they won't wear well."
                        "But, Mrs. B., I do not wish you to wear them."
                        The lady thought this was exceedingly cruel of Mr. Brown; for she, poor
                            woman, had no more idea of "wearing the breeches" than she had of going
                            to Congress.
                        "They suit me, my dear. I never interfere with your taste in regard to
                            bonnets and dresses."
                        "I wish you would tell me what you like best; I am sure I desire to
                            conform to your taste."
                        "Don't wish to. I cannot tell what is good taste in furbelows and
                            flounces any more than a woman can in coats and pants."
                        "But you might be a little more attentive to my wishes. You used to
                                once."
                        This was a hard hit, and Mr. Brown was silent.
                        "You don't seem to care whether I am suited or not now."
                        
                        
                            
                                FAMILY JARS.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                        Brown still was silent; the story had been repeated so often that he knew
                            precisely what to expect.
                        Mrs. Brown continued to rehearse her grievances, believing herself the
                            most miserable woman in the world. Finally, the tears gathered in her
                            eyes, and she sobbed bitterly. Brown was a monster; he never tried to
                            please her, even in the slightest things; and the thought that her
                            husband's affections were alienated was perfectly overwhelming.
                        Brown had picked up the last new novel, which had fallen from Mrs. B.'s
                            lap, and sat turning over the leaves with the most stoical indifference.
                            How could Brown sit and see his beloved wife, the partner of his joys
                            and sorrows, weeping as though her heart would break, and not offer her
                            a word of consolation? Brown was a philosopher.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        IT was after such a scene as we have described that Mrs. Benson called
                            upon the friend of her early years, and found her in tears. She believed
                            that poor Mrs. Brown was cruelly treated by her hardhearted husband.
                        Several months elapsed, and the difficulty between Brown and his wife
                            increased. The lady was an habitual grumbler; she grumbled for the sake
                            of grumbling, because it seemed to be a "fixed fact" with her that
                            grumbling was one of the essentials of her existence-one of the luxuries
                            of life.
                        Though Brown was a philosopher, there is a point beyond
                            which even philosophy cannot go to defend its votaries. The lady's
                            unamiable peculiarity grew upon her, and Brown's disgust threatened to
                            produce a fatal rupture.
                            Several times after the lady had given him a lesson on the duty of
                            consulting a wife's taste,-after she had cried her eyes out with
                            vexation because she could not grumble any more,-her unfeeling spouse
                            had deserted the house, remaining out till midnight. Some flying rumors
                            were in circulation, too, that he had been seen "lingering long at the
                            bowl," and even that he frequented gambling houses.
                        Then people felt sorry for poor Brown, an honest, hardworking, economical
                            man as he was; it was a great pity that he should go to destruction.
                        Mrs. Benson felt keenly for her friend. Brown was a monster; and the
                            injured lady told her she should certainly die if a drunken husband were
                            added to her other miseries. She even wished Mrs. Benson to request her
                            husband to talk to Brown about his vicious propensities.
                        Mr. Benson had done so. Brown was a little "struck up" at first, but
                            quietly informed the obliging remonstrant that, since home had become a
                            hell to him, he had been obliged to seek comfort in a grog shop, and
                            concluded his cold-blooded remark by suggesting that people had better
                            mind their own business.
                        Benson thought so too, and fully resolved not to meddle with the matter
                            again. But, although Brown had resisted his well-meaning neighbor's
                            interference, it was not without its effect, and the injured lady had
                            the satisfaction of informing her sympathizing friend that he did much
                            better, that his breath did not smell half so strong of rum, and that he
                            was at home every evening by nine o'clock.
                        Mrs. Benson was encouraged, and a few days after accepted an invitation
                            to tea at the Browns'.
                        That day, the reckless, obstinate husband had worn home to
                            dinner a new plaid vest-a pattern in fashion at that time.
                        The lady did not like plaid-she never liked plaid; and poor
                            Brown went to the store leaving his wife in tears at his perverse taste.
                            She had exhausted all her rhetoric in grumbling at the offending
                            garment, and her hardhearted husband had maintained his usual
                            indifference to sighs and tears. Brown was disgusted; and, though we
                            heartily approve of husbands pleasing their wives in these matters, some
                            how we cannot find it in our heart to blame him. She always grumbled at
                            him, and, poor fellow, what could he do?
                        Mrs. Benson did not arrive in season to hear the lady's story about the
                            vest before Brown himself came. He was in high glee, apparently,
                            notwithstanding the recent tempest. The visitor thought him a "very nice
                            man," and she sighed when she thought of his vicious propensities.
                        Brown was polite, very polite, and the pretty little Mrs. Benson felt no
                            reserve in his presence.
                        "What a pretty vest you have got on, Mr. Brown!" said she, smiling
                            sweetly upon the horrible husband.
                        "Do you think so?" exclaimed Brown, rubbing his hands with
                            excitement.
                        "Certainly, I do; it's a perfect love of a vest. I shall persuade Charles
                            to have one just like it."
                        "How strange you talk, Julia!" said Mrs. Brown.
                        "Strange! why?"
                        "To call that vest pretty."
                        "I'm sure it is."
                        "It's a perfect fright. My husband has no taste in his dress."
                        "Why, now, I think he dresses with admirable taste," replied Mrs. Benson, surveying the
                            apparel of Brown, who stood like a show image in the middle of the room.
                            "I admire his taste."
                        "It is not my taste," sighed Mrs. Brown.
                        The pretty little sympathizing woman was seized with a doubt whether
                            Brown was such a monster, after all.
                        Just then Bridget popped her head in at the door to say that the baker
                            had not sent the tea cakes.
                        "The tea cakes, Jonas," said Mrs. Brown.
                        "There! by all that is sweet and pleasant to the taste, I forgot all
                            about them," exclaimed Brown, seizing his hat.
                        "Just the way always," groaned the suffering wife. "You never will do the
                            little errands I ask you to."
                        "Why, my dear, I intended to do the errand, but I forgot
                            it," pleaded Brown, with abundant good humor.
                        "You always forget what I want you to do."
                        "But, my love, I did not forget it on purpose."
                        "It's always the way;" and Mrs. Brown threw herself into a chair with an
                            exhibition of despondency which would have answered very well for the
                            concentrated miseries of a whole lifetime.
                        "There's no harm done; it is only half past five, and I will have the tea
                            cakes here in ten minutes."
                        "You might just as well have brought them before."
                        Brown looked cross, threw down his hat in a pet, and settled himself upon
                            the sofa.
                        Mrs. Benson was silent with astonishment. Brown rose fifty degrees in her
                            estimation.
                        "Are you not going to get the tea cakes, Jonas?" asked Mrs. Brown,
                            meekly, after the lapse of a few minutes.
                        
                        Brown was silent.
                        "You will not get back in season if you don't go soon."
                        Brown picked up the evening paper, but said nothing.
                        "I must go myself then," said the suffering lady, rising from her
                            chair.
                        Brown knew this was only a part of his wife's tactics; but the pretty
                            little Mrs. Benson, for whose good opinion he entertained some anxiety,
                            was present, and he concluded to go himself.
                        When he had gone, Mrs. Brown fixed a melancholy gaze upon her
                            visitor.
                        "Now you have seen just how he behaves," said she, with a deep sigh.
                        "I have," replied Mrs. Benson, who for the first time perceived that poor
                            Brown was not the greatest sinner in the world.
                        "And so he wears my life out."
                        "Perhaps your husband is not wholly to blame," suggested Mrs. Benson.
                        "Why, Julia!" exclaimed Mrs. Brown, with languid emphasis. "I am sure I
                            bear and suffer every thing. I had nearly cried my eyes out once before
                            to-day."
                        "Mr. Brown seems disposed to be very good natured."
                        "Good natured, Julia! Didn't you see how angry he got? He went out
                            without speaking a word."
                        "But you do not reflect how cruelly you provoked him by needlessly
                            finding fault with him. If I should say half as much to my husband as
                            you said to Mr. Brown, he would turn me out of the house," answered Mrs.
                            Benson, who, as she found herself implicated in the quarrel, was
                            disposed to be very candid.
                        
                        "I was not conscious of doing any thing to provoke him."
                        "You found fault with his vest."
                        "But such a horrid-looking vest!"
                        "There you and he differ; you say he never complains of your dress."
                        "No."
                        "He respects your tastes, then. You know how bad you feel when any person
                            says any thing disparaging of your clothes; every body does."
                        "But he always dresses so shamefully out of taste."
                        "Other people do not think so; but even if he did, you should not find
                            fault with him."
                        "I don't find fault," sighed Mrs. Brown; "I only mention what I like
                            best."
                        "And the tea cakes,-you ought not to have said a word."
                        "Why, he is so careless-"
                        "All men are of things about the house; but you must consider that their
                            minds are full of business. My husband is just so; but then he has so
                            many things to think of, I wonder that he does not forget
                                every little commission I give him."
                        "But your husband is different from mine. He tries to
                            remember."
                        "Ah, Mary, I see now what has caused the rupture between you and Mr.
                            Brown."
                        "Then you think I am altogether to blame?"
                        "Perhaps not entirely; but I am satisfied, from what I know of your
                            husband, that, if you cease to find fault with him, he will be all that
                            a husband should be."
                        Mrs. Brown bit her lip, and was silent. The truth had forced
                            itself home to her understanding. She was, as we have before remarked,
                            an amiable, goodhearted body; but the fact that she had actually
                                grumbled away the peace of her once happy fireside had
                            never before occurred to her. Her eyes were opened, and she saw that
                            even so little a thing as habitual fault finding can alienate the
                            affections of man and wife, and transform home-the temple of love and
                            peace-into a hell. Her resolution was formed, and fortified by all the
                            strength of her nature.
                        Brown returned with the tea cakes. He was cold, sullen, and reserved; but
                            a smile from his wife-albeit a boon seldom vouchsafed him-restored him
                            to his former equanimity.
                        "Jonas, did you think to order some more coal to-day? Bridget says there
                            is not enough to get breakfast with," observed Mrs. Brown, as she handed
                            her husband his second cup of tea.
                        Brown confessed that he had forgotten it, and braced up his nerves to
                            meet the storm.
                        "Never mind, Jonas; we will contrive to get along with wood."
                        Brown dropped his knife and fork in wonder, and looked aghast at his
                            wife.
                        It was no illusion; his wife was as gentle in her thoughts as in her
                            actions. She found no fault; and, for the first time in many months,
                            Brown felt sorry that he had forgotten to execute her commission.
                        After tea, Mr. Benson came to spend the evening, and it was one of the
                            happiest evenings ever known beneath the roof of the Browns. Nobody but
                            the two ladies could tell why, but, some how, every thing went different
                            from the ordinary course of
                            events in the family circle. Brown was bewildered-didn't know what to
                            make of it that his wife found no fault.
                        And she never found fault to any immoderate degree again. Peace was
                            restored. Brown went no more to the drinking saloons, never staid out
                            late at night, and never let his wife cry without wiping away her
                            tears.
                        He never knew what had produced the wonderful change in his wife's
                            temperament, but he always laid it to the visit of the pretty little
                            woman who admired his plaid vest.
                        We never see a married man enter a drinking shop to spend an evening
                            without thinking that, perhaps, he has been driven from his fireside by
                            a snarling, petulant discontented, fault-finding wife.
                    
                
                
                    
                    LIFE INSURANCE;
                    OR, THE POOR MAN'S LEGACY.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "GOT his life insured! Then he will certainly die!" exclaimed Mrs. Jones,
                            the mother of a family of three children, to her intimate friend Mrs.
                            Brown, also rejoicing in the maternity of a promising brood of little
                            ones. "For my part, I would no more let my husband get his life insured
                            than I would let him cut his head off. He will certainly die."
                        "That is the lot of all mortals, Mrs. Jones, and I presume my husband
                            does not consider himself exempt from the common lot," replied Mrs.
                            Brown.
                        "You know what I mean; he will die before his time comes."
                        "His time will have come when he dies."
                        "How captious you are!"
                        "I do not understand you. The good book says that 'no man knoweth the day
                            nor the hour.'"
                        "But I never knew any man to get his life insured without dying very soon
                            after."
                        "Do you mean to say that getting a life insured is likely to hasten the
                            end of the assured?" asked Mrs. Brown, with a pleasant smile at the
                            superstition of her friend.
                        
                        "Well, no, not exactly that; only it is a bad sign."
                        "Pshaw! Do you think your husband's barn is any more likely to be burned
                            down because he has taken the precaution to have it insured?"
                        "But that is not like getting one's life insured; it really seems to me
                            just like trifling with serious things."
                        "How absurd!"
                        "But it does. Only think of attempting to thwart the will of God.
                            Insuring a life!"
                        "You take the wrong view of it."
                        "Our minister takes the same view of it," returned Mrs. Jones, with
                            triumphant assurance.
                        "He does not understand the subject then."
                        "Our minister don't?"
                        "I am sure he does not."
                        Mrs. Jones permitted a sneer to play upon her lips, as she paused in her
                            sewing, and gazed at her friend.
                        "You don't mean to say that you know more than the Rev. Mr. Schism, a
                            regularly educated minister of the gospel, in good and regular
                            standing?" continued she, scarcely able to restrain her indignation
                            within a reasonable limit.
                        "I presume the Rev. Mr. Schism has confined his attention mostly to the
                            study of theology, and knows much more about that than he does about the
                            practical affairs of everyday life," rejoined Mrs. Brown, somewhat
                            warmly.
                        "He says that it is trifling with death to get one's life insured; and I
                            am sure, if my husband got his life insured, I should certainly expect
                            he would die the very next day after he did the sacrilegious thing."
                        "I think you told me the other day that Mr. Jones had put some money in
                            the Savings Bank."
                        "Only twenty dollars-all he could spare."
                        
                        "What did he put it there for?"
                        "What for? Why, to keep, of course."
                        "Why does he wish to keep it?"
                        "What a fool you pretend to be!"
                        "Pray answer me."
                        "Against a rainy day."
                        "Has he no definite purpose in laying up money?"
                        "To be sure he has. He means to have something for his family, in case he
                            should be taken away."
                        "But isn't this trifling with serious things? What does your minister say
                            about it?"
                        "How silly you are!"
                        "But you are providing against such a calamity as the death of your
                            husband."
                        "It is not like life insurance."
                        "Just like it, only less efficient."
                        "I don't think so."
                        "Suppose your husband should die this year."
                        "Don't talk so."
                        "Nay, Mrs. Jones, it is well to look these things in the face, especially
                            when you have used your influence to prevent your husband from making a
                            provision for you in the event of his death."
                        "He is opposed to the whole thing himself."
                        "Only think, if he should die this year, what would become of you and
                            your three children?"
                        "Well, I suppose we should get along just as a thousand others have done
                            under the same circumstances."
                        "Think what a struggle you would have!"
                        "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof," replied Mrs. Jones,
                            coldly. "But here is my husband; he can speak for himself."
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER II.
                        THE two ladies, with whose conversation we have prefaced our simple
                            story, had been intimate friends for many years. About the same time
                            they had married men in humble circumstances, and taken houses near each
                            other.
                        Their husbands were journeymen mechanics, honest, industrious, and frugal
                            men, fair specimens of the bone and sinew of New England. Their families
                            had increased in about the same ratio, and though they received good
                            wages, they found it required the most rigid system of domestic economy
                            to enable them to keep along, and save a trifling sum against a "rainy
                            day."
                        Brown was a thoughtful man, whose domestic and affectional nature was
                            fully developed. He loved his wife and children with a devotion worthy a
                            reasonable being. His happiest hours were spent by the cheerful fireside
                            of home. He was a conscientious parent, and his care for his dependent
                            loved ones reached beyond the day of their present prosperity.
                        In the future might be clouds and storms. The whirlwind of adversity
                            might burst upon him, and then what would become of his wife-of Charley,
                            and Joey, and Emma?
                        It was a question with which few would have troubled themselves; but it
                            was a question of momentous importance. It was not borrowing trouble; it
                            was prudent forethought. But Brown was strong in his bone and muscle,
                            and while he had an arm, and there was bread in the land, he could
                            procure it. All he could do was to save a scanty pittance from
                            his wages to meet the hour of trial, if it should ever come.
                        Death is no respecter of persons. It takes not only those who leave
                            houses, and lands, and money, and stocks behind them, but it snatches
                            the poor man away from his dependent family. It robs the toiling wife
                            and the helpless little ones of the protecting arm which had been bread,
                            raiment, and shelter to them.
                        Brown hoped to live many years, to bring up his family, and when, by and
                            by, business prospered with him, to be enabled to make a decent
                            provision for them when he should go hence.
                        Every man hopes thus much; many more than hope-they feel sure of it.
                        Brown was reasonable. A falling timber, a fever, a thousand calamities,
                            might carry him off before the year expired. And what would become of
                            his family then? What more could his wife do, with three helpless
                            children, than take care of them? He could leave them no legacy. He was
                            a poor man.
                        The reflection was startling. The fear of death took possession of
                            him-not the fear of passing through the dark valley, for Brown was an
                            honest man, and trembled not in view of judgment and retribution, but
                            the fear of leaving his wife and children to hunger for food, to tremble
                            with cold, to starve for intellectual sustenance. For several weeks he
                            was gloomy and sad, and more than once he questioned the wisdom of his
                            getting married before he had the means to support his family in case of
                            his decease.
                        While thus depressed in spirits, his eye was attracted by the
                            advertisement of a Life Insurance Company. His countenance tenance brightened up with a
                            smile, as he read the notice. The remedy was before him, and it seemed
                            worse than folly not to embrace it.
                        Before another week had passed away, he had thoroughly investigated the
                            whole subject, and insured his life in the sum of three thousand
                            dollars.
                        Like a true apostle of a good cause, he was not content to enjoy the
                            blessing alone; and more than once he had called the attention of his
                            fellow-workmen to the subject. Many of them had followed his example;
                            many of them were obstinate, and among them Jones was the most obstinate
                            of all.
                        Brown was always pleased to discuss his favorite topic. Life insurance
                            had been a boon of happiness to him; it had dispelled the dark clouds
                            which lowered over the future; it had done more to calm his mind in
                            relation to that great change which must come to all than the sermons of
                            a hundred years could have done; and he was eager to confer these
                            blessings upon others.
                        Mrs. Brown was quite as enthusiastic as her husband; and when Jones
                            entered the room where we left the ladies, a strong hope that she might
                            yet convert him to her faith pervaded her mind.
                        But Jones was more than usually obstinate.
                        "It's all a humbug, Mrs. Brown, you may depend upon it," said he. "These
                            fellows mean to get your money, and keep it. You never will catch them
                            paying the policies."
                        Mrs. Brown pointed him to the recorded experience of the past.
                        "I put my money in the bank, and feel that it is safe."
                        "How much can you save in a year?"
                        "Well, about a hundred dollars, as wages are now."
                        
                        "Which is just my husband's estimate."
                        "But he pays nearly as much as that to keep insured."
                        "Very true. He is insured for three thousand dollars. If he should die
                            to-day-which God forbid!-his family would realize that sum."
                        "Perhaps they would."
                        "But, by putting one hundred dollars a year into the bank, even if you
                            got six per cent., compound interest, your money would amount to only
                            about six hundred dollars in five years."
                        "Call it twenty years-how then?"
                        "If you could be sure of living twenty years, perhaps the money would
                            amount to more than the policy. But only think of your family if you
                            should die within one, or even five years!"
                        "You are a shrewd one!" said Jones, evasively.
                        "In twenty years your children will be able to take care of
                            themselves."
                        "It's all a humbug, you may depend upon it, Mrs. Brown; got up to support
                            lazy fellows in idleness-nothing more, I candidly believe," replied
                            Jones; and there the conversation ended, much to the regret of Mrs.
                            Brown that she had been unable to win a convert to the faith.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        SOME six months after, while Jones was engaged in raising a house, he
                            fell from the plate to the ground, striking upon a rock in his fall. He
                            was conveyed to his home, and a council of physicians pronounced it a
                            hopeless case. His spine was injured, and there was no possibility of
                            recovery.
                        
                        He lingered along for a month in the most excruciating agony, and then
                            died. The expenses of his sickness and of the funeral absorbed all his
                            little savings; and when his disconsolate wife, followed by her three
                            fatherless children, returned from the grave of her husband, she
                            realized that she was not only alone in the world, but that she was
                            penniless-literally penniless.
                        It was a sad thought for the poor woman. Not even a short season of
                            mourning, which her widowed heart craved, could be allowed her. Her
                            children must not starve, and there was no bread in the house.
                        Her neighbors, suspecting her situation, were kind to her, and sent in
                            provisions in abundance; but instinctively she shrunk from the
                            mortifying alternative of accepting charity.
                        Poor woman! what could she do? How could she support her fatherless
                            children? She had no wealthy relatives-she was from the house of poverty
                            herself. But she could not live on charity.
                        The village in which she resided was a large place, and though she was
                            too proud to accept a gift, she was not too proud to solicit work. With
                            her eyes yet red with weeping over her husband's bier, she called upon
                            several wealthy families to ask for their washing.
                        It was given her, and she began to feel a certain sense of independence
                            again, as she returned with her bundles of clothes to her desolate
                            home.
                        All she could do was given her; and with a severe struggle, she was able
                            to support herself and children, and refused any overtures of aid which
                            were made her by her neighbors. Mrs. Brown attempted to assist her
                            friend, in a delicate way, but without success. Mrs. Jones toiled on
                            with all her strength and energy, preferring independence to
                            every other consideration.
                        But it soon became evident to her neighbors that her health was suffering
                            severely from this unremitting toil. Remonstrances were in vain; and ere
                            another six months had rolled away, Mrs. Brown was watching over the
                            dying bed of her friend. Little children, not old enough to understand
                            their lonely condition, were gathered around it to receive the parting
                            kiss of a dying mother.
                        Poor orphans! God will take care of you, though all the world be cold and
                            cruel! Ye shall not find another mother, but the Father of the
                            fatherless shall watch over and protect you.
                        She died, and they placed her by the side of her husband, over whose
                            grave the grass had not yet grown. The hard lot of poverty had hurried
                            her into that early grave. The want of a few of those dollars which the
                            gay and heartless thoughtlessly squander by the thousand, had carried
                            her down to that bourn where there is no sorrow, and the weary are at
                            rest.
                        The orphans were carried to the poorhouse. Life was a desert to them.
                            Home was no more. Love was in the cold grave.
                        Was Jones right, or was he wrong? Would not that boon of our progressive
                            age, life insurance, have averted some part of this long list of
                            calamities? Would it not have saved a mother's life? Would it not have
                            redeemed those lonely orphans from the degradation and neglect of the
                            poorhouse?
                        It could not have saved Jones's life, but it could have been a blessing
                            to his family-a blessing that would have reached down to distant generations. It might
                            have saved a home, and more, far more than all beside, a devoted mother,
                            to those fatherless little ones.
                        Brown, too, has gone to his rest. But his death entailed none of the
                            miseries upon his family, which were the lot of Jones's. His widow is a
                            frugal and industrious woman; but labor is her helpmate-her husband now;
                            she is not the slave of toil. Brown left her the POOR MAN'S LEGACY.
                    
                
                
                    
                    LAST DAY OF GRACE;
                    OR, MR. LAWTON'S MOTHER-IN-LAW.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "I CAN'T stand it any longer, Lottie; I won't have her in the house!"
                            exclaimed Samuel Lawton to his wife.
                        "But what are you going to do about it, Samuel? You surely wouldn't have
                            me turn my own mother into the street."
                        "No, no-not exactly that; but can't you give her a hint that she has
                            staid long enough?"
                        "I'm sure I can't, Samuel," replied the young wife, with a sad and
                            troubled look on her pretty face. "I don't see why you should be so
                            prejudiced against her."
                        "Don't you, my dear? Do you think it is pleasant for me to have one
                            continually telling me I am extravagant, or something of that sort? She
                            told me just now, that I could not afford to buy turkeys for our Sunday
                            dinner, when she saw me bring one home."
                        "She meant right, Samuel."
                        "But it is none of her business, Lottie."
                        "She is older and more experienced in these matters than we are."
                        
                        "Fudge! Do you believe, Lottie, that I don't know my business a great
                            deal better than she or any one else teach me?" and the young husband
                            put on a look of dignity which showed how deeply conscious he was of his
                            own ability.
                        "I hope you do, Samuel," replied Lottie, who, as can easily be supposed,
                            was sorely perplexed by the difficulties of her unfortunate
                            position.
                        Poor thing! She was a gentle-hearted, kind, and tender woman, and loved
                            her mother as truly as becomes a married daughter. She was conscious
                            that her mother had her peculiarities,-as who has not?-and it was a
                            source of continued regret to her that her husband could neither
                            understand nor bear with them.
                        They had been married about a year and a half. Samuel Lawton was a
                            merchant on a small scale. His employer had set him up in business about
                            a year before his marriage, and he had done well; that is, above his
                            expenses he had cleared some eight hundred or a thousand dollars, which
                            was considered a very fair income for a young man.
                        The young merchant was elated with his success, and, like very many
                            others in his situation, felt that he was an enterprising young man, and
                            a thorough financier. The road to wealth was before him, and already he
                            had formed a very clear idea of being at the head of a large importing
                            house, with clerks and lumpers by the dozen at his command. His fancy
                            also gilded the picture with a very costly mansion on Pemberton Hill,
                            with a carriage and two sleek horses, a footman, and opera, concerts,
                            and great parties to match.
                        Samuel Lawton formerly belonged to a "debating society," in which the
                            question of "early marriages" had been thoroughly oughly
                            discussed. The chairman had appointed him to sustain the affirmative;
                            and either on account of the skill and eloquence with which he argued
                            the point, or because the members were in favor of matrimony at the
                            earliest possible day, it was decided that early marriages
                                were eminently conducive to the morality and happiness
                            of mankind in general.
                        One of the strongest arguments which our hero could offer in support of
                            his cause was, that matrimony would save the young man from early
                            dissipation. He even went so far in his zeal as to declare that a young
                            man, even if he had not a penny in the world, had better be married than
                            wait till he had the means. I will not trouble the reader with the facts
                            and statistics by which he made it appear that it was cheaper to support
                            man and wife than to support man alone. But the best evidence he could
                            give of his devotion to his philosophy was to get married himself; and
                            accordingly, though he had not the means of furnishing his house, and
                            though he was still deeply in debt for his stock, he took a wife in the
                            person of the youngest and last remaining daughter of a widow lady,
                            possessing a little property in her own right.
                        Of course the young man had to run in debt for all the appurtenances of
                            housekeeping; but this was nothing; he was doing well. It made no
                            difference how much a man owed, provided he had the means to pay. He was
                            very sanguine of his future success. His profits would be at least a
                            thousand dollars a year; but, reckless fellow, he had no more idea how
                            far a thousand dollars would go than a baby. It seemed to him a very
                            large sum, and he gauged his domestic expenditures on a pretty high
                            scale.
                        When he married Mrs. Harding's last remaining daughter, the widow was
                            left alone. Lottie said it would be so nice to have her "dear mother" with her, and
                            accordingly Samuel had invited her to make his house her home.
                        The good lady was in the main a very clever sort of person, who probably
                            talked quite as bad, possibly a little worse, than she meant. She saw
                            that her son-in-law was going too fast, and, in her own way, she made
                            such comments as she deemed it the duty of a faithful mother-in-law to
                            make.
                        Mr. Lawton did not relish what he deemed her interference. He was very
                            clear in his own way, and to have a woman dictate to him, and croak
                            about the possible result of his lavish expenditure, was intolerable;
                            and when his patience was thoroughly exhausted, he spoke to his wife
                            upon the subject, as we have written.
                        Truth has been compared to a two-edged sword, though it is generally
                            believed that one edge to the sinner is sufficiently uncomfortable.
                            Samuel Lawton had listened to his mother-in-law's good advice, to her
                            suggestions on the economy of the household, for more than a year, and
                            Mrs. Lawton could not but wonder what it was that made her husband so
                            "touchy" about it just now. He had always turned off the point of her
                            rebuke with a jest; but now he looked sour, and actually wanted to get
                            her mother out of the house.
                        The fact was, the young merchant had just begun to find out that a
                            thousand dollars a year would not "keep house" like a nabob. Certain
                            notes were about to fall due, and little debts without number had been
                            contracted. The unpleasant truth began to dawn upon him that he was
                            going faster than his means would permit.
                        In view of the consequences, he could already hear Mrs. Harding's
                            triumphant "I told you so." He had resolved to reduce his expenses, to
                            give over roast turkeys for his Sunday dinner, and come down
                            to plain, old-fashioned pork and beans; but the idea of giving in that
                            the odious mother-in-law was in the right was not to be harbored. He had
                            postponed the contemplated retrenchment till those said certain notes
                            began to cast ominous shadows in his pathway. It must be done, and Mrs.
                            Harding's presence became doubly troublesome.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        THE poor, despised mother-in-law was so unfortunate as to overhear some
                            portion of the conversation which so nearly concerned her; and the
                            consequence was, that in less than a week after, she left the house, bag
                            and baggage, for the home of another daughter, who had repeatedly
                            pressed her to come and live with her.
                        Mrs. Harding might have been provoked with her son-in-law, but she
                            prudently held her tongue, and made no mention of the reason for her
                            sudden departure.
                        Samuel felt quite a relief the very hour she left, and in the evening,
                            while they were seated in the little parlor, the baby sleeping in the
                            crib between them, he was so ungenerous and unkind as to express himself
                            to this effect.
                        "But, Samuel, you can't think how lonesome I shall be; you are in town
                            all day," said the poor wife.
                        "Well, perhaps you will be for a few days; but you will get used to
                            it."
                        Mrs. Lawton sighed.
                        "And then," continued Mr. Lawton, "you have the baby to occupy the
                            time."
                        Just then there came from the cradle a single rough, ringing ing cough-that peculiar,
                            metallic-sounding cough which is like the knell of death to the ear of
                            the loving mother.
                        "O mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Lawton, in tremulous tones, as she sprang to
                            the side of the cradle.
                        "What's the matter, Lottie?" asked Samuel.
                        "Didn't you hear that cough?" and the poor mother's frame trembled, and
                            her teeth chattered with alarm.
                        "I suppose Sammy has got a little cold."
                        "It's the croup, Samuel! Do run for the doctor as quick as you can."
                        "To-night?"
                        "O Samuel, he may be dead before morning!" and the tears coursed freely
                            down the cheek of the anxious mother.
                        "Nay, Lottie, you are nervous."
                        "I know it; but do go for the doctor."
                        "I will go if there is any need of it; but, really, I do not see that
                            there is;" and Samuel bent over the cradle to discover what had so
                            alarmed his wife.
                        But the child still slept, and apparently breathed as freely as ever.
                        "Nay, Samuel, go; you know what the croup is."
                        "Certainly, I will go if you wish;" and the young husband put on his
                            overcoat and left the house.
                        The residence of the young merchant was in D--, a town adjoining Boston,
                            and the physician's house was full half a mile distant. He could hardly
                            restrain a smile at the idea of going for a doctor when the baby had
                            only coughed once.
                        Dr. F-- was fortunately at home, and the two proceeded on their return
                            together. The physician considered the case much more serious than the
                            inexperienced father had deemed it.
                        
                        On their arrival, they found the child awake. The little patient was
                            breathing laboriously, and occasionally that brazen cough rang from his
                            throat.
                        "Croup!" said the doctor, the moment he entered the room.
                        "O doctor, do you think he will die?" exclaimed the agonized mother.
                        "No, no, no!" replied Dr. F--, confidently.
                        The physician was a good-natured, good-hearted German, who was thoroughly
                            master of his profession. He had been eminently successful in his
                            practice, especially with children, and his words were like oil upon the
                            troubled waters to the anxious mother.
                        "I am so frightened, doctor!"
                        "There is nothing to fear; we have the case in season, and there is no
                            danger. Suppose you wait till to-morrow morning before you call me? I
                            shrug my shoulders, and tell you the child must die."
                        "O Samuel!" exclaimed Lottie, looking at her husband.
                        Mr. Lawton was appalled by the significant words. His frame shook with
                            terror. The child was his idol. He knew nothing of the symptoms of the
                            insidious and terrible disease that menaced the life of his darling
                            little one; he was nervous and uneasy. Death seemed to cast a broad
                            shadow upon his home.
                        The doctor gave the child a little white powder, and placed some bandages
                            wet in cold water upon its throat and chest. The effect was
                            instantaneous; the child instantly breathed easier. Leaving the
                            necessary medicines, Dr. F-- took his leave, assuring the anxious
                            parents that the little one would be nearly well by morning.
                        
                        But Mr. Lawton was uneasy, and Lottie was uneasy. An undefinable dread
                            had taken possession of their hearts. Samuel was troubled. The child
                            breathed with a sad, groaning sound, which shook every fibre in the
                            nervous system of the father and mother. He was conscious of their
                            inexperience; the child might relapse, and symptoms which they did not
                            understand might appear.
                        "How I wish mother was here, Samuel!" said poor Lottie, awed by the
                            fearful responsibility that rested upon her.
                        Mr. Lawton had wished so before, and thought if he once more had her in
                            the house, he would give the world to keep her there-mothers-in-law are
                            so exceedingly useful at times!
                        Samuel made no reply. Even in his terrible anxiety for the life of his
                            child, pride had not entirely deserted him.
                        Lottie shed a flood of tears. For the first time in her life, her husband
                            seemed cold and unfeeling, and it was cruel in him not to second her
                            wish in such an hour of trial.
                        "If he should grow worse, Samuel!" continued the poor wife. "O, I am so
                            fearful!"
                        "I will go for your mother if you wish," replied Mr. Lawton, the anguish
                            of his wife getting the mastery of his feelings.
                        "She has got cold; I don't know as she would dare to come out in the
                            night air."
                        "I will try, at least."
                        Mr. Lawton left the house. Mrs. Harding's new home was not far off. He
                            succeeded in rousing her, and, in spite of her cold, she was ready in
                            five minutes to accompany him.
                        His heart smote him as he thought how hard he had been upon her-how he
                            had almost attempted to drive her from his roof; and in his
                            soul he thanked God that she did not know how mean he had been.
                        Her advice had been good. She had spoken to him for his interest, not for
                            her own; and if she had not spoken it exactly as he wished, why, it was
                            only because she was human, and had infirmities, like all the rest of
                            mankind.
                        In the moment of peril and trial, he felt what a blessing it was to have
                            a mother-in-law.
                        Mrs. Harding soon comforted Lottie. She understood the case, and
                            perceived that the danger was past. Her presence was like that of an
                            angel. It restored the drooping spirits of the devoted parents, and by
                            midnight, worn out with anxiety, they went to sleep by the side of the
                            child, whose slumbers, though troubled, were deep and sound.
                        The next morning, as Dr. F-- had predicted, Sammy was nearly well, and
                            Mr. Lawton went to his business as usual; but there was trouble brewing
                            around him. He spent nearly all the forenoon in vain attempts to raise
                            the money to meet one of his notes which came due that day. He was
                            unsuccessful, and, worn out and dispirited by his anxiety on the
                            previous night, he gave up in despair, and went home, resolved to let
                            the note be protested.
                        "You come home early, Samuel," said his wife.
                        The young merchant made no reply, but threw himself, with a heavy sigh,
                            into a chair.
                        "Why, what's the matter, Samuel?"
                        "I am ruined, Lottie!" replied he, gloomily. "I must fail. This is the
                            last day of grace, and I have left a note to be protested."
                        Lottie was appalled by this intelligence. Mrs. Harding, who sat by the
                            fire, holding little Sammy, merely glanced at him. She did not use those awful words,
                            "I knew it would be so."
                        "Mother, you were right; I have been too fast," said Mr. Lawton, gazing
                            sheepishly at her. "I thought very hard of you for telling me I lived
                            better than I could afford; but you were right; I may as well own
                            it."
                        "I am sorry for you, Samuel. How much is the note?" said Mrs. Harding,
                            with a gentle look-a look so kind and forgiving that it wrung his
                            soul.
                        "Eight hundred dollars," replied Lawton.
                        "Will you take the baby a moment, Lottie?" continued Mrs. Harding, who,
                            giving Sammy into the hands of his mother, went to the secretary, and
                            wrote a check on her bank for the amount.
                        "Why, mother, you wrong yourself," exclaimed the astonished Lawton, as
                            she handed him the check.
                        "Take it, Samuel; pay your note, and live and learn," replied she, with a
                            benignant smile.
                        Lawton took the money, and hastened back to the city to pay his note. His
                            credit was saved, and hope again smiled upon him.
                        In the course of conversation that evening, Lawton was so far humiliated
                            as to make this remark,-
                        "Mother, you will come and live with us again, won't you?"
                        "What! after you have wished me out of the house?" replied Mrs. Harding,
                            with a smile. "I heard your conversation the other day."
                        "Forgive me, mother."
                        "Perhaps, Samuel, I am not always just as I ought to be; but we all have
                            our weaknesses. I mean to do right."
                        
                        "I know you do; I understand you now. Last night and to-day have taught
                            me your value; and if I had heeded your counsel, I need not have been
                            pressed for money to-day. Forgive me, mother."
                        "Freely, Samuel. I live only to make my children happy."
                        Mrs. Harding resumed her residence at Lottie's, and from that time to
                            this she has been appreciated. Mr. Lawton learned a lesson. The long
                            proposed retrenchment was executed, and the prospect now is that he will
                            die a rich man, if he don't die too soon.
                        We were provoked to write this sketch by that contemptible squib from
                            Punch, to the effect that Adam was a happy man because he had no
                            mother-in-law. If Cain or Abel, in their babyhood, had the croup,
                            measles, whooping cough, or any thing of that sort, we warrant he sighed
                            for that squib-ridden, conundrum-defamed commodity-a MOTHER-IN-LAW.
                    
                
                
                    
                    MONTAGUE AND LADY.
                    A LESSON FOR HUSBANDS.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "ANOTHER new dress!" exclaimed Mr. Simeon Montague to his wife. "It does
                            not seem to be more than three weeks since you had one."
                        "Just two months, Simeon."
                        "And you need another?"
                        "I should not ask for the money if I did not. And Franky must have a new
                            jacket, and Nellie a new cloak."
                        Mr. Montague sighed.
                        "I gave you fifteen dollars only a few weeks ago."
                        "What is fifteen dollars? Do you think it will clothe me and the children
                            a year?" replied Mrs. Montague indignantly.
                        "Money comes hard," suggested Mr. Montague.
                        "I suppose it does; but if you wish me and the children to go half
                            clothed, why, only say so."
                        "Of course, I wish nothing of the kind; I only want you to be as prudent
                            as possible."
                        "I intend to be so."
                        "These are dreadful tight times."
                        "I should think they were," replied the lady, with a palpable
                            pable sneer on her lip. "They have been just so, though, ever since we
                            have been married."
                        "Won't next week do?"
                        "I engaged a dressmaker for next Friday."
                        "I don't see how I can spare fifteen dollars to-day," said Mr. Montague,
                            musing, apparently, upon his financial affairs. "I have a note to pay
                            to-day."
                        "You have had a note to pay every time I have asked you for money since
                            we were married."
                        "I will try and have it for you to-morrow."
                        "I wan't to go out shopping to-day; I can't go to-morrow."
                        "I cannot possibly spare it to-day. Won't ten dollars answer your
                            purpose?"
                        "Perhaps I can make it do."
                        "If you can, I wish you would," replied the husband, as he took out his
                            pocket book and handed her that amount.
                        "I can only get a calico for myself."
                        "Well, won't that answer?"
                        "Are you willing to go to church with me with a calico dress on?"
                        "Certainly, my dear. Why not?"
                        "I thought you had some pride."
                        "I have, but no foolish pride."
                        "A twenty-five dollar coat is hardly good enough for you to wear to
                            church."
                        "But I don't have one every month."
                        "You have two every year."
                        Mr. Montague did not think it was prudent to say any more; and putting on
                            his hat, which he had just been brushing with the most scrupulous care,
                            he surveyed his person before the looking glass. His collar needed a
                            little elevating ing, his
                            cravat had to be readjusted, and he discovered a speck of dirt on his
                            black coat, which was carefully removed. His lady looked at him with a
                            smile as he stood before the glass.
                        "Calico dress, indeed!" thought she. "There is not a prouder man walks
                            Washington Street than my husband."
                        Mr. Montague smoothed down his whiskers, and was leaving the room, when a
                            gentleman wishing to see him was announced.
                        "Ah, Butler," said he, as the gentleman entered the room.
                        "I called at your store yesterday, but did not find you," said Butler,
                            handing him a little paper.
                        "Just so," said he, opening it.
                        Mrs. Montague was impertinent enough to look over his shoulder as he read
                            the paper. It ran as follows:-
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "Mr. Simeon Montague
                                        
                                            
                                                
                                                  
                                                  To Apollo Club Rooms, Dr.
                                                
                                                
                                                  To your Quarterly Assessment,
                                                  $25,00
                                                
                                                
                                                  "1 Basket Heidsick Champagne,
                                                  16,00
                                                
                                                
                                                  "100 Concha Cigars,
                                                  4,00
                                                
                                                
                                                  
                                                  $45,00
                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                            Received Payment,
                                            B. BUTLER, Steward."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        "Just so," repeated Mr. Montague, throwing the bill on the table, and
                            taking out his pocket book. "Sorry to trouble you; meant to have paid it
                            last night."
                        "No trouble at all," replied Butler.
                        
                        "Forty-five, is it?" continued Montague, as he counted out the money.
                        "Forty-five."
                        The steward of the "Apollo Club Rooms" put the money in his pocket, and
                            bade his liberal patron good morning.
                        "It was too bad to make him call twice for that money, wasn't it,
                            Simeon?" asked Mrs. Montague, when the steward had gone.
                        "Of course I was sorry to give him any unnecessary trouble," replied Mr.
                            Montague.
                        "I thought you had a note to pay to-day?"
                        "So I have."
                        "But can't you spare me the other five dollars for which I asked
                            you?"
                        "Can't, possibly."
                        "I think your family ought to receive as much consideration as the Club
                            House, at least."
                        "I must go to the store, my dear; I am in a great hurry."
                        "Sixteen dollars for champagne," said the wife, reading from the bill,
                            which she had picked up from the table. "I only asked for fifteen."
                        "You would not have me niggardly at the Club Rooms, would you?"
                        "I would not have you go there at all. I suppose it is nothing to be
                            niggardly in your family?"
                        "Am I niggardly?" asked Mr. Montague, rather sternly.
                        The lady was silent.
                        "One would think that I was made of money, by the way you ask me for it,"
                            continued Mr. Montague.
                        "One would think you were, to see you paying forty-five dollars a quarter
                            at the Club House," replied Mrs. Montague, meekly. "A married man
                            too."
                        
                        "I wasn't born to be tied to a woman's apron string," added Mr. Montague,
                            rushing from the house.
                        The lady looked at the door which had just closed upon him. Her heart was
                            sad, and she burst into tears.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MR. SIMEON MONTAGUE thought the money he bestowed upon his family was as
                            good as wasted. He was not a domestic man. He had married his wife, with
                            a reasonable show of affection, because her father was rich, and she was
                            an only daughter. Of course, he would not even confess to his own heart
                            that he was so selfish and cruel as to marry for sordid motives-that he
                            had prostituted the holy altar of Hymen by sacrificing to Plutus upon
                            it; but it was none the less true because he denied it to himself and
                            every body else.
                        Mrs. Montague's father at her marriage was only about forty-five years of
                            age; yet his health was so feeble that there was not one chance in ten
                            of his living another year. But the old gentleman had revived, and now,
                            after twelve years had expired, seemed to be completely rejuvenated. He
                            was hale and hearty, and gave the promise of living twenty years more.
                            Of course the sordid son-in-law was disappointed. He had thrown himself
                            into the sea of matrimony with an unworthy motive, and if he had been
                            drowned there it would have served him just right.
                        Poor Mrs. Montague! her bright hopes were all wrecked. Instead of the
                            world of affection she had anticipated in the connubial relation, she
                            found nothing but coldness and sordid selfishness. Her husband
                            still frequented the Club House; and when at home, he seemed to have no
                            sympathy with her. His business seemed to engross all his attention, and
                            he had no time to think of his wife, none to devote to his children.
                        Yet Mr. Montague was not a morose or an ill-natured man. He loved the
                            good opinion of the world, and would have made almost any sacrifice
                            rather than have had an imputation cast upon his domestic character. He
                            paid the most scrupulous attention to all the forms of life, walked to
                            church every Sunday with his wife on his arm, always found the place in
                            the hymn book for her, and never failed abroad to manifest the most
                            lively interest in his family. He always called his wife "my dear," and
                            spoke affectionately to the children in the presence of company.
                        The eye of affection could penetrate all this mass of conventionalism,
                            and the poor wife, in less than a year after her marriage, realized that
                            she had thrown herself away upon a hollow-hearted man-one who, without
                            loving her, would keep the peace at almost any sacrifice-one who would
                            compel the world to believe that he was the most tender and devoted
                            husband, even while his heart was petrified and cold. His devotion was
                            mere mechanism; it was a kind of habit, acquired by an active desire to
                            secure the good will of all his friends.
                        Perhaps, even if there had been none to see him, Mr. Montague would not
                            have been harsh; it was not his nature. He was a smooth-tongued,
                            plausible man under all circumstances. He could appear to love when his
                            heart was perfectly indifferent. He could avoid the most palpable of his
                            domestic duties even while he professed the most earnest devotion to the
                            welfare of his family.
                        
                        Twelve years had in a measure reconciled the disappointed wife to her
                            lot. She was contented with it because her maiden visions of connubial
                            bliss had evaporated, and she knew no other existence than that to which
                            she had been so long accustomed. Her air castles, reared in the sunny
                            years of her girlhood, had long since tumbled to the ground, and left
                            her in a world of reality, cold and repulsive at first, but rendered
                            tolerable by long endurance.
                        Her husband was sordid and selfish. He never felt a hundred dollars
                            expended in champagne suppers at the Club House; but half that sum given
                            to his wife wrung his soul. Though he was in a good business, lived in
                            good style, and always had money at his command, his brow always
                            darkened when his wife asked him for any sum to be expended upon herself
                            or her children. He was absolutely unwilling to give it, though he could
                            not possibly have endured the mortification of seeing them shabbily
                            dressed.
                        Mr. Montague is not an anomaly among men. There are thousands as sordid
                            and inconsistent as he was-thousands who wish to have their wives and
                            children appear well in the world, and at the same time deny them the
                            means of doing so.
                        Mrs. Montague was in tears. She was both grieved and provoked at the
                            conduct of her husband. The promptness with which he had paid his Club
                            House bill, while he denied her the trifling sum she had asked, was a
                            sad commentary on his devotion. For more than an hour she thought the
                            matter over, and became fully assured that she was a much-injured wife.
                            Her spirit was roused, and, putting on her bonnet, she left the house to
                            do her shopping.
                        The calico dress her husband had professed to think was good
                            enough for her to wear to church was purchased, and before Sunday was
                            made up.
                        The second bells were ringing for church. Mr. Montague, elegantly
                            dressed, was all ready, and stood before the glass, contemplating his
                            prepossessing appearance.
                        "Are you ready, Ellen?" said he, calling to his wife, who was up
                            stairs.
                        "I shall be in a moment. Walk along slowly with Franky, and I will
                            overtake you," replied she.
                        Mr. Montague took his son by the hand, and walked up the street. He
                            looked like a model head of the family-so benignant and dignified on
                            that Sabbath morning.
                        His wife did not overtake him till he had got half way to church.
                        "Why, my dear, what have you got on?" asked Mr. Montague, when, to his
                            horror, he saw her clothed in a common calico dress.
                        "My new calico," replied she, coolly, as she took his arm.
                        "Are you mad, Ellen?"
                        "It was the best I could buy, with the money you gave me."
                        "But you are not going to church in that shape?"
                        "Why, Simeon, didn't you say you were willing to go to church with me
                            with a calico dress on?"
                        "Pshaw! Hadn't you sense enough to see that I was jesting?"
                        "Jesting! If you were, it was the first time I ever knew you to jest in
                            your own house."
                        "Don't be foolish, Ellen."
                        "Come; we shall be late, and all the folks in the street are staring at
                            us."
                        
                        "Staring at you. What a ridiculous figure you make in that attire! Your
                            Irish girl is better dressed than you are."
                        "I can't help it."
                        "Pray, go home."
                        "I am going to church."
                        "Not with me, Ellen, in that plight."
                        "Then I leave you," said she, taking Franky by the hand, and continuing
                            her walk.
                        Mr. Montague was bewildered. It was a very awkward position; but the
                            natural duplicity of his character came to his aid, and, placing his
                            hand upon his forehead, as though suffering a severe headache, he
                            retraced his steps homeward.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        MR. MONTAGUE was greatly incensed at the conduct of his wife; but an
                            experience of a dozen years had fully convinced her that her husband
                            could not be easily reformed. During that long period, while he was
                            living in plenty, was throwing away hundreds, and she did not know but
                            thousands, on his club, his champagne suppers, and other selfish
                            gratifications, she had found it exceedingly difficult to wring from his
                            hard grasp the money to clothe herself and children. To ask for it was a
                            loathsome task, and nothing but the most urgent necessity could induce
                            her to do so.
                        Much as her husband had resented her conduct on the occasion mentioned,
                            he did not offer the means of supplying her wants. The lady had become
                            so disgusted with his niggardly conduct that she had fully determined
                            never to ask him for another dollar. Her father was rich, and very indulgent to her, his only child. To him she disclosed her
                            grievances; and though it was repugnant to her sense of delicacy to
                            speak ill of her husband, she gave her father a complete history of her
                            financial experience. The old gentleman was exceedingly indignant, as a
                            matter of course, and stormed like a madman at the sordid character of
                            his son-in-law.
                        "But don't you say a word to him, pa, nor to any one else," pleaded the
                            daughter.
                        "I will blow him sky high! He shall never darken my door again!"
                        "Nay, nay, pa, for my sake, do not mention it."
                        The old man stopped to think.
                        "You are right, Nellie; not a word," said he, rubbing his bald head.
                        "It would sound very bad abroad, pa."
                        "So it would; but, Nellie, hand me that book, and the pen and ink."
                        The daughter obeyed, and the old gentleman wrote a hasty note.
                        "Now ring the bell, Nellie."
                        Mrs. Montague did as she was requested, and a servant appeared.
                        "Here, John, take that to No. 10 Court Street," said the old gentleman,
                            as he opened the book and wrote a check for five hundred dollars. "Now,
                            Nellie, spend it as fast as you can, and when that is gone, come and get
                            some more."
                        Mrs. Montague kissed her fond father, and left him to ruminate upon the
                            astonishing fact which had been revealed to him.
                        "Not give her any money!" muttered he. "The scoundrel!"
                        
                        His lips were frequently compressed, and occasionally he rose and strode
                            with hasty step across the room. The arrival of the lawyer for whom he
                            had sent seemed to relieve him.
                        Mrs. Montague appeared the next Sunday in an elegant brocade silk, a new
                            bonnet, and a most magnificent mantilla. Her husband, who was an
                            importer and jobber of dry goods, could readily perceive that she wore
                            at least two hundred dollars upon her person. He was confounded. She had
                            asked him for no money lately. He was uneasy. What could it mean? Mrs.
                            Montague refused to answer any questions.
                        Six months passed by, and the lady still remained independent of her
                            husband. She always had money in abundance, but she positively refused
                            to converse upon the subject. Of course he could understand that her
                            father furnished her with funds. He was perplexed to discover the
                            circumstances under which he supplied her. Had his wife told him that
                            she was refused by her husband? Had she been to her father with her
                            grievances? He would not have had such a thing happen for all the world;
                            his reputation, which he valued more highly than his integrity, would be
                            sacrificed. He was sorely troubled.
                        One day, about this time, when he came home to dinner, he found that his
                            father-in-law had been prostrated by an apoplectic fit, and that his
                            wife had gone to attend him. Before he could finish his dinner, a
                            messenger announced his death.
                        Mr. Montague was very much grieved, of course. He mourned in bitterness
                            of spirit for more than a month after the funeral, his father-in-law was
                            such a kindhearted, noble old gentleman; he thought there were
                            few men like him in the world.
                        Every thing went on as usual in the Montague family. Not a word was said
                            about the large property of the deceased. Mr. Montague felt some
                            delicacy in mentioning the subject to his wife, and no one else appeared
                            to know any thing about the business. He wondered that nothing had been
                            said to him about being executor or administrator. Of course he was the
                            only proper person to execute this trust.
                        He hinted at the matter as broadly as he dared; but his wife refused to
                            take the hint. One morning, however, as he was looking over the paper,
                            he noticed an advertisement concerning the probate of the will; he
                            pointed it out to his wife.
                        "Then your father made a will?" said he.
                        "He did."
                        "I was not aware of it; but then I haven't devoted even a thought to his
                            property."
                        Mrs. Montague looked at him.
                        "Your father was one of the best of men," continued he, seriously.
                        "He was."
                        "Did you learn who had been named as executor?"
                        "My uncle John."
                        "Ah! a capital selection; your father was an excellent business man."
                        "And three of his personal friends were appointed trustees."
                        "Trustees!" exclaimed Mr. Montague, with a violent start.
                        "Yes; but you have not seen the will?"
                        "No."
                        
                        "I have a copy here," said the wife, taking the document from a
                            drawer.
                        With a beating heart, Mr. Montague opened the copy, and proceeded to read
                            it.
                        His cheek blanched and his lip quivered as he read. The property was much
                            greater than he had ever suspected, amounting to over a hundred thousand
                            dollars. It was all secured to his wife, to the entire exclusion of her
                            husband; and the instrument was so adroitly drawn up that he could not
                            even touch the income of the estate without her permission.
                        He was thunderstruck; his matrimonial hopes were all blasted, and, what
                            added to his chagrin, his own affairs, in the stringency of the time,
                            had become hopelessly embarrassed.
                        "What does this mean, Ellen?" asked he, in a husky voice.
                        "You just remarked that my father was an excellent business man; don't
                            you understand it?"
                        "If I had been a drunkard or a gambler, it would have been plain to me.
                            As it is, it looks like an entire want of confidence in me on the part
                            of your deceased father; not that I care about the property," whined Mr.
                            Montague.
                        "Of course you don't care for that."
                        "I was not aware before that your father was prejudiced against me. Did
                            he ever mention this matter?"
                        Mrs. Montague was silent, and the husband pressed her for an answer.
                        "There was something said."
                        "What, my dear?"
                        
                        "When I went to him for money, of course that led to some
                            explanations."
                        "You went to him for money?" gasped Mr. Montague.
                        "I could not get it from you."
                        Mr. Montague used an exceedingly hard word, which I dare not transfer to
                            my page, and rushed out of the house.
                        In a month he failed,-made a bad failure,-and it took him a year to get
                            out of the difficulty. The assignees had every thing; he could not put
                            his hand upon a single dollar. His domestic affairs somehow got into the
                            street, and nobody would trust him; every body despised him.
                        But Mrs. Montague was not so sordid as he had been, and when he had
                            received a discharge from his debts, she furnished the means for him to
                            commence business again. The club and champagne suppers are abandoned;
                            matters are reversed. The lady is always "flush," the gentleman
                            generally short; and, poor fellow, he is sometimes so hard pressed as to
                            ask her for a few hundred dollars "to help him out."
                    
                
                
                    
                    TAKING THE NEWSPAPERS.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "TALK to me about your newspapers! I tell you, neighbor Parker, they are
                            a consarned humbug!" exclaimed Farmer Cheney.
                        "That's a great mistake of yours, neighbor. For my part, I would rather
                            live on two meals a day than be without a good newspaper."
                        "Git out! I wonder what the world's a comin' to. There's my gals have
                            teased me to take Harper's Magazine till I hadn't any peace o' my life.
                            But I put my foot right down; you can't humbug me with sich trash;" and
                            Farmer Cheney complacently wiped away the tobacco juice which was
                            streaming down from the corners of his mouth.
                        "You are in the wrong, neighbor Cheney."
                        "No, I ain't, nuther. Then Tom wan't satisfied, and nothin' would do but
                            I must take the American Union and the Practical Farmer. But it wan't no
                            use; I wouldn't have the trash in the house, say nothin' o' wastin'
                            money on it."
                        "Do you ever read the papers?"
                        "Me! no, not I; I've got a better use for my time."
                        "But the long winter evenings?"
                        "Well, we allers have corn to shell."
                        
                        "Not all winter?"
                        "No; but when I can't find no work to do, I'd a nuff sight rather set in
                            the corner, and go to sleep."
                        "But your son Reuben takes the papers."
                        "Yes; but I never brought him up to do any sich thing. He takes the Union
                            and the Farmer both, and stews his brains over 'em half the time. That
                            ain't the wo'st on't, nuther."
                        "No evil effects have followed from it, I trust?"
                        "Yes, there has; there's my youngest boy, Tom, read sunthin' or nuther
                            over to Reuben's t'other day about a 'chance for young men,' and
                            nothin'll do but he must go right into it; he's off to Boston next week.
                            So much for havin' newspapers round."
                        "But perhaps he may improve the opportunity, and make money by it."
                        "No sich thing. He's got two hundred dollars, and when that's all gone,
                            he'll be back again; see if he don't."
                        "Perhaps not."
                        "Well, my mind's made up about it; but between you and I and the side of
                            that gate post, I wouldn't mind givin' Reuben the price of the papers if
                            he only wouldn't take 'em."
                        "But Reuben has the reputation of being one of the best farmers in
                            town."
                        "That's all true enough; but he didn't learn how to farm it from his
                            newspapers, let me tell you. He was brought up in the good old way, when
                            there wan't no books round but the Bible and the almanac."
                        "You will grant that he does not follow all the old-fashioned
                            methods?"
                        "Well, pooty much all; he's got some notions of his own, though."
                        
                        "How was it about planting corn in rows, neighbor Cheney?"
                        "That's one of Reuben's notions, to plant in rows."
                        "And he got seventy bushels to the acre, you know."
                        "Yes; but the ashes did the business."
                        "The ashes, the rows, and the cultivator, between them."
                        "Well, there ain't no doubt but what that's the best way to raise corn.
                            At any rate, all the neighbors foller it now."
                        "It is not the old-fashioned way."
                        "No; it's Reuben's way."
                        "Where do you suppose Reuben got it?"
                        "I don't know; not from your darn newspapers, though."
                        "But he did."
                        "Git out!"
                        "It is a fact."
                        "Now, neighbor Parker, you don't mean to say that them fellers in Boston,
                            that never saw a cornfield in their life, can tell me how to raise
                            corn," said Farmer Cheney, a little warmly.
                        "They have correspondents all over the country, and the subscribers have
                            the benefit of their united experience."
                        "Don't believe a word on't."
                        But it was no use arguing the matter, and the two farmers separated. When
                            Farmer Cheney got home, he found a visitor waiting him.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        "I UNDERSTOOD you had a large
                                    
                        quanity
                        quantity
                      of corn
                            for sale," said the stranger.
                        "Well, I've got consider'ble, but I don't care no great about sellin'
                            it."
                        
                        "I should like to buy."
                        "I can spare a couple o' hund'ed bushels for a fair price."
                        "What do you ask for it?"
                        "Well, I don't know; how is corn nowadays?"
                        "Last sales in Boston were sixty-eight to seventy cents."
                        "Rather low; I meant to git seventy-one for mine," returned Farmer
                            Cheney, who was disposed to be shrewd.
                        "What will you take for the lot?"
                        "Seventy-one."
                        "Say seventy, and we won't stand about trifles."
                        "Can't do it; seventy-one is my lowest price," replied Farmer Cheney,
                            finding that he had got an available customer.
                        "Split the difference, and it's a trade," said the stranger,
                            nervously.
                        "Couldn't do it."
                        "I'll take it then. Give me a receipt for this cash to bind the
                            bargain."
                        Farmer Cheney, congratulating himself on the good trade he had made,
                            wrote the receipt after considerable labor, and put the money in his
                            pocket book.
                        "Know of any one else who has got any corn to sell?"
                        "My neighbor Parker, I rather guess, has got some."
                        "You won't say a word that I paid you seventy-one for yours? It might
                            spoil a trade."
                        "Not a word," replied Farmer Cheney.
                        Towards night our two farmers happened to meet again.
                        "Sold your corn to-day, neighbor Parker?" inquired Farmer Cheney.
                        
                        "Every speck of it," replied Parker.
                        "Did you? What did you get?"
                        "Eighty-one."
                        "How much?"
                        "Eighty-one."
                        "You didn't, though, did ye?" exclaimed the man who would not take the
                            newspaper.
                        "That is just what I got, and I think I could have got eighty-two if I
                            had stuck a little longer."
                        "You don't, though!"
                        "The same man bought yours, I believe."
                        "Yes," replied Farmer Cheney, edging off.
                        "What did you get-eighty-two?"
                        "Well, I guess I didn't git quite that."
                        "O, eighty-one. Well, after all, that is a good price, and ten cents on a
                            bushel more than I had any idea of getting."
                        "I did not get eighty-one," replied Farmer Cheney, rather
                            crestfallen.
                        He did not like to deceive his neighbor; he had studied the Bible and the
                            almanac enough to know better than that; but it came "dreadful hard" to
                            own up the truth.
                        "How much did you get?"
                        "I dar'sent tell."
                        "Why not?"
                        "I've got took in if the feller gave you eighty-one."
                        "What did you get, though, neighbor-seventy-five?"
                        "Seventy-one."
                        "Well, you have been taken in, then; I guess you haven't heard the
                            news."
                        "No-what?"
                        
                        "Crops failed in the west."
                        "How you talk!"
                        "And the prospect of a war in Europe; so that our breadstuffs will be
                            extensively exported, which run up the price of flour and grain."
                        "What war?"
                        "Between Russia and Turkey."
                        "Turkey! Well, I hope them cu'sed Turks will get licked!" exclaimed
                            Farmer Cheney, whose ideas were somewhat antiquated.
                        "You differ from the world in general. The sympathies of all civilized
                            nations go with Turkey in this quarrel."
                        "You don't say so! When I was a boy, the schoolmaster used to teach us to
                            hate the Turks. They are a barbarous race."
                        "I think, neighbor Cheney, you will confess now that you had better take
                            a paper."
                        "Confess no sich thing; I wouldn't have one round the house."
                        "If you had taken the papers, you would have known about this rise in
                            grain."
                        "Perhaps I should; but Reuben generally tells me about these things."
                        "It was only in the paper that came to-day; I read it since I saw you
                            this morning. But I should no more think of selling any thing of any
                            consequence without seeing how the Boston markets were than I should
                            think of cutting my own throat."
                        "Kind of a dog's life to be tied to a newspaper," sneered Farmer
                            Cheney.
                        "But if you had taken a newspaper, neighbor, and read it, you would have made twenty dollars
                            by it in this one trade; twenty dollars, neighbor-enough to pay for the
                            paper ten years."
                        "Git out! These things look well enough as you book farmers figger 'em
                            up; but, you see, when you come to the scratch, they ain't nowhere."
                        "It looks to me like a plain case."
                        "Now, 'spose I could make twenty dollars by takin' the paper; it would do
                            me a darn sight more mischief than that."
                        "How?"
                        "Why, the newspaper puts the very devil in the gals' heads. Now, they
                            never use to have their cu'sed picnics round here till the gals got to
                            readin' on 'em in the papers. And then the buryin' ground, they couldn't
                            even let that alone. Some feller put a piece in the paper about Mount
                            Auburn, Sorrel Hill, Greenbush, and some sich place, and the fust thing
                            we know the gravestones are all jumbled up in a heap, gravel is carted
                            in, and posies set out all over it. Now they call it a 'symmetry,' I
                            b'leve."
                        "A cemetery, neighbor; but we who read the newspapers like these things.
                            There is something pleasant in ornamenting with flowers the
                            resting-place of our dead."
                        "It looks to me more like 'saprelation.'"
                        "Sacrilege! O, no; far from it."
                        "Well, I think so; and then we've got to have new school housen, a new
                            town house, and the roads must all be 'McDonalized.'"
                        "McAdamized."
                        "Well, no matter what it is; it all comes of these cu'sed newspapers. My
                            taxes are twenty dollars a year more than they used to be."
                        
                        "And you sell the produce of your farm for five hundred dollars
                            more."
                        "Well, that's true; but there's no kind of need of makin' the taxes any
                            more, all for newspapers."
                        "But you must think how much better and wiser your family would be with a
                            newspaper to read."
                        "By mighty! I should think they would! Only look at Deacon Craig's folks.
                            Them gals cost him a fortin every year in books and new gowns. The
                            newspapers won't do; they must have books, and waste half their time
                            readin' on 'em."
                        "But it is a very worthy and intelligent family, and the deacon's income,
                            owing to his more enlightened method of conducting business, is at least
                            ten times as great as it used to be, and he can well afford to spend all
                            he does in educating his children."
                        "No use o' talkin' about it; give me the good old way; and when I'm dead,
                            I ain't at all particular about havin' buttercups and whiteweed growin'
                            on my grave;" and Farmer Cheney went off, "wondering what the world was
                            coming to."
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        ABOUT a year after their conversations, Tom Cheney came home to visit his
                            father. The ambitious youth, who had acquired half his education by
                            reading the newspapers, had not written his father concerning his
                            business prospects.
                        "Why, Tom, what have you been about all this time?" asked the old
                            gentleman, as he surveyed Tom's spruce appearance.
                        
                        "Making money, father," replied the hopeful son.
                        "Have you made any, Tom?"
                        "A little."
                        "A little! Guess you'd better staid at home, and worked on the farm. You
                            was doin' well here."
                        "Done pretty well as it is."
                        "How much you made, Tom?"
                        "Five thousand."
                        "Git out! You are jokin', Tom."
                        "True as preaching."
                        "How did you do it?"
                        "Well, I went into that 'chance for young men;' but that wan't much; so I
                            looked into the newspapers for something better."
                        "Newspapers again," sneered Farmer Cheney.
                        "The first thing I saw was, that peaches were selling down south for ten
                            cents a bushel, while they brought two dollars here. You see, the risk
                            of transporting them makes the difference. Then I saw in the same paper
                            that preserved peaches brought two shilling a pound north; so I put that
                            and that together, and hatched out a speculation. I bought the sugar,
                            and sent it down to Delaware, where the peaches were cheap, and went to
                            making preserves there. In this way I made money."
                        "You are a shrewd one, Tom."
                        "All owing to the newspapers, father."
                        "Git out!"
                        "I see by the papers that the Chinese empire has been divided, and the
                            rebels are in a fair way of making China a Christian country. I have a
                            great notion of going out there to establish a line of stages between
                            Shanghae and Nankin. What do you think about it?"
                        
                        "Don't know what to think. I'm done thinkin'; but, Tom, when you go to
                            Boston again, just drop in and tell 'em to send me the American Union
                            and the Practical Farmer for one year. Here's the three dollars."
                        "Bravo! you are a brick, after all, pa!"
                    
                
                
                    
                    "CIGARS FOR TWO;"
                    OR, CURING A SMOKER.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "SMOKES, does he? The abominable wretch!" exclaimed Mrs. Volant to her
                            friend, Mrs. Washburn, a young wife who had just gone to
                            housekeeping.
                        "He smokes, but he is not an abominable wretch-I am sure he is not,"
                            replied Mrs. Washburn, a little startled by the hard name applied to her
                            husband, whom she both loved and esteemed.
                        "Not a wretch?"
                        "No, I'm sure he is not!"
                        "Yes, he is; any husband, especially one who has been married only a
                            year, and won't leave off smoking when his wife desires it, must be a
                            wretch."
                        "No, you overstate the case. He is every thing a husband ought to be-so
                            kind, so devoted, so indulgent. But then, I do wish he would not
                            smoke."
                        "You must break him of it-the cruel monster."
                        "Nay, do not call him such hard names; I love him with all my heart,
                            though he does smoke."
                        "Well, I suppose you do; young wives are apt to be foolish."
                        
                        "Foolish!"
                        "Yes; he sees, I dare say, that you love him, and so he takes the
                            advantage of you."
                        "Why, Mrs. Volant, don't you love your husband?"
                        "Well, suppose I do; there is no need of telling him of it. I make him
                            think I don't care any thing about him. Why, I can manage him as easily
                            as I could a kitten."
                        "I don't like that; I think there ought to be love and confidence between
                            man and wife."
                        "Pooh!"
                        "You cannot be happy with him."
                        "I should not be, if I became his slave."
                        "Not his slave!"
                        "Don't you believe it! When you have been married as long as I have, you
                            will get rid of some of these sentimental notions, which answer very
                            well for the first year or so, but become very inconvenient after
                            that."
                        "For my part, I always mean to love my husband as much as I do now, even
                            if it is sentimental."
                        "See if you do! Husbands must be carefully managed, or they become
                            tyrants. Now, my husband smoked the first year after marriage; but then
                            he was a little careful about bringing his cigar into the house, for I
                            told him, up and down, I wouldn't have it."
                        "I should suppose he would have rebelled."
                        "He did, but not at first. One night, nearly a year after we were
                            married, he brought home a whole bundle of cigars, and put them on the
                            mantel-piece. Taking one, he very coolly lighted it, and proceeded to
                            read the evening paper."
                        "That's just the way my husband does."
                        
                        "I was downright mad at his impudence; but I did not say a word. The next
                            day I bought a monstrous great snuffbox, and filled it full of rappee.
                            In the evening he lighted his cigar as before; but no sooner had he done
                            so, than I seated myself opposite to him, and drawing out my snuffbox, I
                            took a generous pinch, snuffing the filthy stuff into my nostrils, at
                            the risk of sneezing my head off."
                        "How funny!"
                        "My husband did not think so. He looked at me with astonishment. 'You
                            take snuff?' said he. 'I do; at least, I mean to learn,' I replied. 'It
                            is a filthy habit,' says he. 'No worse than smoking,' says I. We debated
                            the matter for a long time, and at last he gave up the point, and
                            promised to throw away his cigars if I would throw away my snuff. My
                            point was gained, and of course I gave up my snuff."
                        "And he never smoked any more?" asked Mrs. Washburn, laughing.
                        "Yes, he began once after; but I took to the snuff again, and he gave it
                            up."
                        "Are you sure he don't smoke now?"
                        "If he does, he never lets me see him. My sitting room is not all smoked
                            up as yours is."
                        "It was a glorious trick!"
                        "That it was, and I advise you to try it upon Mr. Washburn."
                        "I! I couldn't take a pinch of snuff any more than I could swallow an
                            elephant."
                        "Smoke, then. There are some nice little cigars sold at the apothecaries,
                            made on purpose for ladies. They are so mild that they wouldn't make you
                            sick; though, even if they did, you wouldn't mind, so they
                            cure your husband of smoking."
                        "It seems too bad to play such a trick upon him-he is always so kind, and
                            permits me to do just as I please," said the tender-hearted Mrs.
                            Washburn.
                        "What else could he do?"
                        "It looks kind of mean to me."
                        "Not a bit."
                        "I don't know as it would succeed."
                        "Nonsense! I am sure it would. He never would let you smoke, for these
                            husbands have an awful horror of any impropriety in their wives."
                        "Then, he says he has always smoked, and can't leave it off."
                        "Pshaw! The old story!"
                        "I am almost tempted to try it."
                        "I would."
                        "It seems so unkind, though, that I have hardly the heart to do it."
                        "You are notional, my dear Mrs. Washburn. When you have been
                            married-"
                        The remark was broken off by the abrupt entrance of the "abominable
                            wretch" himself. Mrs. Washburn rose as he entered, and in spite of the
                            abominable odor that his breath must have exhaled, printed a kiss upon
                            his tobacco-stained lips.
                        The lady "who had been married several years" was disgusted, and after a
                            few words concerning the weather, took her leave.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MRS. WASHBURN was a pretty, affectionate, gentle-hearted wife. Her whole
                            existence was bound up in her husband, as well it might be; for never
                            was husband more devoted to his wife than he was. To our mind she was a
                            model wife; none of your stormy vixens, that set their hearts upon
                            attaining a point, and will pull the house down upon your head but they
                                will attain it.
                        In her eye, Mr. Washburn had only one fault; and that was the
                                    
                        villanous
                        villainous
                     
                            habit of smoking, which all her eloquence had been powerless to
                            overcome. She didn't "put her foot down," as her friend, Mrs. Volant,
                            had done; for-poor, gentle-hearted creature-she couldn't think of
                            provoking a quarrel with him, and had about concluded to make the best
                            of it, and let him smoke in peace.
                        But there was something so irresistibly funny about Mrs. Volant's plan,
                            that she determined to try it, and, accordingly, on the afternoon of the
                            next day, she sent the Irish girl to the apothecary's shop for a bunch
                            of "Bagdad cigars." Disposing a few of them in her work basket, ready
                            for the momentous occasion, her mind pictured the scene that would ensue
                            when she should light one of them. It was so funny that she laughed out
                            loud at the idea. Wouldn't he be surprised to see her, who had teased
                            him so much to leave off smoking, commence the practice herself!
                            Wouldn't his eyes stick out, when he should see her puffing a cigar at
                            her sewing, as he did when he read the evening paper!
                        She was so pleased with the plan, that she would have put it in
                            execution, even if it had been only for the sport it promised her,
                            independently of any good result which might flow from it. Wouldn't he
                            beg her to smoke no more! Wouldn't he be mortified, and wouldn't she win
                            the day, and glory over his defeat! Wouldn't he be glad to promise her
                            that he wouldn't smoke another cigar as long as he lived! She was so
                            delighted that she could hardly contain herself.
                        Mr. Washburn came home to tea, and, as usual when he entered the house,
                            he gave her a kiss, and a tender greeting. They were seated at the tea
                            table; Mrs. Washburn was so full of mirth, that she came near scalding
                            herself with the hot tea when she poured it out. Her merry, mischievous
                            laugh rang pleasantly on her husband's ear, who, poor fellow, could have
                            had no idea of the terrible ordeal through which he was doomed to
                            pass.
                        When tea was over, the astral lamp transferred to the lightstand, and Mr.
                            Washburn had stretched himself into a comfortable position in the large
                            easy rocking chair, with his legs lazily reposing in another chair, the
                            everlasting cigar was produced, lighted, and began to diffuse its
                            fragrance through the room.
                        Mrs. Washburn could hardly control her inclination to burst into a laugh
                            at the mere thought of what she was about to do. Seating herself at the
                            side of the table opposite her husband, she took from the work basket,
                            with an air as grave and solemn as a judge, one of the "Bagdads."
                            Placing the filthy roll between her ruby lips, she glanced at her
                            husband.
                        "Now, Mr. Smoker," thought she,-it would have spoiled the joke to have
                            said it,-we "will see whether you don't abandon that nasty habit."
                        
                        Mr. Washburn happened to glance at her; but, contrary to her expectation,
                            he manifested no surprise, and went on reading the Transcript.
                        "So, so, Mr. Smoker," thought she again, "you think I am joking, do you?
                            I will soon convince you;" and the lady took a taper, and applied a
                            light to the cigar.
                        But Mrs. Washburn was rather inexperienced in the modus operandi of lighting a cigar, and she was unable to
                            make it "go." She lit another taper, and puffed away with all her might;
                            but the Bagdad was as resolute as the great caliph himself. She
                            persevered, till her extraordinary exertions again attracted the
                            attention of Mr. Washburn.
                        "You are lighting the wrong end, my dear," said he, with the utmost
                                nonchalance.
                        "How provoking he is!" thought Mrs. Washburn. "Why don't he
                            remonstrate?"
                        "You should bite off the twisted end, and then put it in your mouth,"
                            continued the husband, turning to the paper again.
                        Aided by these directions, the lady took another cigar, which she
                            succeeded in lighting. The first taste of the tobacco smoke was
                            horrible; but she had determined to be a martyr for her husband's sake;
                            and taking her sewing, she continued to puff away as she plied her
                            needle, till a certain nausea compelled her to abandon the experiment
                            for that time. Casting the Bagdad into the grate, she began to wish she
                            had not listened to Mrs. Volant.
                        "What is the matter, my dear? Wasn't it a good cigar? Try mine; they are
                            Monte Christos of the first quality," and the imperturbable Mr. Washburn
                            offered her a choice from his case.
                        
                        
                            
                                CIGARS FOR TWO.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                        "No, I thank you, my dear; I will not smoke any more to-night."
                        "But what's the matter, Mary? You are as pale as a sheet!"
                        "I feel a little faint; I shall be better in a moment," and Mrs. Washburn
                            was obliged to leave the room.
                        Poor woman! she was sick all the evening! But the next day, Mrs. Volant,
                            who had called to learn the success of the experiment, advised her to
                            try again, assuring her it would not make her sick the second time.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        MR. WASHBURN had a couple of his intimate friends at his house to play a
                            game of whist the next evening, and the devoted wife resolved to try the
                            effect of a smoke in their presence.
                        When the party were seated, Mr. Washburn passed round his cigar case.
                        "Won't you smoke, my dear?" asked he, tendering the cigars to his
                            wife.
                        "I will; but you know, Joseph, that I never smoke your cigars; they do
                            not suit my taste."
                        Whew! that was cool!
                        Mrs. Washburn lit a Bagdad.
                        "Is it possible you smoke, Mrs. Washburn?" asked Mr. Barnes, astonished
                            at the singular spectacle of a woman puffing away at a cigar, for all
                            the world, like a loafer in a bar room.
                        "Occasionally, just to please my husband," replied Mrs. Washburn, after she had blown out a long
                            wreath of blue smoke.
                        "Yes, Barnes," interposed Mr. Washburn; "it is more sociable, you know,
                            to have company when one smokes. We are generally alone in the evening,
                            and she is so kind as to smoke with me. Ah, Barnes, teach
                                your wife to smoke, it is so pleasant to smoke with
                            one's wife."
                        The lady was thunderstruck. Was it possible that he had no more respect
                            for the proprieties of life than that? She smoke? She had already
                            acquired the reputation of being a smoker, without having produced any
                            of the anticipated good results.
                        Mrs. Washburn threw the lighted Bagdad into the stove. She had almost
                            cried with vexation.
                        "Not smoke, my dear?" said her husband.
                        "I think you can be sociable to-night, if I don't smoke."
                        "Do smoke, my dear; it gives me so much pleasure to see
                                you enjoy a good cigar."
                        "That's too bad, Joseph."
                        Mr. Washburn laughed outright, and throwing down his cards, explained the
                            event of the preceding evening.
                        "I will own up; I did it, to break him of the habit. I give it up!"
                        When the gentlemen had taken their leave, Mrs. Washburn explained by
                            whose advice she had adopted the plan.
                        "Mrs. Volant has the reputation of being a perfect shrew. Her husband is
                            a laughing stock for all State Street. She is a bad adviser."
                        "How slick you have turned the joke upon me!" said Mrs. Washburn,
                            laughing heartily.
                        "To tell the truth, I overheard some of your conversation when the plot
                            was laid."
                        
                        "O, ho! you did? No wonder it failed, then."
                        "I did; but, Mary, are you so very much against my smoking? I love the
                            weed, but I love you more;" and Mr. Washburn kissed her tenderly.
                        "Nay, I will say no more about it. Perhaps I was selfish."
                        "Not selfish; I will leave it off, my dear, for your sake."
                        "No, no; I don't wan't you to do so. If you are so very fond of smoking,
                            I never will say another word about it."
                        And Mr. Washburn has smoked his cigar in peace ever since.
                    
                
                
                    
                    "OUT OF BUSINESS;"
                    OR, THE HISTORY OF A SPLENDID "BUST UP."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "Out of business, are you, Ned? Well, that is bad," said Mr. Joseph
                            Murdock, a stock broker, to his nephew.
                        "Decidedly bad."
                        "But why did you leave Green & Smith? That is a good concern."
                        "Salary was too small."
                        "Better than you get now, at all events," replied the worthy
                            old gentleman, with a look of displeasure.
                        "Couldn't pay my way on it."
                        "Not on five hundred dollars!" and 'uncle Joe,' as he was commonly
                            called, held up both hands in astonishment.
                        "I am in debt at this moment," returned Ned, with a rueful glance at his
                            uncle.
                        "And likely to be. Of course you don't expect to pay your debts by
                            wandering about the streets."
                        "I expect to find business again."
                        "You do not expect to get five hundred dollars the first year, do
                            you?"
                        "I intend to strike for a thousand."
                        
                        "Strike! you won't hit it."
                        "Perhaps I shall."
                        "Ned, you are going to the deuse as fast as high living and dissipation
                            in general will carry you."
                        "Why, uncle, I'm sure you don't know me."
                        "Sit down, Ned; let us talk it over. I want a young man in my office, and
                            perhaps we can make a trade."
                        "Thousand dollars, uncle Joseph;" and Ned Murdock attempted to look
                            sly.
                        "Not out of me, Ned."
                        "Can't live on less."
                        "Better die then. I want a young man to assist my bookkeeper, run of
                            errands-"
                        "An errand boy, you mean;" and Ned felt hurt at the slight put upon his
                            dignity.
                        "An errand boy, then. My clerk intends to go into business himself one of
                            these days, and if you are attentive to business, here is an opportunity
                            to advance yourself;" and uncle Joe looked seriously into the face of
                            his nephew.
                        "What is the salary?"
                        "Four hundred, for the present."
                        "I should starve on it."
                        "Live within your means. When I was of your age, I lived on two
                            hundred."
                        "Times have changed since then."
                        "What do you pay for board, Ned?"
                        "Six dollars a week. I board at a hotel."
                        "Six dollars a week! Ned, you are crazy;" and uncle Joe's eyes stuck out
                            "like two tallow candles."
                        "Two of us room together in the attic, so that they board us low."
                        
                        "Should think they did-low for them, but high for you. Costs you a
                            hundred for clothes, I suppose, don't it?"
                        "About that," replied Ned, evasively.
                        "Do you go to the 'play' often?"
                        "Not above once a week, except when there are 'stars' on."
                        "Not above once a week! Ned, you are an extravagant dog; you
                            will die in the poorhouse!"
                        "Pshaw! Uncle Joseph, you are old-fashioned!"
                        "If it is old-fashioned to live within one's means, to pay one's debts,
                            and wear an honest face, then-thank God!-I am
                            old-fashioned!" replied the worthy old gentleman, with considerable
                            spirit.
                        "I mean to be honest, and practise all your old-fashioned virtues."
                        "You can't do it, Ned, on five hundred dollars a year with your
                            habits."
                        "Can't be honest?"
                        "No; it is not honest to run up a bill at your tailor's which you have
                            not the ability to pay; it is not honest to get in debt to support
                            extravagant habits."
                        "You don't mean to say that I am dishonest, uncle Joseph?" asked the
                            young man, with a blush on his cheek.
                        "Well, well, we won't talk about that, now. I want a young
                            man, and if you have a mind to lay aside your extravagances, and go into
                            my office determined to stick to your business, I will see to the
                            rest."
                        "What salary shall I have, uncle Joseph?"
                        "Four hundred the first year," replied uncle Joseph, firmly.
                        "But I can't live on that."
                        
                        "Yes, you can. Leave your hotel, and board in a private family. Quit the
                            theatre and the opera, and pay as you go."
                        "But my debts?"
                        "How much do you owe?"
                        "About two hundred and fifty dollars."
                        Uncle Joe scratched his head, contracted his eyebrows, and looked
                            decidedly stormy.
                        "Bad business, Ned," said he, after a few moment's consideration. "I
                            could easily get you out of the scrape, provided I saw any hope of
                            amendment on your part. You don't even say that you will reform."
                        "To be serious, uncle Joseph, I can't see how I can reform. I must
                                live, you know."
                        "And you must live within your means."
                        At this moment the penny post deposited a letter on the table, by the
                            side of the stock broker, the contents of which perfectly amazed
                            him.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        THE letter was from the attorney of Miss Mary Marker, a maiden aunt of
                            Ned Murdock, formerly residing at the west. It contained the
                            intelligence of the spinster's death. The old lady, happening to have a
                            fit of generosity when she made her will, had bequeathed to her
                            graceless nephew the sum of ten thousand dollars.
                        Here was a godsend, and Ned leaped up six feet in the air with
                            astonishment and delight.
                        But the worthy stock broker was troubled; for although he was a broker,
                            he was a good Christian, and had the welfare of his dissolute nephew near his
                            heart. There was something about the youth that he liked,
                            notwithstanding he went to the play and boarded at a fashionable
                            hotel.
                        His only object was the reformation of the young man, whose ruin and
                            premature decay were foreshadowed in his daily habits. His proposition
                            to employ him in his own office was merely a stratagem to obtain a hold
                            upon him.
                        This legacy seemed to step between him and the accomplishment of his
                            benevolent purpose.
                        "What are you going to do with this money, Ned?" asked he with a troubled
                            countenance; "I am named as your guardian, you perceive."
                        "Bah, guardian! I am twenty-one next week, uncle Joseph," replied the
                            young man, unable to conceal the elation the astounding intelligence had
                            produced in his mind.
                        "True; but this legacy may be the ruin of you, Ned."
                        "You are absurd, uncle."
                        "I am sorry your aunt died so soon; I wish she could have been prevailed
                            upon to live till you had come to the years of discretion."
                        "If I had known she intended to remember me in her will, I should
                            certainly have expressed my desire that she might have lived forever, or
                            some such hyperbole."
                        "What are you going to do, Ned? It is rather a serious question."
                        "Time enough to decide it when I get the money."
                        "Take my advice, Ned; settle yourself down in some quiet position; get
                            another clerkship; don't go into business till you are more experienced
                            in the ways of the world. You had better accept my offer, and take your
                            first lesson in learning to live within your means."
                        
                        "Be an errand boy on four hundred dollars a year, when I have ten
                            thousand dollars in my possession? Did they do so in old times?" and Ned
                            bestowed a good-natured sneer upon his quiet old uncle.
                        "They learned to creep before they walked. If it will make any
                            difference, I will give you the same salary you received at Green &
                            Smith's."
                        "Couldn't think of it, uncle Joseph. A thousand would not procure my
                            services now."
                        The stock broker sighed. Ned was as good as lost, in his opinion. There
                            was no hope for him, and much as it troubled him, he saw no method of
                            preventing the catastrophe.
                        For an hour longer uncle Joe tried to prevail upon his wilful nephew to
                            adopt a system of prudent living, and preserve his capital until a
                            favorable opportunity occurred for investing it.
                        Ned was resolute. Visions of balls, operas, theatres, fast horses, and a
                            rich wife flitted before his excited imagination. The sum of ten
                            thousand dollars appeared to be inexhaustible. In vain uncle Joe
                            reasoned that its possession was only equivalent to an income of six
                            hundred dollars. Ned was sure of being worth twenty thousand in five
                            years, and fifty in ten. It never occurred to him, that fast horses and
                            the opera could not be supported without encroaching upon the
                            principal.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        WHILE they were debating the question, Tom Murdock, a cousin of Ned,
                            entered the office.
                        "Ah, Tom," said Ned, "here we are; I had quite forgotten gotten to inform our good uncle that you
                            too were out of business."
                        "Is it possible!" exclaimed uncle Joseph. "Both out of business? I hope
                            you have not been foolish, Tom."
                        "No, uncle, Tom is never foolish-one of your dignified boys-proper, and
                            all that sort of thing," replied Ned.
                        "My services were no longer required. You know I only supplied the place
                            of another," added Tom.
                        "You have been there three months."
                        "Yes."
                        "On thirty dollars a month!" added Ned, "and saved money at that. Tom
                            will just fit your place, uncle."
                        "Do you want a clerk, uncle Joseph?" asked Tom, meekly.
                        "I thought of having another; but it is very small pay," answered the
                            stock broker, a little nettled; for he had created the want only to save
                            the reputation of Ned.
                        "I should be very glad to enter your service, even at a small salary. Any
                            thing is better than being out of business."
                        "Right, Tom, right!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "The salary is four
                            hundred, and you shall have the place."
                        And Tom took the place, while Ned, instead of adopting his uncle's
                            excellent advice, moved down two flights at the hotel, rode out to
                            Porter's every day, and went to the opera every night.
                        In due time the legacy reached uncle Joseph, who placed Ned in full
                            possession.
                        In another month a large gilt sign, bearing the "name and style" of a new
                            firm, (E. Murdock & Co.,) astonished the mercantile world, and Ned
                            was no longer out of business.
                        
                        The dignity of the new firm-the "Co." was merely a flourish of the
                            artist's pencil to give clat to the
                            thing-demanded that the senior partner should have a wife. Fortunately
                            for the felicitous carrying out of Ned's idea on this subject, things
                            had for several months been progressing towards this event.
                        Our young merchant had paid his addresses to the daughter of a mercantile
                            man, reputed to be wealthy; and now that he "had come to his
                            possessions," there was no obstacle to an immediate marriage.
                        A house in a fashionable street was procured; the cage being ready, the
                            bird was caught, and Ned found himself in the full enjoyment of life. He
                            was no niggard, and things went on swimmingly. Dinner parties, and tea
                            parties, and evening parties followed each other in rapid
                            succession.
                        Money flowed like water. Notes on three, six, and nine months were given,
                            and Ned said the business was bound to prosper.
                        One half of his legacy only had been invested in his business at the
                            commencement of the operation. Six, nine, and twelve months did the
                            rest. But his housekeeping affairs absorbed the other half in less than
                            six months. His wife was from a rich family, he reasoned, and must be
                            supported in state.
                        At the end of those six months, when the first of the notes became due,
                            Ned was not a little astonished to find that he had nothing to pay them
                            with. He looked over his books to see where the ten thousand had gone
                            to; it was only dust in the balance when weighed against his business
                            and his family expenditures.
                        Bad debts and unfortunate speculations stared him in the face from every page, and Ned began to
                            be a little troubled. A dim consciousness that he had been going too
                            fast crept into his mind. It was a disagreeable reflection, and when he
                            went home to dinner that day, he dodged round a corner to avoid meeting
                            uncle Joe.
                        In the mean time, Tom had acquitted himself to the entire satisfaction of
                            his uncle. The head clerk had left, and he had been installed in his
                            place. Living within his means, indulging in no fashionable
                            dissipations, the future was bright with hope.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                        ONE morning, while Ned was pondering the unsatisfactory state of his
                            affairs, a neighbor brought him the news of the failure of his wife's
                            father.
                        Ned was horrified, for, it must be confessed, that in his present
                            emergency, he had based some rather extravagant hopes on the fact of
                            having a rich father-in-law.
                        It was a heavy stroke to his philosophy. The little financial theory
                            based upon his rich wife, which he had matured to meet the approaching
                            emergency, suddenly and violently exploded.
                        A five hundred dollar note came due that day, and he had been thinking of
                            dropping into his father-in-law's counting room about one o'clock, to
                            see if he had "any thing over."
                        The thought of applying to uncle Joe occurred to him; but the worthy old
                            gentleman was too blunt by half, and would be likely to tell him some
                            homely truths.
                        The day wore away with vain devisings of means to extricate
                            cate himself from his embarrassments. The note was not paid-was
                            protested.
                        The next day, people, who had long suspected that Ned was travelling too
                            fast, began to see with a clear vision the true state of the case.
                            Before two o'clock, Ned was in chancery!
                        "How's this, Ned?" asked uncle Joseph, entering the counting room.
                        "Don't mention it, uncle; don't mention it! Before you say a word, I will
                            own that you were all right, and I was all wrong," replied Ned, groaning
                            in spirit.
                        "I did not come to reproach you, Ned; far from it. I gave the best advice
                            I was capable of giving; but as you did not deem it advisable to follow
                            it, of course I shall not taunt you in your troubles."
                        This was kind of uncle Joseph, and it was spoken in a kindly manner,
                            without the slightest appearance of that triumphant "I knew it would be
                            so," which wise old men sometimes assume. It went to Ned's heart, for
                            Ned had a heart, notwithstanding the little foibles of his
                            character.
                        "Why did you not come to me for assistance, Ned? I always meant well by
                            you."
                        "My case was a hopeless one; and to tell the truth, uncle Joseph, after
                            what passed between us, I was ashamed to meet you."
                        "Fie, Ned!" and the old gentleman was highly flattered by his nephew's
                            humility.
                        "I wish I had accepted your offer, even at a salary of four hundred
                            dollars a year. I should have been a great deal better off now."
                        
                        "Well, well, we will not mind that now. The place is still open."
                        "Is it?" asked Ned, eagerly.
                        "Tom is my head clerk. Of course I could not displace him."
                        "No, certainly not."
                        "But as you have a wife, I will make the salary six hundred now."
                        "Thank you, uncle; I will gladly accept the place."
                        Ned did accept it, and though it was a sad fall from his former position,
                            he took his place at the desk in his uncle's office as the assistant of
                            Tom, with the best grace in the world.
                        It is surprising how misfortunes will humble a man; how they will make
                            him accept with joy a position at which, in the days of his prosperity,
                            he turned up his nose in disgust.
                        Mrs. Murdock was, in the main, a sensible person, and made the best of
                            her altered circumstances. Three rooms in a retired street were obtained
                            to supply the place of the fashionable residence in Tremont Street, and
                            the young couple went to housekeeping on a reduced scale.
                        Ned kept within his means this time. The humiliation of his fall
                            gradually wore away, and he was surprised to find himself and his wife
                            much happier than when they had been surrounded by all the appliances of
                            wealth and luxury.
                        Ned remained three years with uncle Joseph, who annually increased his
                            salary, thus enabling him to add to the comforts of life, and still keep
                            within his means.
                        At the end of this period, the old gentleman, finding himself
                            self old enough and rich enough to retire, gave up the business to his
                            two nephews, who, we are happy to record, are now doing remarkably
                            well.
                        MORAL.-When you are out of business, do not be over nice; and when you
                            have a legacy left to you, do not be rash.
                    
                
                
                    
                    "SIX MONTHS AFTER DATE."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "You are of course aware of the object of my repeated visits at your
                            house, Mr. Miller?" stammered George Harrison to the father of his
                            intended.
                        "O, yes, of course," replied the father, carelessly.
                        "And you must be favorably disposed towards the matter, or you would not
                            have permitted it to continue as long as it has."
                        "Well, Mr. Harrison, those are affairs that I don't like to meddle with,
                            though my opinion is, a great deal of judgment ought to be used in
                            relation to them."
                        "Certainly, sir; they affect the parties for life," replied George,
                            seriously.
                        "You do not intend to be married at present, do you?"
                        "Yes, sir; we have been thinking of it; that is, not under a month."
                        "A month! Pray, Mr. Harrison, what have you got to support a wife with?"
                            asked the careful father, gazing with considerable astonishment into the
                            face of the candidate for matrimony.
                        "Well, sir, I have not got much now, it is true; but I think I shall be
                            able to pay my way."
                        
                        "You think so, but you may be laboring under a mistake.
                            Young men are apt to be rash."
                        "I am going into business, as you are aware, next week. I have hired a
                            store, and have no doubt I shall do well."
                        "I suppose not. Have you the capital wherewith to stock your store?"
                        "My capital is small, but I have friends."
                        "Every body has friends. Who are they?
                        "There is Mr. Redman, who offers to let me have half my stock on six
                            months."
                        "And the other half?"
                        "I can obtain it on the same terms from other parties."
                        "And you propose to lay in all your stock on six months' credit?"
                        "Yes, sir."
                        "Rather a dangerous scheme, young man."
                        "I think not. I have no doubt that I shall be able to sell goods enough
                            to pay most of the notes; if not, I can easily get them renewed."
                        "You are confident."
                        "Perhaps I am vain; but I trust a great deal to my ability as a salesman.
                            Why, Smith, Jones, & Co. offered me a thousand dollars for the next
                            year if I would stay with them."
                        "You had better accept the offer, young man."
                        "I think not; if I am worth a thousand dollars to them, I am worth it to
                            myself. No, sir; I mean to have the benefit of my own talents."
                        "Bah!" exclaimed the prudent Mr. Miller.
                        "Perhaps I am vain."
                        "You are, Mr. Harrison. You will find that your ability in a concern like that of Smith, Jones,
                            & Co. is much more available than it would be in your own
                            hands."
                        "We differ in that matter," replied George Harrison, with some display of
                            wounded dignity. "If you please, we will turn to the subject to which my
                            present visit relates."
                        "To be sure, young man, if you wish. I have no desire to force my advice
                            upon you, though I cannot help thinking you had better heed the counsel
                            of those who are older and more experienced than you are."
                        "I am very willing to hear any advice."
                        "More willing to hear it than to follow it."
                        "I wish to be reasonable. If a young man never attempts to better his
                            condition, it is plain that he never will get ahead in the world."
                        "Very true; but let him labor as hard as he may, without proper
                            discretion, he never will succeed."
                        "You question my judgment, do you, sir?" asked George, rather
                            sharply.
                        "Excuse me, Mr. Harrison, but I do. The relation in which you stand to my
                            family prompts me to speak very plain. No man in his senses would stock
                            his store on six months' credit, and expect to succeed. How can you pay
                            your notes, coming all together as they do?"
                        "With your leave, I will take care of that matter," replied George, with
                            dignity.
                        "Very well," replied Mr. Miller, smiling at the young man's warmth. "You
                            propose to be married in about a month?"
                        "We do."
                        "Have you got a house?"
                        "I have looked at one."
                        
                        "Have you the means of furnishing it?"
                        "Rowe & Co. have offered to sell it to me on six months."
                        "Then in six months, Mr. Harrison, I will talk with you about marriage.
                            In the mean time, I must decline all negotiation."
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        GEORGE HARRISON was a "crack salesman," and save and excepting that he
                            rather over-estimated his talents and business ability, he was a fine
                            fellow.
                        He did not believe in looking on the dark side of things. His heart was
                            full of hope, and he confidently expected that whatever he put his hand
                            upon would be instantly turned into money.
                        George was a young man of spirit, and he did not relish the manner in
                            which his prospective father-in-law had treated him.
                        "He used me like a boy," mumbled George, as he left the counting room of
                            Mr. Miller; "just as though he knew every thing, and I didn't know any
                            thing. But I'll teach him better than that."
                        Directing his steps to the house of Mr. Miller, he found Hannah, his lady
                            love, arrayed for a walk.
                        "I have bad news, my dear," said he.
                        "Bad news! Why, what, George?"
                        "Let us walk to the Common, and I will tell you all about it."
                        Seated on one of the stone seats by the "Frog Pond," George narrated the
                            substance of his interview with Mr. Miller.
                        
                        "But he only postponed the matter for six months, George," said Hannah,
                            relieved by his statement. "Perhaps it would be better to put it
                            off."
                        "You know, dearest, we intended to be married next month."
                        "Still, we can wait."
                        "There is no need of waiting, Hannah."
                        "Perhaps there is not; but if my father thinks so, hadn't we better humor
                            him?"
                        "I don't think so."
                        "Why, what would you do?"
                        "Be married;" and George told her how romantic it would be to run away to
                            New York, and come home man and wife-how it would surprise their
                            friends.
                        Hannah's "spirit" was fully equal to that of George; and the moment she
                            began to feel that her "cruel father" was persecuting them, she was
                            ready for any thing, even for an elopement.
                        The arrangement was made, and George hired the house he had looked at.
                            Rowe & Co. furnished it, and took George's note on six months in
                            payment, with a mortgage for security.
                        The new store was opened, and things went on "swimmingly." Business was
                            good, and every body said George was making money "hand over fist."
                        At the appointed time the elopement took place. The newspapers duly
                            chronicled the event, and, for a time, George was a lion. The ladies,
                            eager to behold and converse with a gentleman who had the "spunk" to
                            tear a persecuted daughter from the grasp of a cruel father, and elope
                            with her, flocked to his store. The elopement was a decided
                            hit, and George's gains were largely augmented by it.
                        The happy couple took up their residence in the new house. It was
                            beautifully furnished, and Hannah felt that she was a queen in paradise.
                            To her the day was not long enough to hold all the happiness that
                            crowded upon her.
                        And her father, too, instead of treating her harshly after the rash step
                            she had taken, came to see her, was as kind to her as though nothing had
                            happened, and never said a single word about the elopement. Her cup of
                            joy was full.
                        George was a prince. He was coining money; he snapped his fingers at the
                            notes, and wondered what Mr. Miller said now!
                        Flushed with success, he returned home one night after an unusually good
                            day's sale, and, after kissing his wife,-they were just married,-and
                            playfully chucking her under the chin, he vented his exuberant
                            satisfaction in a rhapsody on the joys of life.
                        "Happy as princes!" exclaimed he. "The money pours in as fast as I care
                            to handle it."
                        "How glad I am!" responded Hannah, artlessly.
                        "We have nothing more to wish for, have we, Hannah?"
                        "Well, I don't know."
                        "You don't know! Why, I thought you were perfectly happy."
                        "So I am, dear George; but I was thinking, the other day, how pleasant it
                            would be to have a piano in the house," replied she, with some little
                            diffidence.
                        "So it would, Hannah; what a dolt I have been not to think of it! I have
                            felt all along as though there was something wanting."
                        
                        "But I hope, George, you will not buy one if you cannot afford to do
                            so."
                        "Afford to! Certainly I can; I shall be a rich man in one year. You shall
                            have one of Chickering's best to-morrow."
                        On the following day the piano came. George paid cash for it from his
                            surplus funds. But no sooner had the piano come than Hannah began to
                            feel that the rest of their furniture in the parlor did not correspond
                            with it. George agreed with the proposition, and their parlor furniture
                            was sent to Leonard's forthwith. A new and expensive set was furnished,
                            and paid for in cash.
                        Thus things went on for several months. It took all of George's profits
                            to keep house and buy the new things which were every day discovered to
                            be wanting.
                        The dull season had come on, and George suddenly found that there was no
                            more business to be done. He had not even money enough at the end of six
                            months to pay his second quarter's rent, to say nothing of the notes
                            which came due at that time.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        THE six months had fully expired, even down to the last day of grace.
                        Hannah sat at the piano, playing "Home, sweet home," anxiously waiting
                            the return of George. The hour at which he usually came home had gone
                            by, and she occasionally cast an impatient glance at the clock.
                        She had observed that for several days he had worn a troubled
                            air, and had even been so cross as to repulse her when she offered her
                            accustomed caress; but the thought that his business matters were in an
                            embarrassed condition never occurred to her. He had often boasted of his
                            success, and of course she had no reason to dread the calamity which her
                            father had pointed out to her before her marriage.
                        A violent pull at the door bell started her from the piano. A
                            rough-looking person was ushered into her presence.
                        "Very sorry, ma'am," said he, with an awkward bow; "but I've come to take
                            possession."
                        "What do you mean, sir?" exclaimed Hannah, affrighted by the crowd of
                            disagreeable thoughts that rushed to her brain.
                        "Why, simply, ma'am, that the notes haven't been paid, and Mr. Harrison's
                            creditors have attached the property. This furniture now belongs to
                            Messrs. Rowe & Co."
                        The deputy sheriff, having placed a keeper over the goods, politely bowed
                            himself out, leaving Hannah a prey to a thousand anxious
                            forebodings.
                        The arrival of George was an intense relief to her.
                        "Just as I supposed!" exclaimed he. "My creditors have had their heads
                            together, and every thing has gone by the board at once."
                        "Pray, what does it all mean, George?" asked Hannah.
                        "I have failed; my creditors have driven me into an assignment. I am a
                            beggar."
                        "Why, George, I thought you were doing remarkably well."
                        "I was; but, with all the business I have done, I doubt if I could ever
                            have met these notes."
                        "But how much do you owe, George? Can't you sell the piano, and pay
                            it?"
                        
                        "It would be only a drop in the bucket. To come right to the fact, I
                            suppose my creditors saw that I lived up to my income, and so it was no
                            use for them to be gentle. I must find a situation now as a salesman,
                            and we must give up this house, and board."
                        "You ought not to have bought that piano; you know I didn't want you to
                            if you couldn't afford it."
                        "And a thousand other things ought not to have been bought. If I had
                            saved the money, my creditors would probably have given me an extension
                            on my paying a part of their demands. But it is too late now; I have
                            been a fool. Your father was right, after all."
                        "I am afraid he was; but here he comes."
                        "Six months after date," said Mr. Miller, entering the room.
                        "You were right, sir; I have been a fool," replied George, with due
                            humility.
                        "Well, the victory is half won when you see the error. But I have not
                            come to reproach you for your folly, George. How much do you owe?"
                        George stated the amount.
                        "Very well," continued Mr. Miller. "I have already seen your creditors,
                            and with my name on your paper, they have agreed to give you an
                            extension."
                        "Sir!" exclaimed George, starting back in amazement.
                        "But you must let Messrs. Rowe & Co. take these useless traps; your
                            house is furnished well enough for a prince."
                        "George is fully sensible where the error lies, father; we are ready to
                            profit by the lesson."
                        "All right. Young folks think that old folks are fools, and old folks know that young ones are. Well,
                            well; we must live and learn."
                        "I am very grateful to you, sir," began George.
                        "There, there! that will do. All I desire is, your prosperity. When I
                            objected to your marriage, I foresaw the event which has now happened.
                            You have done remarkably well in your business; but the best business in
                            the world wouldn't pay for a stock of goods in six months, to say
                            nothing about a thousand dollars in furniture and knick-knacks."
                        George went to work again on a better principle. When he entered a note
                            on his "Bills Payable," it was not until after he had made a close
                            calculation upon the means of meeting it. He was successful at last,
                            though, like a majority of young men on the same street, he won his way
                            to success through failure and disaster, over the rough road of bitter
                            experience.
                        A smaller house was procured, and furnished in a neat and plain style,
                            and Hannah is quite as happy as she was during the honeymoon in her more
                            ample establishment, especially as George-who is now never embarrassed
                            by money matters-is always cheerful, contented, and withal a loving and
                            devoted husband; and the prospect now is, that he will be so "Six Months after Date."
                    
                
                
                    
                    A WORLD OF TROUBLE.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "I AM so glad you have come, Thomas!" exclaimed Mrs. Butler, a pale,
                            care-worn young wife, as her husband entered the room in which she had
                            prepared the evening meal.
                        "Why, what is the matter now?" returned the husband, laying
                            a wicked emphasis upon the word "now," as though he meant to imply that
                            there always was something the matter.
                        "Nothing; only I wanted you to bring in a pail of water, for I am so
                            tired, that I declare I can hardly keep upon my feet."
                        "Is that all? I did not know but what the baby had had a fit, or got
                            scalded, or something of that sort."
                        "Nothing of the kind; I have trouble enough to get along with, without
                            sickness in the family. I feel just as though I should die every night
                            when I get my work done;" and Mrs. Butler sighed, as she placed the
                            smoking tea upon the table, and threw herself into a chair, apparently
                            so exhausted that she could not have stood another moment.
                        "You must have a girl, Mary; you know I don't want you to work so hard. I
                            have often told you so before," said Mr. Butler.
                        "A girl, indeed! Can you afford to keep a girl, Thomas?"
                        
                        "Certainly, I can. I am earning twelve dollars a week now, and I am sure
                            our expenses are not above eight. A dollar and a half a week added to
                            this sum would still leave me a handsome surplus."
                        "Just like you, Thomas; that is one of your calculations."
                        "Certainly, that is one of my calculations," replied Mr.
                            Butler, a little tartly.
                        "I suppose you wouldn't reckon any thing for the girl's board," sneered
                            the wife.
                        "A mere trifle."
                        "Every thing is a mere trifle with you."
                        Thomas stuffed half a hot biscuit into his mouth to help him keep his
                            temper.
                        "And then she would waste double her wages," continued the lady.
                        "Pshaw! that is an old woman's bugbear," replied Butler, impatiently.
                        "Yes; that's just the way you always talk."
                        "It is correct talk, though."
                        "Girls don't waste, I suppose?"
                        "I presume they do, many of them; but you abominably exaggerate the
                            amount."
                        "No, I don't; I say they waste double their wages."
                        "No such thing."
                        "Ask any one who has kept help."
                        "What articles do they waste to such an enormous extent?"
                        "Every thing-provisions, groceries; and they burn up twice as much fuel
                            as there is any kind of need of."
                        "Twice as much?"
                        
                        "Yes; twice as much."
                        "Let me see;" and Thomas pulled out a bit of paper and a pencil, and went
                            to figuring with all his might. "We use three tons of coal in six
                            months. Twice as much would be six tons, which would come to forty-two
                            dollars, or twenty-one dollars waste. That is eighty cents a week."
                        "Clear waste!" exclaimed Mrs. Butler, with palpable horror depicted on
                            her countenance.
                        "Now, allow that she wastes one half the provisions and one half the
                            groceries, which is absurd, and she would just double my bills. They
                            were fifty-two dollars for the last six months, which makes a waste of
                            two dollars per week. Why, Mary, we have only made the waste to be two
                            dollars and eighty cents, even with these figures. Double her wages
                            would be three dollars."
                        "She would waste enough, as you would find out to your sorrow, if you
                            kept one," added Mrs. Butler, not pleased with the state of her side of
                            the argument.
                        "You don't believe she could waste half the fuel and
                            stores?"
                        Mrs. Butler did not believe it, but she did not like to say so.
                        "Probably, my dear, under your excellent supervision, she could not
                            possibly waste more than fifty cents a week."
                        "Well, that is twenty-six dollars a year."
                        "But I can afford to lose that, rather than that you should make a slave
                            of yourself."
                        "I don't want a girl; it would be more work to look after her than it
                            would be to do the work myself."
                        "As you please, my dear."
                        "I don't want your friends to think you have got an extravagant
                            wife."
                        
                        "Fudge on my friends!"
                        "Yes, it is easy enough for you to say so."
                        "And for you, too, if you choose."
                        "I don't want to spend all we get."
                        "Nor I, my dear; but, to be very plain with you, I had much rather do it,
                            than hear you everlastingly complain how hard you have to work."
                        "Don't I work hard?"
                        "I don't know but you do."
                        "Just think what I have to do."
                        "Well, I have to work hard, too; but I am sure it does not make one feel
                            any better to be continually grumbling about it."
                        "Who's grumbling? Can't a body speak without being accused of grumbling?"
                            said Mrs. Butler, rather pettishly.
                        "I only mean to say, that you work twice as hard with your imagination as
                            you do with your hands; your thoughts make the work hard."
                        "Yes, it is easy for you to say so," said the wife, wiping away the tears
                            from her wan cheeks.
                        "When have I come into the house, Mary, for the last six months, and you
                            have not told me a heap of troubles as big as a mountain? I can't stand
                            it."
                        "I never thought you could be so harsh to me.
                            You did not use to speak to me in that way," sobbed Mary, feeling that
                            she was the most cruelly used wife in the world.
                        "You irritate me with your troubles."
                        "I can't help my troubles; I do the best I can to keep your house in
                            order, and take good care of the baby."
                        "I never found any fault with your management. I am abundantly pleased with all you do, save
                            and except your croaking and grumbling."
                        "What can I do?"
                        "Go about your work cheerfully, and with a disposition to make the best
                            of every thing. By a cheerful and contented disposition, you will make
                            even the hardest day of toil a day of satisfaction. You look darkly upon
                            your lot, and that makes it black."
                        "I can't help my feelings."
                        "Yes, you can, Mary. At any rate, you ought not to imbitter my existence
                            with your incessant complainings."
                        "I have tried to make you happy."
                        "If you have, you have signally failed; for it has come to that, I almost
                            hate to come into the house, so much do I dread to hear your tale of
                            woe."
                        "I will try to do better."
                        "Do, Mary; home will become a curse to me, instead of the brightest spot
                            upon earth, as it ought to be, if you do not."
                        The baby cried at this point of the conversation, and Mrs. Butler wiped
                            away her tears, and took the little cherub from the cradle where he had
                            been sleeping, all unconscious of the matrimonial squall which had been
                            blowing around him.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        WHEN Mrs. Butler was married, she was a bright, cheerful, and happy
                            maiden. For more than a year she and her devoted husband had not known
                            the meaning of matrimonial strife. It was a new state of existence to
                            her, and while the novelty of the thing lasted, she was as
                            happy as the day was long.
                        But in the course of events, she was deprived of the pleasure of going
                            abroad much, and the pretty home in which she had spent a year of joy
                            began to rust on her imagination. Not that her husband was less devoted;
                            though he might not have been quite so dreamy and sentimental as he was
                            in the days of their courtship, yet he was all that a reasonable wife
                            could expect. He was indulgent, kind, and sympathized deeply with her in
                            all those matters wherein a young wife needs tenderness and care.
                        Little Bobby was born; but the little stranger made such a heap of work
                            for the fond mother, that she declared she should die under the
                            infliction. She would not listen to her husband's suggestion to keep a
                            girl. She had a kind of vanity in her composition, which led her to
                            endure rather than subject her husband's purse to such an expenditure.
                            She feared folks would say she was not as "smart" as she wished to be
                            considered, or that Thomas's relations would deem her extravagant and
                            lazy.
                        She continued to do her work, though each day was a day of misery. Before
                            she got breakfast, dinner, or tea, she sat and moped over it, thinking
                            what a terrible hard job it was for her to perform. She dreaded washing
                            day from about Friday morning; and over the washtub she was as miserable
                            as soapsuds and a rubbing-board could possibly make her.
                        The reader may imagine that she was lazy; but I do not think so. She
                            lived in a "world of trouble;" she looked upon the dark side of every
                            thing. Of course, there were many hardships she was called upon to
                            endure-as who is not? She was obliged to keep occupied most of the
                                time in the duties of the
                            household and the care of the baby. Her position was undoubtedly one of
                            trial and vexation, as those who are experienced in these matters will
                            readily understand.
                        But the principal difficulty was to be found in Mrs. Butler's unhappy
                            disposition. She was not cheerful and contented with her lot. Her morbid
                            imagination magnified the little trials of every-day life into monstrous
                            woes, and she suffered intolerably in her mind, which was communicated
                            to the body. She was the most miserable of women-the most unreasonably
                            miserable.
                        Of course, her husband, who was of a directly opposite temperament, was
                            rendered miserable also. Mrs. Butler seemed so wedded to her woe, that
                            every effort on his part to alleviate it was promptly repulsed. He had
                            grown disgusted. His wife was always complaining. He never came into the
                            house without being assailed by a relation of her woes. He cursed his
                            stars-blamed himself for ever becoming a husband.
                        But, then, poor fellow, what could he do? Mary was as gentle and pleasant
                            a maiden before her marriage as one often finds. She had never been
                            placed in a position to try her character. He might have heard her fret
                            over a new dress that did not fit, or something of that sort; but he
                            never dreamed that a tempest could ever blow out of such a little cloud.
                            It was only when she felt the cold touch of life's realities that she
                            showed out exactly what she was.
                        It was too late now; the mischief had been done. She was his wife; she
                            was the mother of little Bobby. He loved her still, though his
                            affections had been terribly shocked by her thoughtless grumbling.
                        
                        Mary had promised to do better; but, alas for the vanity of human
                            promises, they were words written in sand. The habit had become deep
                            rooted. Thomas was in despair. He had tried by threats and by
                            persuasions to make her reasonable, but all in vain. His house was a
                            hell to him. If she had scolded him, been negligent of her household
                            duties, a gadder in the street, a gossip-any thing but a grumbler, he
                            felt that he could have endured it, loved her, and continued to be
                            happy.
                        But it was an ever-present leaf of woe her countenance presented to him,
                            and when home had ceased to be a pleasant place, he gradually absented
                            himself, and the still loving but incorrigible wife smelt the rum in his
                            breath when he returned from his evening amusements.
                        One night, about two months after the conversation we have narrated, as
                            the clock was striking the midnight hour, he was brought home,
                            helplessly drunk, in the arms of two watchmen, who had picked him up in
                            the street.
                        What a sight for a young and loving wife, to behold the father of her
                            child drunk! They placed him in bed, and she spent a sleepless night in
                            weeping over his senseless, imbruted form. O, the agony of that bitter
                            time! Her husband a drunkard! she a drunkard's wife! Earth has its
                            miseries, but none like those of the inebriate's wife.
                        Want, shame, the poorhouse, the court, and the prison rose before her
                            with terrible vividness. A train of woes,-real woes,-so long she could
                            not see the end of it, marched in solemn procession before her. There
                            was her child in rags, her husband a homeless, idle, degraded sot. There
                            was the gaunt form of Hunger, the glaring eyes of the demons of crime-there was every thing
                            there, from which the heart of woman would instinctively shrink.
                        Thomas rose the next morning, and ate his breakfast in silence-the
                            silence which shame seemed to impose upon him. He was about to leave his
                            house for his workshop, when Mary spoke.
                        "Thomas," said she, in the subdued tones of anguish, while a flood of
                            tears rained down her wan cheek.
                        He looked at her, as though he had already divined what she meant to
                            say.
                        "Thomas, you can't think how unhappy I was last night, when you were-when
                            you came home."
                        "Well, what's the matter now?" answered Thomas, sullenly.
                        "O, Thomas, last night!"
                        "Well, what of it?"
                        Mary was amazed that no appearance of contrition mitigated his flagrant
                            error.
                        "You don't come home in the evening now."
                        "No."
                        "But you will come to-night, Thomas?"
                        "Perhaps I will."
                        "Nay, you will?"
                        "What for?"
                        "Come for my sake, Thomas."
                        "Your sake! Well, that is a good one," replied he,
                            coarsely.
                        Mary was shocked.
                        "Last night, you were-were-" she could say no more.
                        "Yes, I was."
                        
                        "You were-"
                        "Drunk! Out with it."
                        "O Thomas!"
                        "Well?"
                        "What misery is in store for us!"
                        "Can't help it."
                        "Nay, Thomas, promise that you will not-"
                        "Get drunk," laughed Thomas.
                        "Do not again."
                        "Can't promise."
                        "O God! has it come to this?"
                        "Fact!"
                        Mary threw herself into a chair, and wept as though her heart would
                            break. The sight seemed to move the husband, who was not yet lost in
                            transgression. A tear stole into his eye, and he bent over her and took
                            her hand.
                        "Mary, I have sinned."
                        "You will not again?" said she, eagerly.
                        "But, Mary, is there no fault on your part?"
                        "My part?"
                        "My home is hateful to me. Even the presence of that sleeping, innocent
                            child removes not the curse which seems to hang over it."
                        "Why, Thomas, what do you mean?"
                        "You know what I mean. Have I not often reasoned with you?"
                        "O God!" exclaimed Mary, burying her face between her hands, conscious
                            that the misery which menaced her was of her own seeking.
                        "I never will complain of any thing again as long as I live!" she
                            continued.
                        
                        "Ah, Mary, I have often heard you say so before."
                        "Trust me this time, Thomas."
                        "I will, Mary."
                        "Come home to-night; you shall find me all that you could wish."
                        "Bless you, Mary. I trust for your sake, as well as my own, and for the
                            sake of our own dear boy, that you may be true to your resolution."
                        "I will, Thomas," replied she, with a gathering smile, as her husband
                            kissed her.
                        "And I promise never again to taste the fatal cup. You shall be the
                            guardian of this my solemn pledge; for in no way can you more
                            effectually secure the keeping of my promise than by observing your
                            own-in short, by making home happy."
                        Again the husband kissed her, and then went to his work.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        A DRUNKARD'S wife! This were a real woe. What were all her little
                            vexations compared with it? Mary's resolution was a firm one, and in her
                            earnestness to observe it, she knelt and prayed for strength from above
                            to enable her to be equal to the duty before her.
                        Last night a terrible fate had menaced her. The lot of a drunkard's
                            wife-the most appalling woe that can overtake a woman-had threatened to
                            be her portion. The sombre cloud had risen, and her destiny was in her
                            own hands.
                        She knew her husband well enough to be satisfied that his pledge would be
                            held sacred-that, till she drove him from his home by her
                            unamiable peculiarity, he would be true to the words he had spoken.
                        Grumbling is only a habit. It may even have a root in the natural
                            temperament of the individual; but it is not an incurable disease. Mary
                            felt that happiness here and hereafter depended upon her fidelity to the
                            promise she had made-that a single complaining word would be like a
                            match placed near the magazine-and another word would involve her in
                            hopeless ruin.
                        But she had sense enough to know, and she strove to feel, that it were
                            useless to avoid the word, while the disposition existed. It were
                            useless to whitewash a sepulchre-it is still "full of dead men's bones."
                            She determined to perform a radical cure. She resolved to
                                be contented, and then the hasty word would not be
                            spoken.
                        She went about her daily duties with the feeling that a mountain had been
                            removed from her heart. She was cheerful-happy-happy to feel that it was
                            in her power to avert the terrible catastrophe which had menaced
                            her-that she could avoid the yawning abyss that was before her.
                        All her trials and vexations dwindled into trifles compared with the fate
                            which last night had been so vividly presented to her imagination, and
                            the comparison made her happy.
                        Punctual to his accustomed hour, Thomas came home. He had not drank any
                            thing, and he appeared cheerful and happy. She met him with a smiling
                            face, and never mentioned a word of the difficulties that had beset her.
                            She had even been so far as to draw a pail of water herself, and bring
                            up a hod of coal; but she said nothing about it.
                        They were happy again; but perhaps it was as much the effect of the contrast as the actual
                            change in the circumstances. Thomas fondled little Bobby on his knees,
                            and undressed and put him to bed himself. Mary was delighted, and from
                            her soul she prayed that her own weakness might not dissolve the
                            blissful picture of domestic happiness their home at that moment
                            presented.
                        A year passed by. Thomas was true to his vow, and Mary to hers. Whenever
                            things went wrong with her, and the old spirit rose in her heart, her
                            husband had only to say,-
                        "You absolve me from my oath, Mary?" and she became gentle and cheerful
                            in an instant.
                        Those words were a charm. That solemn promise broken, and again the
                            poorhouse, the penitentiary, the bloated father, the ragged child, the
                            long procession of woes rose in her mind, and she was true to
                            herself.
                        But she really improved her disposition. The habit was radically cured.
                            The home of Thomas Butler is no more a "world of trouble;" it is "home,
                            sweet home"-the abode of the angel of contentment, the dwelling-place of
                            truth and love, and the most effectual preventive of the curse of
                            drunkenness.
                        Our story is not all a story-it is true to the letter. We beg the
                            complaining wife to ask herself if she is not making for her husband a
                            path to the drunkard's grave-for herself and her children a bed of
                            thorns.
                    
                
                
                    
                    "SEND FOR THE DOCTOR."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        MY excellent old uncle Jesse-peace to his ashes!-used to tell me that
                            every thing depended on the "bringing up;" and a little experience in
                            this world of strange men and things-but a very good world, for all
                            that-has convinced me that he was considerably more than half right.
                        Some people have learned to depend upon themselves in the hour of peril.
                            The energy, firmness, and decision of their own characters are their
                            sword, shield, and steed when "Giant danger threatening stands."
                            Their fortress is within themselves. They have been taught by their
                            instructors or by their circumstances to rely upon their own
                            strength.
                        Others are weak, nervous and vacillating in the presence of danger,
                            throwing the burden of their salvation on the shoulders of the first
                            "Good Samaritan" who approaches them. Their tower of strength is the
                            doctor, the minister, the lawyer, or some sympathizing friend. They have
                            never been taught, either by their instructors or their circumstances,
                            to depend upon their own resources, moral, mental, and physical, for
                            guidance and support.
                        If the house takes fire, one puts it out; but another runs to the church
                            and rings the bell for his neighbors. If Tommy wheezes, papa, who has no confidence in
                            himself, sends for the doctor; while mamma, who has been taught from
                            childhood to think and act for herself, is in favor of giving the little
                            fellow "an onion and a little goose oil."
                        But extremes are always silly or dangerous, as the case may be. People
                            laugh at papa, because he is so ridiculously timid; and mamma delays
                            sending for the physician till Tommy is almost dead with the croup. One
                            lets his house burn down while he is summoning his friends to help him
                            put it out; and another's is destroyed because he attempted to put it
                            out alone when he actually needed the assistance of his neighbors. After
                            all, it requires considerable judgment to get along in the world.
                        We have no intention of writing a homily on the proper conduct of men and
                            women in connection with the casualties of life. Whether or not it be
                            expedient to send for the doctor when the baby sneezes, we leave to the
                            judgment of the parties immediately interested. We have a story to tell
                            which illustrates both sides of the question; and either disputant in
                            the important controversy is at liberty to appropriate the moral to
                            sustain his or her cherished theory.
                        Millbrook is a manufacturing village, and the most important person
                            there, at the time of which we write, was Mr. Milton Barrington, who, to
                            use the metaphorical language of the villagers, "run" the principal
                            mill. Though quite a young man, he had amassed a handsome fortune, and
                            by his enterprise, public spirit, and general character as a person of
                            integrity and fairness, had attained the most influential position in
                            the village. People looked to him for advice and assistance in their
                            extremity, and no one ever thought of making a motion in town meeting to
                            build a new school house, lay out a road, or of making any
                            important movement, until he had been consulted. The people were mainly
                            on his side in politics, religion, and philosophy. Whatever he did, he
                            was pretty sure to have plenty of imitators.
                        Mr. Barrington had spent the flower of his manhood in the pursuit of
                            wealth; and the idea of getting married did not occur to him till he had
                            reached his thirtieth year. Probably he would not have thought of such a
                            thing then, if a pretty and otherwise eligible young lady had not at
                            that time crossed his path, reminding him of his duty in the
                            premises.
                        Three years after, we find him in the full enjoyment of all the blessings
                            of the connubial state, and the father of a pretty little boy just
                            eighteen months old. Mr. Barrington was the happiest of fathers, and to
                            use grandma's enthusiastic expression, "he set his life by that
                            boy."
                        It was a cold night in December. Mr. Barrington was reading Mrs. Stowe's
                            Sunny Memories to his wife, while little Charley lay asleep in his crib
                            beside them.
                        The clock struck ten, and as the father laid aside the book, Charley
                            coughed rather hoarsely, and waking up, began to scream most lustily.
                            Mrs. Barrington took him up and tried to quiet him; but he obstinately
                            refused to be quieted.
                        Mr. Barrington was alarmed. Charley was not accustomed to have such
                            freaks.
                        "What do you think ails him?" asked he of his wife.
                        "He has got a little cold, probably."
                        "Don't you think I had better send for the doctor?" continued Mr.
                            Barrington, nervously.
                        "Not the least need of it."
                        "But the croup, my dear?"
                        
                        "That cough was nothing like the croup."
                        Mr. Barrington was comforted by this assurance, and in a little while,
                            Charley got tired of crying, and went to sleep again.
                        The child was carried up stairs, and they retired. But Mr. Barrington was
                            not wholly satisfied. The croup was so sudden and so fatal that the
                            cough he had heard seemed to haunt his imagination. He could not go to
                            sleep for thinking of it. He trembled at the thought of losing the
                            darling little one. He had passed almost into a confirmed old bachelor
                            before his marriage, and the diseases of children had never received
                            much consideration from him. He had heard people tell how dreadful the
                            croup was, and only a week before the only child of one of his overseers
                            had died with it, after an illness of scarcely twelve hours.
                        The clock on the village church struck one, and he was still awake. His
                            wife slept soundly. She was better acquainted with the nature of the
                            dreadful disease, and had felt no alarm when the child coughed.
                        While he was thus thinking of what might possibly happen, Charley coughed
                            again, and jumping up in the bed, began to scream as he had in the
                            evening.
                        Mrs. Barrington took him in her arms.
                        "Did you hear him cough?" asked the trembling father.
                        "I did not. His screams awoke me."
                        "Don't he breathe hard? Are you sure he has not got the croup?"
                        "I do not think he has. He seems to breathe freely," replied Mrs.
                            Barrington. "He is a little hoarse, but I do not think it is any thing
                            serious."
                        "I am afraid it is. Don't you think I had better send for the
                            doctor?"
                        
                        "There is no occasion to do so."
                        "I am really alarmed about him."
                        "Do as you wish; though I think it is only a little cold."
                        Mr. Barrington was satisfied it was the croup, and the consent of his
                            wife, thus doubtfully given, was all he required. The "man of all work"
                            was called up and despatched for Dr. Broadbeam, with a request that the
                            physician would come with all possible haste.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        MRS. BARRINGTON used all her maternal arts to quiet the little patient.
                            He did not appear to suffer any pain, and his respiration was apparently
                            as free as ever. In a short time, her efforts were successful, and
                            Charley sunk away into a peaceful slumber.
                        It was half an hour before Dr. Broadbeam arrived. It was possible he had
                            used all convenient despatch in waiting upon his influential patron; but
                            being a man of two hundred pounds, his swiftest movements were
                            necessarily slow.
                        Dr. Broadbeam had the reputation of being a very skilful physician; but
                            unfortunately he had such a "grouty" way of dealing with his patients
                            and patrons, that his popularity in Millbrook was on the decline. People
                            did not like to be "snapped up" when they were sick; and the only
                            circumstance that enabled Dr. Broadbeam to retain even a moiety of the
                            practice of the village was the fact that Mr. Barrington still employed
                            him.
                        At the suggestion of a small portion of the population, who had the
                            hardihood to break away from Mr. Barrington's lead, a young physician of good parts,
                            and with an easy and pleasing address, had been induced to locate
                            himself in the village. Dr. Broadbeam raved like a madman at the advent
                            of the interloper, stigmatized him as a quack, and obstinately refused
                            even to be civil to him. But when a year in the young doctor's
                            professional experience had passed away without sensibly augmenting his
                            practice, he condescended to laugh at him, and call him a fool. The
                            crusty old leech felt that he could have every thing his own way; that
                            his skill and experience were amply sufficient to offset his morose
                            address and sour temper.
                        To get out of a warm bed in the middle of a cold December night is never
                            agreeable to any body, unless perchance the house be on fire; and young
                            gentlemen who aspire to the honors of the medical craft ought to think
                            of this before they choose the profession.
                        To Dr. Broadbeam night duty was especially unpleasant. He was rather
                            indolent and luxurious in his habits, and always made it a rule to
                            believe that poor folks could wait till morning before they had the
                            doctor. But when Mr. Barrington summoned him, why, it was quite another
                            affair.
                        "What's the matter with the child?" growled Dr. Broadbeam, as he entered
                            the apartment.
                        "I don't know, doctor, but I am very much afraid of the croup," replied
                            Mr. Barrington, handing the physician a chair.
                        "Humph!"
                        "The croup prevails to some extent in the village, you are aware," added
                            the nervous father.
                        "Always does at this season of the year," replied the doctor, bending
                            over the child to listen to his respiration.
                        
                        "Does he breathe naturally, doctor?" asked Mrs. Barrington, to whom her
                            husband's alarm had to some extent communicated itself.
                        "Naturally?" sneered the physician. "Nothing under the sun ails the
                            child."
                        "What made him cry so, doctor?" inquired Mrs. Barrington.
                        "Cry so, madam? cry so! You gave him too much supper, madam; and I am
                            tumbled out of my bed to see a child that has the stomach ache!" growled
                            the doctor, enraged when he thought of the comfortable bed which he had
                            been so unceremoniously compelled to leave.
                        "But his cough, doctor?" said Mr. Barrington, controlling his indignation
                            at the rudeness of the physician.
                        "Mr. Barrington, you are a fool!" exclaimed Dr. Broadbeam, as he
                            violently jammed his hat upon his head. "Do you think I am to leave my
                            bed on a cold night like this whenever your baby sneezes? Humph!"
                        "You are a physician, are you not?" asked Mr. Barrington.
                        He was angry; but keeping down his indignation, he put the question with
                            tolerable calmness.
                        "A physician! Of course I am; but is that any reason why I should be
                            turned out in the dead of the night for nothing at all?" replied the
                            enraged leech.
                        "You chose your own profession."
                        "What if I did?"
                        "What is your charge for a night visit?"
                        "Five dollars, sir! Five dollars!" answered the doctor, maliciously.
                        "And you believe that I am able to pay it?"
                        
                        "I do, or I would not have come."
                        "That is enough, sir; if I am content to pay five dollars for the
                            assurance of a physician that nothing ails my child, I take it that I am
                            at liberty to do so."
                        "Humph!"
                        "When I send for a physician, I consider it a business transaction. He
                            gives me his advice for the money I pay him. If his conduct entitles him
                            to be cherished as a friend-as an angel sent with healing balm for the
                            soul as well as the body,"-and Mr. Barrington looked sternly at the
                            doctor,-"I cheerfully accord him his due."
                        "Well, sir!"
                        "If I send for my millwright, I do not leave it optional with him to
                            determine whether I need him or not. If he does not choose to come,
                            there are other millwrights in the state."
                        "Do you compare a physician to a millwright?" sneered the doctor.
                        "If I send for my millwright to come and tell me whether my water wheel
                            needs repairs, he comes; he examines it; perhaps he decides that nothing
                            is the matter with it, and that I ought to have known that it was
                            perfectly sound. If he should reproach me for sending for him, I should
                            call him no business man. I pay him for his time, though he lift not an
                            axe."
                        "Humph!"
                        "It is a great satisfaction to me to know that nothing ails my child. I
                            am able and willing to pay for that assurance."
                        "Pay! Do you take me for a hireling?" exclaimed the doctor, with a fresh
                            outbreak of anger, as he abruptly turned on his heel and left the
                            chamber.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER III.
                        ON the 1st of January, Dr. Broadbeam's bill for professional services,
                            amounting to over two hundred dollars, was presented to Mr. Barrington,
                            and was promptly paid. He was not one of that numerous and highly
                            respectable class of people who make it a point to grumble at doctor's
                            bills.
                        The manufacturer was a peaceful, prudent man, not disposed to stir up
                            strife in the neighborhood; so he kept silent in regard to his
                            unpleasant interview with the physician.
                        About a month after, Mr. Barrington was roused from his slumbers at
                            midnight by the sound of an ominous cough from Charley. But this time it
                            did not awake the little fellow. The fond father was still fearful of
                            the croup; yet the child slept so soundly that his fears subsided, and
                            he was just dropping asleep again when the cough was repeated.
                        In a few minutes the child awoke, and his respiration began to grow
                            difficult.
                        "What do you think?" asked he of his wife.
                        "He is a little croupy; but I do not think there is any occasion to be
                            alarmed. I will give him the 'Hive Sirup,' which I doubt not will
                            immediately relieve him."
                        Mr. Barrington got up and brought the sirup. A dose was given, and the
                            parents waited with anxiety the effect.
                        An hour elapsed, and the child was no better.
                        "Don't you think I had better send for the doctor?" said Mr.
                            Barrington.
                        "No, I can get along very well."
                        
                        "But the croup; hasn't he got it?"
                        "He has a croupy cough, which may lead to croup, if it is not attended
                            to," replied Mrs. Barrington, giving the little sufferer another
                            spoonful of the sirup.
                        Two hours more passed away, and instead of getting better, the child grew
                            worse every 
                        minnte
                        minute
                     . But
                            Mrs. Barrington did not like to send for the doctor. In the family of
                            her father, a physician had rarely ever been called, and she had come to
                            regard the faculty with something like contempt.
                        "He grows worse," said Mr. Barrington, beginning to lose confidence in
                            the efficacy of his wife's treatment.
                        "The medicine has not had time to produce its effect yet," replied Mrs.
                            Barrington. "He will begin to grow better soon."
                        "I think we had better send for the doctor," added the anxious father.
                            "It may be too late in the morning."
                        "I do not want any more fuss with the doctor. The last time he came, he
                            made me so nervous that it took me a week to get over it."
                        "We will not have Dr. Broadbeam, then."
                        "He will be better soon."
                        "Do not delay it too long."
                        Another hour elapsed, and still the little sufferer was no better. His
                            breathing was extremely difficult, and the cough was more frequent and
                            hard. The mother's remedy had apparently produced no effect whatever,
                            and she began to be alarmed herself.
                        "Perhaps you had better send for the doctor," said she.
                        "Dr. Broadbeam?"
                        "I don't know."
                        "I determined, when I paid his last bill, never to employ him again."
                        
                        "Dr. Slender has been very successful in croup," added Mrs. Barrington,
                            "and I should feel just as much confidence in him as in Dr.
                            Broadbeam."
                        "I will send for him."
                        In less than fifteen minutes after the messenger left the house, the
                            young physician arrived. Of course he was not a little astonished to be
                            roused from his bed by a summons from the "leading man of the village;"
                            but he had chosen his profession, and considered it a duty to go
                            whenever and wherever he was called.
                        Dr. Slender examined the child.
                        "You should have procured a physician before," said he, shaking his head
                            ominously.
                        Mr. Barrington's heart rose to his throat. His frame trembled, and he was
                            so nervous that he was forced to cling to the bedpost for support.
                        "Is he dangerous, doctor?" asked he.
                        "Three hours ago, it would not have been a bad case. I doubt if he can be
                            saved now. But there is no time to be lost. Bring me some cold water and
                            some linen cloths."
                        Dr. Slender gave the child a potion of medicine, and applied himself with
                            so much energy to the means of effecting a cure, that the parents were
                            inspired with hope, and felt entire confidence in his skill.
                        Morning dawned upon the little patient, and he was apparently in the last
                            stages of the fell disease. Dr. Slender still remained by him, and was
                            now adopting the last resort known to the physician. The agony of the
                            parents can be conceived by those who have watched over the death bed of
                            a cherished little one, but it cannot be described.
                        Providence smiled upon the young physician, and he had the inexpressible satisfaction, before
                            noon, of declaring that the child would recover. A pan of praise rose
                            from the grateful hearts of the devoted parents. In a few days little
                            Charley was as well as ever, and the reputation of Dr. Slender was
                            made.
                        The star of Dr. Broadbeam had set. The young physician in a few months
                            secured the entire practice of the place. The potent influence of Mr.
                            Barrington was all he needed to insure his success. He was polite and
                            affable in his professional intercourse with his patients, and the
                            contrast between him and his crusty rival was so striking that every
                            body wondered how they had been able to endure the latter.
                        Dr. Broadbeam was compelled to "leave town." Whether or not he has
                            learned that a decent deportment towards his patients is expedient, we
                            are unable to say. But we infer that he has, from the fact that, unable
                            to establish himself again in practice, he turned his attention to the
                            manufacture and sale of patent medicine; and "Broadbeam's Celebrated
                            Chinese Antibilious Pills" are as popular as advertising and false
                            certificates can make them.
                        Mr. Barrington has decided that it is best to send for the doctor when
                            the baby sneezes. Dr. Slender is always willing to come when he is sent
                            for, and laughingly maintains that he is just as well satisfied to
                            pocket his fee for saying nothing ails the baby, as for giving it an
                            emetic.
                    
                
                
                    
                    "FOUR KINDS OF CAKE."
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "IT is all folly, wife!" exclaimed Mr. Jotham Somes, a matter-of-fact,
                            plain-spoken sort of man, to his better half. "There you have got no
                            less than four kinds of cake, three kinds of pies, two kinds of
                            preserves, to say nothing of knickknacks and gimcracks."
                        The fact was, that Mrs. Somes was having the minister and his wife and
                            two grown-up daughters to take tea with her. She had been engaged for
                            three days in the preparations, and such a display of nice things was
                            calculated to astonish the minister and his family-to give them a
                            two-fold surprise-first, at the variety and extent of her culinary
                            resources, and, secondly, at her folly in attempting to make a display
                            far beyond her means.
                        The Someses were in comfortable circumstances. Mr. Somes was a farmer,
                            and probably his income might have amounted to four hundred dollars per
                            annum.
                        Mrs. Somes was a prudent, careful housewife, who wasted no more of her
                            culinary skill upon her own family than was absolutely necessary; but
                            she delighted in making a grand appearance when she had company. Mr.
                            Somes and the boys were sometimes so ill natured as to growl at her
                            careful catering when the house contained no company, and it cut them to the bone
                            to see such extraordinary preparations for the neighbors. It was "kiss
                            the cook" when they were alone; but the board groaned with plenty when
                            there were guests present.
                        Mr. Jotham Somes had just come from the sitting room, where the table,
                            with all its tempting array of viands, was spread. He did not like it a
                            bit, and after passing the time of day with the parson and his family,
                            he proceeded to the kitchen, where his wife was just taking the hot
                            biscuit out of the oven.
                        "What do you mean by folly, I should like to know?" replied Mrs. Jotham
                            Somes, somewhat tartly.
                        She was a second wife, and having been redeemed from one of the advance
                            stages of maidenhood, her temper had grown a little sour before she
                            became a wife.
                        "The folly of setting a table as you have yours," replied the husband. "I
                            should think you were going to have the president and the royal family
                            to take tea with you."
                        "I am going to have the Rev. Mr. Meeklie and his family."
                        "But I can't afford such extravagance as this. You will ruin me."
                        "I will take care of my business if you will of yours," returned the
                            lady, slamming the oven door.
                        "Perhaps this is not my business."
                        "No, I'm sure it is not."
                        "Who pays for all them gewgaws and gimcracks?"
                        "You do, of course."
                        "But it is none of my business?"
                        "No; I never thought before you were so confounded mean," said the lady,
                            her face reddening with anger.
                        
                        
                            
                                FOUR KINDS OF CAKE.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                        "Mean! I'm not mean. But when you get victuals for your own family, you
                            think almost any thing is good enough for them. We never see any pies,
                            and cakes, and knickknacks."
                        "Do you think I'm going to make pies and cakes for the men folks to eat
                            every day?" retorted the indignant housekeeper.
                        "Then don't do it for company. What is good enough for me is as good as I
                            can afford to give my visitors."
                        "I really believe, if you had your way, you would have me as mean with
                            company as the Smiths."
                        "The Smiths are as good folks and as liberal as any in town; and I'll
                            warrant Parson Meeklie thinks a heap more of them than he does of you,
                            with all your four kinds of cake."
                        "You're a fool, Mr. Somes!"
                        "I am fool enough to know that folks are not judged by the quantity of
                            sweet cake they put upon the table when they have company. I repeat
                            it-there is no better folks in town than the Smiths."
                        "I s'pose not; but they had nothing but cold biscuit and molasses
                            gingerbread when we took tea there."
                        "That's as good as they can afford; but it is no better than they have
                            every day, and I admire their independence."
                        "They're contemptible, mean folks, there!"
                        "Why? Because they don't attempt to make folks believe they live better
                            than they do? For my part, I don't think it is any better than hypocrisy
                            to make such a parade as you do, especially when it is hard work for me
                            and the boys to get a decent meal of victuals."
                        "Did any body ever hear the like?" groaned the lady, who had by this time arrived at that
                            pitch of excitement when tears are more effective than words.
                        "Perhaps they never did; but if ever I see any thing of this sort again,
                            they will be pretty likely to hear of it," replied Mr. Somes, throwing
                            off his blue frock, and commencing his preparations for taking tea with
                            the minister.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        THE plate of hot biscuit was placed in the midst of the profusion of
                            fancy eatables with which the table was crowded. The minister and his
                            family were duly seated, and the ceremony was proceeding decently and in
                            order.
                        Mrs. Somes had not wholly recovered from the excitement of the interview
                            in the kitchen, and her hand trembled slightly as she handed Mrs.
                            Meeklie her tea. Mr. Somes had donned his best blue coat, with brass
                            buttons, which had done duty as a Sunday garment for the past fifteen
                            years.
                        He seemed to be somewhat uneasy; and though he and the minister had
                            always been on the best of terms, his answers were too short and crusty
                            for a courteous host.
                        "Won't you pass the biscuit to Mrs. Meeklie, husband?" said Mrs. Somes,
                            with her sweetest smile, albeit not very sweet at that.
                        Mr. Some did pass the biscuit to Mrs. Meeklie, and she took one; but when
                            he passed them to Mr. Meeklie, he smilingly declined.
                        "No, I thank you, Mr. Somes; I never eat hot bread. It does not agree
                            with me," said he.
                        Mrs. Somes passed the cold bread, thinking all the time how
                            very uncivil it was in the parson to refuse the hot biscuit she had
                            taken so much pains to prepare.
                        But Mr. Meeklie was very respectful to his stomach; for he found, when
                            insulted and imposed upon, that it was tyrannical and disagreeable; and
                            he paid more deference to his digestive organs than he did to the
                            feelings of his vain parishioners.
                        "My biscuit are not very nice; I did not have as good luck as I generally
                            do," suggested Mrs. Somes, as Mrs. Meeklie took a second cake.
                        "Better," interposed Mr. Somes.
                        The lady looked at him with very evident marks of displeasure.
                        "They are very nice," said the parson's wife.
                        "Take a little more of this quince preserve, Miss Meeklie. I dare say it
                            is not so nice as your mother makes; but the truth is-"
                        "It has stood too long," interrupted Mr. Somes. "The jar has not been
                            opened since you were here last fall."
                        Mrs. Somes looked daggers; but the parson very considerately asked Mr.
                            Somes whether he had done planting just at that moment, and her anger
                            evaporated without any unpleasant effects.
                        "Husband, won't you pass that cake to Mr. Meeklie?"
                        "Thank you, Mrs. Somes; I never eat cake. Your bread is very good; I will
                            thank you for some more."
                        "Really, Mr. Meeklie, you will take some of this cake? It is not rich;
                            there is very little butter in it."
                        "Not any, I thank you; I never eat cake, unless it be something very
                            simple, such as gingerbread or molasses cake."
                        
                        What a calamity! Four kinds of cake, and the parson wouldn't touch one of
                            them!
                        "But you will take some of these jumbles; I made them on purpose for
                            you."
                        "That's a fact, Mr. Meeklie," added Mr. Somes, maliciously.
                        He would further have added that his wife never made pies and cakes for
                            her own family; but he was afraid of frightening the parson.
                        "You must excuse me. I doubt not they are very nice; but I have to be
                            careful."
                        Mrs. Meeklie and her two grown-up daughters were more courteous, and each
                            nibbled a small bit of the rich pound cake; but they seemed to do it
                            against their consciences, and against their better judgment.
                        The truth was, they felt embarrassed by the extraordinary display Mrs.
                            Somes had made. They did not feel at home. The whole affair was too set
                            and artificial to be enjoyed, and at an early hour the whole party
                            withdrew, mentally determining to make it a long time before they took
                            tea with Mrs. Somes again.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        "WIFE, where is the piece of meat I sent home for dinner?" asked Farmer
                            Somes, as he and the boys came in for their noonday meal on the day
                            following the tea party.
                        The farmer glanced inquiringly at the table which was spread before him.
                            Involuntarily his nasal organ contracted longitudinally; it would not be
                            polite to say he "turned up his nose," though such was the
                            fact beyond the possibility of denial.
                        Farmer Somes was not, in any sense, an epicure. He liked a plain,
                            substantial diet, that "which was good, and enough of it," as he
                            forcibly expressed his ideas of table economy.
                        Lest the reader should suppose he was one of those grouty, ill-natured
                            "feeders," who would grumble at the ambrosia and nectar of the gods, we
                            deem it necessary to particularize the articles on the board of the lady
                            who placed four kinds of cake before company.
                        Certainly there was variety enough to satisfy the most fickle taste. On a
                            broken plate-the best dishes were religiously reserved to the use of
                            company-was the half of one sausage and two thirds of another, making
                            one sausage and one sixth, all told. They were partially embedded in a
                            petrified sea of suspicious-looking fat, and, altogether, the aspect of
                            the dish was singularly forbidding.
                        On a white plate, with a long black fracture extending quite across it,
                            lay, in an aggregated mass, three dozen baked beans, and an
                            infinitesimal fragment of a pork rind. This was an antiquity. Farmer
                            Somes and the boys had a very distinct remembrance of having seen this
                            dish every day during the previous fortnight, proving that Mrs. Somes
                            was not only one of the most economical, but one of the most persevering
                            dames in the world. The farmer and the boys had virtually said they
                            would not eat those same beans, and Mrs. Somes virtually said they
                            should.
                        On a worn-out blue plate, superannuated, and "nicked" in a thousand
                            places, were four pork bones, looking as though they had been preyed
                            upon by that army of mice
                            which Whittington's cat destroyed. These bones had seen service during
                            the last twelve days; the joint, of which they were the disintegrated
                            members, had graced the table just a fortnight before.
                        There were sundry other articles, antique, old-fashioned "titbits," which
                            might have been set before Noah and his friends in the ark. Six long red
                            potatoes, unpeeled, even unsprouted, completed the array of edibles,
                            ornamental and substantial.
                        The farmer's nose contracted, as before related.
                        "Where is the meat I sent home?"
                        "Hanging in the well."
                        "Hadn't we better eat it?"
                        "I want it for company next Sunday."
                        "The-ahem! Company again?"
                        "I expect my brother will dine with us then, and I want something fit to
                            set before him."
                        Mr. Somes looked sulky.
                        "And you mean to starve me and the boys in the mean time?"
                        "I should like to know if there is not enough for you?" said the dame,
                            pointing at the table.
                        Farmer Somes turned up his nose.
                        "Did I ever refuse to buy victuals when you wanted it?" said he, rather
                            sternly.
                        "Not that I know of; but I didn't suppose you wanted to buy fresh meat
                                every day," returned the wife, sourly. "I am sure I try
                            to be as economical as I can."
                        "Four kinds of cake, which nobody would touch, I suppose is prudent,
                            ain't it?"
                        "Ah, good morning, Mr. Somes; I am glad to find you at home,"
                            said Mr. Meeklie, walking into the room unannounced.
                        Good gracious! the minister, and with such a table as that spread before
                            the family! What a commentary on four kinds of cake for company!
                        Mrs. Somes was all confusion. Though the parson intended to look right at
                            the farmer, she could see that more than once his eyes wandered over the
                            table.
                        "Glad to see you, parson; sit down and take some dinner with us," said
                            Mr. Somes, shaking the minister's offered hand.
                        "Thank you; I don't care if I do," replied Mr. Meeklie. "I have a long
                            walk to take before I return home."
                        Farmer Somes was pointing him to a chair, when the lady interposed.
                        "We have got a picked-up dinner to-day. Husband sent home a joint of
                            veal; but it didn't get here till half after eleven; so I had no time to
                            cook it."
                        "Got here by eight o'clock," said Farmer Somes; "no fibs to the
                            parson."
                        "But if you will wait only a few moments, I will fry some of the
                            veal."
                        "Sit down, parson; it is every day fare; but then, what is good enough
                            for me is good enough for my friends."
                        "Right, Mr. Somes," replied the minister, drawing up his chair. "My
                            business relates to the new bell for the meeting house. I am carrying
                            round the subscription paper."
                        "I am with you, parson."
                        Farmer Somes was in most malicious good humor, and, with a broad laugh on
                            his honest phiz, he opened the paper the minister gave him.
                        
                        "Smith, twenty dollars."
                        "Twenty dollars!" exclaimed Mrs. Somes; "I should not think he could
                            afford it."
                        "He gives his friends nothing but gingerbread," said the farmer. "Put me
                            down for thirty; we have four kinds of cake."
                        The parson consumed one "long red," and one of the vulgar fractions of a
                            cold sausage. He preferred brown bread to white, and wouldn't touch any
                            of the pies which the prudent housekeeper set before him.
                        Mrs. Somes was awfully mortified. Her reputation was sacrificed, and
                            Farmer Somes never again had occasion to find fault with her for making
                            a vain show of three kinds of pies, two kinds of preserves, and four
                            kinds of cake.
                    
                
                
                    
                    EXTREMES MEET;
                    FACT AND FICTION.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "WHAT are you reading, sis?"
                        "Hard Times."
                        "A novel!"
                        "Yes; why not? Dickens's last new novel, and a capital thing it is,
                            too."
                        The two ladies, between whom this conversation passed, were sisters, and
                            nieces of one of the better class of New England farmers, with whom they
                            resided. 'Squire Fairbank, without being a very brilliant man, had
                            acquired considerable distinction in the village where he lived,
                            probably because, besides being "worth money," he was a straightforward,
                            conservative, reliable man, and had frequently served the town in an
                            acceptable manner, both in the legislature, and as moderator in town
                            meeting. He was the most notable man in the village, and won the title
                            of 'Squire, which was universally accorded to him, simply by being a
                            very respectable person and a man of influence.
                        Susan and Mary Fairbank were orphans, inheriting from their father the
                            very pretty little sum of five thousand dollars each. Both had attained
                            their majority, and consequently were in full possession of their
                            portions, untrammelled even by the authority of as indulgent a guardian
                            as 'Squire Fairbank had proved to be.
                        They had been well educated at a celebrated female seminary in the
                            vicinity of Boston, and as a matter of course, had brought home to the
                            quiet village of Poppleton many strange notions and remarkable
                            peculiarities. But they were sensible girls in the main, and though
                            their habits and education elevated them above the reigning ton of the
                            place, it was generally conceded that they knew "what was what," and
                            were not "a mite more stuck up" than would naturally have been
                            expected.
                        Mary and Susan were essentially different in temperament and disposition.
                            The former was exceedingly open and free hearted, while the latter was
                            rather disposed to truckle to the formality of the world, or to the
                            circumstances in which she happened to be placed. Mary never asked what
                            the world would say or think, and while her notions of duty were very
                            clearly defined, she chose to be independent and straightforward. People
                            said she "took after" her father.
                        Susan, on the contrary, was nicely sensitive to the good opinion of
                            others. She had not the energy to do any thing in opposition to popular
                            sentiment. Indeed, she was very much like some of the distinguished
                            public servants at Washington, who do every thing with an eye to a
                            reelection or to government patronage.
                        A short time before our story opens, a young minister had been settled in
                            Poppleton, and being a single man, 'Squire Fairbank had consented as a
                            special favor to receive him into his house. The Rev. Mr. Carlisle was
                            universally allowed to be a very promising young man. He was
                                talented, had a graceful elocution, and, what pleased the
                            young ladies better still, was decidedly a handsome person. Those who
                            were not much influenced by talent, elocution, and personal beauty,
                            thought he was rather bigoted for one so young, and hoped that time
                            would wear off the rough corners of his repulsive theology.
                        Susan Fairbank was deeply interested in the young clergyman, and as a
                            natural consequence to one of her vacillating temperament, became deeply
                            interested in spiritual things. We do not believe she had any intention
                            of playing the hypocrite; but her devotion to the young minister
                            involuntarily led her to assume an interest, which, if Mr. Carlisle had
                            been old, ugly, or married, she would not have felt.
                        "A novel, sis! only think of it!" exclaimed Susan, holding up both hands
                            with pious horror.
                        "Pray, Susan, how long is it since you have possessed this holy
                            repugnance to novels? It was only last winter that I saw you reading The
                            Children of the Abbey," returned Mary, laughing heartily.
                        "I have not read one since, and I never mean to again."
                        "Fudge!"
                        "What do you think Mr. Carlisle would say if he should see you reading a
                            novel?"
                        "I shouldn't care what he said."
                        "Why, Mary!"
                        "I shouldn't; if he does not like it, he may whistle for all me."
                        "Don't talk so, Mary."
                        "Why will you make a fool of yourself, Susan? Mr. Carlisle cares no more
                            for you than he does for the fifth wheel of a coach; I would not stand
                            in such fear of him for the world."
                        
                        "Fear of him! I do not fear him; I only respect him as a very good
                            man."
                        "You have set your cap for him; but let me tell you to be more
                            independent, or you never will catch him," said Mary, laughing.
                        "How absurd you talk!"
                        "Do I?"
                        Susan fell to biting her finger nail-a very vulgar habit, by the way-and
                            to thinking of something which her sister had no difficulty in
                            discerning.
                        "Do you really love him, Susan?" asked Mary.
                        "Love him! No; I never thought of such a thing."
                        Perhaps she never did.
                        "What makes you go to all the prayer meetings, and mope round the house
                            like a sick owl, then?"
                        "I think I am under conviction," replied Susan, demurely.
                        "Conviction of what?"
                        "Conviction of sin."
                        "Conviction that Mr. Carlisle is a very handsome fellow, more like."
                        "How absurd you are!"
                        "And I have heard a report round town that you were going to join the
                            church."
                        "I have spoken to Mr. Carlisle about it."
                        Mary looked serious for a moment.
                        "If you really feel so, I commend your conduct; but I advise you not to
                            be too hasty. Examine your heart attentively, and do not bring scandal
                            upon the church by having side motives. But here comes Mr. Carlisle,"
                            said Mary, as she again turned her attention to the fascinating pages of
                            Hard Times.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER II.
                        THE young minister entered the room. Susan had taken up Saints' Rest,
                            which lay by her, and commenced reading where she had left off, when she
                            saw Mr. Carlisle coming up the yard. As he came into the room she laid
                            down the book, and looked, for all the world, as though she had not a
                            friend in the world. The assuming of this appearance was involuntary on
                            her part; it was in accordance with her nature.
                        Mr. Carlisle seated himself by her side, and commenced catechizing her in
                            regard to the impression the contents of the book produced upon her
                            mind-whether it afforded her consolation in her troubled mind-and
                            finally whether she really thought she had a hope. To all these queries
                            Susan replied in a satisfactory manner, assuring the handsome young
                            shepherd that she had been much edified by her reading.
                        There was a smile of mischief playing upon the pretty and expressive face
                            of Mary, as she peered over the top of Hard Times, to observe the
                            ghostly interview. She could see that Mr. Carlisle engaged in the
                            conversation with her sister merely as a matter of professional
                            interest-sincerely, it is true, but with no unusual interest in the
                            penitent. He regarded her as a wandering sheep, whom it was his duty to
                            bring into the fold.
                        But she compassionated her sister, who had deluded herself into the
                            belief that she could win the heart of the shepherd by becoming one of
                            his sheep; and she was provoking enough to tell her that instead of
                            making a sheep, she had made a calf of herself.
                        When the minister had finished his professional counsel, he turned to
                            Mary. As he did so, an involuntary smile came upon his lips. It was not
                            the smile of a ghostly father, but of a young man who has flesh in his
                            heart and blood in his veins.
                        Mary laid down her book as she noticed his intention to address her.
                        "What are you reading, Miss Fairbank?" asked he.
                        "Hard Times," promptly replied Mary.
                        "A novel?"
                        "Yes, sir."
                        The jaw of the young minister dropped down two inches.
                        "Do you like it?"
                        "O, very much, indeed!" replied Mary, with wicked enthusiasm; "I admire
                            Dickens's of all the novels I ever read."
                        "Do you make a practice of reading novels?"
                        "I "seldom read any thing else. I did read Reveries of a Bachelor and
                            Dream Life."
                        The minister shook his head.
                        "I take the newspapers, and I always read them through-stories, poetry,
                            sentiment, editorials, and all."
                        "Will you allow me to suggest some reading for you? and I shall take the
                            greatest pleasure in lending you the books."
                        "Thank you."
                        "Baxter's Call to the Unconverted is an excellent book for-"
                        "It is so stupid!"
                        Mr. Carlisle was horrified.
                        
                        "I would not be hired to read it."
                        "Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, perhaps, would suit your taste better."
                        "I have read it; but don't you call that a novel?"
                        "An allegory."
                        "If I mistake not, I saw you reading Uncle Tom's Cabin. I'm sure that is
                            a novel, and no better novel either than any of Dickens's."
                        "It is a moral and philanthropic work."
                        "So are Dickens's works. Indeed, I have never read a novel from which a
                            great deal of good might not be obtained, though I know there are
                            such."
                        "Mere fictions generally have a debasing tendency."
                        "I judge novels as I do any thing else-by their own merits. If I
                            understand you, Mr. Carlisle, you object to works of fiction, as such,
                            and not on account of any evil they may contain."
                        "Certainly."
                        "You insist that the book must be true in its narrative in order to be
                            good."
                        "I do."
                        "Then you despise the teachings of Him you profess to serve. He spoke in
                            parables-in fiction. I do not understand the Prodigal Son to be a
                            narrative of facts."
                        "Perhaps not."
                        "Then why may not Scott, Dickens, Irving, Miss Bremer, and Miss Leslie
                            teach us love and charity through the same medium?"
                        "Such works vitiate the taste."
                        "O, it is the taste, and not the heart, that is damaged."
                        "Both; the latter through the former. Let me induce you to read Baxter's Call, and you will
                            then allow that you have obtained more real good from it than from all
                            the novels you ever read in your life."
                        "It is too dull and insipid for me. I must draw my inspiration from more
                            sparkling fountains."
                        "You misjudge the book."
                        "Perhaps I do. I am not a saint, I am willing to acknowledge; therefore
                            it does not suit me. And I fancy it is so with half the world, who,
                            rejecting the counsels of the church, get their wisdom and their
                            goodness from works of fiction. They are readable to those whose taste,
                            like mine, has not become sanctified; without them they would read
                            nothing, and thus the world is the better for novels."
                        Mr. Carlisle could not but grant that there was some truth in what Mary
                            had said; and though he did not, in so many words, yield the point, an
                            impression was produced upon his mind which could not fail to soften
                            down the bigotry of his views.
                        But the merry, fearless, independent tones of the eloquent advocate of
                            works of fiction went deeper down than the mind, and touched a weak spot
                            in his theological heart. Her pretty, sparkling eye, roused and animated
                            by her earnest thought, were irresistible; and the Rev. Mr. Carlisle,
                            maugre the carnal nature of the fair debater, actually fell in love with
                            the contemner of Baxter's immortal works.
                        Mary was undoubtedly a great sinner, but she was a beautiful and spirited
                            girl for all that. We will not trouble the reader with the ingenious
                            plans which the enamoured minister laid that night to reclaim the erring
                            beauty; it is only necessary to say that, within a week, he popped the
                            question to her; and that she, out of consideration for her sister,
                            refused to consider the proposal.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER III.
                        SUSAN was a docile lamb, and her conversion progressed to the entire
                            satisfaction of her spiritual adviser. It was rumored that she was to be
                            "propounded" on the following Sabbath.
                        Mary had quite as strong a veneration for spiritual things as her sister;
                            but she was too straightforward to assume what she did not possess, and
                            too sensible to be led into imaginary raptures by any extraneous
                            influence. She knew Susan too well to believe her holy aspirations were
                            real; she knew that the poor girl had involuntarily deluded herself. She
                            was not surprised to hear that she had concluded to join the church.
                        "Susan, you are deceiving yourself. You love the fold for the sake of the
                            shepherd," said she.
                        "Nay, sister, you wrong me. Can you think me a hypocrite?"
                        "Not a hypocrite; you have misled yourself."
                        "I have carefully examined my heart, and I am confident that I am not
                            deluded."
                        "What would you say if I should tell you that Mr. Carlisle can never love
                            you?"
                        "I should say that you knew nothing about it," replied Susan,
                            unthinkingly; but in an instant she corrected the mistake. "But,that has
                            nothing to do with it."
                        "I fear it has. Tell me honestly, Susan, do you not love Mr. Carlisle? I
                            will not laugh at you."
                        Susan hesitated.
                        
                        "Be candid, sister."
                        "I do not love him; but if he loved me, I feel that I could return his
                            affection."
                        "He does not love you, Susan."
                        The ambitious "sheep" looked earnestly into the face of her sister.
                        "How do you know?"
                        "I do know."
                        Susan looked pensive and sad.
                        "What do you know?"
                        "That he has even offered his hand and heart to another."
                        "The hypocrite!" exclaimed Susan, with a flushed face.
                        "Why, sis!" and Mary was filled with astonishment, for it appeared from
                            Susan's violent ebullition of feeling that the matter had passed much
                            farther than she had suspected. "Why do you use that pointed word? Did
                            he ever speak to you of love?"
                        "Never; but he has led me to believe by his constant attentions that he
                            was interested in me."
                        "That was professional, sis; you have mistaken his zeal to bring you into
                            the fold for love. I warned you of this."
                        "You did; I am a fool. But to whom has he offered himself."
                        "It is a secret."
                        "Tell me!"
                        "Will you be discreet?"
                        "I will."
                        "To me!"
                        "To you! You who despised Baxter's Call and Saints' Rest?"
                        
                        "Even so. Extremes meet sometimes."
                        "I wish you joy, Mary."
                        "But I declined the offer."
                        "Why?"
                        "For your sake. I knew that you loved him."
                        Susan was deeply affected at the generosity of her sister.
                        "I do not love him, sister. Do not let me be an obstacle in the way of
                            your happiness."
                        "I have not said that I loved him."
                        "But you do?"
                        "I have refused him."
                        "Nay, he is a noble and a good man, besides being handsome and talented.
                            You need not be a fool because I have been. I assure you I am completely
                            cured; I think he is a flirt."
                        Mary did not think so, and the young minister was too deeply enamoured of
                            her, too devotedly admired her wit and beauty, no less than her innate
                            goodness of heart, to be content with a refusal. When he renewed his
                            suit, the spirited girl was more tractable, and in process of time they
                            were married.
                        Whether Mr. Carlisle ever succeeded in removing those pernicious notions
                            about novels from the mind of his wife, we are unable to say; but we do
                            know that Scott, Dickens, and Irving have found a place on the shelves
                            of his library, beside the tomes of theology and history; and we infer
                            that a mutual influence has brought each to adopt more reasonable views
                            both of Baxter and the novelists.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE MERCANTILE ANGEL.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "THE contemptible little jackanapes! he had the audacity to ask me to
                            play whist with him!" exclaimed Sophia Danvers to her sister.
                        "And why should he not, sister?" answered Mary Danvers, calmly.
                        "Why should he not, indeed! Did he think I would demean myself by playing
                            whist with a clerk-one of my father's servants?" and Sophia tossed her
                            head in proud disdain.
                        "I can see no impropriety in your associating with him, Sophia. He is
                            certainly a handsome, intelligent, and well-behaved young man."
                        "Behaves well enough, for aught I know; but only think of it-a clerk in
                            our drawing room! For my part, I wonder how father could ever think of
                            such a thing as admitting him into the family."
                        "I suppose it was because he liked the looks of him."
                        "What will Mr. Augustus Fitzherbert say when he finds us associating with
                            poor clerks-the trash of counting rooms?"
                        "It matters little to me what he thinks; he is a conceited
                            puppy, and I wonder that you can endure his presence," replied Mary,
                            smartly.
                        "But he is the leader of the ton, Mary," said Sophia,
                            astonished at the plebeian notions of her sister.
                        "He is a perfect flat, for all that, and infinitely inferior, in all that
                            constitutes a man, to Mr. Harlowe, whom you affect to despise."
                        The conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Mr. Danvers.
                        "How could you bring that horrible clerk into the house, papa?" said
                            Sophia, as the merchant prince seated himself by the blazing grate.
                        "Horrible clerk! Pray, what is the matter with him?" asked Mr. Danvers,
                            evincing some surprise at the plain speech of his daughter.
                        "Why, he is a clerk."
                        "But a respectable young man."
                        "Respectable enough, but not fashionable, papa."
                        "I was a clerk once, Sophie; I commenced by sweeping out a store, and
                            carrying bundles about the city."
                        "How absurdly you talk, papa!"
                        "But Mr. Harlowe is a very estimable young man; I am confident you will
                            find him agreeable company."
                        "I shall have nothing to say to him," replied Sophia, with a shrug of the
                            shoulders.
                        "Beware, Sophia; there is an old proverb, you know, about entertaining
                            angels unawares."
                        Sophia laughed heartily at the idea of a poor clerk being an angel.
                        "But what says Mary?" asked the merchant, turning to his gentle-hearted
                            daughter.
                        
                        "O, I like him very much; we are already fast friends,"
                            replied Mary, and a slight blush seemed to emphasize the remark.
                        "Just like her, papa; I should not wonder if she got head over heels in
                            love with your mercantile angel."
                        "She must do as she pleases about that," replied Mr. Danvers,
                            smiling.
                        "Pooh, Sophy! who said a word about falling in love? Can't a body be
                            civil to a young gentleman without falling in love with him?"
                        The pretty Mary blushed as she spoke, in good earnest-blushed so palpably
                            that her father began to think the affair was something more than a mere
                            jest.
                        "But pray, papa, when does your new partner arrive?" asked Sophia. "If
                            all the accounts I have heard of his wit, gallantry, and personal
                            attractions are true, I shall certainly set my cap for him."
                        "He will appear one of these days," replied Mr. Danvers.
                        "I hope you will not keep this stupid clerk in the house after he
                            comes."
                        "I certainly shall."
                        "But, papa, we shall 'lose caste' if you do; it is really
                            abominable."
                        "Small loss, my child. If we are dependent upon the apes and puppies of
                            fashionable life for our position in society, the sooner we lose it the
                            better for our own self-respect," said Mr. Danvers, smiling good
                            humoredly.
                        "You are absurd, papa."
                        "Now, Sophy, you have given me a lesson, let me give you one. The idol
                            you worship is more senseless than those of the Feegee Islands.
                            Fashionable society is as hollow as a brass pan; place no
                            reliance upon it. The fops and fools who follow in your train are as
                            soulless as they are brainless."
                        "I wish Mr. Augustus Fitzherbert could hear you say so," added
                            Sophia.
                        "Mr. Augustus Fitzherbert was a journeyman barber in New Orleans less
                            than a year ago. I had the honor of being shaved by him last winter when
                            I was there."
                        "O, horrid, papa! Why have you not exposed him?"
                        "Why should I, my child? He is as good a fellow, as sensible a person,
                            and, according to your statement, as fashionable a man, as Mr. Finstock,
                            whose great grandfather was the governor of the state."
                        "Is it possible that Mr. Fitzherbert was a barber?" exclaimed Sophia,
                            horrified at the appalling statement.
                        "Nothing else, my child."
                        "An impostor?" added Mary.
                        "Just so. Probably he is trying to obtain a rich wife."
                        "It is abominable, I declare! One hardly knows, nowadays, who is
                            respectable and who is not," said Sophia.
                        "Therefore, my child, we ought not to speak so disparagingly of persons
                            in humble life as you have to-night."
                        "Pooh! a clerk!"
                        At this moment, Mr. Harlowe, the new clerk, entered the room, and, as
                            Sophia would have expressed it, had the impudence to seat himself by the
                            side of Mary Danvers, who appeared not at all averse to this close
                            proximity with him.
                        Frederic Harlowe was, as Mary had said, a handsome, intelligent, and
                            agreeable young man; and Sophia, if she could have forgiven him for
                            being a clerk, would have appreciated his society quite as highly as did
                            her sister.
                        
                        With her father's permission, Mary accepted an invitation from Frederic
                            to attend Alboni's last concert.
                        They had scarcely left the house before Mr. Augustus Fitzherbert was
                            ushered into the sitting room. This gentleman was an exquisite of the
                            "first water." In his personal appearance, he certainly was sufficiently
                            well endowed to challenge the admiration of the fair sex; but,
                            unfortunately, he was sadly lacking in that necessary element of a man
                            of sense-brains.
                        Sophia could scarcely refrain from expressing the contempt she felt for
                            the journeyman barber in disguise. The leader of the "ton," in her
                            estimation, was a ruined man.
                        The dandy, as a matter of courtesy, inquired for Mary, and was informed
                            that she had gone to the concert with Mr. Harlowe.
                        "With Mr. Harlowe-a clerk-aw?" said the ex-journeyman barber, with a
                            sneer, as he twirled up the long "rat tail" of his mustache.
                        "A very worthy young man," replied Mr. Danvers.
                        "No doubt of it, saw; but a clerk-aw."
                        "Pray, were you never a clerk, Mr. Fitzherbert? I was."
                        "A clerk! No, saw-nevaw!"
                        "Did I not meet you in New Orleans last winter?"
                        The dandy started up like a parched pea from a hot pan.
                        "I have a faint recollection of having met you in a barber's shop there,"
                            continued the merchant, tormentingly.
                        "Aw, very likely, saw. I patronize the barbaws."
                        "And, now I think of it, you wore a little white apron, and, if I mistake
                            not, I had the pleasure of being shaved by you in
                            person."
                        "Quite a mistake, saw, I assuaw you."
                        
                        Suddenly Mr. Augustus Fitzherbert, whose real name was John Smike,
                            remembered an imperative engagement, and hastened to take his leave.
                        He was seen to enter the cars for New York on the following day, and
                            nothing has been heard of him since.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        OF course the reader understands that Frederic Harlowe and Mary are
                            deeply, irretrievably in love with each other by this time. The poor
                            clerk had won his way to the heart of the fair girl, and she, poor
                            thing, had been captivated by the manly attractions, the noble soul, of
                            him who offered incense before her shrine.
                        As the world goes, it would be deemed a very wicked thing for a poor
                            clerk to fall in love with the daughter of his aristocratic employer.
                            Some people would say it was ungrateful in him thus to spirit away the
                            affections of a confiding girl, when his position and prospects did not
                            warrant his presuming to be her husband.
                        These questions are still open to the casuist. He may debate them to his
                            entire satisfaction; but Mr. Danvers, either because he was more
                            sensible than many of the aristocratic merchants of the day, or for some
                            other equally potent reason, neglected to make any fuss about the
                            matter, and suffered the clerk to woo and win his daughter, without even
                            remonstrating against the wickedness of the act.
                        But Sophia was deeply grieved by her sister's folly, as she deemed it,
                            and used all the arguments in the range of her shallow sophistry to dissuade her from
                            the folly and madness of wedding a clerk.
                        Mary was obstinate. The only excuse she offered in palliation of the
                            flagrant misdemeanor was, that she loved him; and if she
                                loved a
                                    
                        scavanger
                        scavenger
                     , she
                            would cling to him with the last breath she was permitted to draw.
                        "A ring!" exclaimed Sophia, one day, when matters appeared to have taken
                            a very decided turn. "Well, well, I suppose you are engaged."
                        "We are, Sophia," replied Mary, with a face radiant with happiness.
                        "And you intend to be married?"
                        "Certainly we do; that is the end of an engagement."
                        "My conscience! to think that the daughter of a merchant prince should
                            become the wife of a poor, insignificant clerk!"
                        "Nothing very alarming about it, Sophy; it wouldn't be half so ridiculous
                            as another daughter of a merchant prince becoming the wife of an
                            ex-journeyman barber. I believe Mr. Augustus Fitzherbert was your beau
                            ideal of what a fashionable husband ought to be."
                        "The impostor!"
                        "I am at least sure that Frederic is not an impostor-a humbug; one would
                            not be likely to assume the character of a clerk."
                        "Perhaps not; but pray, sister, when do you intend to become the wife of
                            this counting room cherub?"
                        "The day has not been fixed yet; in the spring, probably."
                        "And may I ask what you intend to do with yourself? His salary is only a
                            thousand dollars a year."
                        
                        "We can get along very well on that sum."
                        "Yes, I suppose so, and live in some ten footer in a dark alley."
                        "We intend to live out of town, in a nice little cottage."
                        "Y-e-s! a nice little cottage!" drawled Sophia, in derision. "O sis, I
                            will show you how to live when I am married. None of your nice little
                            cottages for me. But I wonder when the new partner is coming."
                        "Papa told me this morning that he had deferred the arrangement till next
                            spring, and that the gentleman would attend to his business at the south
                            as heretofore."
                        "How provoking! I have been reserving my affections on purpose for him. I
                            mean to make a conquest of him in just one month."
                        "How foolish you talk, Sophy! One would think you had entirely forgotten
                            your maidenly delicacy."
                        "Pooh! I'm jesting; it's between us;" and Sophia relapsed
                            into a revery, which, we are almost sure, related to the aforesaid new
                            partner, who was not only a nice young man, but was to put thirty
                            thousand dollars into the concern when he became a partner.
                        The winter passed away, and the spring came. Frederic and Mary were to be
                            married in a few days. Mr. Danvers, to the infinite chagrin of Sophia,
                            had readily consented to the match. The proud sister-though in the
                            natural goodness of her heart she would not have had Mary's affections
                            blasted-would fain have had a little opposition, to save
                            appearances.
                        The bridal day came, and after the ceremony had been performed, the happy
                            parties started for their new residence in the suburbs. Sophia, who had acted as
                            bridesmaid, was to accompany them.
                        The carriage wound through an elm-shaded road, and suddenly brought to
                            the view of the delighted party a splendid country residence.
                        "That is the cottage," exclaimed the bride.
                        "That a cottage! Why, Mary, it is a palace!" replied Sophia, in utter
                            astonishment; for she had never taken interest enough in her sister's
                            affairs to visit her proposed residence.
                        The carriage stopped before the door, which was half hidden behind a
                            vine-laced portico, and the party alighted.
                        The place was a perfect paradise, and many were the encomiums lavished
                            upon it by the bewildered Sophia.
                        "You cannot think how surprised I was when I first beheld it," said Mary,
                            when she and Sophia were alone. "It seemed more like a dream of
                            fairyland than a reality. But Frederic is so very odd about these
                            things."
                        "I should think that he was! Why, sis, it will certainly ruin him, a poor
                            clerk on a thousand dollars salary."
                        "Well, he knows best; he says the rent is nothing."
                        "Nothing, indeed; but it will eat up his poor pittance."
                        "Well, I gave him a lesson on extravagance; but he only laughed in my
                            face, and said he knew what he was about."
                        "But here are Frederic and father; I am sure papa has been scolding him
                            for his recklessness."
                        "He does not look as though the scolding had produced a very powerful
                            effect," said Mary, as she saw her husband's smiling countenance."
                        "What a beautiful house!" exclaimed Sophia, as Frederic Harlowe joined
                            the group.
                        
                        "A fitting nest for my pretty bird," replied the husband, gayly, as he
                            chucked his blushing wife under the chin.
                        "I should think your thousand dollars a year would have to suffer some,"
                            said Sophia, bluntly.
                        "O, your father has been so very good as to elevate me a peg, so that I
                            can well afford to incur the expense."
                        "Yes, my child," interposed Mr. Danvers; "you know I said something to
                            you about entertaining angels unawares. Sophy, Mr. Frederic
                                Harlowe is the new partner."
                        "What an abominable cheat, papa! I'll warrant you told Mary of it in the
                            beginning," said Sophia, with abundant good humor.
                        "Nay, she knew nothing of it till a few days before her marriage. This
                            was all Mr. Harlowe's whim; he must explain it for himself."
                        Mr. Harlowe did attempt to explain his motive in entering the family
                                incog., but it was a lame explanation.
                            Probably the reader, who readily penetrates the secret thoughts of the
                            hero of the story, has already divined his motive. He wanted a wife, and
                            had the sense to seek for genuine goodness in preference to name and
                            position in society. He won the daughter of a merchant prince as a
                            simple clerk; there was no doubt that she loved him.
                        Mary was very much surprised, and perhaps not a little chagrined, to find
                            the romance of marrying a clerk so suddenly disappear; but in the wealth
                            of a mutual love they were richer than in the smiles of fickle fortune,
                            which had blessed them with an abundance of the good things of this
                            life.
                    
                
                
                    
                    CONFESSIONS OF A CONCEITED MAN;
                    BEING THE SUBSTANCE OF WHAT SOME YOUNG MEN THINK, BUT NEVER
                        SAY.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        WHEN I was a boy, the schoolmaster succeeded in impressing upon my mind
                            the truth of that common saying-"If a man thinks nothing of himself, no
                            one will think any thing of him." The pedagogue believed it himself, and
                            his daily deportment was based upon it. Whether I learned any thing else
                            of him I cannot now say; but I am sure I learned to set a high value
                            upon myself.
                        At the age of eighteen, I found myself in the service of an eminent
                            merchant of Boston, in the capacity of assistant bookkeeper, on the
                            paltry salary of four hundred dollars a year. I was worth more-I was
                            sure of it. But perhaps my employer had not yet come to a knowledge of
                            the treasure he possessed in me, and I wisely determined to wait till I
                            had a better opportunity to distinguish myself.
                        Certainly I took a great deal of pride in discharging the duties of my
                            position. I labored assiduously to please both the merchant and the head
                            bookkeeper, and they seemed to regard me with satisfaction; but I
                            resolved to make myself so necessary that the business could not be
                            carried on without me.
                        
                        Whether my imagination was more lively than my reason, or not, I do not
                            know; but certainly, at the end of six months I made up my mind that Mr.
                            Bancroft could not possibly continue in business a single month without
                            me. As to my superior, he would be perfectly powerless if I should
                            leave. In fact, I "conceited" that I was in reality the
                            bookkeeper of the concern, though he received the salary and did all the
                            dictating.
                        I was an ambitious young man. I built a great many very pretty castles in
                            the air; among them the idea of marrying my employer's beautiful
                            daughter was not the least attractive. She was a splendid girl-people
                            called her the belle of Boston-and what to me was just as insinuating
                            she was an only child, and consequently the heiress of all Mr.
                            Bancroft's reputed wealth.
                        I never was one of that sort who wistfully dream over fine things,
                            without making an attempt to attain them. That stale old maxim to the
                            effect that "faint heart ne'er won fair lady," was uppermost in my mind.
                            I had come to the conclusion that Rosabel Bancroft should have the
                            supreme felicity of becoming my household deity.
                        But the way was full of difficulties. I had never seen the peerless
                            maiden, save on occasions when I had called at the house in the capacity
                            of an errand boy-for the key of the safe, to get Mr. Bancroft to sign a
                            check, or something of that sort. She was a proud beauty, and had never
                            even taken the pains to look at me. "Ah, my fine lady," thought I, "when
                            we are married, I will teach you what is what!"
                        Certainly I would! And as for marrying her, why, that was a settled fact
                            in my mind-I had resolved to do the deed.
                        I flattered myself that I was a decidedly good-looking fellow low, and a great many young
                            men cherish this idea in these progressive times. My looking glass had
                            told me I was handsome, and there was no going behind its impressive
                            declaration. But I was aware that my beauty needed a little cultivation,
                            and accordingly I applied to Bogle for some of the "compounds," and in a
                            few weeks, I had the satisfaction of contemplating the addition of a
                            downy mustache upon my well-turned upper lip. I took a great deal of
                            pains with this beautifier of my physiognomy, and felt perfectly sure
                            that the charming Rosabel would be unable to resist my killing
                            attractions.
                        There was to be a grand ball at Union Hall, and I heard that my divinity
                            was to form one of the revellers. I will not trouble the reader with a
                            relation of the difficulties that beset me in procuring a ticket-for the
                            affair was intended solely for the "upper ten;" but I got one, though it
                            cost me in the neighborhood of twenty-five dollars, to say nothing of
                            twenty-five more expended in a fancy vest, cravat, and other little
                            amiabilities.
                        When I was dressed for the occasion, the effect was perfectly stunning.
                            Rosabel was certainly a goner!
                        My entre into the drawing room seemed to
                            create a profound sensation. All the gentlemen stared at me, and I felt
                            assured of being the lion of the evening. It was plain that my
                            "personal" had created a furor among the
                            aristocratic dandies; but I tried to treat them all with respect and
                            politeness. It is true I saw some of them turn up their noses at me; and
                            all evinced a disposition to avoid me. But I attributed all these
                            unmannerly symptoms to the envy which my superior personal attractions
                            had roused in their narrow minds. I did not resent their ill nature-I
                            could afford to be magnanimous.
                        
                        I walked like a king through the sumptuous apartments; indeed, I always
                            prided myself on my gait. More than once, when I have been leisurely
                            promenading Washington Street, I have felt sure that all the ladies had
                            singled me out for especial admiration.
                        There was something magnificent about my style of walking, and I did not
                            blame the dear creatures for sighing when I passed them. It was a great
                            pity that, in the illiberality of our laws, only one lady could ever
                            have the satisfaction of calling me her husband. I am naturally of a
                            sympathetic temperament, and I assure the reader that it deeply grieved
                            me to think of the number of fair, promising ladies who would be
                            disappointed in winning my affections. I could not love them all, and
                            from the bottom of my heart I pitied those who were doomed to be
                            disappointed.
                        Rosabel Bancroft was destined to be my wife. I had deliberately made up
                            my mind, and though I thought, in consideration of my condescension in
                            choosing her from the thousands who would have rejoiced to win me, she
                            ought to meet me half way. But I was not over nice, and in deference to
                            the fashions of the times, I mentally consented to do all the courting
                            myself.
                        I succeeded in getting an introduction to her, and she consented to dance
                            with me. I was not much elated; I regarded my progress as a matter of
                            course. During the quadrille, I did the agreeable to my own
                            satisfaction, and though the impression was not as marked and decided as
                            I had expected, I was assured that every thing was going on well.
                        "Procrastination is the thief of time," said somebody, I don't remember
                            whether it was Plato or Diogenes. When the dance was ended, and I had conducted
                            her to the drawing room, I made bold to express my admiration of her
                            beauty and grace. She blushed, smiled, and looked confused. Poor thing!
                            how could she help it?
                        Just then a dandy spoke a word to her, and then retreated. I was not to
                            be balked, and with all the eloquence I possessed-and I would just hint
                            that Demosthenes, Cicero, or Daniel Webster couldn't hold a candle to me
                            in making a speech-I popped the question!
                        It was handsomely done, and Rosabel was taken all aback. I expected all
                            this-I knew all about making love-Ovid couldn't tell me any thing about
                            it. Girls, at this momentous crisis, do not always mean half they say;
                            and I was prepared to hear her declare it was rather sudden, that she
                            must ask papa about it, and all that sort of thing.
                        But my ardent confession seemed to throw her into a perspiration-if I may
                            so unpoetically express the confusion which my declaration produced.
                        "You impudent puppy!" exclaimed she, her pretty cheek red with anger; "so
                            you are one of my father's clerks, and have the presumption to ask me to
                            dance with you, and then to offer me such an indignity! Leave my
                            presence, sir, this instant, or I will ask my friends to kick you
                            away!"
                        Whew! I did feel sheepish for a moment; but then, poor thing, she did not
                            know her own mind. Some of those envious noodles had been exciting her
                            prejudices against me. That dandy had told her I was her father's clerk,
                            before I had had an opportunity to weave my spell upon her.
                        Comforting myself with the assurance that there were thousands of
                            heiresses who were more discriminating than she, I whistled an air, and
                            ambled away from her. If there is any person on the face of
                            the earth whom I pity more than another, it is he or she who wilfully
                            throws away a good opportunity.
                        Poor Rosabel! I pitied her! I believe I was unselfish enough
                            to deplore her misfortune more acutely than I did my own. I had lost
                            nothing that might not be regained; she had cast away one of the most
                            brilliant opportunities that ever dawned upon the destiny of a
                            maiden.
                        I have the credit, among those who know me best, of possessing firmness
                            in a very remarkable degree; and it was melancholy to think she had cast
                            me off forever, for, I am sure, if she had fallen upon her knees, and
                            begged and pleaded, I should have been as firm as a rock. Those
                            insulting, unlady-like words, had "fixed her flint"-to use a rather
                            homely phrase, which I believe did not originate either with Addison or
                            Macaulay.
                        I did not dance any more that evening. I found that I had fallen among
                            fools, who could not appreciate me. And strange as it may seem to the
                            unphilosophical reader, the fact did not in the least disturb my natural
                            equanimity. Why should it? Did not Socrates experience the same coldness
                            at the hands of the fickle Athenians, who put him to death by mixing
                            poison with his "sherry cobbler"? Why should I expect a better fate than
                            others whose misfortune it is to be superior to the masses around
                            them?
                        I left the hall regretting only that the eighth part of my year's salary
                            had been wasted in the adventure.
                        When I went to the counting room next morning, Mr. Bancroft summoned me
                            to his private office.
                        "You are a fool, young man!" said he, and his face was flushed with
                            anger.
                        
                        O the ingratitude of the world! This was a pretty return for the
                            distinguished honor I had intended for his daughter, and which only her
                            own wilfulness had prevented her from receiving at my hands.
                        "If you ever presume to speak to my daughter again, under any
                            circumstances, I will immediately discharge you from my service,"
                            continued he, with the utmost coolness.
                        "Nonsense!" thought I-and I beg the reader will not suppose I uttered
                            this unseemly expression-"you won't do any thing of the kind. You know
                            your own interest too well."
                        Discharge me! I should have liked to see him do it. I believe I should
                            actually have gone, if he had said the word, and left him to take care
                            of his business as best he might! If he had got me mad, I should just as
                            lief seen him fail as not-it is my temperament. To a friend, I am a
                            friend; to a foe, a foe of the most determined sort.
                        But he knew better than to provoke me too far. Bancroft was a shrewd man.
                            He knew just how far I would have permitted him to go, in deference to
                            the dignity of his position, and he did not exceed that limit. It was a
                            lucky thing for him that he did not. Disaster, mercantile ruin, would
                            have been the inevitable consequence of such an imprudent act!
                        I regret that my space does not permit me to give the reader the details
                            of my exploits in the arena of Cupid for the succeeding six months. They
                            were rich and varied; but I am happy to console my friends and admirers
                            with the assurance that I am at present engaged in writing out the
                            history of the whole period, which in due time will appear, complete in
                            seven volumes, with portraits and illustrations.
                        
                        From the events of this campaign I deduce the melancholy conclusion that
                            the fair sex are sadly wanting in good taste and nice discrimination.
                            The fact that I am still a bachelor is a sad commentary on this truth.
                            The ladies "are not what they are cracked up to be"-to use a rather
                            inelegant expression, which I think was original with Hogg, the
                            poet.
                        But disappointed of my matrimonial hopes, I determined to make commerce
                            the study of my life. I had about made up my mind to offer my time and
                            talents to Bancroft-in short, to offer to become his partner in
                            business. I never was much in favor of these complications of mercantile
                            affairs, and to become a partner of his might involve me in some future
                            sacrifices, which it might not be pleasant to make.
                        I thought it best, on the whole, to retain my present situation. But the
                            salary was too small. I must wait upon Bancroft, and consent to remain
                            in his service, if he would add a hundred dollars to my pay. Of course
                            he could not be so imprudent as to run the risk of failure and utter
                            ruin for so trifling a matter as this.
                        "I beg your pardon, Mr. Bancroft," said I, in my blandest tones,-for even
                            a highway robber is polite nowadays when he blows a man's brains
                            out-"but I have taken the liberty to wait upon you for the purpose of
                            asking you to advance my salary from four to five hundred dollars."
                        "Go to the devil!" said he, rudely.
                        It is astonishing how some folks will even kick an angel out of their
                            presence. Poor Bancroft! he "stood in his own light,"-to borrow from
                            Carlyle or Mephistophiles, I forget which.
                        "You are dear help at two hundred a year; I don't want you any longer at
                            any price," continued Bancroft.
                        
                        "There's stupidity for you!" thought I.
                        My blood was up, and I determined to leave him, let the consequences be
                            what they might.
                        I did leave him, assured that the mercantile world would be startled to
                            its centre by a crash, in a very short time. The concern has not broke
                            down yet, but there is a moral certainty that it must soon "go by the
                            board,"-to quote from Captain Cook, or Sir John Franklin, it is not very
                            material which.
                        I had not been out of business a week before I discovered that literature
                            was the proper sphere for me. I intend to bring about a revolution in
                            the world of letters, by introducing an entirely new style of
                            composition, adapted both to prose and poetry. I have several works
                            under way, including a complete History of the Musquito Kingdom, Annals
                            of Hull, and a poem in two hundred and seventy-six cantos, on the Want
                            of Appreciation and Correct Taste in the Female Sex,-all of which will
                            appear as soon as written and published.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE BACHELOR BEAU.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "I CAN no longer struggle against the current of misfortune," exclaimed
                            Mr. Whiting, a small merchant, who had by the pressure of hard times
                            become somewhat involved; "I am ruined!"
                        "Nay, my husband, do not be distressed. Worse calamities than this might
                            happen, and we will make the best of it."
                        "But, wife, I must fail; I cannot sustain myself another day."
                        "You have done all you can to avert the misfortune, and if it must come,
                            let us not repine, but bear it like Christians."
                        "I will try to keep calm; but it seems hard, after weathering the worst
                            of the storm, to be wrecked in sight of the land."
                        "Perhaps your creditors will give you more time," suggested Mrs.
                            Whiting.
                        "I cannot hope it; the note which comes due to-morrow, and which I am
                            utterly unable to pay, is in the hands of my bitterest enemy."
                        "He will not distress you."
                        "I know him well. He is a villain!"
                        "Whom do you mean?"
                        
                        "Bacher."
                        "God help us, if he is your creditor!"
                        "As near as I can learn, he bought the note on purpose to perplex me, and
                            perhaps to obtain his revenge."
                        "Why is he so bitter against you?"
                        "Because I exposed a swindling operation, in which he was engaged."
                        "How much is the note, father?" asked a beautiful, hazel-eyed girl, who
                            had not before spoken, but who had been listening with intense interest
                            to the conversation between her father and mother.
                        "Three thousand dollars, Sarah," replied Mr. Whiting, fixing a glance of
                            anxiety upon the fair girl.
                        "Can't you borrow it, father?"
                        "Alas! my child, my credit is very much impaired. My notes have been too
                            thick in State Street for me to borrow without paying exorbitant
                            interest; and that, I think, would wrong my creditors in case any thing
                            should happen."
                        "It is not so very dreadful to fail, is it, father?"
                        "It would be ruinous to me, my child. If I could pay this note to-morrow,
                            I could get along very well. I should not have been embarrassed, had it
                            not been for the failure of Jones. But I suppose it must be, and we must
                            content ourselves to live a little more closely than we have been
                            accustomed to do."
                        Sarah asked no more questions, and though the conversation was continued
                            by her father and mother, she seemed to pay no attention to it. She
                            appeared to be musing deeply over something.
                        As the evening advanced, John Barnet, a clerk, who had for some months
                            been attentive to Sarah, and who, report said, was a favored
                            suitor, made his accustomed evening visit. Every body said that John
                            Barnet was a nice young man, and every way worthy of so beautiful and
                            amiable a wife as Sarah Whiting would undoubtedly make him.
                        If there is any thing in smiles and gentle words, the affection of the
                            young clerk was warmly reciprocated by Sarah. They were not engaged,
                            however, though he called at Mr. Whiting's house from four to seven
                            evenings in a week.
                        Mr. Whiting and his wife retired at an early hour in the evening, leaving
                            the lovers "to have it out."
                        As usual, John Barnet begged her to make him happy by promising to be his
                            forever. To his utter surprise and consternation, she told him she could
                            never be his wife, and entreated him to think no more about her. Of
                            course, the lover pressed her for an explanation of this sudden and
                            remarkable change in her manner towards him. But she could not even do
                            this, and John took his leave, feeling that he had not another friend in
                            the world.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        SARAH WHITING had another suitor in the person of a wealthy and eccentric
                            old bachelor, who, after withstanding the assaults of thousands of
                            bright eyes and bewitching smiles, had laid his heart at the feet of our
                            beautiful heroine. We don't blame the old fellow for falling in love
                            with her, any more than we blame Sarah for laughing at him when he threw
                            himself at her feet and "popped the question."
                        Mr. Landyke Somerset was only about forty, so that, if Sarah had been
                            less cruel, it would not have been exactly "May and December," but about June and
                            November. He loved her with all the fervor which the march of time had
                            left in his heart, and was actually disconsolate when she told him
                            "no."
                        Mr. Landyke Somerset was not an ill-looking man, though he was an old
                            bachelor. True, his hair was not as black and glossy as it had been
                            twenty years before; there was an occasional iron-gray hair, which
                            looked a little suspicious; yet when he began to make his court to the
                            divinity of his dreams, even these suddenly disappeared, and people were
                            malicious enough to say it was through the influence of a certain
                            compound applied by the barber. True, also, there was now and then a
                            wrinkle in his face, which some young ladies affect to dislike. But what
                            of all these things? Old age is honorable, and the iron-gray hairs and
                            the wrinkles did not in the least mar the kindly expression of his
                            phiz.
                        He was a very clever fellow, and though the merry little Sarah Whiting
                            could not help laughing when he "popped the question" to her, she would
                            very willingly have had just such an uncle, or something of that sort.
                            In short, she liked him, but she didn't love
                            him.
                        Mr. Landyke Somerset was a firm believer in the ancient verity, that
                            "faint heart ne'er won fair lady," and he determined not to faint or
                            give up the chase till he had bagged the game, or had seen her the wife
                            of another. Consequently he held out all the inducements in his power to
                            engage her heart in his favor.
                        He was not what young ladies call an "old fool," for he had sense enough
                            to feel that he should never be able to gain the victory on the strength
                            of his physical attributes-his personal beauty. But he was an amiable
                            man at heart, and trusted solely to the influence of his moral
                            and mental qualities for success. They had thus far failed him, though
                            he still persevered.
                        Mr. Whiting, readily understanding what these attentions meant, did all
                            in his power to favor his suit; for he was an old-fashioned man, and
                            placed more confidence in the power of a good heart and plenty of money
                            to make his daughter happy, than he did in the more common attributes of
                            youth and good looks, even though the possessor of the first-named
                            commodities had passed the meridian of life.
                        But Sarah had a mind of her own in these matters, and though she
                            appreciated her kind father's motives, she could not think of throwing
                            herself away on a man of forty, even if he was an angel.
                        It was only the afternoon of the day preceding the conversation we have
                            recorded, that Mr. Somerset had paid her a visit, and renewed his
                            protestations of love to her. She had told him for the twentieth time,
                            "no."
                        When she heard her father relate the particulars of his embarrassment,
                            the image of Mr. Somerset had involuntarily presented itself to her
                            mind. He was abundantly able to assist them in this emergency, and for
                            the love he bore her perhaps he would.
                        But, then, if she applied to him, and he afforded the necessary aid, she
                            would be under an obligation to him, which she might find it very
                            inconvenient to discharge.
                        Ruin stared her father in the face. He had said it was ruin,
                            and she was sure it was. What right had she to be selfish or over nice,
                            when, perhaps, she had it in her power to avert the dreadful calamity?
                            Her father was all in all to her; and though some girls are so
                            sentimental as to sacrifice
                            father, mother, home, friends, for a lover, she would sacrifice a dozen
                            lovers for her father alone, to say nothing of her mother, who was at
                            least worth two dozen more.
                        Let not the reader suppose the pretty Sarah did not love him upon whom
                            she had smiled-she did; but her bump of veneration was bigger than that
                            other bump on the back of the head.
                        Her resolution was formed, and about eleven o'clock the next day, she put
                            on her bonnet, and walked up to the Revere House, where Mr. Somerset
                            boarded.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        MR. LANDYKE SOMERSET was a nabob, and retained a private parlor, to which
                            the obsequious servant conducted Sarah Whiting.
                        Of course the bachelor was reasonably astonished at this visit.
                        "Indeed, Miss Whiting, I am delighted to see you," exclaimed he, with
                            rapturous enthusiasm.
                        "I knew you would be, and that's the reason I came," laughed Sarah, and
                            at the same time she blushed so sweetly that Mr. Landyke Somerset had
                            almost dissolved in a rapture of delight.
                        "Ah, my dear Miss Whiting, you are not always so kind to me as you are
                            to-day."
                        "But I always will be hereafter," and Sarah smiled, though her heart beat
                            like the boundings of a race horse.
                        "Ah, you are so good, and so pretty, too."
                        "I will save you the trouble of all these useless adulations
                            tions by saying that I have come to accept your oft-repeated
                            proposal."
                        "Indeed!" and the bachelor was taken "all aback;" he could hardly believe
                            the evidence of his own senses.
                        "What, sir! Do you recede from your offer?" said Sarah, laughing with all
                            her might-a very convenient cloak for young ladies sometimes.
                        "Capital joke, eh?" and the bachelor laughed too.
                        "No joke, sir; I am in earnest."
                        Sarah looked as sober as the matron of an orphan asylum.
                        "Nay, nay, my pretty Sarah, do not make sport of me."
                        "I will give you my promise in writing, with my signature, if you desire
                            it."
                        "Is it possible that you mean so?" said the doubtful Mr. Somerset.
                        "Take my hand."
                        The bachelor took it, pressed it to his lips, and began to think himself
                            the happiest fellow in the world.
                        "I am yours, Mr. Somerset."
                        "Bless you, Sarah!"
                        "On one condition."
                        "Name it."
                        Sarah recounted the story of her father's embarrassment.
                        "Fill me out a check for three thousand dollars, and I promise to become
                            your wife within one year."
                        Mr. Landyke Somerset mused. He appeared to be in doubt. He was a
                            high-souled man, and the idea of buying the hand of his wife was to the
                            last degree repugnant to him.
                        "You hesitate, sir; I know you do not love me," said Sarah, with apparent
                            pique.
                        
                        "On my soul, I do! I agree; here is the check," replied Mr. Somerset, as
                            he seated himself at the table and drew the check.
                        "Now enclose it in a note to my father, saying you learned his trouble
                            from a mutual friend, and then beg the privilege of loaning him the
                            amount of the check."
                        "And you sacrifice yourself to your father, my fair Sarah!" said the
                            bachelor, as he sealed the note.
                        "I do."
                        "You are an angel!"
                        "Nay, I must go now."
                        The check did the business, and Mr. Whiting was as happy as ever he was
                            in his life. Bacher could not sleep that night because he had been
                            foiled in his revenge.
                        In the evening Mr. Somerset called at the house to see his future bride.
                            She treated him kindly, and permitted him to sit by her side, hold her
                            work basket, and pick up her thimble when she dropped it-which was glory
                            enough for an evening, to one as moderate in his wishes as the bachelor
                            beau of our heroine.
                        But about eight o'clock, to Sarah's utter consternation, John Barnet paid
                            his usual visit. The poor clerk was sadly distressed, as well he might
                            be, and had called to desire an explanation of the cool manner in which
                            he had been dismissed.
                        The presence of Mr. Somerset was all the explanation he desired. He was
                            uneasy; he could not join in the conversation, and aware that he was
                            making himself disagreeable to the party, he determined to take his
                            leave; but how could he leave her?
                        He knew Mr. Somerset to be one of the best men in the world,
                            and he resolved to request an interview with him on the spot.
                        The worthy bachelor kindly condescended to walk down the street a short
                            distance with him, and John Barnet told him the whole story; how he
                            loved Sarah, and how he had every reason to believe that Sarah loved
                            him. He was sure that some unfair advantage had been taken, and he
                            wanted the matter explained.
                        "Come back to the house, young man, and I will give you all the
                            satisfaction you desire."
                        John consented.
                        A few minutes sufficed to explain to Mr. Whiting and the discarded lover
                            the nature of the sacrifice which the devoted Sarah had made for her
                            father's sake.
                        "Bless you, my child!" exclaimed the merchant, his eyes filling with
                            tears of love, as he tenderly embraced his noble-hearted daughter.
                        "You understand it now, don't you, Mr. Barnet?" said the bachelor, with a
                            good-natured smile.
                        "I do, indeed," replied John, sorrowfully; "she is a noble girl, and I
                            shall never cease to love her, though she can never be mine."
                        Sarah cast a sad glance at him, and her eyes filled with tears. She never
                            knew till that moment how much she loved the poor clerk. But it was all
                            over now-the bright dreams of love had passed away, and she could never
                            be happy again.
                        "What, Sarah! do you recede from your promise?" asked Mr. Somerset.
                        "Nay, I do not. Farewell, John! farewell forever!" and the poor girl
                            sobbed convulsively.
                        
                        "Farewell, Sarah!" and the clerk seized his hat and rushed towards the
                            door.
                        "Hallo! stop, young man!" exclaimed Mr. Somerset; "don't go off mad. Give
                            me your hand."
                        The bachelor took the clerk's hand.
                        "You are a good fellow; I honor you. Your hand, Sarah," and
                            Mr. Somerset took the little white hand of the weeping maiden, and
                            placed it in that of John Barnet. "Be happy!"
                        "What do you mean, sir?" asked Sarah, bewildered at the actions of the
                            bachelor.
                        "Mean? You love him, don't you?"
                        "With all my soul!"
                        "And you do not love me?"
                        Sarah began to understand.
                        "I like you."
                        "You are his; be happy! You did not for a moment suppose I could be so
                            mean as to take advantage of such a noble act of self-sacrifice as you
                            performed to-day? No! I love you, but I will not make you
                            miserable."
                        Poor Sarah! How happy she was, and how she pitied poor Mr. Somerset, who
                            loved her so much! She felt that, if she had never seen John Barnet, she
                            would have been glad to become his wife, iron gray and wrinkles to the
                            contrary notwithstanding-he was such a dear, good soul!
                        "Be happy! and that isn't all; when I die you shall have half my
                            fortune."
                        The bachelor kept his word, and though he didn't die of a broken heart,
                            he did not live many years; yet when he did die, the hand of woman-of as
                            true and loving a woman as ever made home a paradise-smoothed
                            his dying pillow, and closed his eyes in their last sleep; and there
                            were sincere mourners over his bier.
                        Poor Mr. Landyke Somerset! though he found not a wife in Sarah Whiting,
                            he found a true friend.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE GRAND RECEPTION BALL.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        TIPTOP is somewhere in the State of Massachusetts; but, in consideration
                            of the unpleasant nature of the details of my story, I do not feel at
                            liberty to state its precise geographical position. Undoubtedly, too,
                            there are within the limits of our ancient commonwealth a great many
                            Tiptops, and, by assigning it a specific locale, many whom
                            the coat fits will fail to put it on.
                        Tiptop was fully up with the times. The distinctions of caste were as
                            precisely defined and protected as in New York or Philadelphia. It is
                            true, a belle from one of the emporiums of fashion would not have felt
                            at home there; but then the Tiptopites labored to be as fashionable as
                            the metropolitans, and if they did not succeed, it was not their
                            fault.
                        There were balls, parties, and lyceums in Tiptop; but, unfortunately for
                            the luminous propensities of the "upper ten," they were obliged to call
                            in the aid of the canaille on these
                            occasions, in order to make the expense fall as lightly as possible on
                            the glorified few.
                        There was a great excitement in the place when it was understood that the
                            Hon. Mr. Silas Lumpkin, M. C., from one of the Western States,
                            proposed to spend a few days with Squire Rogers, his "chum" in
                            college.
                        The Hon. Mr. Lumpkin was a distinguished man in his day and generation.
                            Though not thirty-five at the period of our story, he had made a mark on
                            the country which time will not immediately obliterate.
                        But Mr. Lumpkin was a sensible man, notwithstanding the temptations of
                            his position to be otherwise. We have referred to the Congressional
                            Globe, but we do not find that he ever made a long speech, which, in our
                            mind, fully establishes his reputation as a model Congressman.
                        The distinguished gentleman's visit to Tiptop promised to be an epoch in
                            the history of the place. The notables were duly impressed with the
                            honor which awaited them, and immediately put their heads together to
                            devise a suitable plan for a public demonstration. They fully
                            appreciated the great man's condescension, and it only remained to make
                            a proper expression of it.
                        A voluntary committee of the most notable of the notables waited on
                            Squire Rogers in this emergency. Unfortunately, the squire was a legal
                            man, and did not feel competent to advise in an affair of this kind; and
                            the squire, too, was a sensible man, and had it not been for the fact
                            that he was a candidate for the office of representative to the next
                            General Court, would probably have expressed his disgust at the whole
                            thing.
                        But while the voluntary committee were discussing a scheme for a public
                            dinner in the town hall, the ladies decided that a grand reception ball
                            should be given on the occasion of Mr. Lumpkin's arrival.
                        Of course the matter was settled, for Miss Araminta Pipkin kin and Annabellina Punkinton had said
                            so. Miss Dorothea Pilkinton was opposed to it at first, on account of
                            the shortness of the time; but Miss Pipkin was an Amazon in an argument,
                            and carried the day.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        IT was after dark when the Hon. Mr. Lumpkin arrived at Tiptop. The Lyceum
                            Hall was already in a blaze of brilliancy, and the revellers were
                            rapidly gathering to do honor to the man who had distinguished himself
                            by holding his tongue.
                        Mr. Lumpkin, all unconscious of the honors that were in store for him,
                            cordially grasped the hand of Squire Rogers and entered the house. He
                            drank several cups of particularly strong tea, and found himself fully
                            refreshed from the fatigues of his journey.
                        "The hall was lighted as you passed, was it not?" asked the squire,
                            thinking it time to broach the subject of the complimentary ball.
                        "The building on the hill?"
                        "Yes-next to the meeting house."
                        "It was."
                        "Something grand there to-night; we must go up."
                        "Political?"
                        "No, nothing of the kind; your friends in this place, without distinction
                            of party, propose to welcome you to Tiptop in a grand reception
                            ball."
                        "The deuse they do!"
                        "Fact!" and the squire grinned in sympathy with the Hon. Mr. Lumpkin.
                        
                        "But, Rogers, it's silly."
                        "Public men must humor the follies of their constituency."
                        "Not my constituents, thank my stars! I am not holden to them for my
                            office; so I shall do them the honor to spend the evening with you,
                            Rogers."
                        "But, my dear Lumpkin, the affair was got up wholly on your account."
                        "Infernally silly of them-decidedly flat."
                        "They will be disappointed;" and Squire Rogers looked sad, for he
                            happened to think at that moment that he was a candidate for the
                            legislature.
                        "No matter."
                        "But the aristocracy-bah!-will be mortally offended with me."
                        "The what?"
                        "The affair was got up by our fashionables."
                        "So much the better. If they wish to make fools of themselves, they shall
                            not do it at my expense."
                        "But consider, my dear Lumpkin, what a terrible disappointment it will be
                            to them. They are even now waiting your arrival. I have been appointed
                            gentleman usher, to conduct you to the hall, and do the honors."
                        "Good, Rogers!" and Mr. Lumpkin, being a jolly, good-natured Congressman,
                            laughed heartily, notwithstanding the consternation of his legal friend,
                            who began to fear that his want of tact would insure the victory, at the
                            approaching election, to his rival.
                        "But the ladies, Lumpkin."
                        This was a fortunate hit on the part of Squire Rogers. Mr. Lumpkin was a
                            bachelor, and, like bachelors in general, he loved the ladies to
                            distraction, while he kept them at a safe distance. The thought of being the
                            centre of attraction, amid a galaxy of bright eyes and blushing cheeks,
                            was rather inviting; but Mr. Lumpkin could not forgive the Tiptopites
                            for making fools of themselves at his expense.
                        The honorable gentleman was a consistent man, and having before decided
                            not to go, it was against his principles to change his mind. There was a
                                    
                        villanous
                        villainous
                     
                            rumor in circulation that Mr. Lumpkin, having unhappily fallen asleep
                            during the making of a certain motion, had suddenly woke up and voted
                            "yea," in opposition to his colleagues, and against the instructions of
                            his constituents.
                        Having always been considered sound on the question at issue, every body
                            was surprised at his vote. He did not discover his mistake until the
                            following day; but, being a consistent man, he defended his course, and
                            made the longest speech he was ever known to make, on the folly of
                            instructing public men who are sent to Congress for the good of their
                            country. He would have lost his subsequent election, only that a
                            majority, admiring his manly independence, saw fit to give him their
                            suffrages.
                        Mr. Lumpkin had said no, and it was an exceedingly difficult thing for
                            him to reverse his sentiments, and say yes. But the ladies, being-as he
                            eloquently expressed it, in his speech on the necessity of reducing the
                            duty on Cashmere shawls, and making it specific, instead of ad valorem-the bright, particular luminaries of
                            a republican nation, seemed to beckon him to the ball-to be recreant to
                            his principle of consistency.
                        But Mr. Lumpkin, in the true spirit of our glorious constitution,
                            resolved to compromise the matter, and go. There was a codfish clique in
                            Tiptop, and Mr. Lumpkin considered it his duty to punish them.
                            After making some arrangements with his friend, whose urgent
                            remonstrances were all unheeded, he left the house.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        LYCEUM HALL blazed with beauty and tallow candles. All the lite of Tiptop were on tiptoe with expectation.
                            After a long and rather stormy discussion, it was decided that Miss
                            Pipkin should dance first with Mr. Lumpkin.
                        Eight o'clock came, and the distinguished gentleman did not make his
                            appearance. The less pretentious portion of the party began to grow
                            impatient. They cared nothing at all about Mr. Lumpkin; they came to
                            have a good time, and were bound to enjoy themselves, whether Mr.
                            Lumpkin and his admirers did or not.
                        Joe Maple began to get a little mad. He came with Lizzie Lee, had paid
                            for his ticket, and-as he expressed it to Mr. Adolphus Pipkin-he'd like
                            to know why they couldn't go ahead without Mr. Lumpkin.
                        "Hang me if I stay or pay for my ticket if they don't put her through
                            pootty soon," said he.
                        "What are they waiting for?" asked a stranger by his side.
                        "For Mr. Stumpkins, or some sich name; but I ain't a-going to wait any
                            longer. What do you say, boys-shall we back out if they don't go
                            ahead?"
                        "Sartin; go to the managers, Joe; we'll back you up in any thing you
                            say," replied several.
                        "They ought to go on," suggested the stranger.
                        
                        "Tew be sure they had; so here goes for the managers. They are so darn
                            stuck up, they seem to think we ain't nobody; we'll larn 'em better;"
                            and Joe Maple marched for the knot of gentlemen who had charge of the
                            arrangements, and who were wondering why the distinguished guest of the
                            evening did not appear.
                        At this moment Squire Rogers entered the hall. In reply to the managers'
                            queries, he said Mr. Lumpkin had left his house half an hour before,
                            promising to meet him at the festive scene.
                        Joe Maple said the "boys" meant to have a time, any how, and he insisted
                            that the dance should be immediately commenced, or the "boys" would make
                            tracks for "hum."
                        Joe Maple's party were in a very decided majority, and their appeal was
                            irresistible. The band, who were prepared to play "Hail Columbia" for
                            the "grand entre" of Mr. Lumpkin, were directed to commence a
                            cotillon.
                        The sets were nearly formed, when the stranger who had before questioned
                            him requested Joe Maple to introduce him to a partner.
                        "Sartin," said Joe, who was a good-natured, clever fellow; "but I don't
                            know ye. What's your name?"
                        The stranger hesitated a moment, and then said it was Smith.
                        "You don't say so! You ain't the Smith that's just moved on to the
                            Pelatiah Hopkins place?"
                        "Just so," replied Mr. Smith.
                        "Well, now, I am glad to see you;" and Joe Maple cast about him for a
                            suitable partner for the new proprietor.
                        Joe was always up to some mischief, and it seemed as though the very
                            demon of mischief ruled him when he glanced at Miss Araminta
                            Pipkin, who was impatiently waiting the arrival of her distinguished
                            partner.
                        Now, Mr. Smith was certainly not very prepossessing in his external
                            appearance. He looked very much like a country shopkeeper dressed up in
                            his Sunday clothes, and Joe Maple was perfectly satisfied that Miss
                            Pipkin would never condescend to dance with him. But there was a
                            prospect of some sport, and though he and the amiable leader of the
                            Tiptop ton were not on speaking terms, he
                            determined to present Mr. Smith.
                        "I want to introduce Mr. Smith to you," said Joe, mustering his most
                            elegant expression. "He wants a pardner."
                        Miss Pipkin addressed a languid sneer, first to Joe Maple, and then to
                            Mr. Smith.
                        "No, I thank ye," replied she, briefly, turning away her head from the
                            suppliant at her feet.
                        "Hadn't ye better? This is Mr. Smith, that has bought the Pelatiah
                            Hopkins place."
                        "You have my answer; I dance with Mr. Lumpkin;" and Miss Pipkin looked
                            unutterably scornful at the thought of descending from a member of
                            Congress even to the proprietor of the Hopkins place.
                        "That is very plain speech," suggested Mr. Smith.
                        "Short as piecrust; she's right down smart. But, Mr. Smith, as you have
                            bought that place, you shall dance with the poottiest gal in the
                            hall-that's Lizzie Lee. She engaged to dance with me-"
                        "I could not think of disappointing you," interposed Mr. Smith.
                        "I don't stand on trifles. The fact is, Lizzie and I understand one
                            another pootty well."
                        
                        Mr. Smith was introduced to Lizzie, who was all the enamoured Mr. Maple
                            had said she was.
                        But the sets were all full save one, in which had been reserved a place
                            for Mr. Lumpkin and the sighing Miss Pipkin, who fondly hoped to make a
                            conquest of the distinguished bachelor's heart.
                        This set was at the head of the hall, and of course the three couples
                            which now composed it were the cream of the aristocracy. Mr. Lumpkin had
                            not come, and Joe, who was all attention to the new owner of the Hopkins
                            place, directed Mr. Smith to lead his partner to this vacant
                            position.
                        Mr. Smith did so. He was perfectly innocent of any intention to offend,
                            and smilingly bowed to his pretty partner.
                        The three couples were aghast at the coolness and effrontery of Mr.
                            Smith. Mr. Adolphus Pipkin felt outraged, and stepped forward to
                            remonstrate, suggesting to the new lord of the Hopkins place that the
                            head of the hall had been reserved for Mr. Lumpkin and the accomplished
                            Miss Pipkin.
                        "When he comes, I will go," replied Mr. Smith,
                            quietly.
                        "How rude!" exclaimed Miss Punkinton.
                        "What horrible impoliteness!" added Miss Pilkington.
                        "Brought up in the woods," suggested Miss Smythson.
                        "I declare, he smells of the cow yard," sneered Miss Punkinton.
                        "Will you abandon your position?" asked Mr. Pipkin, fiercely.
                        "No, sir," replied Smith, calmly.
                        "On with the dance!" shouted Joe Maple.
                        And on it went, for the leader of the band, knowing who his strongest
                            friends were, started the music.
                        "Sir, you are no gentleman," continued Mr. Pipkin.
                        
                        "First couple, lead up to the right!" shouted the caller.
                        Mr. Smith and Lizzie, being the first couple, led up to the
                            right, and, in doing so, had nearly borne the enraged Mr. Pipkin under
                            their feet.
                        "Balancez!"
                        "I demand satisfaction, sir."
                        "Chassez to the right!"
                        Mr. Smith danced furiously; but the rest of the set, horrified at the
                            idea of dancing with such company as the owner of the Hopkins place and
                            Lizzie Lee, abandoned their positions. Joe Maple instantly filled them
                            again, and things went on as merrily as a marriage bell.
                        Squire Rogers was repeatedly importuned for information in regard to the
                            Hon. Mr. Lumpkin, whose consistency seemed quite as prominent as it had
                            ever been before. The squire assured them he would come-that it was only
                            ten o'clock, and genteel folks never appeared till a late hour.
                        The Hon. Mr. Lumpkin did come at last.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                        BUT when he came, the proprietor of the Pelatiah Hopkins place
                            incontinently vamosed.
                        "Rogers," said Mr. Smith, "Lumpkin is come."
                        "High time," replied Rogers.
                        "Please announce the fact."
                        "There will be a tempest; hadn't we better have the smelling salts
                            handy?"
                        "Ay, cod-liver oil would do as well; there is a smell of codfish in this
                            vicinity."
                        
                        "Ladies and gentlemen," began Squire Rogers to the little knot of
                            uppercrusts that occupied the head of the hall, "I have the honor of
                            informing you that the Hon. Mr. Lumpkin has come."
                        This announcement produced a very decided sensation. Miss Araminta Pipkin
                            heaved a deep sigh, and almost fainted in anticipation of the
                            presentation.
                        "Where is he?" asked Mr. Adolphus Pipkin, glancing eagerly around the
                            room.
                        "The illustrious gentleman is close at hand."
                        "Band, play the grand march."
                        The band struck up "Hail Columbia."
                        Mr. Smith, exhibiting a most wonderful command of himself, while every
                            body else was excited by the event about to transpire, stood by the side
                            of Lizzie Lee, engaged in a familiar conversation. Joe Maple, in view of
                            the very marked attentions of Mr. Smith to his intended, had begun to
                            grow a little jealous, and half regretted that he had been so polite to
                            the owner of the Hopkins place.
                        "Mr. Lumpkin," said Rogers, breaking in upon the pleasant conference,
                            "the company wait your presence."
                        "Hey, squire! this is Mr. Smith," said Maple.
                        "The Hon. Mr. Lumpkin," continued Rogers.
                        "You will pardon the little trick I have played upon you," said Mr.
                            Smith; "my name is Lumpkin, M. C."
                        "You don't say so!" exclaimed Joe Maple.
                        "Just so."
                        "And I've been talking to you jest as though you was a common man."
                        "So I am."
                        "Ain't you one of them 'ere Congress fellers?"
                        
                        "Certainly, but one of the people; and, between you and I and the barn,
                            as we say out west, I am no friend of such folks as these over here;"
                            and Mr. Lumpkin pointed significantly to the lite of Tiptop.
                        "You are a brick, squire!" and Joe hawhawed with right good will; "but I
                            suppose we shan't see you again to-night if you are going over
                            there?"
                        "Yes; Miss Lee, I claim your hand for the next dance, according to your
                            promise."
                        "I shall be almost afraid to dance with you now," simpered Lizzie.
                        "Hush, Liz! talk up to him," whispered Joe; "a Congress chap ain't any
                            better than any body else."
                        "Mr. Lumpkin, your admirers will become impatient," suggested Squire
                            Rogers, with an ironical smile.
                        "Excuse me for a few moments, Miss Lee;" and Mr. Lumpkin, taking the arm
                            of the squire, walked towards the head of the hall.
                        Joe Maple, whose keen relish for "some sport" did not permit him to
                            remain in the background, followed in their wake.
                        "Miss Pipkin, the Hon. Mr. Lumpkin," said Squire Rogers.
                        The amiable lady raised her eyes, which had been fixed in maidenly
                            coyness upon the floor, and beheld the abominable Mr. Smith, the
                            abhorred owner of the Pelatiah Hopkins place!
                        "Why-I-yes-I declare-I have met-you before this evening," stammered the
                            leader of the female ton.
                        "Should rather think you had!" roared Joe Maple, who has since declared
                            that he thought "he should ha' died a larfin'."
                        
                        "We have; I had the honor of being refused the pleasure of your hand at
                            the first dance," said Mr. Lumpkin, with a full display of congressional
                            dignity.
                        "Mr. Pipkin, the Hon. Mr. Lumpkin, M. C., from the west," continued
                            Squire Rogers, who, notwithstanding he felt a little nervous on account
                            of the seat in the legislature, was in very tolerable spirits, and
                            heartily enjoyed the discomfiture of the "codfish" party.
                        "Happy to know you, Mr. Pipkin. You demanded satisfaction of me in the
                            early part of the evening; should be happy to afford it."
                        "You will pardon me, sir; there was some mistake; I would not of course
                            have spoken in that manner to a member of Congress."
                        Mr. Lumpkin, not being above the infirmities of human nature, sneered
                            rather rudely at the Tiptop exquisite, as much as to say, "You ought to
                            treat every body well, whether they are public or private
                            individuals."
                        The master of ceremonies discharged the duties of his office with
                            punctilious formality. It seemed to the sufferers that he was
                            unnecessarily minute in his presentation ceremonial, permitting the
                            distinguished gentleman to make a home thrust at each one of the persons
                            who had been so rude to Mr. Smith.
                        The introductions were happily concluded, and a more chopfallen set than
                            the lite of Tiptop never gathered together
                            in the same hall.
                        Miss Pipkin was in an agony. She had actually turned up her nose to a
                            member of Congress. Of course she could no longer hope to make a
                            conquest of his heart; the vision of being a distinguished lady melted
                            quite away.
                        
                        But then "it is an ill wind that blows no one any good." If Miss Pipkin
                            could not have a member of Congress, she at least had the consolation of
                            saying that she had refused the hand of the Hon. Mr. Lumpkin, which, to
                            a lady of her peculiar turn of mind, was an immense satisfaction.
                        Mr. Lumpkin returned to the side of Lizzie Lee, who, maugre her coyness,
                            was tolerably sociable. Joe Maple, from the abundance of his good
                            nature, vowed he might dance with her just as many times as he
                            pleased.
                        About eleven o'clock, Miss Pipkin suggested to her brother that the
                            delicate state of her health would not permit her to endure the
                            excitement of the dance any longer, and when the leader of the ton left, the followers went after her.
                        But the common folks "staid it out," and Mr. Lumpkin confessed that he
                            enjoyed the ball very much indeed; for, true to his duty as a public
                            man, it had enabled him to administer a suitable reproof to the
                            pretensions of the Tiptopites.
                        Joe Maple and Lizzie Lee-since Mrs. Maple-have not yet forgotten the part
                            they acted, and perhaps they may be pardoned for a slight display of
                            vanity as they relate the particulars of The Grand
                            Reception Ball.
                    
                
                
                    
                    MARRYING A BEGGAR.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        "So much for bringing poor relations into the house! I really believe
                            that Charles has fallen in love with the girl!" exclaimed Mrs. Mason to
                            her husband, a merchant in moderate circumstances in the city of
                            Boston.
                        "Well, suppose he has; she is a good girl, is she not?" quickly responded
                            the merchant.
                        "I don't know but that she is good enough; but she is a pauper!"
                        "Not exactly a pauper, Mrs. Mason."
                        "Didn't we take her into the family to keep her from starving?"
                        "I did not so understand it. You needed a young woman to assist you in
                            sewing, and employed her at half the usual wages."
                        "Yes, and isn't she a pauper for all that?"
                        "Gently, Mrs. Mason; you forget that she is my sister's daughter," said
                            the merchant, a little sternly.
                        "What if she is? She is a penniless girl for all that. A pretty match for
                                our son!"
                        "And why not for our son? I am not a millionnaire. If the
                            times don't come easier than they have been, I shall fail before the
                            year is out."
                        
                        "So much the more reason why Charles should look out for himself."
                        "If he loves my niece, I sincerely hope he will marry her, for I believe
                            she is one of the best girls in the world; certainly she is vastly
                            superior to the silly, affected, mincing, novel-reading misses of
                            fashionable society. I commend his taste and his judgment."
                        "Well, Mr. Mason, I am surprised!"
                        "Not the least occasion to be surprised."
                        "Let me tell you, Mr. Mason, that I never will consent to see Charles
                            throw himself away on a pauper. If you haven't the spirit to prevent so
                            disgraceful a match, I shall send the girl away."
                        "Don't you do it, madam," said Mr. Mason, in a firm, decided tone.
                        "I shall do it!" replied the lady, waxing warm at the
                            obstinacy of her husband, who, in trivial matters, was in the habit of
                            letting her have her own way.
                        "Better not," quietly responded the gentleman.
                        "The minx put on such airs and smirked so, that I really believe she
                            meant to catch him."
                        "What, Grace? Impossible! She is a little gentle, quiet thing, and I am
                            sure the idea of a flirtation never entered her simple head."
                        "Humph!" sneered the lady. "I know better. And now that he is really
                            making love to her, the provoking jade seems to look upon it as a matter
                            of course; thinks it just as much a proper thing that she should be the
                            wife of our Charles, as though she had been born a princess!"
                        "Poor thing! I suppose she is human, and actually loves the boy!"
                        
                        "Loves him or not, I'll make an end of it."
                        "Don't be rash, Mrs. Mason," replied the husband, twirling in his fingers
                            a buff envelope, marked "Telegraph."
                        "What have you got there?"
                        "I had almost forgot to mention that brother Joseph had arrived in New
                            York, and telegraphs that he shall be here to-night by the New Haven
                            train."
                        "Just like you! Never tell of a thing till the last moment!" said the
                            lady, petulantly.
                        "I received the despatch only two hours ago."
                        "Here is another kettle of fish," continued the lady, musing. "That
                            everlasting niece of yours is in the way again."
                        "I hope the poor girl has no more sins to answer for."
                        "Where do you suppose your brother Joseph will leave his property?"
                        "I have not the remotest idea."
                        "Don't you suppose that angelic niece of yours will wheedle him out of a
                            part of it?"
                        "I hope so."
                        "You don't want he should leave it all in your family, then?" sneered the
                            lady.
                        "No, I hope he will do justly."
                        "I wish I could get her out of the way before he comes."
                        "Don't attempt it, Mrs. Mason," said the merchant, with very decided
                            emphasis.
                        "If she were only out of the way, Henrietta would come in for the whole,"
                            added the lady, as she hurried out of the room to make arrangements for
                            the reception of uncle Joseph.
                    
                    
                        
                        CHAPTER II.
                        UNCLE JOSEPH was a Calcutta merchant, in which capacity he had
                            accumulated an immense fortune. Being a bachelor, the probable
                            disposition of his property became a question of considerable interest
                            among his relations.
                        The family of Mr. Mason, the merchant introduced in the last chapter,
                            included but two children, a son and a daughter.
                        Grace was the only daughter of a sister, recently deceased, who had been
                            for many years a widow.
                        It was supposed that uncle Joseph would make one of his nieces his
                            heiress. This was the old fellow's whim, and no one could gainsay the
                            whim of a bachelor. From some indications of preference which he had
                            bestowed upon Henrietta in her childhood, it was generally believed that
                            she would prove to be the fortunate one.
                        Henrietta had been educated to be a lady. Her delicate fingers were never
                            soiled by rude collision with pots and kettles, and she had been taught
                            to believe that it was delicate sensibility to be afraid of a spider or
                            a bullfrog. She played the piano with passable skill, and lingered away
                            half her time at full length on the sofa, poring over the contents of a
                            novel.
                        Such was the prospective heiress of uncle Joseph's large fortune. Her
                            father was far from approving the education she had received, and had
                            used all the influence he possessed, short of quarrelling, to have these
                            defects remedied.
                        Uncle Joseph came, and was welcomed as became the dignity of one who had
                            a fortune to bestow.
                        
                        Henrietta thought he was a "dear love" of a man, and she wondered that
                            the ladies ever let him remain a bachelor.
                        Grace, by the contrivance of Mrs. Mason, was not present when her uncle
                            arrived; but Mr. Mason, understanding the trick, sought her in person,
                            and introduced her to the man of money.
                        The poor girl was too modest and retiring to force herself upon the
                            notice of uncle Joseph, who was too deeply absorbed by the unremitting
                            attentions of Henrietta to perceive her situation, or discover the
                            menial capacity in which she acted.
                        At tea, uncle Joseph complained of being ill, and said that he had not
                            been well since he landed on the previous day.
                        Mrs. Mason and her daughter were all sympathy. The ailing bachelor was
                            conducted to his apartment, and herb teas and jugs of hot water were put
                            in requisition. Henrietta volunteered to sit all night by his bedside
                            and minister to his wants; but the sick man did not deem it
                            necessary.
                        During all this confusion Grace was not to be seen. She was not permitted
                            to assist in the preparations for the sick man's comfort; every thing
                            must be done by Henrietta's own hand.
                        Notwithstanding the kind attentions lavished upon uncle Joseph, there was
                            no improvement in his condition; but, on the contrary, he rapidly grew
                            worse, and at midnight the physician was sent for. Henrietta had not
                            left the bedside for a moment. She was the most devoted creature in the
                            world, and the bachelor could not but contrast her devotion with the
                            utter neglect of Grace, who had not once entered his room,
                            even to inquire how he did. Henrietta's prospects were decidedly
                            brilliant.
                        The physician came, and after feeling the pulse of the sufferer, inquired
                            where he resided when at home.
                        Uncle Joseph replied that he had no home-had just come from Calcutta.
                        "I see," said the physician. "Was there any sickness on board the
                            ship?"
                        "There was. I came by the overland route to Liverpool, thence by a New
                            York liner. There was a steerage full of emigrants on board, among whom
                            the fever raged fearfully."
                        "Just so," returned the physician, "and you have got the ship fever."
                        "The ship fever!" exclaimed Henrietta, rushing out of the room.
                        The sick man turned, and witnessed her abrupt departure. With a sigh,
                            such as can only be wrung from a bachelor conscious of his loneliness,
                            he drew the bedclothes closely around him, and apparently abandoned
                            himself to the fate which the dreadful disease seemed to foreshadow.
                        The physician made up his prescription and retired. No one was left with
                            uncle Joseph but his brother.
                        "I am deserted, brother," said the sick man.
                        "No, brother, I am here."
                        "But there is no hand of woman here; well, it is a dreadful disease," and
                            the sufferer sighed again.
                        Mr. Mason went down to the sitting room, whither his wife and daughter
                            had fled.
                        "How is this, wife? Is Joseph to be abandoned now that he most needs
                            attention?" asked he of Mrs. Mason.
                        
                        "You don't think we are going to stay in the same room with the ship
                            fever?" replied Mrs. Mason.
                        "You may as well be in the room as in the house."
                        "We must leave the house immediately. Why did he not go to the hospital?
                            It was not very considerate of him to bring the ship fever into the
                            family. He might have known that he had it."
                        "Heaven forgive your heartlessness! But is my brother to die with no one
                            to care for him?" exclaimed Mr. Mason, indignantly.
                        "You must hire a nurse."
                        "And you will desert him?"
                        "We can't stay where the ship fever is."
                        "No, papa, it would be suicidal," added Henrietta. "His fortune would do
                            us no good if we caught the fever."
                        "Go, then! but there is still one in the house who has a heart," replied
                            Mr. Mason, as he left the room to seek the apartment of Grace.
                        Grace was ready in a moment to attend her uncle to the sick room, where,
                            regardless of the danger of contagion, she laved the burning brow of the
                            sufferer, and did all that an angel hand could do to render him
                            comfortable.
                        Early in the morning, Mrs. Mason and her daughter departed for the
                            residence of a friend in the country.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        FOR several weeks Grace, with such assistance as Mr. Mason and Charles
                            could give, nursed the invalid with the most untiring devotion. All her
                            time was spent by his bedside side. She was all gentleness and
                            sympathy, bearing patiently with his petulance and ill humor, and never
                            betraying the slightest appearance of anger when he scolded and even
                            swore at her.
                        The fever turned, and he began to mend. He was now out of danger, and
                            rapidly advancing to complete restoration.
                        The physician commended the skill and devotion of his nurse, assuring him
                            that he owed his life to her.
                        But the devotion of the poor girl cost her dearly; for scarcely had uncle
                            Joseph recovered before she was taken down with the fever, and for weeks
                            languished on the very verge of the grave.
                        Yet there was no female hand to lave her brow save that of a hired nurse.
                            Charles Mason loved her as he did his own existence, and day and night
                            he watched over her with a constancy and a devotion worthy the loving
                            heart of the gentler sex.
                        Uncle Joseph, too, was an anxious watcher round her bed. Though he was a
                            bachelor, and had spent the greater part of his life in India, away from
                            the gentle influences of female society, he showed an aptness in the
                            sick room that would have done honor to a Benedict.
                        To the intense relief of her devoted friends, Grace recovered. The
                            disease was now banished from the house, and Mrs. Mason and Henrietta
                            ventured to return.
                        "I trust you have had a pleasant visit, madam," said uncle Joseph,
                            coldly.
                        "Pleasant! nay, far from it. You do us injustice; we were perfectly
                            miserable on account of your dangerous illness."
                        "Humph!" said uncle Joseph, with a sneer.
                        
                        The love between Charles and Grace, strengthened by the scenes of
                            suffering through which they had passed, was now an unalterable
                            sentiment. Of course uncle Joseph had not witnessed their mutual
                            devotion to him in his illness without suspecting the existence of some
                            strong bond of union between them. And the young man's untiring
                            attention to her in her own sickness had confirmed the opinion.
                        Seeking a favorable opportunity, he conversed with Charles upon the
                            subject, who readily admitted his affection. The bachelor recommended an
                            immediate marriage.
                        The step was not, of course, ungrateful to the feelings of the lover. And
                            the desire to redeem Grace from the life of drudgery to which she was
                            reduced by the heartlessness of his mother, seemed to demand their
                            immediate union.
                        The young man's intentions were soon noised through the family. Mrs.
                            Mason renewed the opposition she had before made, and even went so far
                            as to threaten that, if she could not break up the match, she would
                            imbitter the lives of the parties.
                        Uncle Joseph remonstrated.
                        "May I ask, madam, what objection you can possibly have to the marriage?"
                            said he, with considerable sternness in his manner.
                        "What objection! why, the girl is a beggar; I have employed her in my
                            family to keep her out of the almshouse, which, I think, is objection
                            enough," replied Mrs. Mason, disliking the interference of uncle
                            Joseph.
                        "Your son, I think, is not wealthy, so that he need not
                                demand a rich wife."
                        "He need not marry a beggar, though."
                        "She is worthy a prince, beggar though she is."
                        
                        "O, very likely," sneered the lady.
                        "I owe my life to her, and I can never cease to be grateful to her. When
                                others forsook me, she was constant,"
                            replied uncle Joseph, pointedly.
                        "She knew you were rich," said Mrs. Mason, sarcastically.
                        "So did you and your amiable daughter. You were like angels round my
                            pillow till the doctor said 'ship fever,' when you fled like two
                            frightened sheep."
                        The lady looked as black as a thunder cloud.
                        "I trust you will withdraw your objections to this marriage, Mrs. Mason.
                            You perceive that Charles is resolute, and will have his own way about
                            it," continued uncle Joseph, in a more pliable tone.
                        "His own way! All this for bad advising! I cannot prevent
                            it, perhaps; but I will never consent to it. No! a son of mine shall
                            never have my consent to marry a beggar girl."
                        "Madam, she is no longer a beggar. She is the heiress of all my fortune,"
                            said uncle Joseph, with sudden energy.
                        Mrs. Mason's brow contracted.
                        "And Henrietta?" said she.
                        "Never touches a penny! She deserted me when I most needed a friend,"
                            replied the bachelor, vehemently. "If I had ten thousand fortunes, they
                            would be but a poor return for all that Grace has done for me. I make
                            over fifty thousand dollars to the newly-married couple as soon as the
                            knot is tied; the residue at my decease."
                        The marriage took place soon after. The ceremony was performed at the
                            house of Mr. Mason, in spite of the opposition of his wife; for when the
                            merchant said it should be so, he had the firmness to carry his
                            point.
                        
                        The newly-married couple took up their residence in a beautiful house,
                            purchased for them by uncle Joseph, who consented to make his home with
                            them.
                        Henrietta is now five-and-thirty years of age, and an "old maid." Mrs.
                            Mason still continues to be a termagant, though her husband maintains
                            his integrity with firmness and decision. She has never forgiven uncle
                            Joseph for making Grace the heiress, and probably never will. But the
                            worthy bachelor never ceases to rejoice over the disposition he has made
                            of his property, and probably he never will.
                    
                
            
        
    
