
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). The Orphan's Trials, or, Alone in a Great City .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5797 wright2-0278
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE ORPHAN'S TRIALS;
               OR, ALONE IN A GREAT CITY.
            
            BY EMERSON BENNETT. AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELAND," "VIOLA;
               OR, ADVENTURES IN THE FAR SOUTH-WEST," "THE BORDER ROVER," "THE BRIDE OF THE
               WILDERNESS," "KATE CLARENDON," "ELLEN NORBURY," "THE PIONEER'S DAUGHTER," "WALDE
               WARREN," "THE HEIRESS OF BELLEFONTE," "THE UNKNOWN COUNTESS," ETC.
            "If Emerson Bennett had never written his many delightful and thrilling
               stories of border life, of prairie scenes, and Indian warfare, this story of 'THE
               ORPHAN'S TRIALS; OR, ALONE IN A GREAT CITY,' would place his name on the record as
               one of the best of American novelists. The scenes of this most captivating novel are
               laid in the city of New York; and most glowingly the author pictures to us how the
               guilty may, for a time, escape the justice of the law, but only to feel the heavy
               hand of retribution sooner or later; how vice may, for a time, triumph over virtue,
               but only for a time; how crime may lie concealed, until its very security breeds
               exposure; how true virtue gives way to no temptation, but bears the ills of life with
               patience, hoping for a better day, and rejoices triumphant in the end. In short, from
               base hypocrisy he tears the veil that hides its huge deformity, and gives a true
               picture of life as it exists in the crowded city. We do cordially recommend this book
               for its excellent moral. It is one that should be circulated, for it must do
               good."—SATURDAY NIGHT.
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS;
                  
                     306 CHESTNUT STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by T. B. PETERSON
                  & BROTHERS, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D.
                  C.
            
         
         
            EMERSON BENNETT'S BEST WORKS.
            Each work is complete in one large duodecimo volume.
            
               THE ORPHAN'S TRIALS; or, Alone in a Great City.
               VIOLA; or, Adventures in the far South-West.
               THE BRIDE OF THE WILDERNESS.
               THE BORDER ROVER.
               CLARA MORELAND.
               KATE CLARENDON.
               ELLEN NORBURY.
            
            Price of each above, $1.75 in cloth; or $1.50 in Paper Cover.
            
               
                  THE PIONEER'S DAUGHTER, and THE UNKNOWN COUNTESS. Complete in one
                  large octavo volume, paper cover, price Seventy-five cents.
               
                  THE HEIRESS OF BELLEFONTE, and WALDE-WARREN. Complete in one large
                  octavo volume, paper cover, price Seventy-five cents.
            
            Above books are for sale by all Booksellers. Copies of any one, or all of the above
               books will be sent to any one, to any place, postage pre-paid, on receipt of their
               price by the Publishers, T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, 306 CHESTNUT STREET,
               PHILADELPHIA, PA.
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. THE HYPOCRITE UNMASKED, 9
               
               CHAPTER II. THE HOUSE OF DEATH, 23
               
               CHAPTER III. THE LIVING MOURNERS, 33
               
               CHAPTER IV. THE PAST RECALLED, 45
               
               CHAPTER V. PLANS FOR THE FUTURE, 58
               
               CHAPTER VI. AN UNEXPECTED FRIEND, 69
               
               CHAPTER VII. THE HYPOCRITE AND HIS TOOL, 79
               
               CHAPTER VIII. NEW AND STRANGE ADVENTURES, 93
               
               CHAPTER IX. THE ABODE OF THE UNFORTUNATE, 104
               
               CHAPTER X. THE BETRAYER AND HIS VICTIM, 116
               
               CHAPTER XI. REWARD OF DARING, 127
               
               CHAPTER XII. FORTUNE STILL PROPITIOUS, 140
               
               
               CHAPTER XIII. THE PLOT THICKENS, 151
               
               CHAPTER XIV. THE ARREST, 164
               
               CHAPTER XV. THE PLOT AND THE TRAITOR, 172
               
               CHAPTER XVI. THE ABDUCTION, 183
               
               CHAPTER XVII. THE HAPPY DELIVERANCE, 197
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND, 209
               
               CHAPTER XIX. THE EXAMINATION, 219
               
               CHAPTER XX. THE DAMNING DEED, 230
               
               CHAPTER XXI. THE INQUEST, 245
               
               CHAPTER XXII. THE GUILTY IN TROUBLE, 254
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. THE MURDERER AND THE MURDERED, 261
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. HYPOCRISY AND CRIME, 265
               
               CHAPTER XXV. THE FORGERY, 272
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. THE LOVERS, 286
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. CONCLUSION, 296
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The orphan's trials, or, Alone in a great city
            THE ORPHAN'S GREAT TRIALS
            OR, ALONE IN A GREAT CITY.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE HYPOCRITE UNMASKED.
               IT was a dark and stormy night in the month of November, 18—. To simply say it was
                  dark and stormy, conveys but a faint idea of what the night was in reality. The
                  clouds were inky black, and charged with a vapor, which freezing as it descended,
                  spread an icy mantle over every thing exposed. The wind was easterly and fierce,
                  and drove the sleety hail with a velocity that made it any thing but pleasant to
                  be abroad. Signs creaked, windows rattled, lamps flickered and became dim, casting
                  here and there long ghostly shadows, that seemed to dance fantastically to the
                  music of the rushing winds, as they whistled through some crevice, moaned down
                  some chimney, or howled along some deserted alley on their mad career. It was,
                  take it all in all, a dismal night, and such an one as, with a comfortable shelter
                  over our heads and a cheerful fire before us, is apt to make us thank God we are
                  not forced to be abroad like the poor
                  houseless wretches who have no place to lay their heads. It is too much the case
                  at such times, that we con gratulate ourselves on being far better off than they,
                  without taking into consideration that it is our duty, as humane beings, to render
                  them as comfortable as our circumstances will permit. But who thinks of the poor?
                  God cares for them, say the rich, and that is enough.
               But dark and disagreeable as was the night alluded to, there was one who strode
                  rapidly through the almost deserted streets of New York, seemingly unmindful of
                  the storm, and wholly occupied with thoughts of his own; whether bright and
                  cheerful, or dark and gloomy as the storm itself, will presently be seen.
               At the moment we have chosen to introduce him to the reader, he was picking his
                  way along a narrow, dark and filthy street, that led from the vicinity of Five
                  Points to a more open thoroughfare, which, crossing it at right angles, traversed
                  a great portion of the city between the North and East rivers. On reaching this
                  latter, known as Grand street, he turned to the left, and in a few minutes was
                  standing at its junction with the still larger and more fashionable thoroughfare
                  of Broadway. Here he made a momentary pause, and cast his eyes to the right and
                  left, while something like a heavy sigh escaped him. All was gloomy as before; for
                  though an early hour in the evening, even Broadway was nearly deserted; and only a
                  few stragglers, with here and there an omnibus or close-shut hack rattling swiftly
                  past, as if the drivers cared little to pause or seek for passengers, met his
                  eager gaze. Turning to the right, our wayfarer pushed up Broadway with a quickened
                  pace, as if reminded by some inward monitor he had been moving too tardily.
                  Looking now neither to his right hand nor left, but with his head bowed on his
                  bosom to avoid the peltings of the storm, he still pressed on for several squares,
                  when he came to a beautiful street of splendid private residences. Here again he
                  paused for a few seconds, and looked wistfully down its now deserted walks, as if
                  he felt a secret hesitation in going further. Then, as if suddenly influenced by
                  another thought, he darted more rapidly than ever along the slippery pavement, and
                  in less than five minutes stood before a splendid mansion—the secluded abode of
                  wealth, ease and refinement. As he halted at the foot of the marble steps, and
                  cast his eyes up to a window where a soft light faintly stole through a rich
                  damask curtain, he sighed audibly, ran his hand quickly across his forehead, and
                  seemed even then almost uncertain whether to advance or retire. But his decision
                  was soon made; and springing up the steps in haste, he rang the bell with a hand
                  made nervous by agitation.
               In due time, a sleek, well-dressed, well-fed negro, some thirty years of age,
                  whose general characteristics bespoke the darky dandy, cautiously opened the door,
                  as if either fearful of the storm or the visitor; but no sooner was it open, than
                  the young man—for such the light of the hall revealed him to be—sprang inside, to
                  the no little dismay and astonishment of the black, who was about to make some
                  impertinent remark, but which the other prevented by saying hastily:
               "Excuse me, Jeff; I have no time to stand on ceremonies. Is your master at
                  home?"
               It is impossible to portray the look of indignant scorn with which the negro
                  greeted this abrupt apology and interrogation. Drawing himself up with a proud
                  air, he cast a supercilious glance over the person of the intruder, from head to
                  foot and from foot to head, looking hard at his thread-bare garments, the remnants
                  of better days, and then answered rather disdainfully:
               "See here, Edgar Courtly, you fo'get you'sef. When I's wid my ekals, I's called Misser Jeffrey
                  Pomfret, and none of dem familiar Jeff's, only by gemmen as is gemmen. And as to
                  massa, I's hab you know as how dis child hab nothin to do wid dem vulgar names. I
                  is free nigger now, and massa am done gone long time ago."
               The pale features of the young man flushed, his dark eyes flashed, his hand opened
                  and shut convulsively, as he heard these insulting words, and for a moment he
                  seemed on the point of punishing the negro for his insolence; but then,
                  remembering where he was, and the object he had in coming hither, he smothered his
                  indignation and calmly replied:
               "Once, Mr. Jeffrey Pomfret, as you are pleased to term yourself, such
                  language from you to me would have cost you a severe chastisement; but things have
                  altered since, and so let it pass. Is Mr. Atherton at home?"
               "'Spose he am?" returned Jeff, doggedly.
               "Then tell him I wish to speak with him without a moment's delay."
               "You—you tink he see you?" asked Jeff, shaking his head.
               "Do as you are bid," rejoined the young man, sharply, "or, be the consequences
                  what they may, I will teach you a lesson you will not soon forget;" and clenching
                  his hand, he took a step or two towards the negro, who, perceiving matters were
                  approaching a crisis, slowly departed on his errand, muttering as he went
                  something about the impertinence of poor relations, until his person had
                  disappeared up the stairs leading from the hall to the chambers above.
               As soon as he was out of sight, young Courtly folded his arms on his breast, and
                  with brows rather closely knit, in silence awaited his return. In a short time the
                  negro made his appearance, and in a rather pompous tone, said:
               "Misser Atherton says you please excuse him, case he am engaged."
               "I will not excuse him," returned young Edgar, in a sharp tone of
                  indignation, while his face reddened and his dark eyes flashed defiance. "I came
                  here to see him, and I will not depart without. Tell him so!"
               "No! no! I'll not go near him wid dat message," returned Jeff, "case dis child's
                  head would be brokum."
               "Then I will seek him where he is," rejoined Edgar Courtly. "Show me his
                  apartment!"
               "Best not go, Misser Edgar!"
               "Do as I bid you!"
               "Well, den, fust room on de leff."
               With this the young man advanced to the staircase, and ascended it with an
                  unfaltering step. On reaching the floor above, he paused at the first door on the
                  left and rapped. On hearing a voice say, "Come in," he entered a splendidly
                  furnished apartment, whose bright and cheerful appearance formed an imposing
                  contrast to the howling, dismal night without. Every thing of refined comfort was
                  here profusely displayed; but as all tastefully arranged apartments are much
                  alike, it will be unnecessary for us to describe it minutely. A bright coal fire
                  was burning in the grate, in front of which, at some little distance, stood an
                  elegant marble centre-table, strewn with books and papers. By this table, on the
                  entrance of Edgar Courtly, sat two persons—a lady just blooming into womanhood,
                  and a gentleman some forty-five years of age—the former engaged in reading a book,
                  and the latter in perusing a newspaper. The eyes of both simultaneously rested
                  upon the intruder, when the lady, rising from her seat, passed out of the room by
                  a side door, leaving the gentlemen alone to themselves. With their eyes bent
                  sternly on each other, and a frown gathering on the brow of each, for a short time the occupant of the
                  apartment and his unwelcome guest remained silent—a period we will improve in
                  describing their personal appearance.
               We have said that the gentleman by the table was a man some forty-five years of
                  age, and consequently scarcely turned the full vigor of intellectual manhood. His
                  appearance, however, was, in some respects, in advance of his years; for his head
                  was partially bald, and partially covered with thin, gray hairs. Whether this was
                  the result of unassisted nature, or had been brought about by perplexity, fright,
                  grief, trouble, scheming or care, we shall not pause here to determine, but simply
                  chronicle the fact. His features, generally, were regular, and of that peculiar
                  cast which would make them prepossessing or otherwise, according to the mood or
                  will of the owner. There was no lack of intellect in the prevailing expression of
                  the countenance, and the forehead was high and broad. His eyes were of a clear,
                  cold blue, that would not be likely to impress you favorably, unless rather softly
                  twinkling under the veil of hypocrisy, which none could better and more readily
                  assume than he. His mouth and chin were rather handsome, and the former well
                  filled with white, regular teeth, visible at every smile, which smile was often
                  present to cover some hidden, devilish design. Take him all in all, Oliver
                  Atherton was a character you would need to study long and well to properly
                  understand; and even then, with a deep knowledge of human nature, and a keen,
                  quick perception of the true state of the heart from outward signs, ten to one you
                  would give him credit for being a far better man than would his recording angel.
                  But it is not our design to point out here his virtues, his faults, or his
                  characteristics. He must speak and act throughout our story in propria personæ,
                  and the reader can be his own judge in the end. With the additional statement that
                  in person he was portly, and of an air to command respect among strangers, we turn
                  to Edgar Courtly.
               In stature the latter was slightly above medium, possessing a fine, manly form,
                  and a dignified bearing, that would have befitted one his senior by ten years. No
                  one, not even the most casual observer, could mistake him for a common
                  character—for one of that herd of human beings who are as much alike as the
                  pebbles on the sea-washed beach. His features were pale and haggard, as if from
                  some corroding, inward struggle—a painful, constant labor of the mind, which bears
                  the body on to premature decay. Yet this appearance did not set ill upon him, but
                  rather increased that look of lofty, noble intellectuality, which lighted his
                  countenance and shone in his dark, eloquent, hazel eye. His forehead was broad and
                  massive, and though not remarkably high, was expressive of brilliant and vigorous
                  thought. As he stood before the other, his eye fixed intently on him, there was a
                  slight contraction of his handsome brows, and a compression of his thin, bloodless
                  lips, expressive of a determination to push to the end the task he had imposed
                  upon himself in thus coming into the presence of one, who, if not an absolute foe,
                  could by no means be regarded as a friend. And as the two stood and stared upon
                  each other, the selfish, scheming look of the worldly man found as great a
                  contrast in the bold, noble, open, yet passionate countenance of the youth, as did
                  his elegant broadcloth, starched linen, and white, systematically-tied neckcloth,
                  in the negligent, threadbare, faded garments of the other.
               "Well, sir?" said Mr. Atherton, at length, throwing down his paper with an angry
                  gesture, and pausing as if for the other to state his business. "Well, sir," he
                  resumed in a sharper tone, as the young man, dropping his eyes to the floor, did not seem in haste to reply,
                  "to what am I indebted for this intrusion of Edgar Courtly?"
               "Pardon me!" answered the young man, in a subdued tone, closing the door and
                  taking a few steps forward, but still with his eyes cast down. "I am sorry sir,
                  that circumstances have forced me to intrude myself in this manner, but——"
               "Stop!" interrupted the other, bluntly; "you make use of wrong phrases. There are
                     no circumstances, young man, let me tell you, which can
                     force a person, well brought up, beyond the rules of good
                  breeding. No man of honor, sir, with a spark of the gentleman in him,
                  could by any means be induced to intrude himself on another, when previously
                  informed of that other's desire not to be disturbed."
               "Well, sir, as you will—but at present I have more urgent matters than a
                  disputation on a trifling point of etiquette. I came here, to this house, sir, to
                  see you, sent a message to you to that effect, and not succeeding by that means in
                  bringing you to me, have taken the liberty of calling on you in your own
                  apartment."
               "At the risk of being kicked down stairs for your trouble," retorted the other,
                  flushing with anger.
               "No, I do not think I run any such risk," rejoined Edgar, giving the other such a
                  firm, cool, determined look, that he moved uneasily in his seat, let his eyes sink
                  to the floor, and slightly coughed, by way of filling up the unpleasant interval
                  and reassuring himself. "I hardly think I run any such risk," pursued the young
                  man, approaching the table, and even bending over toward the other, as he added
                  the sarcastic interrogation: "Do you, Mr. Atherton?"
               "Ahem!" growled the other; "ahe-e-m! Come, come—what does all this mean? What is
                  it you want here with me at this time of night, Edgar Courtly?"
               "Justice," answered young Edgar, promptly.
               "How, sir? in what way? what do you mean?"
               "My mother, sir, I fear is dying."
               "Well?" was the cold response.
               "Well, say you!" cried the other, with a burst of indignation. "Well, say you! By
                  heavens, sir, it is not well, but most wofully ill! My mother, I say, I fear is
                  dying, and without the comforts of life, without medicine, without proper food,
                  and without fire. Think of that on such a night as this!"
               "Well?" was the rejoinder again.
               "I came here for money, sir—the filthy dross of the earth, which, by its potent
                  charm, can command all mortal aid."
               "And why here? why come you to me? Have I not forbid you my house?"
               "And why to you?" repeated the other indignantly, taking no heed of the last
                  insult; "because, unfortunately, the blood of my mother runs in your veins. She is
                  your sister."
               "'Tis false!" cried the man of wealth; "false as a two-faced evil spirit. She is
                  not my sister: I have disowned her: I did so on the day she threw herself away
                  upon your father."
               The young man reddened at this, bit his lips, and for a few minutes seemed almost
                  vainly struggling to command his temper. He succeeded, however, at last, and then
                  said, in a low tone, with forced calmness:
               "Ay, you did disown her, as you say; and well for her and all others concerned had
                  you stopped there, and not carried your dark, double-dealing villainy any further.
                  You disowned her for a time, played the villain openly, and afterwards acted the
                  still more villainous part of a hypocrite. You disowned your sister because she
                  had married a poor man; but when you
                  found that, by good fortune, energy and perseverance, my father was in a fair way
                  to amass a handsome competence, you thought it wise to play the fawning sycophant,
                  that you might ingratiate yourself with him, and rob him of his honest earnings.
                  You played the penitent—said you had been hasty—that you regretted what you had
                  done, and hoped all would be overlooked. In short, you worked upon the noble
                  nature of my father until he was led to think you a conscientious, honest man, and
                  took you into his confidence, only to be stung at last, as when one clasps a
                  serpent to his bosom. Yes, sir, my father was wealthy, as you know, and as you
                  alone know to what extent. Reposing at last every confidence in you, he left you
                  in charge of all his affairs, and went abroad on business. The vessel he sailed in
                  was lost, and all perished; and when this news reached you, then it was you showed
                  your cloven foot; then it was you threw off in part the mask, and in part revealed
                  yourself a devil incarnate. Suddenly then you discovered my father had left a
                  will, by which, after a small pittance to my mother, sister and myself, you became
                  sole heir to his vast possessions. You grieved sorely about his death, as every
                  one could see by your solemn, pale face and sable robes, and by the punctilious
                  manner in which you administered on his last will and testament, claiming to a
                  cent every thing to which you had now a legal right, even to the mansion my nearly
                  distracted mother then inhabited. All this you did with a smooth, oily tongue, but
                  wobegone countenance, saying it was not for the property you sought—that you cared
                  nothing about that—but that all you did was simply done to carry out the desires
                  of your dearly adored, but unfortunate brother; that when every thing should have
                  become satisfactorily settled, you would present your sister the estate, and every
                  thing should go on as smoothly as before. Did you do this? Ask your own
                  self-condemning conscience, if you have one. Did you do this? Let the widow's
                  prayers and orphans' tears answer. Did you do this? Turn to the great Register of
                  Heaven, on which all good and evil deeds are written, and see if you can trace
                  aught there commendable. Did you do this? No, base hypocrite! as I now tell you to
                  your teeth you are, you did no such thing. On one pretence and another, you
                  disposed of the property and removed to this city, where you have been, and are
                  still, living on your ill-gotten gains; and where you promised, if my mother would
                  follow, you would support her handsomely. Thinking you might have a particle of
                  humanity in your composition, and would restore her in part what was rightfully
                  her own, she sold her effects and came hither, only to find herself and children
                  beggars, and wholly disowned by a miscreant brother."
               The young man was still on the point of proceeding further, when the other, unable
                  to endure more, sprung from his seat, and, with demoniac rage depicted on his
                  countenance, exclaimed:
               "Hold, rash boy! or, by the living powers, I'll have you ejected from my presence
                  as I would an assassin!"
               "Nay," returned Edgar, coolly, "do not get in a passion, Mr. Atherton—uncle I will
                  not call you, since you deny relationship—do not be uneasy, sir; but sit down and
                  hear me out, for the worst is still to come. Nay, no frowns, for they will not
                  intimidate me in the least, and can therefore do you no service. Nay, furthermore,
                  do not attempt to leave the room, nor to call assistance here, or I will not be
                  answerable for the consequences—and just now I am somewhat of a desperate
                  individual, Mr. Atherton. There, that is right," he added, as, after some
                  hesitation, the other at length resumed his seat; "now I will proceed in
                  brief:
               
               "I have said, Mr. Atherton, that so soon as it was ascertained my father was dead,
                  you somehow mysteriously discovered a will, which made you principal heir to his
                  possessions. Now, although this was found in due form, bearing his signature and
                  that of several witnesses; and although, in turning to the court register, it was
                  found entered the day previous to his setting sail for the continent; still, good
                  Mr. Atherton, since I must speak the truth, I grieve to say there were not wanting
                  those base enough to insinuate to my mother and myself, that Ethan Courtly, my
                  sainted father, never had the honor of reading a line of it, or in fact of knowing
                  he had set his hand to any such document."
               "But—but," gasped the other, turning pale with excitement, "you—you——"
               "Pray do not get in a passion," pursued Edgar. "Keep cool, Mr. Atherton, keep
                  cool. I know you would ask if I believe any such base insinuations. The fact is,
                  you see, just now it is perfectly immaterial what I believe. I have no time to say
                  further, than that I came here for money, and money I must have—or,
                  mark me, Mr. Atherton, the most heavy of consequences shall rest on your head. If
                  you ever did any wrong in your life—mind, now, I say if—(and the dark hazel eye of
                  young Edgar was fixed piercingly upon the other, as if to read his very soul,) you
                  doubtless had some assistance; and it sometimes happens that tools turn traitors.
                     Some things are known. Do you understand me? I came for money. Can
                  I have it?"
               The abrupt manner in which the young man concluded, the peculiar emphasis he laid
                  upon certain words, and the peculiar look which accompanied them, implied he knew
                  far more than he chose then to reveal; and produced a curious effect upon his
                  uncle; insomuch that he changed color often, dropped his eyes to the ground, moved
                  uneasily in his seat, and allowed himself to be perceptibly embarrassed. At the
                  last question he started suddenly, and answered rather quickly:
               "Certainly, certainly—how much do you want?" And then, bethinking he had thrown
                  himself off his guard, he as quickly added: "That is—I—I must say—that—that—I am
                  willing to assist my sister—or your mother, I should say—some—but do not feel able
                  to do so to any great extent at present: in fact, to tell the truth, have no funds
                  at all about me—but if you will call——"
               "Nay," interrupted the other, "I will manage that. Just give me your check for a
                  certain amount."
               "Certainly I would—but—"began the other, and then stopping, as a sudden thought
                  struck him, (which must have been prompted by the devil, if one might judge by the
                  deep, sinister smile that curled for a moment around his mouth, shone in his eyes,
                  and then vanished like one's breath from a mirror,) he added: "Certainly I
                  will—let me see!—yes, I will do it;" and going to his escrutoire, he wrote a few lines and handed them to the young man,
                  with the injunction to trouble him no more, but hie to his mother and relieve her
                  as soon as possible.
               Glancing at the paper, Edgar Courtly was surprised to discover it a check for one
                  thousand dollars on a banker in Wall street. The first impulse of his generous
                  soul, was to seize his uncle's hand and crave pardon for all he had said, and own
                  he had done him wrong; but then, remembering the peculiar manner by which the
                  other had been wrought to this liberality, he altered his intention, and simply
                  said:
               "Sir, I thank you! Good night!" and with the last words he opened the door and
                  disappeared.
               "Ha, ha!" laughed Oliver Atherton, as the form he hated quitted his sight; "you thank me, do you, you
                  little know for what. Well, Edgar Courtly, you triumph now in your own conceit;
                  but my turn will come next; and then—and then—"and shaking his head, with a dark
                  smile, but leaving the sentence unfinished, he resumed his seat at the table, and
                  turned again to his paper, as though nothing had occurred to disturb his
                  equanimity.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE HOUSE OF DEATH.
               IN a dingy, filthy street, known to those familiar with New York as Mott, there
                  stood, among a great many others of the same class, an old, dilapidated, wooden
                  structure, which, though it could scarcely bear the title of dwelling, was used as
                  such, or rather as an abode, by a few miserable tenants, whose poverty precluded
                  the possibility of their seeking one more pleasant and commodious. Since its
                  erection, the street whereon it stood had been somewhat raised, which gave to the
                  building the appearance of being sunk into the earth some two or three feet. Its
                  windows could hardly boast a sound pane of glass—in some cases not any—and the
                  door of entrance was broken from its hinges. There was no fear of thieves here,
                  for the simple reason that there was nothing within worth the trouble of stealing;
                  and hence the tenants lived less in dread of their neighbors than of the elements,
                  whose cold penetration, on such a night as we have described in the opening
                  chapter, was any thing but agreeable. Between this building and a similar one on
                  the left, ran a narrow, filthy alley, communicating with a miserable hovel in the
                  rear, containing only two apartments, badly ventilated and poorly lighted. To this
                  latter we must for the present direct our attention.
               In the front apartment—or at least in that apartment nearest the street, for
                  neither, strictly speaking, could be called front—on the night our story opens,
                  there were two occupants—a mother and
                  daughter—the former lying upon a rude bed, worn down almost to a skeleton, and in
                  the agonies of a disease which was fast bearing her to a world that knows no
                  sorrow; and the latter kneeling by her side on the damp floor, clasping her thin
                  hand, and weeping the bitterest tears a mortal can feel. The elder was a woman
                  slightly turned of forty, but bearing the marks of sixty years—the third score
                  being added by trouble rather than time. Although, as previously stated, sadly
                  wasted by sorrow and disease, yet the outlines of her pale, sunken features, and a
                  glance of her deep blue eye, which was scarcely shorn of its wonted luster, showed
                  she had once been a very beautiful being—beautiful by reason of intellect as well
                  as person. In sooth what is beauty of person without intellect, but the cold
                  expressionless wax figure, or the equally inanimate doll?
               The features and form of the daughter bore a strong resemblance to those of her
                  mother in her palmiest days. Her skin was fine and clear, and her deep blue eyes
                  beamed with a soft and tender light, showing a soul full of all the sweetest,
                  purest and holiest feelings of humanity. Her hair was a light brown, and parted
                  over a smooth, handsome forehead, which gave to her a noble and benevolent
                  appearance. In fine, combine the whole features—which to define singly would
                  almost be impossible, as the strong points for which the painter would seek were
                  every where wanting—and you beheld one of those angelic creatures that seemed
                  formed to convey to us an accurate conception of beings too lovely to dwell in a
                  place so cold and heartless, unless for a brief period, to soften, as it were, by
                  the sunshine of their presence, the dark and cheerless aspect which must otherwise
                  surround us. Her form not above medium, was airy and graceful as that of a sylph;
                  while her tiny feet and white delicate hands would have won favor from the most
                  fastidious connoissieur. Add to this, that her age was just eighteen, and with a
                  little imagination you can place her accurately before your mind's eye.
               Lovely as she was in person, not less so was she in those virtues which most adorn
                  her sex. There was nothing in her disposition of a cold, haughty, repulsive
                  nature; but, on the contrary, she was ardent, mild and affectionate, forgiving to
                  a fault, and full of all those sweet and holy sympathies which sometimes make us
                  pause and wonder why earth is permitted to contain a being so illy suited to its
                  jars and discords. But a little reflection will show us that this is a wise
                  ordination of that Great Being who set the wheels of creation in motion—for what
                  would our world be without occasionally such spirits to produce a harmony with the
                  rough cords of life? Without such gentle spirits, what would earth be but
                  pandemonium—a darkened sphere of gloom and sorrow, illumined by no ray of
                  happiness?
               The apartment where these two beings were, was unfurnished, or at least so
                  scantily as to be unworthy of the name. A few rough chairs, an old worm-eaten
                  bureau, a deal table, on which stood a sickly tallow candle, sending forth a
                  dismal light, that rather served to show than dispel the darkness, together with
                  the bed and a few of the most common articles in use, completed the list. In the
                  fire-place lingered a few embers, fast going out for lack of fuel to renew the
                  flame.
               And this cold, dismal, dungeon-like place, was the present abode of those whose
                  every look and gesture, to say nothing of their language, told that to them it was
                  a new life, or rather a living wretchedness to which they had never been
                  accustomed. Oh, what a gloomy scene was this! what a terrible trial for those to
                  undergo who had heretofore fore been used
                  to wealth, ease and refinement! What are the sufferings of the miserable wretches
                  who have never known aught but poverty, compared with those who feel it for the
                  first time? In any case such condition is hard enough to bear, Heaven knows; but
                  the horrors thereof are increased ten-fold, when it falls upon such as have been
                  born and bred in the halls of wealth. How the sensitive soul shudders and shrinks
                  within itself, and even longs to escape its frail tenement of clay, and soar to
                  that world of bliss where sorrow never enters, and all is bright and glorious
                  sunshine forever!
               And here were these unfortunate beings, alone by themselves, on a dismal night,
                  when the storm without was howling in fury, shaking their frail abode even to its
                  foundation, as it whistled and moaned through the crevices with a wail like the
                  voices of imprisoned spirits seeking to escape their hell of torture. And why were
                  they here on such a night as this? Let the wrongs of humanity answer. Let the
                  crimes of those who sit in high places answer. Let him, no matter who nor where,
                  who has robbed the widow and the orphan of their last mite, answer—ay, answer
                  before that Great Tribunal where Justice alone sits Judge, and Power and Wealth
                  and Position stand but as chaff before the gale. As this poor widow and her
                  daughter were on the night we introduce them, so have thousands been both before
                  and since; and from the same cause, the wrongs of those who have occupied, and do
                  occupy, a high place in the eyes of the worldly wise. But look to it, ye Wrongers,
                  and tremble! for as surely as that the sun shines at noon-day, that the stars are
                  above us in the night, or that death will overtake you, so surely will there come
                  a day of retribution—of fearful reckoning—when your canting hypocrisy will avail
                  you not—when the "silver veil" will be stripped from your vile features, and you
                  will stand forth before the eye of Almighty God in your own natural, hideous
                  deformity! Look to it, we repeat, and tremble! for it will be a fearful, a
                  terribly fearful moment to you.
               For a few moments mother and daughter remained as introduced, with hands clasped
                  in each others, while the quick breathings of the invalid, the sobbings of the
                  younger, and the raging of the storm, were the only sounds audible. It was a damp,
                  cold night, and yet they were almost without fire, and both so thinly covered that
                  they shivered in spite of their efforts to the contrary.
               "Do not weep, my child!" said the invalid at length; "do not weep, Virginia! for
                  your tears make my sufferings intense."
               "Oh! how can I help it, mother?" returned the other, lifting her soft, wet eyes to
                  her parent, with a fresh burst of grief. "How can I help it, mother, when I behold
                  you thus, on a bed of sickness and pain: and—and—perhaps death, (she shuddered at
                  the last dreadful word,) without even the ordinary comforts of life to relieve in
                  part your sufferings? Oh! it is too much—too much!" and she again sobbed aloud
                  with grief.
               "It is hard, my daughter, I know," rejoined the other; "very, very hard; but then,
                  my sweet Virginia, we should remember it is the will of God, who does all things
                  for the best."
               "So I try to think, dear mother; and so I do think, and know; and I have struggled
                  long and hard to be composed, and not excite you with my grief—but in vain. My cup
                  of bitterness seems over full, and these tears will come in spite of all my
                  efforts to the contrary. When I think of what we were once, and what we now are,
                  and to what we owe our misfortunes, it is impossible for me to restrain myself, and it seems as if my brain were
                  on fire and I must go mad."
               "But," pursued the other, "you must not give way, my child! I feel certain our
                  afflictions are all for the best, even though we, poor, weak, short-sighted
                  mortals, cannot see into the great futurity. We are chastened, and most severely,
                  but it is by the hand of our Maker, and for some good end—perhaps that we may wean
                  our thoughts and affections from the world, and place them on more holy
                  things."
               "Ah! dear mother," returned the daughter, affectionately, "it is gratifying to
                  hear you talk thus—you who have suffered so much—to see you so resigned to the
                  will of Him who holds our destinies in his hand; for did you indeed repine, I am
                  sure my reason would desert me. But still, for all, dear mother, I cannot restrain
                  these tears—tears that come to relieve the overcharged soul—and I thank my God I
                  can weep. You are sick, dear mother—you are suffering, perhaps with the pangs of
                  death—and yet without aught to relieve you—with no kind friends but your own
                  unfortunate children to shed a tear or feel an emotion for your fate!—And we,
                  alas! cannot assist you. Look around this desolate apartment, and say, can I help
                  but weep? It is cold, and dismal, and our scanty fire is going out. Oh! mother,"
                  she cried, with a new burst of grief, "you are dying for want of the ordinary
                  comforts of life!"
               "But I trust all will be better soon, my sweet Virginia. Edgar, you know, has gone
                  to see his uncle, who, however unmindful of our necessities he may have been, will
                  surely not reject his petition when he learns our present condition."
               "Hope for nothing there, mother—hope for nothing from him!" rejoined the other;
                  "for he who was so base as to rob us of all we had, and then so shamefully deceive
                  us, is devoid of all pity."
               "Well, well, my child, do not despond, for God is good, though man be base. Is it
                  not most time for Edgar to return? I wish he would come—for—I—I—feel—very—very
                  weak;" and her voice died away to a whisper.
               Virginia sprang to her feet, with a look of alarm.
               "Oh, mother!" she cried, wildly, observing a marked change in the features of the
                  invalid—a kind of deathly sinking about the eyes, and a lividness around the lips:
                  "Oh, mother! dear mother! you surely are not dying?"
               For a few moments Mrs. Courtly vainly struggled to speak. At last she gasped,
                  rather than said:
               "I—I—trust not, Vir-gin-ia; but—I—am very—we—weak—and—and—feel strangely."
               "Oh God!" burst from the terrified Virginia. "Dying, and no one by! Heaven help
                  me! Oh, merciful Father, help me! Oh, you must not die, mother!" she continued,
                  wildly. "Pray take something to revive you! Here," she cried, seizing a small tin
                  cup that rested on the table, and hurriedly applying it to the lips of the other,
                  "take a draught of water!"
               Poor creature! God help her! it was all she had to give.
               With a slight motion of the hand, the invalid waved it away, saying in a feeble
                  tone:
               "I wish Edgar would come. Ah! how dark it grows! Has the candle gone out,
                  Virginia?"
               "No, mother, it is still burning, but feebly."
               "Then my sight must be failing, for I can hardly see."
               "Oh, this is terrible!" shrieked Virginia, sinking upon her knees and burying her
                  face in the miserable covering of the bed. A groan from the sufferer made her
                  again spring to her feet. "Are you dying, mother," she asked, wildly; "really
                  dying, think you?"
               
               "Alas!" sighed the other; "that is more than I can say. I feel strangely—perhaps
                  the hand of death is on me."
               Virginia instantly caught hold of her hands. They felt cold. She then tried her
                  temples and feet. They were cold also. Then she began chafing different parts of
                  her body, while her own bosom heaved with emotions too deep for language to
                  express. While thus occupied, there came a rap upon the door.
               "Ha!" exclaimed Mrs. Courtly, with something like returning animation, "God grant
                  it be Edgar!" and as Virginia sprung forward to give him admittance, she added, in
                  an under tone; "for I would see him again ere I depart to return no more."
               "And how is mother now?" were the first words Edgar spoke as he crossed the
                  threshold.
               "Alas! I fear she is dying," whispered his sister.
               "Dying!" cried Edgar; and with one bound he stood beside the bed of his mother,
                  and would have embraced her, only that he remembered in time that his garments
                  were dripping wet.
               "I am glad you have come, Edgar," spoke Mrs. Courtly, in a very weak, husky tone,
                  "for I was afraid I should never behold you again."
               "Are you then so much worse, dear mother?" inquired Edgar, in a tremulous voice,
                  striving to master his feelings so as not to appear agitated.
               "Yes, Edgar," was the reply; "mortal aid, I fear, can avail me nothing now. I feel
                  the hand of death upon me. My sight has already failed me. I cannot see you.—Give
                  me your hand. And now yours, Virginia;" and as they both silently complied, she
                  continued:
               "My dear children, you must not weep and mourn for me, for you know I shall be
                  better off in the land to which I am hastening. True, I could have desired to live
                  longer, to comfort you with my counsel in these your darkest hours of
                  adversity—but it is not permitted, and I will not murmur. You know what is right
                  and proper; and I trust, when I am gone, you will not swerve from the path of duty
                  and rectitude. However sorely you may be tried, and God alone knows to what extent
                  that will be, I beseech you, with a dying prayer, never to do wrong! never to be
                  led from the path of virtue into that of vice! I know you will have many
                  temptations before you—will have examples of how the wicked prosper—but still be
                  firm to your dying mother's injunctions, and all will in the end be well. My
                  children, I charge you, with my last breath, to value honor and virtue more than
                  life! I would say more, but my strength is failing me so fast I cannot."
               While speaking, both Edgar and Virginia stood gazing upon the countenance of their
                  dying parent in silence, but with breasts heaving with feelings too deep and
                  potent for the pen to record. As she ceased, Edgar exclaimed:
               "Oh! mother! do not say you are dying! Perhaps it is only a faintness—a want of
                  food—or of some reviving cordial. Cheer up, dear mother! you shall have every
                  thing. I am rich now, dearest mother. I succeeded in my errand. See here! I have
                  my uncle's check for a thousand dollars;" and he held the paper up before her.
               "Then you will not starve, my children, God be thanked!" cried Mrs. Courtly,
                  fervently, with energy. "I can die happier now for the thought. But it comes too
                  late for me—for already I stand on the brink of death."
               "Nay, mother, perhaps not. Stay! something must be done! I will run for a
                  physician. I know I shall not be refused when I show this."
               As he spoke, he turned hurriedly away and darted to the door to execute his purpose, but the feeble
                  voice of his mother arrested his progress.
               "Stay, Edgar," she said; "stay, I implore you! for if you leave me now, you will
                  never behold me again on earth. I am more and more convinced, every moment, that I
                  am dying—that I shall speedily pass away."
               Edgar slowly returned, and again taking her hand, the manly tears he could no
                  longer restrain followed each other mournfully down his anguished features; while
                  his sister, placing her head on her mother's pillow, sobbed aloud. It was a
                  heart-rending and dismal scene. 
                     
                        Without the winds did fiercely blow—
                        Within were desolation—wo.
                     
                  
               
               For a few moments no voice broke the cheerless monotony of the driving storm. Then
                  the invalid feebly said:
               "Kneel, my children, and pray?"
               Both silently obeyed; and as they arose from their knees and bent over their
                  mother, each drew back with a start. The next moment a wild shriek from Virginia
                  told the fearful tale.
               Their mother was dead. During that prayer her spirit had passed away—gone from
                  earth—returned to God who gave it.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE LIVING MOURNERS.
               IT is a terrible thing to be alone in spirit. To feel, while surrounded by a
                  multitude, there is not a single heart vibrating in sympathy with your own. To
                  feel you are encompassed by cold, heartless strangers; that there is no tie to
                  bind you to earth; no inducement for you to cling to a life already burdensome,
                  unless it be the solemn dread of the uncertain change in throwing off this "mortal
                  coil." How many have felt thus! How many still feel! How many have stood beside
                  the bed of death, and seen the eyes that ever looked bright on them, close; the
                  lips which murmured in their last action naught but words of hope and comfort to
                  them, sealed forever; the breath which seemed the Promethean spark of their own
                  existence, cease; and the soul, which was the life of their life, wing its flight
                  for aye beyond the shores of time; and felt that their last and only friend was
                  eternally gone to that realm whence no mortal power can summon back. How many have
                  felt thus, and in their anguish and despondency have sunk down and prayed that God
                  would soon let them follow. Millions have felt thus; millions still feel; and
                  millions unborn shall suffer yet the same. The world is full of misery. There is
                  no such thing as unalloyed happiness here. Our very joys derive their chiefest
                  pleasure from the strong contrast they present to our sorrows—the while our
                  heaviest sorrows are lightened by the joys built on the hopes of the future.
                  Perhaps it is this variety— this sunshine
                  and storm—that gives to life its greatest zest—its fairest attractions; for it is
                  a well established fact, we can only know pleasure from having experienced
                  pain.
               It was thus, but not wholly thus, with Edgar and Virginia. They were alone in the
                  wide world, yet not wholly alone. They had each other to live for, each other to
                  weep for, each other to pray for, each other to console. But still they were as
                  lopped branches from the withered trunk. Their mother, their only parent, in whom
                  the deepest affections of both centered, was dead; and their young hearts felt
                  anguish-stricken and desolate. They felt and knew she at least was
                  better for the change; and yet, though they prized her happiness above their own,
                  they wept passionately, bitterly, their irreparable loss; for such is the
                  selfishness of even the most unselfish of mankind.
               It was a sight to wring the heart of a stoic, to behold them stand, on that
                  ill-fated, gloomy night, by the corpse of her whose whole soul in life had
                  breathed naught but love and tenderness, and vainly implore her in touching
                  accents to look upon them once more—to let them again hear the sound of her sweet,
                  beloved voice—while the only answer returned was the seemingly fiercer howl of the
                  Storm Spirit. Oh! who shall tell the anguish of that youth and maiden, as they
                  grasped the hands of her they best loved in life, and passionately pressed them to
                  their hearts—but found them cold and inactive—found them give no pressure in
                  return!
               For a few minutes after the sufferer had breathed her last, both Edgar and
                  Virginia occupied themselves as just described; and then, finding too truly she
                  was dead, the latter threw herself upon the corpse, and again and again kissed her
                  cold livid lips, and wept, and groaned, and sobbed alternately; while the former,
                  sinking upon a seat, buried his face in his hands, and rocked to and fro like a
                  strong oak shaken by the tempest. For a time he was unable to shed a tear, and his
                  heart crept to his throat and almost strangled him, and his brain seemed parched
                  and withered. In this state he arose and paced the floor for some minutes, during
                  which the working of his features showed that his soul was on the rack of agony
                  the most intense. At last, greatly to his relief, he burst into tears; and again
                  seating himself, for a long time he wept freely.
               An hour passed, and both Edgar and Virginia had become more calm. In sooth, the
                  latter had lain herself down by the corpse, and with one arm thrown over its
                  breast, and her face partly buried in the clothes, and cried herself into a kind
                  of dreamy stupor, from which she only aroused occasionally to draw a long, sobbing
                  breath. Edgar, on regaining somewhat his former composure, approached the bed, and
                  bending over his much loved sister, gently whispered her name; but finding she
                  took no heed of him, he resolved not to disturb her; and reseating himself near
                  her, he took a hand of the corpse in his own, and was soon lost in a painful
                  revery.
               An hour and then another went by, and still Edgar sat as before, motionless and
                  silent, with features so rigid, that, but for his breathing, he might naturally
                  enough have been mistaken for one of the dead himself. Meanwhile the sobbing of
                  Virginia had become less and less frequent, until at last her breathing announced
                  that, for a short time, she had forgot her troubles in a quiet sleep. Again
                  arousing himself, Edgar now arose, and collecting all the loose clothes he could
                  find, gently spread them over his sister; and then bending down, and pressing his
                  lips to her forehead, softly murmured:
               "God bless thee, thou sweet but fragile flower, and let thy sleep be long, that
                     some misery may be spared thee!" and then taking his position as before, he remained
                  the sad and lonely watcher of the night.
               Towards morning the storm abated; and though shivering with the cold, for his
                  garments had not been changed and the fire had long since gone out, Edgar,
                  overcome by fatigue and excitement, at last dropped off into a feverish slumber,
                  constantly broken by sudden starts, and as constantly renewed by exhausted nature.
                  And thus passed that eventful night.
               The gray of morning was just streaming through the dingy window and crevices of
                  the old hovel, as Edgar, arousing himself with a start and shaking off his
                  drowsiness, turned to his sister. Much to his gratification he found her still
                  asleep; and again stealing a kiss and pressing his lips to the cold cheek of his
                  mother, he sallied forth to procure fuel and food, and make arrangements for the
                  last sad rite he would ever be called upon to perform for her who had given him
                  existence. By this time the storm had ceased entirely; but still it was cold and
                  damp, and the pavements slippery with ice. Only a few persons were abroad in the
                  street, and most of the houses were closed, and looked as cold and cheerless as he
                  felt at heart.
               Moving on for a square and a half, Edgar came to a small, miserable looking
                  grocery, (numbers of which can be seen at all times in all parts of New York,
                  where a little of every thing is kept and doled out to the poor in any quantity,
                  from the value of a cent upwards,) the owner of which was just taking down his
                  shutters, preparatory to his morning's sale. Here Edgar knew he could procure
                  every thing he desired at the present, even to a few sticks of wood, or a small
                  measure of coal; and approaching the grocer, a rough, coarse looking Dutchman, he
                  said, blandly;
               "I wish to purchase a few necessary articles, and in the course of the day will
                  call and settle for them."
               The Dutchman shrugged his shoulders and gave him a contemptuous look, as he
                  replied:
               "I never trusts nopodys, and den nopodys don't never sheats me."
               "But, my good sir," pursued Edgar, reddening, "I do not intend to cheat you. I
                  will call, I pledge you my honor, and pay you every cent between this and night. I
                  have a check about me for a large amount, which, as soon as business opens in Wall
                  street, I will have cashed, and then I can settle for a thousand times the value
                  of all I now require."
               "Vare you lives?" queried the Dutchman; and as Edgar informed him, he continued:
                  "Vy you has der sheck and not der moneys?"
               "I only procured it last night, and have not since had an opportunity of disposing
                  of it."
               "What for den you wants der trusts now?" asked the still unsatisfied grocer. "Vy
                  you don't vaits till you sells him, and comes mit der cash?"
               "Because," answered Edgar, humoring him, in the hope he would grant his request,
                  "it is necessary I should have a few articles now. My home is entirely devoid of
                  every thing one needs. My poor mother (and here in spite of himself his eyes
                  became filled with tears, and his voice faltered and grew husky,) last night
                  breathed her last in this abode of wretchedness, without fire, food, or
                  medicine—for our last cent had been expended and its purchase exhausted—and now my
                  poor sister, whom I have left alone with her, will sorely suffer, unless I procure
                  something immediately."
               The Dutchman shook his head with a frown, as he rejoined:
               "It won't do. You tells a goot story—quite petter ash nopody else; but it ish all a tam lie, mit der
                  sheck and all You tries again, and somepody ash don't know much, you makes believe
                  him. You shust go, mit your dead motter and shister, and your great sheck, vich
                  you han't got more nor as I, mitout you stole him;" and saying this, the
                  hard-hearted grocer turned his back on Edgar, and coolly proceded to finish taking
                  down his shutters.
               For a few moments, Edgar stood as one stupified with amazement, at the gross
                  insult to himself, coupled as it was with such cool indifference. Then his hand
                  clenched, his teeth closed tightly, his lips quivered, his eyes flashed fierce
                  indignation, and he took a step forward, with the full determination of punishing
                  the other for his insolence; but then, bethinking himself he would only become
                  involved in a quarrel—which, to say the least, would now be most imprudent—he
                  turned away, muttering:
               "Such is the selfish, uncharitable world—and why should I quarrel with what I
                  cannot alter! Oh, why was I born to come in contact with such base spirits! God of
                  the orphan and friendless, protect and direct me! for wild thoughts are busy in my
                  brain, and my heart seems turning to stone, like those of the wretches around
                  me."
               In a few minutes Edgar had entered another of these miserable groceries, where he
                  met with the same success as before, with the exception that the owner simply
                  refused to trust, without further insulting him. Sadly dispirited and chagrined,
                  he tried another, and still another, but in each met the same cold reply—all
                  refused to credit his tale—and he slowly retraced his steps to his desolate abode,
                  overwhelmed with grief, crushed in spirit, and nearly heart-broken.
               "I must perforce wait," he said, bitterly, "till I can procure the means to
                  satisfy their uncharitable, avaricious natures. But poor, poor Virginia! how she
                  will suffer;" and he groaned at the thought.
               As he said this, he felt for his check, to be certain he still had resources to
                  depend upon. To his surprise it was not where he expected to find it. Alarmed at
                  this, he made an eager search of his garments; and then, who shall judge of his
                  dismay and horror, when he discovered it was missing—that his last and only stay
                  of support, in this his most trying hour, was gone.
               "Oh, God!" he groaned, "if that be lost, what will become of us?" and almost
                  maddened with excitement, he hurried back to his wretched abode, in the hope he
                  might there find it.
               The door was slightly ajar; and as he rushed into the chamber of death, he found
                  Virginia bending over the corpse of her mother, wringing her delicate hands and
                  weeping bitterly, while beside her stood a female, but a few years her senior,
                  striving by gentle words to console her.
               "Do not weep and take on so, fair girl!" he heard uttered as he crossed the
                  threshold.
               "Oh, Edgar, my dear brother!" cried Virginia, as she heard his step; and springing
                  forward, she threw her arms around his neck, buried her face upon his bosom, and
                  sobbed grievously.
               "My poor, sweet Virginia!" murmured Edgar, tenderly, straining her to his heart,
                  while his eyes grew dim with scalding tears.
               "I heard her cry of agony, sir," said the strange female, apologetically, "and
                  thinking it some person in sore distress, I hurried to her relief, which accounts
                  for my presence here."
               "For which God bless you!" returned Edgar, in that deep, earnest, passionate tone
                  which carries with it the unmistakable evidence of sincerity.
               
               The visiter gave him one heartfelt look of gratitude, and then, much to his
                  surprise, covered her eyes with her hands, sunk into a seat and burst into tears.
                  Before Edgar could ask for an explanation of this singular conduct, she rose, and
                  hastily wiping her eyes, as if ashamed of her emotion, said, in a sad, earnest,
                  tremulous voice:
               "You are surprised to witness this strange ebullition of feeling; but, sir, it is
                  a long time since I have heard God's blessing invoked upon my guilty head;" and
                  again, in spite of herself, the tears pressed through her eyelids.
               Edgar looked kindly but sadly upon her ere he made a reply; and even Virginia for
                  the moment forgot her own grief, and, turning her head, beamed upon her guest a
                  curious but tender expression from her soft blue eyes, which touched the other to
                  the very soul. Both she and her brother now instantly became aware that their
                  guest belonged to that class of poor unfortunates whom the world takes pride in
                  despising, rather than reclaiming, the while it harbors and pampers the damnable
                  villains that make them what they are.
               She had once been a lovely creature; but though scarcely turned of twenty years,
                  there was a sad look of grief, and care, and heart desolation in her appearance.
                  Her once fine, noble looking features were pale and almost haggard, and her bright
                  dark eye had lost some of its wonted brilliant lustre. Still she was handsome,
                  though in a measure the wreck of what she had been. Her features were fine and
                  regular, and there predominated over all an expression of feeling—of sympathy with
                  the sorrows of others, and a kind benevolence—which rendered her an object of
                  interest and pity to such as could properly appreciate these highborn qualities.
                  Her complexion was an olive; and her hair, black and shiny as the raven's plume,
                  was neatly parted and arranged with care, though the loose wrapper she wore, told
                  she had just risen and had not yet completed her morning toilet.
               "And you, too, fair lady, have felt the wrongs of mankind most bitterly!" said
                  Edgar, in a soothing, sympathetic tone, accompanied with an expression in keeping
                  with the words he uttered.
               "Suffered!" returned the other, shuddering at the thought; "yes, I have indeed
                  suffered, and God only knows how much."
               "Then," rejoined Virginia, tenderly, "we can the better sympathise with one
                  another, for we have felt the bitterest pangs of wo."
               "Oh, no, not the bitterest, I trust!" returned the other, with energy; "not the
                  bitterest. You have felt not the excruciating pangs of a guilty conscience; for I
                  can see, by your open, generous countenance, you have suffered innocently—that the
                  oppressive weight of guilt is not on your stainless soul, weighing you down to the
                  lowest depths of degradation."
               "No, thank God!" returned Virginia, "I have as yet been spared that."
               "And well may you thank God," rejoined the other, with spirit; "for all the other
                  ills of this life are nothing to compare with it. Once, sweet lady, I was as good
                  and pure, perhaps, as yourself; but the tempter came, and—(here her voice grew
                  tremulous, and she turned away her head to conceal her emotion—) and in an
                  unguarded moment I fell; and now—"She paused, and then suddenly added: "But of
                  what am I thinking, to trouble you with my sorrows, when you have such weighty
                  griefs of your own to contend with;" and she glanced mournfully toward the bed,
                  where still lay the corpse of Mrs. Courtly, as she had breathed her last the night
                  before.
               "My mother!" burst from Virginia, while the tears gushed forth afresh; and approaching the bed, she knelt on
                  the floor, took one of the cold hands of the corpse in her own, pressed it to her
                  lips, and then seemed lost in prayer.
               Both Edgar and the stranger gazed upon her in solemn silence, each busy with
                  painful thoughts; till at length she arose, and turning to her brother, in a
                  calmer mood than she had hitherto exhibited, said:
               "And why did you leave me, Edgar, without telling me you were going? and where
                  have you been? I awoke, and not finding you here, and seeing my dead mother by my
                  side, I felt so wretchedly desolate, that in my anguish of spirit I uttered the
                  cry of agony which brought this kind lady to me."
               "I thought I should return ere you awoke," answered Edgar; "and I went for fuel
                  and food. But I failed to get either," he continued, bitterly, "because the
                  cold-hearted wretches to whom I applied would not sell to me without the money,
                  and that you know I had not. And that reminds me," he added, with a start, "that I
                  have missed the check of my uncle, my sole dependence now, without which we must
                  starve. Did I not drop it here on the floor last night? Have you not seen it,
                  Virginia?" and he began an eager search of the apartment, assisted by his
                  trembling sister.
               "Alas! what will become of us now!" he groaned, as, after a fruitless search, he
                  gave up in despair, and sinking hopelessly upon a seat, covered his face with his
                  hands, as if to shut out the dread contemplation.
               "If it be money you need," said his guest, "thank Heaven! I can assist you, and
                  will, if you will accept my poor offering. Here! here!" she pursued, with
                  vehemence, drawing forth her purse; "here is gold; take it, take it, I beg, I
                  implore of you! for it will be a relief to my conscience to feel I have done one
                  good act."
               "No! no! I dare not take it," returned Edgar, mourn fully, motioning her back with
                  his hand; "for I might never be able to repay you."
               "The deed will repay itself," pursued the other, energetically, thrusting it upon
                  Edgar. "The gold is valueless to me; and if it will ease one sorrow of yours, I
                  shall feel myself tenfold rewarded."
               "God bless you, lady!" cried Virginia, springing forward and seizing her hand,
                  which she bathed with grateful tears: "God bless you! for whatever your faults may
                  have been, you still possess some of the holiest attributes of the angels."
               "There! there!" rejoined the other, affected to tears; "say no more!—you praise me
                  far beyond my deserts."
               "It may possibly be in my power at some future time," said Edgar, rising, and
                  speaking in a voice made husky by deep emotion, "to repay this overwhelming debt
                  of kindness; and if so, rest assured that my very life will be at your command.
                  Your generosity——"
               "Enough! enough!" interrupted the other. "Say no more, I beg of you! for you have
                  more weighty matters to think of at present, and I am fitter for the scoffs and
                  jibes of mankind than such words as these. Your mother must be laid out and
                  interred; and then you must leave this wretched, filthy abode, which is no place
                  for such as you. I will send those to you who will rightly perform the last sad
                  offices to her mortal remains. Meanwhile, procure such things as you need, and if
                  you desire more money, let me know. My residence is just over the way, in yonder
                  brick building. Adieu, for the present. I will soon be with you again, and
                  superintend the laying out of the corpse myself. Here is my card;" and placing it
                  in the hand of Virginia, which she pressed with warmth, she hurried out of the apartment, as if fearful of
                  being detained by further expressions of gratitude.
               Both Edgar and his sister turned to the card, and beheld simply the name of Ellen
                  Douglas, written in a plain, neat hand.
               It is unnecessary for us to longer dwell upon this painful scene. Suffice it,
                  therefore, that Ellen kept her word with regard to the funeral arrangements of
                  Mrs. Courtly; and that, ere the sun had sunk to rest, her remains were followed to
                  their last resting place by a small group, composed principally of the clergyman,
                  Ellen, and the chief mourners, the latter of whom bedewed her humble grave with
                  tears, as she was being buried forever from their sight.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE PAST RECALLED.
               ERE we proceed further with our story, it is important we should touch somewhat
                  upon the past, in order to show the train of circumstances which placed some of
                  our characters in the position they occupied when introduced to the reader. In
                  doing this, we shall endeavor to be as brief as possible, well knowing that, to
                  most, long details of such matters prove excessively tedious. To begin then at the
                  beginning, let us go back some twenty-five years, to the marriage of Ethan Courtly
                  and Mary Atherton, the parents of Edgar and Virginia. From some remarks dropped by
                  Edgar to his uncle, recorded in the opening chapter, the reader has already had an
                  inkling of what is to come; but still there are many things not yet mentioned,
                  which, as a faithful chronicler, we deem it our duty here to set forth.
               At the time the marriage in question took place, Mary and her brother were
                  orphans, living on a small estate bequeathed them by their father, who had died a
                  year or two previous, and who had himself been a widower some three or four years.
                  Their place of residence was near a small village, in the state of Maryland,
                  distant about thirty miles from the city of Baltimore. But notwithstanding they
                  remained on the farm or plantation of their late father, we would not have the
                  reader infer they were wanting in the graces and accomplishments of refined
                  society. On the contrary, their doating father had taken every pains to give both an education and polish superior to
                  those by whom they were surrounded. Oliver had entered college very young, and
                  graduated in his twentieth year; and Mary had left boarding school a ripe scholar
                  at the age of sixteen. In fine, so lavish had been the expenditures of their
                  father on them, that he had much impoverished his small estate; and besides
                  encumbering a part with mortgage, had been obliged to dispose of all his negroes
                  but two, in order to liquidate the more pressing debts.
               At his death, Oliver took charge of the estate, and, by close management, and a
                  sale of a few acres, succeeded in raising the mortgage and becoming sole
                  proprietor; for though his sister was entitled to a portion, he took no other
                  notice of her claims, than to offer her a home so long as she might remain
                  unmarried.
               Mary was not well pleased, for the disposition of her brother was illy suited to
                  render her happy. He was morose and haughty to those he considered his dependents,
                  or held in his power, though fawning enough to his superiors, or such as he
                  expected by hypocritical manœuvres to profit by. He was, withal, very ambitious,
                  grasping and avaricious—so that those who knew him best, shunned him as they would
                  a viper, and scandalized him much whenever his name chanced to be mentioned. But
                  he had a faculty of making his dupes think him perfect; and those on whom he had a
                  design, who had as yet only seen the bright side, could not be brought to believe
                  that the refined, soft-spoken, smiling, agreeable young Atherton could be the base
                  hypocrite men reported him. No! it was wilful, malignant slander, to injure a
                  high-minded, honorable young man; and their sympathies being aroused in
                  consequence, they were only the more fully and blindly drawn into the net he had
                  prepared for them, and which they seldom if ever discovered until too late to
                  escape. He was a man without principle, who would stoop to any meanness to
                  accomplish his end; though, to casually see and hear him converse, one would
                  suppose him the very quintessence of nobleness and honor.
               The first thing that sorely troubled Mary, and opened her eyes to his real
                  nature—for having both been sent to school at an early age, she had seen little of
                  him until her return—was his importuning her to inveigle and marry some rich young
                  man; and this, too, ere their father had been six months in his grave, and while
                  she was deeply mourning his death.
               "Now, do not have any false notions, Mary," he would say to her, "but follow my
                  instructions, and you will soon be mistress of a splendid mansion. I have several
                  acquaintances who are rich, and, though a little wild, that need not matter, for
                  they will be the easier entangled, if the card be rightly played, and be the less
                  likely to look close into the affair afterwards; and so you get plenty of money,
                  and live in elegant style, what need you care? Come! I will invite them here, and
                  trust me, I will soon see you settled as becomes my sister."
               At first Mary thought him in jest, and laughed at his to her curious ideas of what
                  should make a proper husband; but discovering soon her mistake, she mildly
                  reproved him for being so worldly, and firmly declared she would not
                     see his friends alone, much more listen to any proposals of the
                  nature he required, even should they be never so strenuous in urging suit. In vain
                  her brother sought, by all the false reasoning he could invent, to turn her from
                  her resolve. The more he importuned, the firmer she grew; until at last, so
                  repugnant became the subject to her feelings, and so ardent her desire to convince
                  her brother she would never relent, that she took a solemn oath, calling Heaven to
                  witness, she would never, knowingly, marry a man of wealth. Oliver, who had seen enough of his
                  sister to know she would keep her vow, now let the matter drop, and appeared to
                  acquiesce in her decision—though in reality he was secretly laying a plan to
                  entrap her, by introducing to her a young man of wealth, and concealing from her
                  the fact. This plan he put in execution; and the young man apparently proving an
                  agreeable suitor, the affair seemed likely to terminate as he desired.
               Month upon month rolled away, and still the friend of Oliver paid his visits
                  regularly to Mary; and, as is usual in such cases, Rumor, with her thousand
                  tongues, said it would be a match. Oliver was delighted that his scheme was about
                  to succeed; and on the strength of it, he borrowed of his intended brother-in-law
                  a large sum of money, by which to prosecute a suit of his own, in Baltimore, with
                  an heiress.
               But there were two persons who had no faith in the reported marriage ever taking
                  place. One of these was Mary herself, and the name of the other has already been
                  mentioned in these pages, and will soon occur again. With Mary's ostensible lover,
                  it also began to grow doubtful; for whenever he asked the important question, she
                  would always desire further time to consider. At last he grew desperate, and said
                  he would not be put off any longer; that she must answer Yes or No at the end of a
                  week, which he further granted her of his own accord. She calmly replied, that if
                  he would call a week from that night, he should have her positive answer.
               At the time appointed the young man came, and was handed a note by the servant,
                  which contained a direct, though respectful, refusal of his hand. Chagrined at
                  this, he sought young Oliver, who had been the means of bringing him there, and
                  who had often encouraged his addresses, by telling him his sister was passionately
                  in love with him. When Oliver saw the note, he became very much enraged, and
                  inquired for his sister. The servant said she had that evening gone out with the
                  village schoolmaster, Ethan Courtly.
               "By ——!" cried Oliver Atherton, stamping his foot in a paroxysm of anger, "I see
                  it all. I thought that young scape-grace, whom I have frequently seen here of
                  late, was after no good. They have eloped!—My horse! my horse! I must overtake the
                  runaways."
               But Oliver, and his friend who accompanied him, proved too late. Ere the former
                  found his sister, she was the lawful wife of Ethan Courtly; and cursing her in the
                  most vindictive language he could invent, and swearing roundly he would ever after
                  disown her, and sometime be revenged, he turned upon his heel, and, accompanied by
                  his friend, departed in haste.
               Greatly were the good people of Sandville—for so we will call the
                  village—astonished at hearing of the runaway nuptials of Ethan Courtly and Mary
                  Atherton; for so cautiously had both managed, and so blindly had all given
                  credence to the report of her engagement with another, that the news fell upon
                  them like a thunder bolt.
               About a year previous to this marriage, Ethan Courtly, a young man of education
                  and enterprise, had come to the village of Sandville and opened a school, which
                  was soon crowded with pupils. Born in the land of puritans—glorious old New
                  England—he had been educated with correct principles, which he took care ever to
                  display, and by which he won the admiration and esteem of all who knew him, and
                  consequently soon became a favorite with all the good citizens of Sandville. To
                  make a long story short, he met and was introduced to Mary Atherton; and fancying
                  her more than any other he had ever seen, he sought her society, and soon made
                  known to her his regard for herself. To
                  his great delight, he found a cordial reciprocity of feeling; but was told that if
                  he wished to succeed, he must keep the matter wholly to himself, and appear
                  indifferent about her society, in order to avoid arousing the suspicions of
                  Oliver, whom Mary knew would oppose any thing like a marriage, even by violence if
                  necessary, simply because young Courtly had not wealth to recommend him. To cloak
                  still farther this novel and clandestine courtship, Mary permitted the visits of
                  her brother's friend, and even allowed the report of her engagement with him to go
                  abroad without contradiction.
               Thus matters went on to the terminus, which has already been seen, and on which it
                  is unnecessary for us to dwell.
               Immediately on his marriage, Courtly gave up his school and removed with his wife
                  to Baltimore, where, with the little capital he had prudently saved from his
                  earnings, he opened a small retail store. Every thing he undertook prospered with
                  him, and in a few years he had greatly enlarged his business, and was known and
                  respected as a wealthy merchant. He purchased a handsome residence in the environs
                  of the city, where, with his wife and two children, Edgar and Virginia, he lived
                  in as perfect happiness as it is possible for a mortal to enjoy.
               Meantime, Oliver married the heiress to whom allusion has been previously made;
                  but found, soon after, to his disappointment and rage, that she was literally
                  worth nothing; and that to pay the debts he had contracted on the score of
                  expectancy, he would now be obliged to dispose of the homestead estate. The result
                  of the whole matter was, that both he and his wife, having married for money
                  rather than love, each supposing the other the fortunate possessor of half a
                  million, now became greatly dissatisfied with each other, quarrelled often, and
                  finally, after the birth of two children, a son and a daughter, mutually agreed to
                  separate, the father taking the son and the wife the daughter. It was now, that,
                  impoverished and generally despised by all who knew him, Oliver Atherton, the
                  cunning villain, bethought him of his sister, with envy of that very happiness he
                  had once so strenuously sought to prevent.
               But why should he not reconcile himself with her, he mused, and so peradventure
                  get an opportunity to feather his own nest? His sister and her husband were both
                  persons of frank, unsuspicious natures; and a little duplicity, a few penitential
                  tears, and a heart-broken look, would perhaps accomplish all. It was at least
                  worth the trial; for should he succeed, perchance his fortune would be made.
               Thus reasoned the worldly man; and, to be brief, he did make the trial; and, alas
                  for his victims! succeeded but too well, as has already been shown in the pages
                  preceding. With an oily tongue, and an honest, sanctified look, the mask which
                  best conceals a devilish heart, Oliver managed to ingratiate himself with his
                  brother-in-law, until the latter would as soon have thought of doubting Holy Writ
                  as one word he might utter.
               From a schoolmaster and a small retail dealer, Ethan Courtly had now become a
                  wholesale merchant, and owner of one or two vessels, and part owner of half a
                  dozen others, which sailed from Baltimore and the different ports of the Union;
                  and, at the head of his affairs, almost sole manager, he placed the hypocrite and
                  villain, Oliver Atherton.
               Time rolled on, and still every thing prospered, until the period of which we are
                  now about to speak—say some five years previous to the opening of our story.
                  Without entering into particulars, it will only be necessary to state, that at
                  this time Ethan Courtly made arrangements to embark on one of his own vessels for
                  a foreign clime, but with the intention
                  and expectation of returning to his beloved family within a twelve-month from
                  setting sail. Before he departed Oliver was very strenuous in urging him to make
                  his will; against which he remonstrated, by saying he did not deem such a
                  proceeding necessary, as, in case he died intestate, of course the property would
                  fall to his rightful heirs, which was all he desired. But the wily schemer, after
                  much quiet reasoning, gained his point, as in fact he ever did with his
                  single-minded brother-in-law, and was deputed to employ a lawyer and have all
                  settled in due form.
               It is needless to say more than that the will was drawn, attested, and placed upon
                  record the day previous to the departure of Ethan Courtly.
               We now skip a period of five months, during which Oliver Atherton assiduously
                  attended to the affairs of his absent relative; when suddenly, with the shock of a
                  thunderbolt falling from a cloudless sky, there came the painful intelligence that
                  the Mary Helen, on which Ethan Courtly had embarked, had been wrecked off the
                  coast of France, and that every soul aboard of her had perished.
               We pass over the effect of this news upon Mrs. Courtly and her children, both of
                  whom were recalled from school to bitterly mourn the loss of a beloved and
                  indulgent parent.
               On the receipt of the tidings regarding the sad fate of his brother-in-law, Oliver
                  Atherton went into mourning; and with a pale, sanctimonious face, and eyes made
                  red by wiping, if not by weeping, managed to appear the most disconsolate of
                  mourners; so much so, that it was often remarked by those who knew not the heart
                  of the dissembler, that he must have loved his relative dearly to take his death
                  so hard.
               After a proper time given to sorrow, Oliver notified his sister that it would now
                  be necessary to have the estate of his dear brother Ethan settled according to
                  law, and that as he was aware the deceased had made a will, it would be proper to
                  have it brought forward and read. To this, of course, Mrs. Courtly assented; but
                  judge of her astonishment, and that of her friends, on learning that, out of the
                  vast estate of her late husband, only five thousand dollars had been bequeathed to
                  herself and children; while the remainder, amounting at the least calculation to
                  many hundred thousand dollars, including the splendid home mansion, had been
                  bestowed upon Oliver—with the proviso, that should he die childless, it must
                  revert to Edgar and Virginia and their issue—or, in case of their demise without
                  issue, to the next heir or heirs at law.
               Surprised and shocked as she was at this stunning intelligence, Mrs. Courtly
                  doubted not it was all correct; and believing that her late husband, whom she
                  completely idolized, had had a proper motive for what he had done, and that it
                  would all prove for the best in the end, she never once attempted to dispute the
                  claim of Oliver, or break the will and sue for her thirds, as all her friends
                  advised her to do.
               "No," she would say, in answer to the many solicitations that she would do so and
                  so; "Ethan knew what was best, and far be it from me to alter what he designed. My
                  happiness consists in conforming to his desires."
               Finding her determined on the matter, her friends soon ceased to importune her,
                  and Oliver had it all his own way. Knowing it required the most skilful management
                  to effect his avaricious purpose, without wounding the sensitive nature of his
                  sister, he redoubled his grief and duplicity, and went about bemoaning to her his
                  hard fate, in being obliged to dispose of this thing and that, to carry out the
                  desires of his dearly beloved brother, and always ended by saying, that when the estate should have
                  become properly settled, he would give her a deed of the home-stead, and settle
                  upon her an independency for life. This promised providence for her future wants
                  satisfied Mrs. Courtly, and she saw her fine home sold over her head, without a
                  murmur, firmly believing her brother would keep his word, and in due time restore
                  her all. In sooth, though she knew her brother had once been very worldly-minded,
                  yet of late years he had been so guarded in her presence, so sanctimonious and
                  demure, that she, poor woman, now truly believed there had been a wonderful
                  reformation at heart.
               It was at least a year or more from the reported death of Ethan Courtly, ere
                  Oliver Atherton had settled every thing to his satisfaction. By this time,
                  estates, ships, negroes, goods and chattles, each and all, had been disposed of;
                  and with the money they brought, in his possession, Oliver informed his sister
                  that she might now remain contended in her home; that all had been arranged to her
                  desire; and that he, with his wife and children, with the first of whom he had now
                  become reconciled, were on the point of leaving for New York, where they hoped to
                  have the pleasure of her society occasionally.
               Thus they parted; and never for a moment did Mrs. Courtly doubt the word of her
                  brother, until notified, about six months after he had left, that she must vacate
                  the premises she then occupied, as the mansion, appurtenances and grounds had been
                  purchased by a gentleman who was now desirous of taking immediate possession. For
                  some time Mrs. Courtly could not be brought to believe her brother had acted so
                  base and ungrateful a part; and she at once wrote to him, asking an explanation.
                  After considerable delay she received an answer, to the effect that he was very
                  sorry to say the matter of sale was true; that he had done it to oblige a friend,
                  who had set his heart upon having that residence; but that to compensate his
                  sister, he was already negotiating for a residence, every way its superior, which,
                  in case she resolved to come to New York, he would certainly purchase and present
                  her.
               For the first time the truth flashed upon Mrs. Courtly, that both she and her
                  lamented husband had been the blind dupes of an artful and ungrateful villain; and
                  so sudden, powerful, and heart-sickening was the shock of this conviction, which
                  she gained on reading his letter, that, clasping her forehead and staggering back,
                  she sunk senseless to the ground, and a delirious fever followed, which nearly
                  cost her her life at the time, and from the effects of which she never fully
                  recovered.
               We must now hurry to the close of this history, which we fear has already become
                  tedious to the reader; but with which, notwithstanding, it was all important he
                  should be made acquainted.
               For a long time Mrs. Courtly did not answer the epistle of her brother. As soon as
                  able, she quitted her once loved home, with a breaking heart, yielding it up to
                  strangers, and seeking a more humble abode for herself—both her children now being
                  at school—and she fully determined to spend every cent, if necessary, in giving
                  them what could not take wings and fly away—a good education.
               And it did take every cent; and at last Mrs. Courtly was obliged to recall Edgar
                  and Virginia, for want of means to longer support them abroad. Two years now
                  passed; and then, reduced almost to beggary, she wrote to her brother, detailing
                  her wants, cares and anxieties. Having waited a long while, and receiving no
                  answer, Mrs. Courtly determined on proceeding to New York herself, and making an appeal to him in propria personæ. To carry out this design, she sold
                  her few remaining effects, and with the proceeds set out on her journey,
                  accompanied by Edgar and Virginia. We have not space here to follow her through
                  all her weary trials and disappointments, after her arrival in New York, up to the
                  moment she was brought before the reader; but suffice, that to her horror and
                  despair, she found herself disowned by him from whom she expected aid; and in a
                  strange land, among strangers, cast upon a cold, heartless world, and doomed to
                  suffer all the misery an innocent being can feel. Several times did Edgar call
                  upon his uncle and ask for aid—but always to be insulted and refused; and even the
                  negro servant, once his father's slave, now began to pride himself on his equality
                  with the poor relations of his present master, as has already been shown by his
                  conduct and language in the opening chapter. Vainly did Edgar seek for employment
                  from day to day. Nothing could he obtain, for the reason that, having done nothing
                  through life, he could not bring experience to back his suit. Day by day did the
                  Courtlys find themselves becoming more and more reduced—for though very economical
                  now, every little they spent made a wide breach in their limited means. To render
                  matters still worse, the health of Mrs. Courtly began to fail rapidly; and it soon
                  became painfully evident to her children, that unless a great change took place
                  for the better, they would ere long be orphans.
               But notwithstanding her ailings, Mrs. Courtly would no consent to see a physician,
                  because of the extra expense which would thus be incurred, and which they were now
                  so illy fitted to bear. As it was, they were obliged to dispose of their jewelry,
                  old family relics, and finally the greater part of their wardrobe, to pay their
                  rent and procure the necessaries of life. Even these failed them at last; and only
                  a few days previous to our introduction of them to the reader, their stony-hearted
                  landlord seized upon and sold their furniture, and turned them into the street,
                  with only a few remaining articles. The hovel where we found them seemed the only
                  retreat now open; and into this they gathered their remaining effects, preferring
                  even this to begging for a better. Their last cent was now soon spent for fuel and
                  food, and the reader has seen even the last of these. The health of Mrs. Courtly
                  now failed more and more rapidly, until exhausted nature could sustain her no
                  longer; and suffering from cold, dampness, want of food, proper nursing and
                  medical attendance, together with grief, care and anxiety for her children, she
                  literally died of starvation and a broken heart.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               PLANS FOR THE FUTURE.
               THE day following the funeral of Mrs. Courtly, saw Edgar and his sister located in
                  small but comfortable lodgings, some three or four squares from their previously
                  wretched abode. This was effected at the instance of Ellen, who insisted they
                  should at once remove to better quarters, and for this purpose generously provided
                  them with further means to do so. She had many delicate scruples to overcome in
                  effecting this change; for though excessively in need, Edgar was naturally very
                  proud, and could not bear the idea of being under further pecuniary obligations to
                  one on whom he had no claim; nor would he, in fact, have consented to the
                  arrangement at all, but for his sweet sister, whom it sorely wrung his heart to
                  behold suffering the pangs of poverty. For himself he knew he could provide in
                  some way—but what meantime would become of Virginia!—and this the generous Ellen
                  used as a plea for him to accede to her proposition. It was galling, too, to one
                  bred in the affluence he had been, to be indebted to the wages of sin—to money
                  earned by guilt—for the bettering of his condition; but poverty and circumstances
                  are many times powerful combatants of sensitive scruples, and so they proved in
                  the present instance.
               "I will accept her aid as a loan," he at last said, "until kind Providence
                  furnishes me with the means of repaying the debt with interest—for beggars must
                  certainly not be choosers—and without this assistance, now that my check is
                  irrecoverably lost, starvation stares us in the face. And why," he further
                  reasoned, "should I decline the means which doubtless Heaven has placed in my way
                  for a wise purpose? Who knows but in accepting, I shall eventually be the
                  instrument, in the hands of Providence, of reclaiming an erring one from the
                  perdition to which she is fast hastening?"
               Having thus settled the matter in his own mind, he went zealously to work, and a
                  couple of hours search put him in possession of two very pleasant rooms, located
                  in the second story of a small private dwelling on Elizabeth street, to which
                  access could be had by a flight of stairs from without—so that he was as much
                  secluded from a forced contact with others, as if occupying the entire premises.
                  Hither he at once removed his sister, and what little furniture was still
                  remaining; and then by a judicious purchase of a few second-hand articles in
                  Chatham Square, among which was a carpet for the floor, he succeeded, at a very
                  small outlay, in giving the apartments an air of comfort and tidiness, to which
                  both himself and his sister had of late been strangers—and which, contrasting with
                  their previously wretched abode, made the present one seem a paradise. Edgar next
                  purchased a few groceries and some fuel, and Virginia prepared the evening
                  meal—for by this time the day was drawing to a close—and as they sorrowfully
                  partook of their first morsel since breaking fast in the morning, and thought of
                  their poor, dead mother, no longer with them to share their griefs or joys, both
                  wept freely, in silence—but wept as those who, not altogether despairing, feel
                  there is something still to live for—as those who have some hope in the future,
                  and believe that day is again dawning upon a night of rayless gloom.
               Poor, bitterly wronged orphans! Who can sum up and realize their misery, without
                  experience of the same kind! Alone upon
                  the wide world, without home or friends, and indebted to the charity of a frail
                  female stranger for bread to keep them from starvation! And these, too, they who
                  once rolled in all the luxury wealth can give, whose hands were never soiled by
                  labor, and whose exalted position in society ever held them aloof from the
                  mercenary, coarse and vulgar minds with which they must now be brought in contact.
                  Do not let the reader here misunderstand us, by supposing we intend to convey the
                  idea that they were better for never having labored. No, Heaven forbid! for labor
                  is ever honorable, while indolence is reprehensible. We only design to portray
                  more strongly the suffering they must perforce endure, from the great contrast of
                  their present with the past.
               For a long time both thought and wept in silence, neither intruding an observation
                  upon the grief of the other. Edgar was the first to speak. Rising from the table,
                  after having ate sparingly, he approached his sister, and throwing an arm around
                  her neck and drawing her gently to him, said, tenderly:
               "Let us try to weep no more, my sweet sister! Let us dry our tears, and prepare,
                  like philosphers, to enact our parts, and pass through the ordeal of fate without
                  a murmur. Life at the longest is not long, and death will come at last to relieve
                  us of our sorrows."
               "But Edgar," sobbed Virginia, "I am thinking of our dear, dear mother."
               "I know it, sweet sister, and so am I. But the thought has struck me, it is very
                  wrong to mourn for one who has exchanged our wretchedness for the happiness of
                  Heaven."
               "Ah!" sighed the other, "I see I am selfish; for it is not so much for her I
                  mourn, as for myself; not for her loss, but my own. Oh! how we both will miss her
                  sage advice and prayerful counsel!"
               "But she is in heaven," pursued Edgar. "Let that thought be uppermost, and dry
                  your eyes. I would not recall her if I could—for she, at least, drank
                  sorrow to the dregs, and should forevermore be spared the bitter cup."
               After a pause of a few minutes, during which Virginia gradually became more calm,
                  Edgar resumed:
               "And now, my sister, let us speak on another subject, but one I fear scarcely less
                  painful. By the kindness of one I can never forget, we have been enabled to
                  exchange utter wretchedness and starvation for something like comfort; but still
                  the very thought of how this has been effected, gives me pain. To think we have
                  taken money, earned by guilt, to better our condition, is revolting to my nature:
                  and I can never rest until it be returned, and she who so generously assisted us
                  be reclaimed. To effect the former, I must seek and find employment, with wages
                  more than sufficient to support us; while the latter I leave to you; and let us
                  both set about our tasks with a right good will, and energies that will not allow
                  us to fail. To-morrow, early, if God spares my life, I shall make a bold move.
                  Surely, in this great city, supporting its three hundred thousand inhabitants,
                  there is something I can find whereby to gain an honorable living. True, I have
                  tried before and failed; but that is no reason I must again; and something
                  whispers me I shall succeed. So cheer up, my sweet sister! for it is an old
                  saying, the darkest hour but barely precedes the dawn. To-morrow, probably, while
                  I am away, Ellen will be here to see you; and you must use your best abilities to
                  induce her to quit the terrible life she is at present leading. Begin with her
                  gently and feelingly, as you best know how, and gradually progress until your
                  righteous purpose be accomplished—which done, I shall feel that we have not wholly
                  lived in vain."
               "Ah! dear brother," cried Virginia, with a burst of affection, throwing her arms around his neck and
                  pressing her lips to his, "how much you are like our dear, dear mother in your
                  counsels! I will do all you ask of me, and ten times more if it be in my power.
                  Poor Ellen. If I can be the humble means of reclaiming her, filling her heart with
                  happiness again, I feel I can then smile at my own misery, and thank God it has
                  been for some useful end. But more than this, dear brother, I must assist you. I,
                  too, perhaps, can find employment——"
               "Nay," interrupted Edgar, "I could not see you labor. I could not see your
                  delicate constitution broken down by toil, and thus prepared for an early grave.
                  No, Virginia, you were never bred to work, and it would kill you."
               "And you, Edgar—you who have been brought up in the same manner as myself—how then
                  will you bear it?"
               "I am a man, Virginia, with an iron constitution, and am by nature fitted for the
                  rough scenes of life—at least far more so than you. No, no, Virginia—leave all to
                  me; I can provide for both; but to see you toil would render me
                  miserable."
               In like conversation the evening passed away—Virginia insisting it was her duty,
                  in their altered circumstances, to assist her brother, and he contending to the
                  contrary most strenuously. At an early hour both retired to rest, and with the
                  gray of the morning both were again astir. Making a hasty breakfast, Edgar kissed
                  and bade his sister be of good cheer in his absence—as in all probability he would
                  return with welcome tidings—and then sallied forth to seek employment in the great
                  metropolis, prepared to put his hand to any honest pursuit that would return a
                  fitting recompense.
               As yet the sun had scarcely risen; but still the great city was swarming with
                  citizens, mostly of the laboring class, all pushing forward to their daily
                  task—some with pale, sickly, sorrowful visages, and some with countenances
                  cheerful and gay—each an index of the heart within. Venders of all kinds were
                  abroad, each loudly crying his particular article of traffic, which, from long
                  habit, had become rather a peculiar, discordant scream, than any sound or word a
                  stranger might find intelligible. Omnibusses, hacks, drays, coal-carts,
                  bread-carts, market-wagons, and numerous other kinds of vehicles, rumbled over the
                  stony pavements, blocked up the crossings, occasionally startled the foot-passers,
                  and thundered out the fact that the business of the day had truly begun.
               As Edgar slowly pursued his way down the Bowery into Chatham Square, down Chatham
                  Street toward Park Row, and noted that every one he met seemed to have some
                  employment, either present or prospective, he thought to himself how happy was
                  their condition compared with his, who had nothing but trouble to occupy his mind.
                  Ah! little did he know that many who passed him with rapid steps, were hurrying to
                  a daily task, that, while it was literally crushing them under its iron burthen,
                  barely returned a pittance sufficient to keep soul and body together. Little did
                  he know that those who seemed better off than he, were dying by inches under
                  excessive toil, that the pool beings they loved, and who were solely dependent on
                  them, might eke out a miserable existence. Little did he know this, or he might
                  have been more contented with his own situation, trying as it was, and felt he had
                  less cause to complain than they. We are too prone to think our own troubles and
                  afflictions the most severe; and this because we know and feel our own, while
                  those of others are wholly shut from us.
               For a long time Edgar could not summon resolution to ask for employment at the
                  different places where there seemed a possibility of his obtaining it, lest he
                  should be refused in a way to wound his
                  sensitive feelings. And then, what occupation should he ask for? and what
                  experience or recommendation could he bring to aid him, even should the services
                  of one like himself be desired? He had done nothing through life, and consequently
                  knew no more of one business than another; but the fancy struck him, that could he
                  obtain a place as salesman in some kind of a store, he could easily make himself
                  useful and give satisfaction to his employer. With the design of seeking something
                  of this kind, he passed the various shops of traffic, with many a wistful look,
                  but still without venturing within to make the necessary inquiries. At last, after
                  traversing the entire extent of Chatham street and Square for the third time, and
                  knowing that nothing would ever be accomplished in this way, he made bold to
                  address a middle-aged gentleman, who was standing in the door of a furniture
                  ware-room.
               "Sir," he said, "can you inform me where a young man like myself can find
                  employment?"
               "What to do?" asked the other.
               "Any thing that is honorable."
               "For the matter of that," returned the other, "almost any thing is honorable that
                  a body can make a living at these times. Did you ever act as salesman?"
               "I never have, but think I could soon give my employer satisfaction."
               "Umph! perhaps. You look like a young man of good address. I suppose you can
                  write!"
               "Certainly," answered Edgar, promptly; "I have been blessed with a good
                  education."
               "Can bring good references, I suppose?"
               "Why, unfortunately," replied Edgar, coloring, "I am a stranger in the city, and
                  have no friend here to refer to."
               "Umph! that's bad!" rejoined the other. "So much cheating going on now-a-days, so
                  many dishonest persons about, that one don't like to take a stranger into one's
                  service without knowing something about him. Now if you only had experience, and
                  good references, and could come here at six in the morning and work till nine and
                  ten at night, and do every thing that would be asked of you, without grumbling, I
                  have no doubt you would suit me, for just such a person I want, and would be
                  willing to pay such an one good wages. But as you are deficient in at least two of
                  these requisites, why, I suppose I shall have to look further."
               "And suppose I were all you desire, what would be my salary?" asked Edgar.
               "Why, in that case, I can afford to be rather liberal; and say you boarded
                  yourself, allow you from two and a half to three dollars per week—at least through
                  the busy season."
               "And this you call liberality?" returned Edgar. "God help the poor!" and he walked
                  away with a desponding heart.
               For an hour or more, Edgar traversed the streets in a very unpleasant state of
                  mind, ere venturing on a second application. And when at last he did make another
                  trial, it was only to meet with a result similar to the first. Grown somewhat
                  desperate and less sensitive through failure, Edgar now determined, that in case
                  he did not succeed, it should not be his fault, and consequently went boldly to
                  work, pushing his suit wherever there seemed a possibility of success. For hours
                  he pursued this course; but meeting everywhere with disappointment, and being
                  nearly overcome with fatigue and anxiety, he finally gave up in despair; and
                  strolling into Tammany Hall, threw himself down upon a seat, with the air of one
                  who feels his last hope has departed.
               
               "It is no use to longer strive," he muttered despondingly, "I can accomplish
                  nothing. I am doomed to fail where others succeed. Oh! why was I born! Mother,
                  thou saint in Heaven, I would I were with thee! Come, Death! dread monster as thou
                  art called—thou terrifying Invisible—come here and strike! strike to the heart at
                  once! and thou shalt behold a rare sight—a human face that will not blanch—a human
                  form that will not tremble at thy summons."
               As he said this half aloud, his eye chanced upon a newspaper lying on a seat
                  beside him; and mechanically raising it, he glanced over the columns in a listless
                  manner, as one who reads while the mind is occupied with other matters. For
                  several minutes he sat gazing upon the paper, sometimes distinguishing a word, and
                  sometimes beholding the letters all blurred and indistinct. At length something
                  appeared to arrest his attention—for he straightened himself up, drew the paper
                  nearer to him, while his eyes brightened, and no longer exhibited a vacant stare.
                  The cause of this change in his appearance, was an advertisement, which read as
                  follows:
               
                  "POETS, ATTENTION! A gentleman requires a poetical address, for a certain
                     purpose, for which, if suitable, he will pay handsomely. The length, subject,
                     and remuneration will be made known to applicants. Address C. B. E. ——
                     office."
               
               Edgar was by nature a poet, and in his leisure hours had written some beautiful
                  stanzas, which his modesty had thus far concealed from the public. His talents in
                  this line he had never thought of turning to account until now.
               "Perhaps!" he exclaimed, with an energy that drew many eyes upon him: "Perhaps!"
                  and immediately procuring pen, ink and paper, he wrote a few lines and left in
                  haste for —— office, where he deposited the note, superscribed in accordance with
                  the advertisement. Having done this he departed, with the intention of returning
                  home; but he had scarcely gone fifty yards, when a hand on his shoulder arrested
                  him, and turning, he beheld an elegantly dressed gentleman, with the billet he had
                  just deposited open in his hand.
               "I beg pardon!" said the stranger, blandly; "but have I the pleasure of addressing
                  the writer of this, Edgar Courtly?"
               "That is my name, at your service," returned Edgar, with a graceful and dignified
                  inclination of the head.
               "I chanced to be in the office and saw you leave it, addressed to my initials,"
                  pursued the other, explanatory, "and hastened to overtake you, that the matter in
                  question might be the more speedily arranged."
               "I am most happy, sir," rejoined Edgar, "to make your acquaintance so much sooner
                  than I anticipated."
               "I perceive by this," continued the gentleman, whom we shall call Elmer, pointing
                  to the epistle, "that you have had experience in poetical composition."
               "I have written some little," replied Edgar, blushing; "but perhaps I am
                  incompetent to perform what you require."
               "That," rejoined Mr. Elmer, "must be decided hereafter. I am, as you must know, an
                  actor, at present fulfilling an engagement at the Park. One week from to-night my
                  engagement closes—the last prior to my departure for Europe. Now what I desire is
                  this: I wish to take leave with a poetical address, of from seventy-five to one
                  hundred lines, expressive of my feelings." Here he explained, explicitly, what he
                  wanted, and wound up by saying: "And now for the best address of this kind, sent
                     me within five days, I am willing to
                  pay the sum of fifty dollars—certainly, to my thinking, a liberal
                  remuneration."
               "It is indeed!" returned Edgar, much excited at the prospect of obtaining the
                  reward. "Sir, I will do my best to please you."
               "But I must warn you of competition," pursued the other. "I have had several
                  interviews with poets already, each of whom has promised a trial, and I shall
                  perhaps have many more, so that he who gains the prize must do so by merit
                  alone."
               On hearing this, the countenance of Edgar somewhat fell—for he thought to himself,
                  "What chance have I among so many? But then," he reasoned, "I can but fail at the
                  worst, and may succeed—in which event—"here his feelings becoming powerfully
                  excited, he hastily inquired the residence of Elmer, shook his hand, and turned
                  away, with the observation that he would soon hear from him again.
               With a fluttering heart, palpitating between hope and fear, Edgar hurried through
                  the crowded streets, heedless of all he met or passed, his mind occupied with one
                  joyful thought, that of cheering the drooping spirits of his sweet sister with his
                  new hopes and expectations. Arrived at his new home, he sprang lightly up the
                  stairs and into his own apartments, expecting to take his sister by surprise.
               The next moment he felt a chilling sensation creep over him—a sensation as awful
                  as the coming of death. Wherefore the cause?
               The rooms were tenantless—his sister was gone—and echo alone answered to his
                  call.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               AN UNEXPECTED FRIEND.
               THROWING himself upon a seat, in a state of mind full of alarm and strange
                  misgivings, insomuch that he soon found himself in a profuse perspiration, Edgar
                  sought to invent a cause for the absence of Virginia. It was so singular she
                  should absent herself while he was away, and leave the house unfastened. Surely
                  she could not have gone far, and would soon return! Somewhat consoling himself
                  with this idea, he waited rather impatiently for her appearance, hoping and
                  expecting every moment she would enter; but as minute after minute glided by, and
                  no Virginia came, he began to grow alarmed in earnest, and rising from his seat,
                  paced rapidly to and fro the apartment. At length, when a half hour had passed,
                  bringing no intelligence of the missing one, the excitement of Edgar had reached
                  such an intensity, that he could no longer content himself in remaining idle.
                  Something had happened, he felt sure, and his heart fairly sunk within him at the
                  thought. Rushing down the stairs with the haste of a madman, he made eager
                  inquiries of the people living in the lower story, and of whom he rented his
                  apartments. But they could give him no satisfactory information. But they could
                  give him no satisfactory information. They had seen his sister go out about an
                  hour and a half before, alone, taking the direction of the Bowery, and that was
                  all they knew.
               It was past the hour of noon, and Edgar was fatigued and hungry; but forgetful of
                  everything but his sister, whom he
                  somehow fancied was lost, he darted away in search of her. Fortunately, he had not
                  to go far, ere, to his great joy, he met her returning, accompanied by a young man
                  of genteel appearance, who walked respectfully by her side, carrying a small
                  bundle wrapped with paper. Edgar was not surprised at this, for he fancied she had
                  been shopping, and that the purchased articles were being sent home as is
                  customary.
               "O, Virginia!" he exclaimed, springing forward and seizing her hand, "how could
                  you so alarm me! For the last half hour I have been on the rack of agony. Why
                  could you not have deferred this business till my return?"
               "I thought to give you a gentle surprise," replied Virginia; "expecting, when I
                  left, to return before you; but I have been disappointed, and shall not again
                  attempt the like, for already my folly has found a punishment."
               "As how?" queried Edgar, eagerly.
               "I have been insulted."
               "Insulted!" repeated her brother; and his dark eyes flashed angrily upon the
                  stranger.
               "Nay," interposed Virginia, divining his thoughts, "not by him, Edgar. This
                  gentleman has proved my deliverer."
               "I crave pardon, sir!" said Edgar, quickly, changing his manner; and cordially
                  extending the other his hand. "Let me thank you in my sister's behalf, and trust
                  we may be friends!"
               "The latter, most certainly!" returned the young man with warmth, and a hearty
                  shake of the hand; "but as to thanks, I know not that one deserves them for simply
                  doing his duty. I saw this lady annoyed by one whom I had reason to suppose
                  entertained evil intentions, and I hastened to her protection. You should have
                  seen how the offender slunk away as he beheld my visage, with a half uttered
                  apology and look of shame—for well he knew me and I him—though for various reasons
                  I hardly feel myself at liberty to give his name at present. I could not again
                  leave the lady unprotected, and so am I here."
               "But how happened this, Virginia?" eagerly inquired Edgar.
               "I cannot tell you here," answered Virginia, somewhat excited. "Let us first go
                  home, it is but a few steps, and I will explain all."
               Here the stranger was about to take his leave, but Edgar and Virginia both
                  insisted he should accompany them, and accordingly all proceeded to the house
                  together.
               "And now," said Virginia, with a bright flush, that heightened the beauty of her
                  lovely features, "I will tell you, dear brother, how it all happened, if you will
                  promise, before you hear my story, to pardon any error I may have committed."
               "My pardon I know you will have," answered Edgar, "no matter what you have done,
                  and so I may as well grant it first as last. Proceed!"
               "Well, then, you must know, as I have before told you, I thought to give you a
                  gentle surprise, and for this purpose determined, according to my argument last
                  night, to render you what assistance I could in the way of earning a living."
               "But, Virginia——"
               "Do not interrupt me, and do not frown, for you know I have your pardon already.
                  Well, half the night I pondered on what I could do, and this morning was still
                  undecided, when I chanced to see a woman pass, carrying a bundle of shirts.
                  Accosting her, I learned that she was making them for a large manufacturer, whose
                  address she gave me. I thought to myself I could do as well as she; and as soon as
                  she was gone, I hurried round to the place, expecting to return within half an
                  hour. The result is, I succeeded in
                  getting some work to do; but not until I had been kept waiting a full hour, and
                  had been questioned as closely as if I were a thief. Several times I was on the
                  point of indignantly leaving—but then I thought of you, dear brother, and felt,
                  after all, it was little to endure for your sake."
               "And what were you to get for all this labor?" asked Edgar.
               "A dime for each shirt," replied Virginia.
               "And how many do you fancy you could complete in a day?"
               "One, at least."
               "One, my sweet sister! And you would work off your fingers, dim your eyes and ruin
                  your health, for the paltry sum of a dime a day, and all to aid me! God bless you,
                  dear Virginia, for a noble soul!—but I cannot allow such a sacrifice. Thank
                  Heaven! I have brighter prospects in view, of which I will tell you anon. A dime a
                  day!" he pursued; "how pitiful! And yet I suppose there are hundreds—perhaps
                  thousands—forced to toil for even this."
               "Indeed there are, sir!" chimed in the young man, who on his way hither had given
                  his name as Dudley, and learned those of his new acquaintances in return: "Indeed
                  there are, Mr. Courtly, thousands, who are not only forced to toil for this meagre
                  sum, but are glad to get even this, to keep them from starvation."
               "Ah! what a world!" sighed Edgar, musingly. "What a mighty contrast! It does not
                  seem as though we all had one Heavenly Father, as our divines inform us from the
                  pulpit we have. Alas! God help the poor!"
               "Ay," rejoined Dudley, "God help them indeed! for He is all the friend they have
                  to look to."
               "But you have not finished your story, Virginia," said Edgar, turning to her.
               "While waiting for work," resumed Virginia, "and passing the ordeal of rather
                  insulting interrogatives, I noticed a gaudily dressed fellow loitering about the
                  door, who occasionally stared at me in an ungentlemanly manner; but I thought no
                  more of it, until, having regained the street and gone a few yards, I found him
                  walking by my side. Thinking it accidental, I slackened my pace that he might
                  pass; but to my indignant surprise, I found he suited his to mine. He then
                  requested permission to carry my bundle, as he was going the same way. I coldly
                  thanked him and, informed him I had no occasion for his services.
               "'But you must, my angel,' he said.
               "'Sir!' returned I, haughtily, coming to an abrupt halt, 'you are insulting! Go
                  your way, and leave me to go mine.'
               "''Pon my word,' he answered, with a leer, 'you talk prettily, and are really too
                  lovely to walk the streets alone. Come, let us be companions.'
               "'Leave me!' I cried, indignantly; 'for you are no gentleman.'
               "'Ay, leave, sir—begone!' said a voice behind me; and turning, I beheld this
                  gen—a—I should say Mr. Dudley, since we have become slightly acquainted,"
                  concluded Virginia, blushing modestly.
               "Of which acquaintance," chimed in Dudley, gallantly, with a polite bow to
                  Virginia, "I am most proud, and sincerely trust it may be of long duration."
               "The feeling is mutual, I assure you," responded Edgar. And then he added,
                  apologetically: "We were not always as we now are, sir. Born to wealth, we never
                  knew the want of money until after our father's death, when our uncle, his manager, came into possession of
                  nearly all his property, as I have strong reason to believe most
                  villainously."
               Here Edgar proceeded to briefly sketch some of the prominent events of the past
                  five years, winding up with an account of his last visit to his uncle, the manner
                  in which he obtained the check and its subsequent loss, together with the death of
                  his mother, adding at the conclusion:
               "And now, sir, I must say, I feel I have been almost too confiding to one so late
                  an utter stranger; but there is a something in your countenance and manner, which,
                  step by step, has drawn me on to the full revelation."
               "I thank you, Mr. Courtly, for the high compliment thus paid me," returned Dudley,
                  warmly; "and assure you, you will never have cause to regret your confidence as
                  misplaced. But a question, if I may be permitted to ask one; for since you have
                  told me your story, I feel a deep interest in your welfare, and will do all in my
                  power to aid you. Will you give me the name of your uncle?"
               Edgar mused a moment, and then said:
               "I do not know why I should withhold it. It is Oliver Atherton."
               "What! the millionaire!" cried Dudley in surprise: "Oliver Atherton, the
                  millionaire! Is it possible? No, it cannot be—there must be some mistake!"
               "Then you know him?" said Edgar.
               "But do you mean Oliver Atherton of —— street?'
               "The same, Mr. Dudley."
               "Know him? Ay, I know him well, and very few that do not, either personally or by
                  reputation. Why, he is one of our most prominent citizens, although he has been
                  but a few years among us. There is scarcely a charitable association but is
                  indebted to him for a handsome donation—or a charity subscription paper afloat,
                  that is not led off by his name, with a round sum attached. Besides, he is a
                  member of one of our most popular churches, and is everywhere spoken of as a rich,
                  but truly pious and benevolent gentleman."
               "The hypocrite!" muttered Edgar, grinding his teeth. "O, that I could unmask him!
                  but that I may never be able to do—for he is deep, cunning and far-reaching. Had I
                  the money I wrung from him, I would quit the city and molest him no more."
               "Really, I am all amazement," mused Dudley, "and hardly know what to think. You
                  say he gave you a check, which you lost, and which, had you now, would relieve you
                  from all embarrassment. On whom was it drawn?"
               "If I remember rightly, John Peyton of Wall street."
               "You of course have been to stop payment?"
               "Good heavens!" ejaculated Edgar, with a start; "I have overlooked that." And
                  then, after a pause, he added: "But it matters not—for some poor wretch may as
                  well have it as Atherton."
               "But by stopping payment, and applying again to your uncle, you may procure
                  another."
               Edgar shook his head.
               "I would rather starve," he answered, "than again enter his hateful presence as a
                  suitor. No! no!—let it go—let it go. There will perhaps be some way opened, by
                  which my dear sister and I can live without begging favors of rich relations;" and
                  as he spoke, he threw an arm fondly around Virginia, drew her to him, and pressed
                  a kiss upon her lips.
               Dudley followed the movement with his eyes, and his features expressed something
                  like envy of the brother; and the color deepened on his cheeks, and those of
                  Virginia, as, at the moment, they accidentally, as it were, exchanged glances.
               
               What were the fancies, the feelings, the emotions in the breasts of each, we shall
                  not here pause to divine. Suffice, that in refinement of thought and language,
                  grace of manner, dignity of mien and personal appearance, each was well calculated
                  to inspire the other with at least a sentiment of high regard. Mr. Dudley was what
                  in common parlance would be called a handsome man. His age was about twenty-five,
                  and in stature he was full six feet, but with proportions so symmetrical as not to
                  appear awkward or over-size. He seemed formed by nature for a model, with not a
                  pound too much or too little. And then his features were as comely as his person,
                  with a forehead, nose, mouth, and chin of the Grecian cast. In his countenance
                  were no sinister lines—no sly curves, where a sneer might lurk, or hypocrisy find
                  a foothold. No! all was open, and frank, and honest; and a single glance showed
                  you he was a man after God's own image. In repose, his face exhibited a stern,
                  thoughtful benevolence, as one who would do a good act for the act itself, and not
                  for the reward which might accrue to the doer. Much of this expression was in the
                  eye, a dark gray, which rarely changed its aspect—never, unless altered by some
                  one of the strong passions of his soul. His complexion was light, with light
                  brown, curly hair, that added much to his good looks. Partly covering and under
                  his chin he wore his beard unshaved, but neatly trimmed, which for him was very
                  becoming.
               In dress he had excellent taste. He wore nothing showy or gaudy, and yet every
                  garment was rich, and fitted his person with the utmost exactness. No rings,
                  chains, or breast-pins were displayed as ornaments, he seeming to fancy that
                  nature and the tailor had done enough for him. And this was a true index to his
                  mind—as in fact dress generally is—denoting him to be severely chaste and strictly
                  correct in principle. And in fine it was this correct principle which brought
                  about his acquaintance with Virginia and her brother, an acquaintance of which
                  neither party as yet dreamed the import. It was not her beauty, as some might
                  suppose, which led him to her protection. No! he saw not that till afterwards. He
                  only saw a female grossly insulted, and distressed by the attentions of a villain,
                  and he hastened to her relief; and had she been old and excessively ugly, his
                  correct principle of gallantry would have caused him to do precisely as he did.
                  Not that we would imply he had no choice between ugliness and beauty; that he
                  would have felt the same interest in Virginia, had she possessed no personal
                  charms; by no means: we only wish to say, that in the former instance a sense of
                  duty would have urged him to do with pleasure, what he now performed with greater
                  delight.
               After some further conversation of a nature similar to that detailed, Dudley rose
                  to take his leave. Turning to Edgar, he took his hand and said:
               "Our meeting and acquaintance, Mr. Courtly, I trust may prove of mutual advantage.
                  You may think it a little strange, that, having confided to me some important
                  secrets of your life, I, in return, tell you nothing of myself. But you must not
                  think hard of me, if I reveal nothing now. I shall soon see you again, and
                  sometime you shall know more. I have my reasons for concealment. Consider me,
                  however, your friend; and should you need my aid in any manner, have no scruples
                  in so telling me, for it will prove a pleasure to me to do you a service.
                  Meantime, I will make your affairs in some measure my own; and depend upon it, if
                  wrong has been done you, in the manner you suppose, the guilty shall be made to
                  feel it, no matter how lofty their station. You may think me boasting, my
                  friend—but time will show; and when time has shown, I trust you will have little cause to regret having gained
                  my friendship."
               With these somewhat mysterious words, Dudley again shook Edgar's hand warmly, and
                  bowing gracefully to Virginia, withdrew.
               For some time after his departure, Edgar and his sister conversed about the
                  stranger, or Dudley as he had termed himself; and then the former proceeded to
                  detail all that had occurred in his absence, and the sanguine expectations he had
                  of obtaining the prize. Both were young, and, notwithstanding the terrible trials
                  they had experienced, both were full of hope. Friends seemed to rise up to their
                  aid where they least expected them; and the longer they talked, the lighter grew
                  their hearts.
               Poor, bitterly wronged orphans! Let us hope that day is again dawning upon their
                  long, dark and dismal night of adversity.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE HYPOCRITE AND HIS TOOL.
               IN the same elegant apartment where we first introduced him to the reader, sat the
                  lordly millionaire, the smooth-faced, oily-tongued, hypocritical Oliver Atherton.
                  He sat in an easy chair, gazing thoughtfully into the fire—perhaps reflecting upon
                  his past career, and listening to the still small voice of conscience—or perhaps
                  devising some villainous scheme whereby to grind the faces of the poor, put wealth
                  in his coffers, heap wrong upon wrong, the while he would make the world believe
                  him unexceptionable in piety and benevolence. The latter, most likely; for Oliver
                  Atherton was not one to regret what he had done, so long as he could keep his
                  cloven foot concealed; and even in case of exposure, would care less for the crime
                  than its publicity. If the truth were all told, he had many and black—hearted sins
                  to answer for; but these only troubled when they menaced him. With him, as with
                  many others, crime was not in the commission, but detection; and he ever took all
                  possible means to guard against the latter, by rearing a pinnacle of virtue behind
                  which to screen himself—well knowing that the world looks to the deed, and not the
                  motive, which latter may be deeply buried from human knowledge. For this he
                  belonged to a popular church, and, like the Pharisee of old, made long prayers
                  before his fellow-men, and wore a saint-like visage of humility and attendant
                  virtues. For this he gave liberally to benevolent societies, where there seemed a
                     likelihood hood his name would be
                  publicly displayed. For this he preached the virtues of a God, while he plotted
                  vices Satan might envy, and which were fast bearing him down to his own damnation.
                  Beware! thou opulent hypocrite!—beware! There is a boundary to all things; and
                  thou, of all men, should'st beware thou dost not overstep thy limits!
               For a quarter of an hour, Oliver Atherton removed not his gaze from the fire; but
                  during that time his countenance often varied with the thoughts of his plotting
                  brain. Now his brow would contract, and a dark shade steal athwart his features,
                  as something seemed to perplex and annoy him; and anon his eye would softly
                  twinkle, and a peculiar smile of deep meaning usurp its place, as though he had
                  triumphed over a difficult obstacle. What his thoughts were—whether on a new
                  scheme or an old one—we shall not pause here to investigate, but let them appear
                  for themselves in the voice of the thinker.
               Ringing a small bell on the table beside him, the black servant appeared in the
                  door-way.
               "Has Wesley come, Jeff?" he questioned.
               "Yes, massa, him waiting," answered the negro, who, notwithstanding his arrogance
                  to Edgar, and his boast of freedom, did not venture on dropping the usual term of
                  slavery-servitude, by saying mister.
               "Bid him come in!"
               The black bowed and withdrew, and his place at the door was soon supplied by a
                  white man, carrying in his hand a green bag, who doffed his hat with deference,
                  and halted as if for an order to advance. The rich man had again fixed his gaze on
                  the fire, and for a short time appeared unconscious of the other's presence. Let
                  us take advantage of this quietude, to slightly glance at the new comer.
               In person he was small and slender, and very ungainly, both in form and feature—in
                  the latter particular possessing a cunning, sinister, hang-dog look. His black,
                  coarse hair fell far over a low, villainous forehead, from under which, and long
                  black eye-brows that met over his snub nose, two dark, fiery eyes gleamed out
                  maliciously, and with an ever restless expression and movement, as if the
                  possessor were continually on the look-out to guard against a sudden attack. To
                  compensate in some measure, as it were, for his extreme ugliness and repulsive
                  appearance, nature had endowed him with a soft, musical voice, and the faculty of
                  smiling in such a way as to win favor and conceal the blackness of his heart. And
                  this made him a dangerous character; for without this mask, he was too plainly
                  marked as a villain to deceive even a novice in human nature; whereas, with it,
                  the most experienced were sometimes made his dupes. He had round shoulders,
                  bow-legs, and very long arms, terminating in bony hands and fingers. His age was
                  thirty, though it might have been forty, for any thing by which one could safely
                  judge otherwise. He was rather richly dressed in a suit of black, and wore a gold
                  chain and a diamond breast-pin—all of which served much to relieve his person of
                  sheer ugliness—especially with those (and these comprise the greater portion of
                  mankind) who look more to outward display than the inner man.
               "Ah, you're here!" said the plotting man at length, turning his eyes upon the
                  other. "Advance!" and he pointed to a seat beside the table. "So! what news?"
               "Nothing particularly valuable," replied Wesley, as he quietly seated himself and
                  placed his bag on the table.
               "Any thing of Wall street?"
               "Nothing—no."
               "Strange?" mused Atherton, glancing at the fire; "I expected something before
                  this."
               
               "I did," responded the other.
               "Have you seen him since?"
               "Not since," replied Wesley, who, if it were possible, always answered a question
                  by repeating the closing portion of it.
               "And why, Wesley?"
               "Couldn't find him."
               "Ha! has he gone?"
               "Gone."
               "The old bird, too, Wesley?"
               "The old bird, too. She's flown upward, the rest elsewhere."
               "I do not understand you."
               "She's dead, then, and the others have left."
               "Dead, Wesley?" and the rich man gave a start of surprise. "Dead, say you?"
               "Dead."
               "And the others have removed?"
               "Removed."
               "And you don't know where?"
               "Don't exactly."
               "Out of the city?"
               "Think not."
               "Well, you must hunt him out. If in the city, mark me! you must find him. In case
                  the first trap don't catch him, we must construct another, and put on a different
                  bait. You understand, Wesley?"
               "Understand."
               "He is dangerous, I fear, for he threw out some very unpleasant hints. In short,
                  he either knows or suspects too much, and must be silenced. Must,
                  Wesley," repeated Atherton, with emphasis—"mark you that!"
               "Exactly that."
               "And now to other matters. Did you succeed in purchasing the Middleton
                  property?"
               "Succeeded," grinned Wesley.
               "Good!" returned Atherton, smiling and rubbing his hands. "And, Wesley, did the
                  ruse take, eh?"
               "Took," nodded Wesley.
               "Good again—good again!" exclaimed the rich man, in an ecstacy of delight rarely
                  by him displayed. "Revenge and ten thousand dollars at one stroke is rather a good
                  hit—eh! Wesley?"
               In his happiest moods, Atherton sometimes, as now, threw off his usually dignified
                  reserve, and allowed himself to be rather familiar with his attorney, counsellor,
                  agent and private secretary, all of which offices Wesley filled.
               "Good hit," grinned Wesley again.
               "The old man," continued Atherton, with a sardonic smile of deep import, "old
                  Middleton, little dreamed of the consequence of his attempt to crush me—to ruin my
                  reputation, the villain! Ah, I had him! I cried him down by my agents, bought his
                  paper at a discount, and then, best of all, bought his property at a sacrifice, by
                  making his title appear doubtful, and paid him in his own notes at par. Well done,
                  Oliver Atherton—well done!" This was spoken in a low tone, and evidently not
                  intended for the ears of the attorney; but the latter was sharp of hearing, and he
                  heard it, though not a single look of his betrayed the fact. "What next, Wesley?"
                  queried the millionaire.
               "Widow Malone can't pay rent."
               "Into the street with her then—you know my invariable rule in all cases of this
                  kind."
               "I did it."
               "Right! Did she go quietly?"
               "She called you a villain—cursed you."
               "Humph! that little troubles me, you know."
               
               "I know," grinned the attorney.
               "What next?"
               "Old Shuffler's sick and all his family—wont be able to pay rent, I reckon."
               "Into the street with him then. Well?"
               "Mrs. Brady, whose husband was killed by a kick of your horse, begs you will allow
                  her a small sum to keep her family from starvation."
               "Tell Mrs. Brady to be——"
               "But she's noticed," interrupted the politic counsellor. "Mrs Malcolm has already
                  sent to her."
               "Ah, indeed! that alters the case," said Atherton, with interest. "It will be
                  known then: I must be liberal. Give her fifty dollars, Wesley. Any thing
                  further?"
               "The New England Benevolent Tract Society wants your signature."
               "Curse these societies—these blood-suckers of the wealthy!" ejaculated Atherton,
                  shutting his teeth hard in anger. "But there's no avoiding them, and maintaining
                  one's position," pursued the worldly man; "and so, as the old adage has it, 'what
                  can't be cured must be endured.' Is this society popular, Wesley?"
               "Popular," responded the secretary.
               "Give five hundred dollars then. Proceed!—what next?"
               "Done," said the other.
               "Ah, done, eh!" Then musing a few moments, and glancing keenly about the
                  apartment, meanwhile, to be sure there were no listeners, Atherton, in a low tone,
                  resumed: "Do you think he can have got any clue to the truth, other than a vague
                  suspicion, Wesley?"
               "Hard telling," answered the attorney.
               "You know there was but one besides you and I; and he, the prying fool, was
                  drowned, was he not?"
               "Was drowned," quoth the attorney, with a slight shudder.
               'Well, he is dangerous, and we must be rid of him, my friend;" and
                  the calm, cold, blue eye of the scheming man fastened upon his subordinate with an
                  expression of deep, dark import. "I hope my first plan will succeed—if not——"
               Here he paused, and glanced at the other significantly, who at once exclaimed:
               "No, no—no more blood!"
               "He must be silenced, though!" pursued Atherton, in a low, deep, sepulchral tone,
                  bending over the table till his face almost touched his agent's: "you know that as
                  well as I. Should he get the upper hand, we are lost—or rather you are—for I will
                  make my money save me, though at the expense of my reputation."
               As he said this, looking full in the eye of his dupe or tool, there was a
                  glance—sudden and of lightning duration—a glance from the latter, which made him
                  recoil as if bitten by a serpent. He looked again, but it was gone, and he was
                  fain to believe his eyes had deceived him.
               "Think of it," added Atherton, after vainly waiting for the other to make some
                  reply; "think of it, and act accordingly. The inside of a prison is a dreary
                  place;" and he waved his hand, as was customary with him when he wished to be left
                  alone.
               The attorney arose and withdrew without a word. As he descended the stairs,
                  however, there was a terrible, sinister look on his ugly visage, and he
                  muttered:
               "He will make his money save him! O, ho, he will make his money save him, and I am
                  to be the victim! Thank you, Oliver Atherton, for your candor! We shall see—we
                  shall see;" and muttering thus, he quitted the mansion indignantly.
               Better for the man of the world that that morning's conference ference had not been, or that he had been more like
                  himself, less candid, further seeing, more cautious.
               For a few minutes after the departure of Wesley, the hypocrite riveted his gaze
                  upon the fire, with a stern, gloomy expression; then his reverie was broken by a
                  soft, white hand being laid upon his shoulder. He looked up with a start, and his
                  countenance betrayed the presence of guilty thoughts; but on perceiving it was
                  only his daughter who stood beside him, he quickly recovered his composure, and
                  pointing her to a seat, observed:
               "I had forgotten I had sent for you."
               "Neither you did, father: I stole in upon you of my own accord."
               With a motion quick as lightning, Atherton seized her by the arm, and eagerly
                  peering into her face, while he held his breath, said:
               "You have not been listening, Arabella?"
               "Would I do so base a thing, father?" interrogatively answered the other, her
                  color heightened with proud indignation.
               "True—true—yes—ha, ha—of course—certainly not," stammered Atherton, in some
                  confusion, aware his suspicion had betrayed his guilt. "I—I was thinking—ha, ha—in
                  fact I hardly know what I was thinking—but—— Well, now you are here I would like
                  some conversation. You came opportunely, as I was about sending for you. 'Pon the
                  word of a father," he added, gazing proudly upon her, "you look charming to day,
                  Arabella; beautiful, if I may be so complimentary."
               And beautiful Arabella Atherton ever looked in the eyes of that hollow-hearted,
                  fashionable world, who prefer the cold beauty that dazzles and towers aloft like a
                  mountain of ice, to that softer and more effeminate loveliness, which, like a
                  sylvan landscape full of flowers, steals gently upon the senses, and awakes all
                  the finer emotion of the soul. In the bloom of nineteen summers, Arabella was a
                  belle; and being a supposed heiress to great wealth, had more suitors to her hand
                  than heart. In sooth, she was illy fitted to win by the latter; for hers was a
                  proud, imperious nature, little calculated to love herself, or inspire others with
                  the tender passion. And yet both might come to pass; she might love, and be in
                  turn beloved; but in her present position, and with her worldly education, the
                  possibility was much greater than the probability. In stature she was medium, and
                  possessed a form almost a model of perfection. A splendid bust, above which were a
                  neck and head of a carriage the most lofty, gave her a commanding appearance,
                  that, no matter what her position in society, would not allow of her passing
                  through the world unnoticed. Her features were regular, but not particularly fine,
                  unless seen by artificial light, at a short distance, when they appeared
                  beautiful. Her forehead was high and smooth, bearing upon it the stamp of
                  pride—pride as of a conscious superiority even over her equals. And this same
                  pride was in her dark, lustrous eye, in her slightly expanded nostrils, and around
                  her well formed mouth. It was a pride not only of birth, beauty, position, and
                  wealth, but of nature; pride that plainly showed she knew her value, and would by
                  no means allow herself to be underrated. Had she been born a beggar, she would
                  still have shown pride, and felt herself the superior of her companions. And this
                  pride, so displayed, was her ruling or strongest passion; and though, when she
                  chose, she could be extremely affable and winning, still pride was ever lurking
                  near, and made her affability dignified, her reserve most haughty.
               On the present occasion, she was richly dressed in a lilac silk, fashioned so as
                  to display the outlines of her heaving bosom, which, even in its rise and fall,
                  spoke pride. Her well-rounded,
                  velvet-like arms were bare, save where encircled by golden bracelets just above
                  her snowy hands. To mark her, as she turned her eyes inquiringly upon her father,
                  one could not but admit she was handsome. In fact she was more so now than usual;
                  and this it was which had drawn from him the compliment already quoted, and to
                  which she responded with:
               "Thank you! I must indeed look well to win the approbation of one so
                  fastidious."
               "And, by-the-by," returned the other, "this same beauty must bring its full
                  value."
               "What do you mean, father?" she asked, with flashing eyes. "Am I to be bought and
                  sold like a slave or dumb beast?"
               "By no means, my daughter, to be bought and sold. I would only imply that your
                  wealth and beauty must not be thrown away upon one inferior to yourself in any
                  respect."
               "Never fear, my dear father," rejoined Arabella, with sarcasm and a haughty toss
                  of her head, "that I shall stoop to disgrace myself or you. There is as much
                  family pride in my breast as in your own. It is not every suitor, I beg to assure
                  you, that will gain even a promise of my hand."
               "But at the same time, Arabella," pursued the politic father, "you must not be too
                  haughty when the right suitor is before you, or you may mar all."
               "And who, I pray, is the right suitor?" she asked
                  sharply.
               "Who should he be, but the rich and accomplished Clarence Malcolm?"
               "Umph!" rejoined the other, with a proud curl of the lip; "and am I then to do him
                  reverence?"
               "By no means; there are a thousand ways to win, without in the least sacrificing
                  your dignity. Of a truth, a certain reserve is necessary to inspire a man with
                  proper respect and esteem—for every thing is prized according to the labor and
                  expense required in obtaining it—and to nothing does this more strictly apply than
                  to woman; but what I fear is, that you may so far forget your true policy, as to
                  treat him as you have done many a one before him, with a haughtiness so disdainful
                  that his own manly pride will force him to leave you."
               "I shall treat him," rejoined Arabella, "according to his deserts and behaviour.
                  If he presume too much, he shall find I have not forgotten what is due to
                  myself."
               "But let me charge you, Arabella, to be very cautious, for he is certainly a prize
                  worth securing. I have it from his own lawyer, that he has already been
                  apportioned five hundred thousand dollars, and will in time fall heir to as much
                  more. He is an only son of a widowed mother, and her possessions are vast; so you
                  see the importance of making him yours; and you will do it, I trust, even at the
                  sacrifice, if necessary, of a little self-pride."
               "I do not know that I shall," returned Arabella, coldly, "I do not think I shall
                  cross my nature for any man, rich or poor, high or low. Besides, I am not anxious
                  to tie myself in wedlock, at least for the present. There is time enough for that
                  years ahead."
               "But think, my dear Arabella," pleaded the worldly man, "what it is to be the wife
                  of one so immensely rich, and so universally esteemed, as Clarence Malcolm. If you
                  have true pride, my daughter, this is the way to gratify it; for you will thus not
                  only triumph over all your associates, but place yourself in a position where you
                  can over-awe them with your grandeur and magnificience. Think what it is, my
                  child, to be the richest lady in the metropolis, and leader of the ton! Why, were I you, I would stoop to any thing to be
                  so exalted."
               
               "Would you?" said Arabella, with another scornful curl of the lip; "I
                  wouldn't—there is the difference. I would not condescend to lose one grain of
                  self-respect, such as you advise, to win Clarence Malcolm, were he even ten times
                  what you represent him. No, did I do so, I could never after forgive myself."
               "But, my daughter——"
               "Nay, hear me out. That Clarence Malcolm is rich, I believe; that he is a
                  gentleman of fine talents and accomplishments, I know; and, to be candid, I like
                  him as well as any other; and have reason to believe, from his attentions to me of
                  late, that I have found favour in his eyes. Further than this, I know nothing; for
                  not a word of affection, or any thing tending towards matrimony, has ever passed
                  our lips to one another. Now should Clarence Malcolm see proper to sue for my hand
                  in a correct way, taking me all in all, as I am, with all my imperfections on my
                  head, I might be disposed to grant his suit—not for his money, mark you,
                  father—not for his fine accomplishments—but simply because the whim might be upon
                  me."
               "Well, well, Arabella, you are a strange, spoiled child, and so I suppose must
                  have your own way, though I trust you will not disappoint me in this matter."
               "But why are you so anxious, father? Have you not wealth enough?"
               "Enough, Arabella! why, you talk like a simple girl. Enough! bless your soul—why,
                  were I as rich as Crœsus, I should still thirst for more. Enough! no, I shall
                     never have enough, though every addition will be
                  something towards a satisfaction. My whole soul, Arabella, is concentrated upon
                  the ambition of being the wealthiest gentleman in the metropolis, that men may
                  point at me and say, 'There goes he who can buy and sell all others.' So be a true
                  child of mine, Arabella, and aid me to accomplish plish what I have struggled for
                  for years. With your con sent, and our cards skilfully handled, we are sure to
                  win. Malcolm is in every sense a strict man of honor, and would rather sacrifice
                  his right hand than do a mean action, or be thought guilty of one. His attentions
                  to you have already been somewhat marked; endeavor to make them still more so, and
                  we are safe. I will have the report circulated that you are engaged; and then,
                  should he seek to avoid you, I will privately threaten him with a suit for breach
                  of promise. This will settle the matter; for he would suffer death sooner than
                  have his fair name dragged thus before the world and bandied in the public
                  prints."
               "But, father," said Arabella, with a look of painful displeasure, "what respect
                  could he have for a wife so obtained?"
               "Respect? Pshaw! girl, don't be a fool! Who cares for his respect, so we have his
                  money!"
               "But how would his money benefit you?"
               "Ah, leave that to me—leave that to me!" answered Atherton, rubbing his hands with
                  delight at the happy prospect of effecting some well concocted, devilish scheme,
                  which he did not care to reveal to his daughter. "Come, girl, promise me you will
                  use your best endeavors to succeed in this!"
               "I will think of it," said the other, coldly, rising to withdraw.
               "You will promise, Arabella!" urged her father. "Come, say you will promise!"
               "I say I will think of it," sharply and haughtily rejoined Arabella. And then
                  turning, as she was about to quit the apartment: "Who was that young man I saw
                  here the other evening?" she asked. "His face seemed familiar, but I do not know
                  where to place him."
               "Mention him not!" replied Atherton, with a dark frown; "mention him not, Arabella; he is a villain
                  who has much annoyed me of late;" and he bit his lips in vexation.
               "Then his face belies him," rejoined Arabella, looking hard at her father; "for I
                  have rarely seen a more handsome, frank, ingenuous countenance;" and without
                  waiting a reply from her angry parent, she quitted the apartment, with the proud
                  majesty of a queen, leaving the schemer alone to his thoughts.
               "So, so," he muttered, "her pride overtops her judgment, and therefore must have a
                  fail. She must wed Clarence Malcolm, though, for I have set my soul upon it, and
                  when was I ever known to fail in my undertakings!"
               Beware, Oliver Atherton! for you are reckoning without your host.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               NEW AND STRANGE ADVENTURES.
               WHATEVER the mass of mankind, who have had no experience, may think to the
                  contrary, the life of him who gains his bread by the labor of his brain, is by no
                  means an easy one. To many who know not its trials, struggles and vexations, it
                  may seem very romantic, pleasant and delightful; but it is like a mountain seen
                  from afar, which appears smooth and beautiful in the distance, but which a near
                  inspection proves to be craggy, rough, and both laborious and dangerous of ascent.
                  It is one thing to read and another to write. In the former instance all is plain
                  and smooth before you, word follows word, sentence follows sentence, idea succeeds
                  idea, and, without any effort on your part, your eye skims the page and your mind
                  grasps the sense, and you say to yourself, "Where is the effort of the author in
                  what is so simple and easy?" Ah, you little dream what that same sentence may have
                  cost him, simple as it seems! Perhaps hours of severe application and
                  brain-racking thought. It is not always the smoothest and simplest passages that
                  have been easiest penned. On the contrary, it is these which may have cost the
                  severest toil—for as an instrument only becomes resplendent through intense
                  attrition, so the ideas of an author can only come forth refulgent and polished by
                  the same skill, care and attention.
               You that think the life of an author to be envied, sit down, when you have leisure
                  and feel in fine humor, and attempt to
                  compose. And then, when depressed in spirits, oppressed with grief, care and
                  anxiety, ailing in body, and your brain seems clogged and heavy, or, on the
                  contrary, parched with a burning fever, sit down and try it then. Remember your
                  task is before you, that you must go on, for on this hangs the power to provide
                  for yourself, and, peradventure, those as near and dear to you as your own heart's
                  blood. And remember, too, you must not slight your task, or that great tribunal,
                  the public, before which you must be judged, will not fail to censure and thus
                  destroy your occupation. Remember, furthermore, you are continually called upon
                  for new scenes, new ideas and new events, which your already aching and overtaxed
                  brain must supply. And lastly, remember this is not for a day, nor a week, nor a
                  month, but for years, perhaps a lifetime. Make this trial, we say, take into
                  consideration all these facts, together with the pittance you will receive, even
                  if fortunate enough to dispose of your labor, and then, if you envy an author's
                  fate, go follow his profession, and make an early grave for yourself, and a name
                  that will live perchance till your body has turned to corruption and dust.
               Similar to these were the reflections of Edgar Courtly as, pen in hand, and weary
                  with thought, he paused over the task he had undertaken. We have said elsewhere,
                  that in his leisure hours he had written poetry—but that had been done simply
                  through inclination and for his own amusement, and was very different from his
                  present attempt, where, with nothing to inspire him save the hope of reward, on
                  which his very life as it seemed to him depended, he toiled on, straining each
                  mental faculty to its utmost tension.
               "And even when completed," he sighed, "I may fail, and all my anxiety and
                  brain-torture go for naught."
               But he determined to fail not through indolence or carelessness; and hence he
                  wrote and read, revised and rewrote, until there seemed no possibility of his
                  improving what he had done; and gladly then, yet not without misgivings, he
                  pronounced the poem complete. This occurred at a rather late hour on the third
                  night from his meeting with Elmer; and having read it aloud to Virginia, and
                  received her joyful approval, he retired for the night—but not to sleep
                  soundly—for hope and fear were too busy in his breast to allow him more than a
                  feverish, fitful slumber. At dawn he was up and dressed, and without partaking of
                  breakfast, so anxious was he to have the article put in hand as early as possible,
                  he set out for the lodgings of Elmer. Elmer slept late, and so of course an
                  interview at that hour was out of the question; but he left the parcel, properly
                  superscribed, in the hands of a servant, with imperative instructions, that, so
                  soon as Elmer should rise, it must be given to him as a matter of great
                  importance. Pondering upon what would be his success against so much competition,
                  he turned away, and, in a musing mood, strolled down the street in the direction
                  of the Battery.
               It was a clear, cold, but beautiful and invigorating morning; and the sun, as he
                  rose, wore a cheerful aspect, and brightly gleamed down upon tall spires, making
                  their bright balls seem fire; and upon the houses and trees, turning their net
                  work of frost into diamond dew drops; and upon the harbor and rivers, forming
                  their waters into polished mirrors; and upon the rushing steamers, arching
                  rainbows in the spray of their wheels; and upon the oars of the boatmen, making
                  every stroke dip silver; and upon the sails of the stately ships, giving them a
                  light and swan-like appearance; and, in a word, upon every thing abroad, animate
                  and inanimate; brightening, enriching and beautifying all.
               
               As Edgar arrived at the Battery, and took in all this at a glance, he felt his
                  spirits revive with a feeling akin to the scene; and for an hour he forgot his
                  sorrows in a happy reverie. Then, remembering he had not yet broken his fast, and
                  that his sister, having prepared the frugal meal, would be patiently awaiting him,
                  he set out upon his return; but instead of retracing his steps, shaped his course
                  along the shipping of the East river. Pushing forward, little heeding any thing
                  around him, his mind occupied with grave reflections, he had passed some half a
                  dozen squares, when his progress was arrested by a groan from a man lying on the
                  pavement just to his right. His first impression, on coming to a halt, was, that
                  the man was drunk; and he was about to pass on, when something in the appearance
                  of the stranger led him to think otherwise; and he approached and accosted him in
                  a kindly tone.
               "What is the matter, my friend?" he asked.
               "God bless you," returned the other, in a feeble voice, "for those kind words—the
                  first I have had addressed to me for many a day! I am sick, kind sir, and, I fear,
                  nigh unto death. I lately arrived in port from a long voyage, and was immediately
                  taken ill with a fever. I sought lodgings in yonder house, (pointing to a
                  villainous-looking groggery,) for I had not much money, and did not know where to
                  go. While my money lasted, I received some attention; but it gave out last night;
                  and ere daylight this morning, I was rudely thrust into the street, with the
                  cold-hearted remark, that, being now a beggar, I must seek other quarters. I tried
                  to get elsewhere, kind sir, but my strength failed me, and here I am. O God!" he
                  added, in a sort of prayer, "if my time has come to die, take me to thyself!—but I
                  would, merciful God, that thou sparest me longer, that, if possible, I may bring
                  the guilty to account, and right the wronged!—but do, O God, as to thee seemest
                  best!'
               "Poor fellow!" sighed Edgar, struck with the stranger's manner, and the
                  mysteriousness of his last words; "here is another example of the world's
                  humanity. Who are you, friend?" he asked; "for though dressed in the garb of a
                  common sailor, your language bespeaks one bred in a different school."
               "I am not what I seem," rejoined the other, in a still more feeble voice, and
                  evidently in much pain; "but I can explain nothing now. If you can assist me, kind
                  sir, do so—if not, leave me alone to die. Ah, me! God's mercy on me!"
               "Alas! stranger," rejoined Edgar, "it is little assistance I can render to any
                  one; but what I can do I will; you must not be left alone to die. Have patience a
                  moment; I will see what can be done;" and seeing a well-dressed gentleman at a
                  short distance, he hurried to him, explained the case, and asked his advice.
               "He had better be sent to the hospital," was the reply.
               "But will they receive him?" queried Edgar.
               "If a sailor, they are bound to do so;" and he gave Edgar instructions how to
                  proceed to gain him admittance.
               Acting upon the other's advice, Edgar procured an elliptic-spring dray, a vehicle
                  much in use in the great metropolis, and placing the stranger upon it, accompanied
                  and saw him safely deposited in the hospital, where he would receive the best of
                  care and medical attendance.
               "And now," he said, as he was about to take his leave, "I shall make it my
                  business to call upon you daily. For whom shall I inquire?"
               "Alanson Davis," answered the invalid, feebly pressing the hand of Edgar. "And now
                  yours, my kind benefactor, whom may God reward for your humanity!"
               "Edgar Courtly," replied our hero.
               
               The invalid started, clasped his forehead with one hand, and, weak though he was,
                  partly raised himself with the other, while his eyes fastened upon Edgar with a
                  wild, eager expression.
               "Perhaps I was mistaken," he said, in a hoarse whisper. "Repeat your name once
                  more!"
               Edgar did so.
               "And your native place!"
               "Baltimore," said Edgar.
               "You—you have—an uncle!" almost gasped the other.
               Edgar set his teeth hard, and frowned darkly, as he replied:
               "My mother, God rest her soul! had an unnatural brother."
               "Whose name is——"
               "Oliver Atherton."
               The sick man nodded his head and sunk back, too much exhausted to make an
                  immediate reply. At length he feebly muttered:
               "Go! go!—but be sure you return to me! God grant I live, for your sake! Heaven be
                  praised that we have met! I have much to tell you—but not now. Go! go!" and so
                  exhausted was the invalid with excitement and the effort to speak, that his last
                  trial died away in a whisper.
               Edgar, surprised and bewildered at these mysterious words, would fain have
                  lingered, in the hope of hearing something further; but the physician touched him
                  on the shoulder, and warned him that his presence was endangering the life of the
                  patient. He therefore took his departure, and bent his steps homeward, musing upon
                  the strangeness of his adventure, and wondering what secret the stranger had to
                  reveal. That there had been crime committed somewhere, he believed; and might not
                  this man have been a tool of his uncle, and have aided in wresting from him his
                  rightful possessions? He had spoken of wrong that had been done ere he knew whom
                  he addressed; and when the name was made known to him, his agitation was such as
                  could spring from no ordinary cause. And the dark hints he had himself thrown out
                  to his uncle on the night his mother died, and the singular effect they produced,
                  all recurred to the mind of Edgar, with the natural reflection, that where there
                  was so much uneasiness, there must be some secret but potent cause; and now that
                  he was once upon the trail, he resolved to ferret this out, let the consequences
                  be what they might.
               The hospital, of which mention has just been made, stands on Broadway, but retired
                  from the constant jar of busy life by a large enclosure or park, which slopes away
                  in front, forming a beautiful lawn and sylvan grove, from among the shrubbery of
                  which the picturesque structure peeps forth with a rather delightful and inviting
                  appearance, more especially in the summer season, when the green fluttering leaves
                  seem to speak of pure air and gentle, refreshing quietude. His homeward course
                  from this hospital, led Edgar directly past the Tombs of Centre street, upon which
                  he now gazed with a strange, unaccountable feeling of awe, that he had occasion
                  soon after to remember as an evil presentiment.
               The Tombs—so called from its resemblance to the Mausoleums of Egypt's mighty
                  kings, and, also, as some say, from the number of suicides committed by prisoners
                  within its damp and filthy cells, thus making it a sort of charnel house—is a
                  building well calculated to arrest the attention of a stranger viewing the
                  curiosities of the great metropolis. It is a massive structure of stone, built in
                  the Egyptian style of architecture, and serves the several purposes of a city
                  prison, police court, the court of sessions, law, and other offices. It is a grand
                  but gloomy pile, surmounted by a
                  cupola, whose summit overlooks a great portion of the city. A high wall encloses
                  three sides of it, forming an area, the fourth side of which is composed of the
                  main building, into which from this opening, entrance can only be had through
                  heavy iron doors, kept double-locked and bolted to prevent the escape of
                  prisoners. This area answers many prison purposes; and among the rest, that of
                  admitting light and air to the cells looking out upon it, and as a place of
                  private execution for those convicted of capital offences, whose death in such
                  cases is only witnessed by a few prisoners and officials. The building is so
                  constructed that a criminal may be led from his cell to the court room, have his
                  trial, and be remanded, without once beholding the world without, until he is
                  taken hence to serve out his term of sentence, either at Blackwell's Island or
                  Sing Sing. In front you enter by a long flight of stone steps, and pass directly
                  under a fine colonnade, which, together with the quaint appearance of the whole
                  building, as seen at a short distance, and the remembrance of the purposes to
                  which it is devoted, gives it an imposing and solemn aspect, that makes a deep and
                  lasting impression upon the mind of him, who, in a reflective mood, views it for
                  the first time.
               While occupied in gazing upon this gloomy structure, and thinking of the poor
                  wretches therein confined, Edgar was suddenly startled by the piercing shrieks of
                  a female; and looking around, he beheld a horse coming down the street at the very
                  top of his speed, with a light vehicle attached, in which sat a lady, nearly
                  frightened out of her senses, from whom issued these frightful sounds of agonized
                  despair. That she must soon be thrown out and dashed to pieces, or terribly
                  mangled, seemed inevitable—for the carriage rocked from side to side, occasionally
                  balancing on two wheels for a moment, so evenly that a pound seemed sufficient to
                  upset it, and then, just as all hope was over, settling back to its original
                  position, or swaying as far the other way, while on dashed the frightened animal
                  more fiercely than ever. Hundreds had tried to check him or change his course; but
                  on, on he still furiously sped, heeding no obstacle, and turning neither to the
                  right nor left. Thousands had collected behind the lady, and were gazing after her
                  in breathless awe, expecting every moment to witness a sight that would make their
                  blood run cold with horror. In front, men, women and children were rushing to the
                  sidewalks, to place their own persons in safety; while others, from every
                  direction, were hurrying to the scene to gratify a morbid curiosity.
               From the moment Edgar put eyes upon the lady, he determined to save her, even at
                  the risk of his life—and a fearful risk it was, in the manner he attempted it. The
                  horse was descending Centre street from the direction of the Park; and, unless his
                  course was changed, must pass within a few feet of where he stood. There was but
                  little time for reflection. But Edgar thought rapidly, and his plan was soon laid;
                  though, it must be confessed, one of peculiar danger to himself. Perceiving a club
                  upon the pavement, he seized it, and stepping forward a few paces, awaited the
                  approach of the furious beast, well knowing that should he fail in his design, his
                  own life in all probability would be the penalty. On came the maddened beast,
                  rolling fire from the flinty pavement beneath his hoofs, and making each one he
                  passed shudder with an indescribable terror.
               Edgar had taken his position directly in front of the animal; so that, unless one
                  or the other turned aside, the latter must pass directly over his body. To turn
                  aside neither seemed inclined; and when the beast, still rushing forward with
                  unabated velocity, had reached within a few feet of our intrepid hero, there was a
                  general cry of alarm for his safety.
                  The next moment the cry was changed into a universal shout of applause, and men
                  marvelled at what their own eyes revealed to them. The horse lay sprawling,
                  panting, and kicking upon the pavement—the vehicle, upset and broken, was partly
                  piled upon him—while the lady, safe and unharmed, was resting, all unconscious, in
                  the arms of her deliverer.
               The manner in which this had been effected was simple, though seemingly a miracle
                  to those who beheld it. As the foaming horse came bounding up, Edgar struck him a
                  violent blow upon the head, which felled him to the earth; then springing quickly
                  back, he caught the lady in his arms, as she was thrown forward by the sudden
                  stopping of the vehicle. It was a most dangerous feat, but one he had correctly
                  counted on performing, and he now stood the proud hero of a thousand admiring
                  eyes.
               His first movement was to bear the lady up the steps of the Tombs, where, water
                  being procured and dashed in her face, she presently revived, only to stare in
                  wonder and maidenly timidity upon the dense crowd that had gathered around. A
                  single glance at her person and dress, showed her to be young, beautiful and
                  wealthy—or at least a lady of some distinction—and Edgar was perplexing himself
                  how to proceed next, when a middle-aged gentleman came pushing through the crowd,
                  which gave way with deference, and catching her in his arms, wildly called her his
                  own dear child, and seemed fairly beside himself with joy at her providential
                  escape.
               Seeing she was now in proper hands, and that there was no longer need for his
                  services, Edgar took advantage of the confusion, and quietly and modestly
                  withdrew.
               When the father, having learned the details of how his daughter had been saved by
                  the heroic daring on the part of another which astonished him, and, full of
                  profound gratitude, inquired for her noble deliverer, he was gone, much to his
                  regret and disappointment, and none could say where he might be found. In a word,
                  while men were eagerly seeking him, that he might receive a due reward for his
                  noble daring, Edgar was quietly wending his way homeward, satisfied in his own
                  conscience that he had performed his duty, and disposed to seek no other
                  recompense.
               The sun was several hours advanced towards meridian when he reached his humble
                  lodgings; and Virginia having prepared the morning meal, was awaiting him with
                  anxiety, full of a thousand fears for his safety. To her he explained at once all
                  that had happened to detain him; and throwing her arms around his neck, she
                  pressed upon his lips the sisterly kiss of approval; and both partook of their
                  frugal repast with increased appetites and lightened hearts
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE ABODE OF THE UNFORTUNATE.
               ALTHOUGH impatient to know the decision of Elmer regarding his production, Edgar
                  did not deem it proper to intrude upon him for a day or two, or until all his
                  competitors should have sent in their efforts. Feverish with anxiety as concerned
                  his success, it was now his object to while away his time so as to think as little
                  upon the matter as possible. For this purpose he sallied forth into the bustling
                  city, passing through the main thoroughfares, along the quays, and, in short,
                  visiting every place which he fancied would serve to withdraw his thoughts from
                  what had now become a painful subject—painful, because he felt that in case of
                  failure, the hope which had buoyed up his sinking spirits would be irrecoverably
                  sunk in the dark waters of despair. After rambling about for several hours, he
                  visited the hospital, in the hope to gain from the lips of Davis an explanation of
                  his mysterious words; but in this he was sadly disappointed; for the physician
                  informed him the man was delirious, and in all probability would not survive the
                  attack, as anxiety and exposure had increased his malady to a very malignant form;
                  and even should he recover, all conversation on worldly topics must be excluded
                  for at least a couple of weeks. This was sore news to Edgar, as he had counted
                  much on getting some clue to the supposed villainy of his uncle, whereby he might,
                  if not convict him, at least force him to a satisfactory compromise, and regain
                  enough of his father's property to render himself self and sister independent. It
                  was, therefore, with a heavy heart that he again shaped his course homeward,
                  unconsciously passing over the very ground he had traversed in the morning. As he
                  came along side of the Tombs and looked up to the huge pile, he felt a cold
                  shudder pass through his frame, and his very soul recoil, as it were, with
                  undefinable fear.
               "Strange!" he mentally ejaculated; "strange, I should feel thus, when looking upon
                  the walls of a prison! I have never done a wrong deed, that I should have such
                  terror of the criminal's home. Is it—can it be a foreboding of further evil? God
                  grant that my worst trials are over!—for misery and I have too long been
                  acquainted, and I had hoped we should again be strangers."
               Musing thus, he pursued his way until he entered Mott street; when an irresistible
                  desire seized upon him to visit Ellen, his generous benefactress, whom neither
                  himself nor sister had seen since changing their quarters, and also to look once
                  more upon the wretched abode where his poor mother had ended her sufferings. As he
                  drew near the place and glanced toward the miserable hovel, again tenanted with
                  the most squalid poverty, his heart leaped to his throat, his eyes grew dim, and
                  he was fain to turn quickly away to master his emotion.
               The dwelling of the unfortunate Ellen was nearly opposite, and to this he bent his
                  steps. His first impression was that the house was tenantless—for the door was not
                  only closed, but heavy wooden shutters barred all the windows. Although past
                  midday, there were no signs of life about the premises; and Edgar was on the point
                  of leaving, thinking there was none within, when something altered his
                  determination, and he at once advanced to the door and stoutly applied the
                  knocker. After some little delay, Edgar heard the rattling of bars and the
                     clanking of chains; and then the
                  door swung ajar a few inches, but not sufficiently to admit the entrance or exit
                  of even a child, and a hoarse cracked female voice said:
               "Who are you? and what's wanting?"
               "Is Ellen Douglas within?" asked Edgar, in reply.
               "Well, 'sposen she is?" was the inhospitable rejoinder.
               "Why, then, I desire to see her," said Edgar, already half inclined to depart
                  without more ado.
               I'll see if she'll see you," said the voice. "Who'll I tell her wants her?"
               "Edgar Courtly."
               The door swung to—bolts, bars and chains rattled back to their places—and for a
                  few minutes all was silent. Then a shutter cautiously opened over Edgar's head, as
                  if for some one to peer down, and then as cautiously closed. Presently there was
                  another rattling at the door, which this time swung open, and the same harsh voice
                  said:
               "Come in."
               "As Edgar crossed the threshold, he beheld a corpulent woman, some forty years of
                  age, with a red, bloated countenance and blear eyes, dressed in a loose gown or
                  wrapper, who eyed him coldly until he had cleared the swing of the door, which she
                  shut with impatient violence, and carefully refastened.
               Then turning, "Up stairs," she grumbled, rather than said, and led the way
                  herself.
               Passing through a long, dark hall, preceded by the woman, Edgar ascended a flight
                  of stairs, richly carpeted, to the second story; turning to the right, his
                  conductress threw open a door into a fine apartment, magnificently furnished, and
                  brilliantly lighted with gas, although broad daylight without. A splendid Brussels
                  carpet covered the floor, over which, in elegant profusion, were arranged the most
                  costly articles of furniture. Here stood mahogany and rosewood sofas, ottomans,
                  settees and chairs, covered with purple and crimson silk-velvet; there two large
                  marble tables, strewn with books and music; yonder an organ and piano of the most
                  expensive workmanship; while the walls were adorned with mirrors, that doubled the
                  splendors of the whole, and with busts, and statuetts, and with paintings worthy
                  the attention of a connoiseur of art.
               As all this flashed upon Edgar, a refinement so far beyond what he had expected to
                  find, he could hardly credit his senses, and was half beginning to fancy himself a
                  subject of fairy magic, translated to an oriental palace, when his eye fell upon
                  the object he sought, the beautiful Ellen, reclining on a sofa at the farthest
                  side of the room, robed now in a costly silk, and resplendent with pearl, diamonds
                  and gold. She did not rise, but motioned him to close the door and advance to her
                  side. He did so; and as she reached out her hand to him, he saw she was very pale
                  and a good deal agitated.
               "How is your sister?" was her first question.
               "I thank you, she is well," replied Edgar, seating himself by her side; "but I
                  fear I cannot say as much for you."
               "No," rejoined Ellen, with a sigh, "I am not well. I have been ailing ever since I
                  saw you, and have not been out of my room for several days."
               "I thought there must be something of the kind, for you have not called upon us,"
                  returned Edgar, "and therefore I came to see you."
               "You are very kind," said Ellen, scarcely able to repress her tears, "to take such
                  disinterested interest in one despised by the world."
               "Not disinterested either," rejoined Edgar. "You forget you are our
                  benefactress."
               "I would to God I could forget all other things as easily," she replied, with anguish. "That was
                  nothing—nothing. If my money did you any service, I am rejoiced to know it—but I
                  pray you mention it not again."
               "I am in hopes soon to restore it," said Edgar.
               "Nay, do no such thing!" returned Ellen, with energy. "I would rather you keep it;
                  for in your hands, and that of your sweet sister, it will be used for virtuous
                  ends; while in mine, base mortal that I am! it might only serve some unholy
                  purpose. Oh, that I were dead and in my grave," she continued, bitterly, "away
                  from the sight, the scorn, and contumely of man! Were it not I dread the great and
                  terrible Hereafter, another sun should not rise upon me in life."
               "Nay, Ellen, why talk thus?" returned Edgar, gently and soothingly. "You have done
                  wrong, undoubtedly; so have I—so have all—for all human nature is prone to err in
                  a greater or less degree. But there is one consolation left us: we can repent of
                  our errors and reform our ways; and, Ellen, I beseech you, as one who has your
                  happiness at heart, to change your present course!"
               "And be a thing for the world to point at, hiss at, and insult!" rejoined Ellen,
                  mournfully. "No! no! I would rather be as I am—for now at least I am on an
                  equality with those around me."
               "But leave here—go where you are unknown—live an upright life, and you need have
                  no fears of being insulted," returned Edgar, seriously.
               "And think you, my friend—for of all men I have known, you are the only one I can
                  truly venture to call so—that my guilty conscience would allow me to mingle again
                  with the virtuous?—the wolf in the sheep's fold! No no, no!" she pursued,
                  hurriedly; "I can not do it: I have thought it all over time and again, and have
                  wept such tears as only the conscience-stricken guilty can know. Go where I would,
                  I should feel that all eyes were upon me, reading the thoughts of my polluted
                  soul; and it would be a hell of torture to me far beyond even this. I am a woman;
                  and well you know, when one of my sex is branded with shame, there is no door of
                  mercy and pardon left open for us. No, do what we may, having once done wrong, we
                  are disgraced for ever, and towards us the world's finger of scorn stands
                  eternally uplifted. I am proud as I am wretched; and to see myself shunned by all
                  honest people, as a creature to be abhorred, would be a punishment I could not
                  endure, and to which even death on the rack would prove a glad substitute. Oh, I
                  am most wretched at times; and were it not, as I have just said, I dread the
                  consequences hereafter, another sun should not rise save upon my livid corse."
               "Nay, let me entreat you to think differently, Ellen!" pleaded Edgar, gently,
                  taking her hand.
               "Do not attempt entreaty!" she said, rapidly, "for you will only fail where others
                  have failed before. There was one," she pursued, pressing her hands upon her
                  throbbing temples, and looking wildly upon Edgar, "whose warning voice I
                  disregarded ere I became criminal; and if she could not arrest me in my wayward
                  course, think not that any have now the power to reclaim. My mother! oh, my
                  mother! oh God, my mother!" she cried, in anguish; and again hiding her face,
                  sobbed aloud.
               Edgar endeavored to console and tranquilize her, but for a long time without
                  producing any effect, other than to cause a fresh burst of agony. At length,
                  becoming a little more calm, and striving to repress all emotion, she resumed:
               "And can you indeed look upon me without abhorrence, considering what I am?"
               "It is not that I consider what you are," answered Edgar, "so much as what you may become, if you will
                  but heed my counsel, which makes you less criminal in my eyes than your own. The
                  evil you do, or have done, no one can more heartily condemn than I. It is the good
                  remaining to which I hopefully turn, to see you saved from a fate the most
                  horrible to contemplate. You have intimated that here you are on an equality with
                  your associates. Permit me to venture the assertion, that in nobleness of nature
                  and refinement of soul, you are far, far their superior; and hence what to them is
                  of easy endurance, to you is a torture almost unbearable. To them, sin is a golden
                  ball of delightful temptation—to you, a grinning skull, horrifying to your senses.
                  They have done and still do wrong, because it is the strongest passion they
                  possess—you, because you have been seduced into error, and fancy there is no
                  escape."
               "You speak much truth," rejoined Ellen, mournfully. "Were I what I was once, with
                  all the knowledge I now possess, not a world, were it laid at my feet, should
                  tempt me to be what I am—but being what I am, a world, even had I such to offer,
                  could not restore me to the purity and happiness I possessed ere the tempter came.
                  My tale is brief, and soon told—you take an interest in my fate—therefore listen
                  to what these lips have never as yet revealed to mortal ear:
               "On the banks of the beautiful and romantic Hudson, some hundred miles or so above
                  here, stands a lovely cottage, shaded in the summer by a sylvan grove, and by
                  vines and flowers that entwine themselves gracefully and luxuriantly about it.
                  Here, in times past, lived a happy family—a father, mother, and daughter—the
                  latter an only child, on whom both parents fondly doated—too fondly, I fear, for
                  their good and her own. The fearful epidemic of 1832, called the father suddenly
                  to eternity, and struck the first fell blow against the happiness of the two
                  survivors. Time passed on, and the love of mother and daughter, which had been
                  heretofore divided by a husband and father, now centred upon each other, with an
                  intensity that softened their grief for the lost one. Fair and beautiful—alas! too
                  beautiful for her own salvation—the daughter bloomed eighteen, the reigning belle
                  of the village, with a host of admirers ever in her train. Unsuspicious as she was
                  unsophisticated in the ways of a heartless world, and somewhat vain by nature, but
                  more so by circumstances, she was thus a fit subject for the machinations of one
                  of the handsomest and most accomplished young men she had ever beheld. Add to
                  these attractions, that he was from the fashionable circles of New York, the son
                  of a millionaire, and that to her, comparatively a country rustic, he paid the
                  utmost deference, professing at the same time an ardent attachment, and you will
                  scarcely wonder that, dazzled by his position, and the prospective brought before
                  her mind's eye, as well as grateful for the distinction she fancied conferred upon
                  her, her affections should become enlisted, and she gradually be led on to her own
                  destruction. This her mother saw and warned her of repeatedly; but when was an
                  over-indulged youth or maiden ever known to profit by the counsels of maturer
                  years, unless coerced or brought to the thinking point by sad experience. Yet do
                  not fancy she leaped from virtue to vice knowingly. No! all the world could never
                  have persuaded her to that. She knew she was doing wrong, but did not dream of
                  aught criminal, until the fatal Rubicon of vice had been passed, as in a dream,
                  and she awoke to the horrible reality of knowing her steps could never be
                  retraced—that her fair name and fame were blasted forever—her peace of mind
                  forever ruined. Nor was this effected but with the basest deception. She was
                     persuaded to elope with him she
                  loved, and be privately married, that the news thereof might not reach his
                  father's ears, and he thereby be cut off with a shilling. At night, and by
                  stealth, she left the roof of her fond mother and came to this city, where she was
                  joined in holy wedlock—or at least so led to suppose, until the awful truth of a
                  base deception having been practised, was subsequently revealed to her. Then it
                  was the lamb became a tigress, fearful to look upon; for all the wild passions of
                  hell itself were stirred within her; and he who had brought her to this, was
                  fortunate to escape with life, until her first frenzy was over. As it was, even,
                  when next she and her lover met, there was a fearful scene; and with the door of
                  her apartment bolted upon him, a glittering dagger in her hand, there would have
                  been a new tragedy—a horrifying tale of bloody retribution for the world to gossip
                  over—had not he, on his bended knees, calling Heaven to witness, solemnly vowed to
                  make her his lawful wife, and that, too, ere another month should roll over her
                  guilty head. "To avoid detail," concluded Ellen, with mournful energy, raising
                  herself to a sitting posture, "three years have since passed, and yet that vow has
                  never been fulfilled."
               "But the lover—the seducer," asked Edgar, quickly, "what of him?"
               "He is her lover still; and if not by the laws of man, at least before high
                  Heaven, Ellen Douglas is his true and loyal wife."
               "But when he broke the vow?"
               "He did it by giving good cause, and making another equally as strong and equally
                  as futile. But I loved, trusted, and forgave him—for what will not poor woman do
                  for him she loves! He has made a dozen vows since then, only to break them all and
                  leave me what I am."
               "Then why accuse yourself of being such a vile wretch, when the sin was not so
                  much your own as another's?" asked Edgar.
               "But the sin was my own," said Ellen, mournfully; "for did I not disregard the
                  counsels of a beloved mother, and basely, like a guilty being, forsake her in the
                  dead hour of night?—alas! alas! to the breaking of her heart;" and turning away
                  her face, the wretched girl burst into tears.
               "And where is she now?" inquired Edgar.
               "Where?" echoed Ellen, with a startling emphasis; "where I would to God I
                  were—with the dead!" and sinking back upon her seat, she remained for a few
                  minutes completely overcome with the force of her feelings.
               Edgar made no reply; for he knew there were sorrows, and more especially those
                  where a self-condemning conscience formed a portion, far beyond the power of human
                  consolation, and the which it were but mockery to attempt to soothe. After a
                  silence of some minutes, only broken by her sighs and sobs, Ellen turned to Edgar,
                  and resumed:
               "This, my friend, made me a wretch—this, and the thoughts of what I am, most
                  wretched. But," she added, with a wild, startled look, "I could bear all—even my
                  disgrace and the contumely of my fellow creatures—bear all to my death, without
                  murmuring—were I assured that he, the idol of my heart, as he is the author of my
                  misery, but loved me with one half the passion he has professed. Oh! it is the
                  bitter, harrowing thought, that, after all, I may be abandoned, forsaken, and that
                  for another, which keeps my brain on fire, and has driven me nigh distracted! But
                  he shall never wed her and Ellen Douglas live!" she cried, with sudden vehemence,
                  springing to her feet, greatly to the surprise of Edgar, and towering aloft like
                  an indignant queen, while her dark eyes glared fearfully around: "No, he shall
                  never wed her and I live polluted!
                  —never, never, never—I swear it before high Heaven!" and she threw back her head,
                  cast her eyes upward, and raised her hand aloft, with a natural eloquence of
                  gesture the greatest orator might have envied.
               "And if I may be permitted the question," said Edgar, almost fearful to hazard the
                  inquiry, "who is the villain of whom you speak?"
               "Nay," cried Ellen, eagerly, suddenly grasping his arm, and fixing her eyes upon
                  his, "call him not a villain—it is too harsh a term! I may call him so, but I
                  would not hear another."
               "I crave pardon!" returned Edgar, perceiving his mistake; "but my indignation got
                  the better of my prudence."
               "As you are a stranger here," resumed Ellen, abruptly, seeming not to heed the
                  apology, "and know not the personage in question, I will venture to answer you—but
                  all in confidence, remember. Know then, he is the only son of one Oliver Atherton,
                  well known here as a millionaire."
               "What!" exclaimed Edgar, springing to his feet in astonishment: "Acton
                  Atherton?"
               "You know him, then?" cried Ellen, breathlessly.
               "Only by report, and as my cousin—not personally."
               "Your cousin?" almost screamed the other, grasping his arm and looking completely
                  bewildered. "Your cousin, did you say?"
               "Unfortunately he is so," rejoined Edgar, setting his teeth hard in anger.
               "He your cousin!" repeated Ellen, who in her astonishment could think of nothing
                  else; "and you thus!—such disparity between you! Pray tell me how is this?"
               "By the devil's own labor," replied Edgar, bitterly; "you know his servants seldom
                  go without the good things of this world, whatever they may receive in the next.
                  But come, we have been thrown together singularly, you have briefly sketched me
                  your history, and as I believe our misfortunes both date from one source, sit down
                  and I will briefly tell you mine;" and Edgar proceeded to give the outlines of
                  what is already known to the reader.
               "And now, Ellen," he said, in conclusion, "as you know something of his history, I
                  fancy you will be less credulous concerning what comes from his forked tongue; for
                  that your betrayer will keep one vow with you, I solemnly do not believe."
               "Alas! what will then become of me?" groaned Ellen, in anguish of spirit.
               "Let me repeat my advice. Leave here and retire to some secluded part of the
                  country, where you can ever remain unknown."
               "No, no," rejoined Ellen, "I could not do that. I am so constituted, my friend,
                  that once certain I am not loved—once sure I am forsaken——But hark!" she exclaimed
                  abruptly, starting up and springing to the window; "there is a knock at the
                  door—perhaps it is Acton. It is!" she added, hurriedly, the next moment, as gently
                  she opened the shutter and peered down. "Quick, quick, my friend, you must be
                  gone! I would not have you seen by your cousin for the world! He is already too
                  jealous, and the sight of you would be my undoing! Pass out of the room at once,
                  and, as he approaches, appear to have come from another apartment! Now quick, my
                  friend, quick! Adieu! I will see you another time—adieu!" and as she uttered these
                  words rapidly, she fairly pushed Edgar from the apartment and closed the door.
               Edgar followed her instructions to the letter, and the next minute passed his
                  cousin, whom he now beheld for the first time, and was on his way, unsuspected by
                  the other, to the street door, where the same female who gave him admittance now
                  gave him exit.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               THE BETRAYER AND HIS VICTIM.
               AS the reader may have some curiosity to know something more of Acton Atherton, an
                  individual destined to fill a dark page in this history, we will return to the
                  splendid apartment of Ellen Douglas. Ere he entered her presence, Ellen had
                  resumed her reclining posture on the sofa, from which, as the door opened, she
                  languidly raised her head to give him a faint welcome. As he advanced to her side,
                  the light, falling full upon him, revealed a young man of slight but handsome
                  figure, some three and twenty years of age, with a countenance peculiarly
                  calculated to arrest and rivet the attention of the most casual observer. Though
                  slightly effeminate, it was comely, much beyond what is generally seen in one of
                  the male sex—possessing that singular beauty which is far more apt to fascinate
                  than please the fastidious. His features were fine and regular, with dark,
                  eloquent black eyes, capable of a soft and languishing, a bright and merry, or a
                  dark and piercing expression, according to the varying moods of their possessor. A
                  rather high, though somewhat narrow forehead, a slightly aquiline nose, a
                  perfectly formed mouth, filled with a beautiful set of ivory teeth, and a neatly
                  curved and well rounded chin, gave him a physiognomy that would have been
                  prepossessing as it was handsome, were it not for a something in the expression,
                  seen at intervals, like a light cloud passing athwart the sun, which warned one to
                  be wary in bestowing confidence. His complexion was dark, but very clear, almost
                  transparent, adding much to his beauty; and as he raised his hat, he displayed a
                  comely-shaped head, covered with a profusion of dark brown, natural curls. He was
                  richly but rather gaudily dressed, nearly every article differing in color, though
                  each the brightest and most showy of its kind; while a profuse display of jewelry,
                  all incompatible with good taste, proved his vanity paramount to his judgment. And
                  this, if he had any at all, might be set down as the ruling passion of Acton
                  Atherton—for to gratify his vanity, he had been led into those very excesses which
                  were fast and surely hastening him to his own destruction. Unlike his father, he
                  was not far-seeing, and lacked the cunning, shrewdness and intellect to be a great
                  schemer. He was a villain, but not a deep one; and this not on the score of
                  principle—for in this he was deficient—but because he lacked the mental power
                  necessary to make him such. Honor of a certain kind he had—a sort of fashionable
                  honor—which causes dissolute young men to pay their gambling debts, though many
                  times at the expense of such as do them menial services. Honesty he had to a
                  certain degree—insomuch, that having enough of his own, he never thought to steal
                  from others. He was benevolent, too, in some respects—that is, he could and would
                  give freely whenever his fancy prompted and his vanity seemed likely to reward
                  him; but he would go no further—the usual claims which suffering penury has upon
                  our sympathies, having no effect upon his. If he had any veneration, it was for
                  the man who could best handle a pack of cards, make the largest single count at
                  billiards, or prove champion in a pugilistic encounter. In short, his mind was
                  gross and selfish, and adapted rather to sensual than intellectual enjoyments. Yet
                  he could be remarkably fascinating to the opposite sex—too much so for their own
                  good—for his consummate vanity and unprincipled cipled nature, ever led him to take advantage of
                  their innocence whenever opportunity favored. It was to gratify his vanity he
                  completed the ruin of Ellen Douglas; and it was alone her beauty, of which it was
                  his pride to boast among his associates, that had thus far kept him from utterly
                  deserting her. Perhaps the reader, acquainted with the localities of New York, and
                  knowing Acton so vain, will be surprised he did not board Ellen in a more
                  fashionable quarter of the city; but for this he had his reasons, of which it is
                  unnecessary we should speak.
               To all the qualities, good and bad, of Acton Atherton, we must add one other, more
                  dangerous than all the rest. If he had a countenance and an eye to fascinate, he
                  certainly had a voice to charm, whose every intonation was melody itself—and this
                  was by far the most dangerous weapon with which he assailed the citadel of virtue.
                  Possessing a good flow of language, he could talk for hours, in a way to please,
                  sooth and enchant, like the music of a murmuring stream—and yet never advance one
                  grand or original idea, or inculcate one highly moral principle. But the mass of
                  mankind look more to the manner of delivery than the sentiment; and hence a gem of
                  thought, plainly spoken, will make less impression than a stale idea brilliantly
                  uttered. In this latter virtue lay the power of Acton Atherton, and he both knew
                  and used it.
               "Well, Ellen," he said, in a bland but careless tone, "you are looking
                  disconsolate—how is this?"
               "I seldom look happy," was the grave reply; "or if I do, my looks belie my
                  heart."
               "Not happy," he rejoined, pertly, stroking his chin with an air of
                  self-complaisance, "and a rich man's son for your lover! Fie, Ellen, fie!"
               "I would he were a poor man's son," said Ellen.
               "Why so?"
               "I could then hope."
               "Hope? poh! will you never cease of that—always harping on the same theme. You
                  have the reality before you, so for what need you hope?"
               "That he who sits beside me, will redeem his many broken vows, and in part repair
                  the wrong he has done me."
               "Nonsense, Ellen—what has put you to thinking of this again?"
               "It is never absent from my mind."
               "Well, well," rejoined Acton, hurriedly, and seeming somewhat embarrassed; "all in
                  good time, Ellen—all in good time."
               "You procrastinate," said Ellen, fixing her dark eyes upon him. "You even use less
                  protestation of compliance than formerly."
               "Poh! you mistake, girl."
               "No," cried Ellen, with vehemence, grasping his arm somewhat wildly, "I do not
                  mistake! You have some other plan in view—you intend to desert me!"
               "No, on my honor!" returned Acton, in some confusion: "I tell you you
                  mistake."
               "And I tell you I do not mistake!" rejoined Ellen, more vehemently
                  than ever, now fully roused to a sense of meditated baseness on the part of her
                  lover.
               "And can you for a moment, my dear, beloved Ellen, think I would desert you? No,
                  on my knees, I swear—"
               "Hold!" interrupted the other: "swear no more, Acton Atherton! for you have broken
                  oaths enough already to damn one far less guilty than yourself. Swear no more, I
                  tell you, for the thought of it sickens and fills me with horror! On your bended
                  knees, calling Heaven to witness, you swore, three years ago, to make me your
                  wife. A dozen times since have you done the same thing—and yet what am I now? A thing to be loathed and despised
                  by all virtuous people—a poor human wretch, destined to fill a guilty grave! Oh!
                  Acton, why did you come to me, when I was happy, and, because I loved you and
                  trusted you, coldly and cruelly betray my confidence, and put a stain upon my name
                  that an ocean of repentant tears can never wash away! Why did you come to me, I
                  say, when I was happy, and with insidious arts forever ruin my peace of mind,
                  making of me a wretch that abhors her own existence? You knew I loved you, wildly
                  and madly—so madly, oh God! that I forsook my own home and my beloved mother at
                  your request! For you I disregarded the righteous counsels of one whom, but for
                  you, I would have drained my heart of its blood sooner than so offended. And what
                  have been the awful consequences which I have struggled to bear for your sake?
                  Look at them, Acton, as I do, with a quailing eye! My mother is in her grave—her
                  broken heart crumbling to dust—a noble heart, broken by the conduct of me, her
                  daughter, because she loved me more than life. And I—I—"she fairly screamed in
                  frenzy, grasping his arm fiercely, and letting her dark eyes burn into his, that
                  quailed before their powerful glance and sunk to the ground—"I broke that heart
                  for you—for you—who in return only blighted mine, as the frost does the flower,
                  and made me the victim of false-sworn vows! Look at the three years of suffering I
                  have borne—suffering beyond the power of mortal tongue to describe—suffering full
                  of wo unalterable—ruined hopes, corroding remorse, and a guilty conscience, still
                  made guiltier by the damning deeds of daily perpetration! Think of it, Acton—look
                  upon it—and let the thought harrow up your soul to a redeeming virtue! Remember
                  all this has been done for you—for love only—by one you once basely betrayed, and
                  have now planned to desert and cast away, as we throw chaff upon the wind!"
               Ellen paused, and gazing upon her trembling lover for a moment—now trembling with
                  fear rather than regret—she relaxed her grasp, sunk slowly back on her seat, and
                  covered her face, as if to shut out the horrid scenes her memory had called up
                  from the eventful past.
               For a few minutes Acton made no reply, and for the simple reason he knew not what
                  to say. What he had just heard he felt was true; and he was completely confounded
                  at Ellen's seeming knowledge of what he had supposed a profound secret, and
                  overawed by her wild, impetuous manner. Never had he seen her thus but once, and
                  that the time already referred to by herself, when she forced from him a solemn
                  vow to make her his. Three years had since passed, and she had been to him a
                  quiet, docile being; and he had fancied himself secure—that her spirit was
                  crushed—the lion of her nature forever subdued. But now was he suddenly made aware
                  of his mistake, and saw himself entangled in a perplexity whence there appeared
                  little chance of extrication. What was to be done! he fain would have lied on; but
                  she had stopped his oaths and would not receive his vows, and therefore had made
                  him dumb of protestations. Should he come out boldly, own all, and brave her to
                  her teeth? He feared to do so, and yet this might produce the desired effect. At
                  all events, he resolved to try duplicity once more, and should this again fail
                  him, he would be guided by circumstances. Having resolved, he turned to her, and
                  gently taking her hand, which she passively permitted, he, in his blandest and
                  most musical tones, said:
               "Ellen, dearest Ellen—idol of my heart—my soul's adoration—you wrong me! What you
                  have said of suffering on your own part, I know to be true; but it seems you have overlooked mine. I too have
                  suffered under the vigilant eyes of a suspicious father, lest our secret should be
                  discovered, and either I be ruined in prospects, or all intercourse between us be
                  broken off forever. How can you accuse me for a moment, of thinking to desert you?
                  you whom I love almost to madness, and for whom I have done so much. Look around
                  you, upon the splendors of this apartment! Is there a thing here that was not
                  purchased with my money? and would I have bestowed it thus, had I not loved
                  you?"
               "Take back all you have given me!" said Ellen, sternly, uncovering her pale face,
                  and fixing her dark, determined, unquailing eye upon his; "take back all, strip me
                  of every thing I possess, clothe me in rags, feed me on bread and water, but make
                  me your lawful wife, and I will bear all without a murmur—will never reproach you
                  more—nay, will daily bless you, and do all that within me lies to render you
                  happy. You say you love me! Give me the proof of your hand, and I will be happy—Or
                  if not happy," she added, quickly, correcting herself, "I will at
                  least make no complaints, and will ever greet your coming with a smile, your going
                  forth with a blessing."
               "But," hesitated Acton, "if I were to do this, and it should reach my father's
                  ears——"
               "But it shall not," interrupted Ellen, "there is no necessity of making the affair
                  public. We can be privately married, and none be the wiser of our secret."
               "Well, I will see what can be done."
               "Then you must see quickly, for I have set my heart upon it, and it must speedily
                  be accomplished. Ay, for that matter, a license can be procured, and the ceremony
                  performed at once. Why should we delay?"
               "Certainly," returned Acton, stammering; "but you see—the fact is—I—that is——"
               "Hold!" exclaimed Ellen, springing to her feet and gazing upon him with the
                  dignified calmness of suppressed passion. "Hold, Acton Atherton, ere the love I
                  have borne you turns to hate, and these hands do a deed time can never undo! I see
                  it all! You do not love me, and never did—all your false oaths to the contrary
                  notwithstanding. And now, Acton Atherton, you almost hate me—and for why? Because
                  you fancy I stand in your way. Well, sir, you fancy truly. I do and will stand in
                  your way, so long as I am cursed with an existence; and if you further wrong me,
                  my sinful spirit shall rise from my grave to haunt you. Now mark me, and ponder
                  well on all I say! for not one word will be spoken that has not been carefully
                  weighed. You are on the point, or at least you think so, of forming a wealthy
                  alliance. Nay, start not, and use not your lying tongue, for you see I know all!
                  The daughter of Calvin Morton is no small prize; and I can hardly wonder you
                  should seek to cast off for her, one whose artless innocence you succeeded in
                  betraying, and whose now blasted reputation would, as your wife, add nothing to
                  your besetting sin of vanity. I do not wonder, I say, you seek to cast her off for
                  another. But this may not be. Edith Morton, I learn, is an angelic creature of
                  pure virtue. She must not link herself to one who has proved himself a villain.
                  Besides, I, who now stand before you a polluted wretch, was once, perhaps, as good
                  and pure as she. Who made me what I am? You, Acton Atherton—you—and to you I look
                  for such reparation as lies in your power."
               "But surely, Ellen, you would not blight my fair prospects?" pleaded Acton,
                  greatly astonished at her knowledge of what he believed her ignorant.
               "Blight your fair prospects!" repeated Ellen, with indignant scorn: "Blight
                     your fair prospects! Why not? Have you not blighted mine—not only temporally but
                  eternally?"
               "But you know that was in the excess of youthful passion, when the brain was
                  hot."
               "And having cooled on my disgrace, the passion fled, you would say?" rejoined
                  Ellen, with the utmost difficulty suppressing a burst of indignation.
               "Why, not exactly that, though something like it," answered Acton, mistaking the
                  apparent tranquility of the other for something more real. "But come, let us
                  settle this matter amicably, as two lovers should. You have a strong claim upon
                  me, I admit; but I am wealthy, and will buy it up. By Jove! you shall be rich; and
                  with riches, you know, come all the other creature comforts. Come, what say
                  you?"
               It is impossible to describe the expression on the countenance of Ellen, as these
                  heartless words escaped the lips of her perfidious lover. It was a curious
                  mingling of scorn, hate, grief, self-reproach and remorse. In a moment, as it
                  were, the scales had fallen from her eyes, and she beheld Acton Atherton the mean
                  trifling villain he was. A villain, to some extent, it is true, she had always
                  believed him; but she was unprepared for such cold-hearted baseness. He seemed no
                  longer anxious to put her off with even false promises, but rather to let her
                  understand she was a commodity to be trafficked with—to be bought and sold as a
                  beast or slave. Hitherto, amid all the stormy passion of her ill-fated existence,
                  there had been no period when the beacon-light of hope appeared completely
                  extinguished. It had burned dim and dimmer—had been almost lost sight of in the
                  mists of the distance—but still its vicinity could ever be traced, and by it her
                  frail bark had been saved from destruction. Now a single breath had extinguished
                  it, and she was left to grope her way in the darkness. It is a terrible thing to
                  feel utter desolation—to know your last hope is gone—that you have now nothing
                  more cheerful to look to than death and the cold silent tomb! How it chills the
                  heart, making the very blood that courses your veins like ice-bound streams, and
                  your soul shrink within itself with a trembling, undefinable horror!
               Ellen made no loud demonstrations of anger or disappointment; but she looked
                  fixedly at Acton, till his eyes, that at first encountered hers triumphantly, sunk
                  to the ground, and an awe, he in vain sought to shake off, held him spell-bound
                  and speechless.
               "You have spoken," she said, in a voice so changed and sepulchral that its tones
                  startled him; "you have, in a moment, turned to hate the love of one whose
                  greatest fault has hitherto been that of loving you too well. Well, be it so; but
                  take yourself hence at once and forever! Henceforth I would forget, during the
                  short period I may survive, I have ever seen one who bore the name of Acton
                  Atherton—one whom I now hate with all the bitterness of my nature. Go, sir!
                  begone! and let us never meet again, or I may be tempted to do what can never be
                  undone!"
               "But, dear Ellen," pleaded Acton, "you surely will not follow to prosecute me?—you
                  will let me go my ways in peace?"
               "So far as this: I solemnly swear, before that Almighty God in whose presence ere
                  long I expect to stand, that if in my power, I will expose you to Edith Morton,
                  that she may be saved, if she will but take heed. Further than this I care
                  not."
               "You swear to do this?" cried Acton, starting up in rage.
               "I do."
               "Then, by ——! you shall not!" he cried, seizing a silver hilted dagger that rested
                  on the table. "Sooner than be so
                  exposed by a dishonored thing like yourself, I will let out your heart's blood!"
                  and he made towards her, as if to strike, his countenance expressive of the
                  blackness of his heart.
               Ellen showed no signs of fear; but calmly folding her arms on her breast, again
                  fixed her dark, penetrating eye upon his. Acton, encountering that look, paused
                  irresolute.
               "Fool!" she said, tauntingly; "for what do you take me?" And then added sternly:
                  "Begone, Acton Atherton  begone!"
               As he did not seem disposed to comply at once, she suddenly sprung forward, and
                  ere he was aware of her object, wrenched the weapon from his hand and wildly
                  brandished it before his eyes.
               "It is my turn now!" she exclaimed, triumphantly, as he took a step or two
                  backwards in alarm. "Begone, I say! or, by my mother's soul, I strike this to your
                  heart!"
               "I go," he said, hastily quitting the apartment and shutting the door behind him.
                  "I go," he muttered again, to himself; "but I will have my revenge! She will
                  expose me, eh?" he continued, biting his lips. "Expose me—make me the
                  laughing-stock and gossip of the town! No, no, by——! she shall not; I will see her
                  dead first;" and with these dark words, uttered by his heart as well as lips, he
                  left the house.
               As for Ellen, as soon as he was gone, she turned, staggered to the sofa, and
                  throwing herself upon it, in a state of exhaustion, burst into tears.
               Poor girl! Her heart was now indeed desolate—her last hope had fled.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE REWARD OF DARING.
               AFTER waiting in much anxiety the time appointed by himself for calling upon
                  Elmer, Edgar repaired to his lodgings and sent up his card. In a few minutes the
                  servant returned with Elmer's compliments, (who was too busy himself to see any
                  one,) and a package neatly sealed, which Edgar took with a trembling hand and
                  beating heart, for this he rightly judged contained the so long wished for
                  decision. As soon as he was alone in the street, he hurriedly broke it open, and
                  to his dismay found it to contain only his own manuscript and the following
                  note:
               "Mr. Elmer begs leave to return Mr. Courtly his manuscript—not from want of merit,
                  for it is an excellent production—but simply because he has selected one written
                  by a friend which will answer his purpose."
               "And for this I have struggled, and toiled, and hoped!" said Edgar, bitterly,
                  rending the manuscript into a thousand pieces, and scattering them like
                  snow-flakes upon the earth. "Well, well, well—the fates are against me, so why
                  should I contend with my destiny. O, man! selfish, cruel, unfeeling man! O, that I
                  could forever fly your sight, and in some far off wilderness end my days! Alas!
                  poor Virginia!—she will weep when she knows my success, for she sanguinely counted
                  on my gaining the prize. But I will seek again for manual labor. I must have
                  something wherewith to cheer her. But stay, let me look at this paper again;" and taking one of the daily
                  journals from his pocket, he opened and read:
               "The noble stranger, who a day or two since so heroically saved the life of a lady
                  in Centre street, at the risk of his own, is particularly requested to call at
                  No.—, Eighth Avenue, where he will find friends who are not ungrateful."
               "This is certainly a curious coincidence, or I must be the person meant," mused
                  Edgar; "and if so, something advantageous may come of my answering the
                  advertisement. Saved the life of a lady in Centre street! Well, it was in Centre
                  street I checked the running horse, which, peradventure, left to himself, would
                  have dashed the lady to pieces. At all events there can be no harm in ascertaining
                  who is referred to, and I will go."
               Putting his determination in practice, Edgar in due time found himself before a
                  stately mansion—rivalling, if not surpassing, his uncle's in splendor of
                  appearance—on the door of which, engraved on a silver plate, he read the name of
                  Calvin Morton.
               "Can this be the place?" he asked himself, and again had recourse to the
                  advertisement.
               Yes, it must be, for the numbers tallied; and looking at his thread-bare garments,
                  then at the beautiful marble steps, the silver bell-handle, and the high windows,
                  hung with white and damask curtains, Edgar was debating whether to venture a ring
                  or depart, when a female, richly dressed, but double-veiled for concealment,
                  passed him hurriedly, and then paused, and like himself gazed curiously upon the
                  handsome structure. Then ascending the steps, she took hold of the bell-handle,
                  looked around eagerly, partly raised her veil, gave one glance at Edgar, veiled
                  herself again quickly, and, without ringing at all, descended the steps in haste
                  and departed in much apparent agitation.
               "Strange!" mused Edgar; "what can this mean? Some new mystery, I suppose. Those
                  features—surely, I have seen them before! Ha! now I bethink me, but for the place
                  where I find her, I could almost swear they were those of Ellen Douglas."
               Edgar might have so sworn with impunity, for Ellen Douglas it was; and the reader
                  will doubtless find less cause to marvel at her appearance there and manner than
                  he did.
               Decided at last to enter, Edgar rung the bell; and on inquiring of the servant for
                  Mr. Morton, was shown into a library at the far end of the hall, where sat a mild,
                  middle-aged gentleman, plainly dressed, of benevolent aspect, who looked up
                  through his spectacles from among a huge pile of books with which he was partly
                  surrounded, and to which it would seem he made frequent reference, as many of them
                  were lying open. Before him was a table strewn with manuscripts, and in his hand a
                  pen, which, as he carelessly nodded Edgar to a seat, he dipped in ink and
                  commenced writing with great vigor and haste. For something like five minutes, he
                  neither looked up nor spoke; and Edgar, fancying himself an unwelcome intruder, at
                  last rose to take his leave, when the other, motioning with his hand for him to be
                  seated, said, hurriedly:
               "In a moment, sir."
               Edgar sat down again, but found the moment of another five minutes' duration; and
                  picking up a huge volume by his side, he was fast becoming interested in a statute
                  on forgery—for the books were those of the law—when the gentleman, putting down
                  his pen, moving back his chair, and slipping up his spectacles, said:
               "Now, sir, I am at your service."
               
               "I beg pardon for intruding upon you while so busy," began Edgar; "but seeing this
                  advertisement, (pointing to it,) I thought I would answer it."
               "What!" cried Morton, his whole manner and expression changing from a cold
                  business air to one of eager, delighted surprise, "are you the young man who so
                  nobly saved the life of my dear daughter Edith?"
               "Of that," said Edgar, "I am not certain, and you may mean another. I saw a lady
                  in danger, however, from a runaway horse; and thinking it possible to save her, I
                  stepped forward, knocked the animal down, and, as she was thrown, caught her in my
                  arms."
               "It was you, then!" cried Morton, starting up and seizing Edgar by the hand, which
                  he shook long and heartily. "God bless you, sir, for the deed! God bless you! I
                  say—and I mean it. But for you, I should now be childless, and then, oh!—— But I
                  will not think of that. Come, come—let us to the parlor, and Edith shall thank you
                  in person."
               "I pray you excuse me," said Edgar, coloring; "for you see I am hardly in fit
                  condition to enter a lady's presence;" and he glanced wofully over his well-worn,
                  faded garments.
               "Poh! poh! young man—don't talk to me of dress. Look at me, sir! Mine is but
                  little, if any, better than yours. Dress is nothing, sir—nothing; a mere tailor
                  can make that. The mind, sir—the mind—the soul—is every thing: that is the jewel
                  to look to, and that is of God's manufacture. But come with me—come! Did I hear
                  your name?"
               "Edgar Courtly."
               "And a fine name it is, too. I once did some business for a namesake of yours, and
                  found him a perfect gentle man. Perhaps some relation! He was from Baltimore, and
                  his Christian name Ethan."
               "My father!" exclaimed Edgar, with a start of surprise.
               "Your father!" rejoined the other, in equal astonishment. "God bless you! you come
                  of good stock. But fortune changes, I see," he added, glancing at Edgar's faded
                  garments. "When I knew your father, he was rich. How fares he now?"
               "Alas, sir, he has been five years dead!" answered Edgar, mournfully.
               "Ah! indeed!—sorry to hear it. He was a gentleman, every inch of him. And your
                  mother?"
               "She—she too—is—is dead," said Edgar, vainly striving to suppress the tears that
                  came bursting through his eyelids. "My father died worth near a million—my mother
                  starved to death in a land of plenty."
               "Starved, say you, Mr. Courtly? Good Heaven! I trust not starved?"
               "Ay, Mr. Morton, starved, and in this very city. But wo to them that did it—for so
                  sure as there is a God in heaven, their damnable deeds shall recoil upon their
                  guilty heads, even to the third and fourth generation!"
               "Of whom do you speak, Mr. Courtly? Has wrong been done you?"
               "Ay, sir, the foulest! But come, you knew my father, you seem to take an interest
                  in my fate, and, to make us better acquainted, I will give you a sketch of my
                  history."
               "Do so—you could not confer a greater pleasure," returned Morton.
               By this time the two had reached the parlor, and taking seats, Edgar at once
                  proceeded to sketch the most prominent events of his past life, not overlooking
                  the villainy of his uncle.
               "Great Heaven! how much you have suffered!" ejaculated lated Morton, as the other paused. "And no one left
                  but yourself and sister, and you almost starving! Well, well, thank God! I have
                  enough; and while Calvin Morton lives, you shall not need a friend. But who is
                  this base uncle? and where can he be found? The miscreant! he shall be exposed,
                  let him be whom he may, if such a thing be in my power."
               "And yet," rejoined Edgar, "should I tell you his name, you would be tempted to
                  discredit my story."
               "Not I, in faith," said Morton; "for your story comes too much from the heart to
                  be an imposition. I have seen and studied too much of human nature, I fancy, to be
                  easily deceived."
               "What say you, then, to Oliver Atherton!"
               Had a bolt of lightning at that moment descended from the heavens and torn up the
                  ground beneath his feet, Morton would scarcely have exhibited greater astonishment
                  and dismay than at this simple announcement.
               "Oliver Atherton?" he exclaimed. "No, no, Mr. Courtly—there must be some
                  mistake!—for he, I assure you, bears a stainless reputation, and is one of our
                  most opulent citizens."
               "If there is any mistake," said Edgar, "it must be on your part, in not knowing
                  him so well as I. But I here tell you, under oath if you like, that noble, and
                  rich, and stainless in reputation as he is, it was Oliver Atherton who took
                  possession of my father's property, and afterwards denied his own sister, refusing
                  her money to buy food, even when she was dying of starvation."
               "Be this so, may God's curses light upon him!" said Morton, a good deal
                  excited.
               "And they will—on him and his—sooner or later," returned Edgar. "All things find
                  their level at last."
               "And my Edith is as good as engaged to his son."
               "To Acton!" cried Edgar.
               "The same."
               "Then as you love your daughter, forbid the banns and all further intercourse—for
                  he is a villain of but little remove from the blackness of his father. Now I see
                  it all; and it was to this lady Ellen alluded, when she said he should never marry
                  her," continued Edgar, as if to himself; "and it was she, then, I saw at the door!
                  She came to warn Edith; and no wonder she was agitated, poor girl!"
               "Of whom are you speaking, Mr. Courtly?"
               "Of the victim of Acton Atherton—poor Ellen Douglas!" answered Edgar; "of her who
                  so generously supplied me with money, when my mother lay a corpse, and her living
                  children had not wherewithal to keep them long from joining her; of one who has
                  been most foully, most damnably wronged!" and Edgar proceeded to detail what he
                  knew of Ellen and her seducer.
               "And this is the man that aspires to the hand of my daughter!" said Morton, when
                  Edgar had done. "O, the scoundrel! But his cause here is hopeless. Edith shall
                  know all; and if you have told me true, which I believe, she shall spurn him hence
                  as a worthless dog. But speaking of Edith, reminds me you have not seen her to
                  receive her grateful thanks. Excuse my neglect; but so taken up was I with your
                  story, I forgot all else;" and as he spoke he rung a bell.
               "Bid my daughter and her mother come hither at once," he said to the servant; and
                  scarcely three minutes elapsed, ere the door opened, and Mrs. Morton, followed by
                  Edith, entered.
               The former was a fine, matronly-looking lady of forty, with nothing to distinguish
                  her, unless it was a mild, sweet, benevolent expression, which lingered on her
                  open features as naturally as sunlight
                  upon a flower, and inspired the beholder at once with confidence and pleasure.
               But the countenance of Edith was marked—not so much with the strong lines of light
                  and shade, which the artist readily seizes and transfers to canvas, as with the
                  expression of intellect and nobleness of soul that was every where visible, but
                  more especially in her soft, gray eyes, which sweetly beamed through their long
                  lashes, like the sun of an unclouded summer's morn gently struggling through a
                  grove of weeping willows. Not a feature but was perfectly moulded; and yet not on
                  one, nor on all combined, could you fix the beauty which you acknowledged as both
                  triumphant and charming. Chisel them in marble, let the soul be wanting, and they
                  would be but marble still, as unattractive as the face of a doll; but light them
                  with the intellect they now displayed, and they spoke to you more eloquently than
                  the tongue of an orator. Around a face of classic mould, and over a beautiful neck
                  of alabaster whiteness, that rounded off a swelling bust, floated a mass of golden
                  ringlets, less the work of art than nature. A dimpled hand and form of airy
                  lightness, elastic with the fresh vigor of seventeen summers, made Edith Morton an
                  object not to be lightly passed over by one susceptible of woman's charms.
               And such an one was our hero, who, as at a single glance he took in all we have
                  described, felt his frame thrill with an emotion to which he had hitherto been a
                  stranger. For a moment, as she entered, his eyes encountered hers; and then his
                  gaze instantly dropped to the ground; and for the first time, perhaps, in his
                  life, he felt really embarrassed in the presence of a lady. He could not but
                  remember now, with a feeling of pride he had not before experienced, it was this
                  lovely being's life he had saved—that to him she owed the sweetest of all debts,
                  the gratitude of a grateful heart.
               "My wife and daughter," spoke Morton, "allow me to present to you Edgar Courtly,
                  the noble young man to whom Edith is indebted for her life."
               "Indeed, sir, was it you?" said Mrs. Morton, seizing both the hands of Edgar in
                  her own, and pressing them warmly. "May Heaven bless you, young man, for the
                  heroic deed! Here, Edith, come and thank him!"
               "I do, mother," returned Edith, approaching and modestly extending her hand to
                  Edgar, who took it in one, that, in spite of himself, trembled: "I do thank him,
                  from my very soul."
               Her eyes, as she spoke, were looking sweetly into his; but from some cause, as she
                  concluded, they sunk toward the ground, and a bright tint heightened the beauty of
                  her cheeks. Edgar would have given the world to speak freely; but somehow his
                  tongue, at all other times an obedient member, now clove to his mouth; and it was
                  not till after two or three vain attempts, he managed to articulate, in a
                  tremulous voice:
               "I did but my duty."
               "So say all high minded persons, when they do a noble act," rejoined Mr. Morton;
                  "but the obligation is none the less binding on our part, that you are pleased to
                  consider the matter in so modest a light. Eh! Edith, what think you?"
               "That I shall never be able to repay Mr. Courtly for what he terms a simple act of
                  duty."
               "Not so, Miss Morton; I am repaid already, a thousand times—ay, even were my claim
                  to your gratitude a thousand times greater than it is," returned Edgar, with an
                  earnestness of tone and manner that again brought the bright crimson to the lovely
                  face of Edith, and made his own blush correspondingly.
               "As the preserver of my life, at the risk of your own, I can never cease to remember you with gratitude,"
                  rejoined Edith, in a voice full of music to the soul of Edgar, accompanied as it
                  was with a sweet but modest smile.
               "Who would not," he thought to himself, "have done as much for a like reward?"
               "To cut matters short, and end any thing like formality," joined in Mr. Morton,
                  "you must know, Edgar—excuse the familiarity I take with your Christian name—that
                  we all feel ourselves under the deepest obligations to you, and will do all in our
                  power to cancel the debt. Look upon this house, sir, as your home, and to me for
                  any assistance you may need."
               The earnest manner in which this was spoken, showed Edgar, conclusively, the
                  speaker was sincere; and so affected him, that the tears sprung to his eyes, and
                  it was with difficulty, as he grasped the other's proffered hand of friendship, he
                  could articulate:
               "God bless you! for through you my day seems dawning once more."
               "Ah, poor youth, God grant it!—for it is high time, methinks, it dawned again to
                  you. Yours has indeed been a stormy night of wretchedness. And your poor
                  sister—Heaven pardon me! I had almost forgotten her—bring her here, and she shall
                  have a home and be as my daughter."
               "You overwhelm me," returned Edgar, tremulously, brushing away an obdurate
                  tear.
               "Have you then a sister?" cried Edith, eagerly. "O, by all means, bring her here!
                  for I know I shall love her so."
               "Ay, do, Mr. Courtly, do!" chimed in Mrs. Morton. "Edith has often wished for a
                  sister, and yours shall be hers."
               "And, mother, we will send the carriage for her at once," pursued Edith, with an
                  expression of heart-felt eagerness. "O, I am so anxious to see her! Ring, father,
                  for the coachman!"
               "Nay, I would that you let me prepare my sister first," interposed Edgar gently.
                  "To-morrow, if so you desire it, I will conduct her hither myself."
               "We must perforce wait your pleasure," smiled Edith; "though the sooner you bring
                  her, the better I shall be pleased. Does she resemble you?" she inquired,
                     naively.
               "There is, some say, a slight resemblance," replied Edgar; "but in justice to dear
                  Virginia, I must own she is younger and far the best looking."
               Edith looked as though she thought the latter impossible; but simply said, in an
                  artless tone, that again brought the blood to Edgar's cheek:
               "O, I know I shall love her. Virginia! what a sweet, beautiful name!"
               Edgar just then thought Edith full as sweet.
               In the like manner the conversation proceeded for half an hour, when Mr. Morton,
                  on the plea of business, reconducted Edgar to the library. As the latter took
                  leave of the ladies, both Mrs. Morton and Edith pressed him warmly to tarry for
                  dinner, and made Mr. Morton promise to do his best to detain him. What a wonderful
                  change a little time had wrought in the condition and feelings of Edgar. An hour
                  before he was an object for commiseration, and felt too wretched to exist. Now he
                  was surrounded by influential friends, and would not have exchanged places with
                  the proudest monarch. O, uncertain life! O, vacillating human nature! We are but
                  puny chess men, changed at the will of the Great Player, and are much or nothing,
                  according to our position in relation to one another.
               "Edgar Courtly," said Mr. Morton, abruptly, as they entered the library, "there is
                  something about you I like."
               "Thank you," returned Edgar, coloring.
               
               "Stop! no thanks, sir!—at least none for me—for I want nothing but what is my own;
                  and thanks for liking you, is much like thanking a man to eat a good dinner at
                  your expense. No, Edgar; if you thank any body, thank God, for having made you
                  what you are—one of his noblest works. There, stop, now—don't interrupt me!" he
                  continued, as he saw Edgar, about to make reply. "Don't interrupt me, I repeat!
                  for I am a singular man, and like to say what I think, without hindrance or
                  contradiction. It is seldom I tell a man I like him, for I see very few I can say
                  thus to and speak the truth, and it is my rule to speak nothing but what I mean.
                  But a truce to this. I have no time to spare; as an important case, which comes on
                  in two days, requires all my time and closest attention. To be brief, then, what
                  can I do for you?"
               "A thousand thanks for your offer! but I require nothing at present."
               "You seemed annoyed at the appearance of your dress, when I first invited you to
                  join the ladies. You are a young man, have your fortune to make, and I appreciate
                  your feelings—for dress, in the eyes of the world, is every thing. Here is a check
                  for fifty dollars."
               "No, Mr. Morton, a thousand thanks for your generosity! but I will accept nothing,
                  unless you show me a way to earn it first."
               "Rightly spoken, like a noble spirited youth! You would make a capital lawyer,
                  methinks. What say you to the profession?"
               "It is precisely to my mind."
               "Will you take me for a tutor?"
               "The very favor I would have asked."
               "Enough! Consider the matter settled. I can pay you what salary I please, you
                  know. Come to-morrow, sir, and bring your sister, and I will put you to your task.
                  Shall I see you at dinner?"
               "Not to-day, as my sister would be uneasy at my absence."
               "I shall see you to-morrow, then?"
               "God willing, you will."
               "Will you accept this money in advance?"
               "Not to-day, I thank you!"
               "And so Oliver Atherton is the uncle who so basely used you!" he said, musingly,
                  making an abrupt change to the subject that now bore upon his mind. "Ay! ay! I
                  must look to this—I must look to this. If I can get any hold upon him, friend
                  Edgar, you shall have justice. And Acton is a villain, too! So, so—this shall be
                  attended to. To-morrow I shall look for you early. Good morning, sir—good morning,
                  Edgar," and turning quickly away, the lawyer resumed his writing, without deigning
                  even another look at his visitor.
               As Edgar quitted the mansion and slowly took his way homeward, he mused, with a
                  lightened heart, upon the events we have just described—upon the curious chain of
                  circumstances which had so suddenly placed him on terms of intimacy with one of
                  the most opulent families of the city—upon the striking contrast between him he
                  had just parted from and his own uncle—but, most of all, upon the sweetly smiling
                  countenance, the light and sylph-like form, and the soft, melodious voice of the
                  fair and lovely Edith Morton.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               FORTUNE STILL PROPITIOUS.
               BUT the happy termination of his visit to the Mortons, was not the only high favor
                  Edgar was that morning destined to receive from the hands of capricious fortune.
                  Scarcely had he proceeded half a dozen squares, when, as chance would have it, he
                  met with Dudley.
               "The very person I desired to see," said the latter, with a cordial shake of the
                  hand. "I was even now on my way to your dwelling."
               "Happily met, then," replied Edgar, "for I am homeward bound;" and joining arms,
                  the two proceeded on their way.
               After some casual remarks, on unimportant topics, Dudley said:
               "Pardon me, Mr. Courtly—but may I inquire how you succeeded in the matter you had
                  in view when last I saw you, as regards pecuniary recompense?"
               "It proved an entire failure," answered Edgar.
               "Then, my friend, if you will allow me so to call you, I am both grieved and
                  rejoiced at the same time—grieved, that you should have been
                  disappointed—rejoiced, that I have it in my power to assist you. Since I saw you,
                  I have thought of you much, and of your sister also, and have puzzled my brain no
                  little as to how I could be of service to you and not wound your sensitive
                  feelings. Now the case is this: one of my warmest friends is a young man named
                  Clarence Malcolm, who is rich in this world's goods, and, what is perhaps somewhat
                  rare, as benevolent as he is wealthy. All that I know is known to him, and
                     vice versa, for our minds are as one mind,
                  and consequently your history has been stated to him exactly as to myself. The
                  result is, that he desires me to entreat you to accept this as a loan, until such
                  time as you may feel yourself able to return it without the least
                  inconvenience."
               As he spoke, Dudley extended to Edgar a small purse of gold, which the latter
                  gently waved back, saying:
               "Be so kind as to return Clarence Malcolm, whom I have never seen, my warmest
                  thanks, and tell him I do not feel myself in a condition at present to borrow,
                  even on his own generous terms. I have already refused a kind offer this morning,
                  simply because my pride revolted at the idea of taking money to which I had no
                  claim. I have never borrowed but once, and then most stern necessity forced me
                  against my will. Let me have a chance to return an equivalent in the shape of
                  labor, either mentally or physically, and I will accept the money with
                  pleasure—but on no other conditions."
               Dudley seemed both pleased and displeased at this answer.
               "I admire both your spirit and principle," he said, after musing a short time;
                  "but still would be better satisfied to have you accept my offer without further
                  parley. To speak candidly, I think you a little too scrupulous—though, if placed
                  in your situation, I should, in all probability, do precisely the same: and this,
                  by the way, happily illustrates the principle, that we often preach what we never
                  practise. You spoke of mental labor—am I to understand you compose?"
               "I have done a trifle in that way," answered Edgar, modestly, "though nothing
                  worthy of notice."
               
               "Indeed!" exclaimed the other, brightening with a new thought: "I am pleased to
                  learn you write at all. Poetry or prose?"
               "The former has been my choice, and consequently most of my execution, though the
                  latter has come in for a trifling share."
               "Have you ever published?"
               "Never."
               "And why?"
               "Because my productions are unworthy."
               "And for the very reason you think so, I will wager they are worthy some of our
                  best poets. True merit, friend Edgar, is always modest, for it requires no
                  ordinary talent to perceive our own defects. By the way, would you like to see
                  your productions in print?"
               "Why," hesitated Edgar, "if of sufficient merit."
               "I will venture that, and yet have never seen a line from your pen. Come, I will
                  bargain with you. Will you sell what poems you have on hand?"
               "But they are worthless, I tell you."
               "That is not answering my question. Will you sell? Come, do not hesitate! I have a
                  speculation in view, of which I will tell you nothing now, save that to complete
                  it I must purchase your poems. Come, what say you? I will give a hundred dollars
                  for what you have on hand."
               "You flatter me, Mr. Dudley," returned Edgar, somewhat staggered at the offer;
                  "but really, I cannot take such advantage of your generosity."
               "Never look for generosity in a bargain, Mr. Courtly; for both buyer and seller,
                  considering their shrewdness at stake, will give nothing then, lest the one boast
                  of his cunning in overreaching the other. In a gift there is generosity—but none
                  in a trade: so set your mind at rest on that score, and consider whether you are
                  willing to take the paltry sum of a hundred dollars for your productions. Of one
                  thing rest assured—that I have an object in buying, and that I, for
                  one, shall be perfectly satisfied, provided you think I have not underpaid you.
                  Say, is it a bargain?—or shall I give more?"
               "Why, since you press me," replied Edgar, "and since I so sorely need the money,
                  they are yours, on condition you find them not so good as you expected, you will
                  consider yourself under no obligation to take them."
               "I accept your offer," returned Dudley, with a gleam of delight. "Now, at least,"
                  he added, mentally, "I have the means of forcing money upon him without wounding
                  his sensitive feelings." Then he continued aloud: "By-the-by, how would you like
                  to take charge of a magazine or a newspaper?"
               "Were I deemed competent, and the proposition had been made me a few hours ago,
                  nothing would have pleased me better," answered Edgar; "but now I hold myself
                  partially engaged to Calvin Morton."
               "Indeed!" exclaimed Dudley, in a tone of surprise. "If to read law, you are most
                  fortunate; for he stands the very first in his profession; and is, besides, a
                  gentleman of the right school."
               "You know him, then?"
               "Better than I know you."
               "You seem in fact to know every one."
               "You must bear in mind, I am a native of the city—have lived here all my days—have
                  mingled no little in society, and consequently have been brought in contact with
                  nearly all the old citizens. But truly, I am delighted at your prospects; for very
                  few have the honor and good fortune to read law under the tuition of Calvin
                  Morton. I am curious to know by what means you effected the arrangement."
               
               Edgar at once proceeded to narrate the circumstance which had led to this result.
                  As he concluded, Dudley grasped his hand and shook it heartily.
               "Let me congratulate you," he said, "on a fortune in prospective; for you have put
                  one under obligations who will never rest content till he has seen you on the high
                  road to wealth and renown. Calvin Morton is a very singular man. He seldom
                  forgives an injury or insult—he never forgets a favor, no matter how trivial. With
                  him there is no half way. He loves or he hates. Unlike what you represent your
                  uncle, there is no dissembling. As a general thing, what he thinks he says, and
                  what he says he means. And as to his daughter, the fair Edith, a sweeter creature
                  does not live. What! blushing, eh! So, so—then you readily believe all I can say
                  of her, I see Well, I must repeat, I think you very, very fortunate Speaking of
                  your uncle, reminds me that Clarence, who visits there occasionally, has promised
                  to sift the matter, regarding what you told me, to the very bottom; and if he can
                  prove he has acted basely, he will expose his hypocrisy, and hold him up to the
                  scorn of all honest men."
               Conversing thus, Edgar and Dudley at last reached the abode of the former.
                  Virginia, as Edgar entered in advance of his friend, at once flew to embrace him;
                  but on perceiving who followed, she paused, blushed, and in an embarrassed manner,
                  while she timidly proffered her hand, said:
               "You have taken me by surprise, Mr. Dudley; I thought Edgar was alone."
               "Let me hope the surprise does not prove a disagreeable one!" returned Dudley,
                  earnestly, with a flushed countenance.
               "O, no, no!" rejoined Virginia, with sudden energy, looking full in the face of
                  her guest; and then immediately added, letting her gaze sink modestly to the
                  ground; "The friends of my brother are always welcome."
               "I trust," rejoined Dudley, in a low, bland tone, "I may be considered the friend
                  of both!"
               Virginia embarrassed, did not reply, though evidently desirous to do so, which
                  Edgar perceiving, quickly came to her aid, by saying:
               We are both proud, I assure you, Mr. Dudley, of your disinterested friendship—for
                  disinterested it is, since we have all and you nothing to gain by it."
               "Ah, my dear friend, you mistake entirely," responded Dudley, with a smile, "in
                  supposing there can be such a thing as disinterested friendship. Whatever
                  gratifies, interests us; and where either our pride, vanity, sympathies, or more
                  common—place feelings are enlisted, we cannot be wholly disinterested. It is a
                  prevalent idea, that when one performs a noble act and conceals it from the world,
                  he does it through disinterested motives. But it is not so. His self-approving
                  conscience is his reward; and that kind of reward being what he seeks, and of more
                  gratification to him than the world's applause, becomes the motive incentive to
                  action. In friendship, especially, there is self to gratify on both sides: for
                  where self is not enlisted, there can be no interest; where interest is wanting,
                  there must be indifference; and where is indifference, there can be no friendship.
                  We may call friendship disinterested, to distinguish it from the seeming
                  friendship of base self-interest—which latter, in my opinion, is unworthy the
                  ennobling name of the former—though even in the purest of the former, if we look
                  into it closely, we shall find self the basis on which the fabric is reared. But I
                  am running into dissertation, where I only intended a simple explanation, and so
                  will conclude ere I tax your patience too far."
               
               But on such and similar topics Edgar never wearied of conversing; and the two
                  friends continued in a pleasant discussion for more than an hour, gradually
                  passing from one subject to another, as each was suggested by a continuous train
                  of ideas.
               Virginia, though for the most part silent, occasionally joined in and expressed
                  her views, in a manner that both surprised and pleased her guest, who acknowledged
                  to himself he had not before given her credit for one-half the mind she really
                  possessed. Her remarks were ever terse, concise, and to the point; and what was
                  still further evidence of good judgment, were always well-timed; and Dudley,
                  discovering all this with delight, could not but admire her and admit to himself
                  she was one of the most lovely, intelligent and fascinating of her sex—certainly a
                  great deal to be admitted by one who had seen so much of intellectual society, in
                  favor of one he now beheld for the second time.
               And how was it with Virginia? She gazed upon the handsome countenance of Dudley,
                  she listened to the full, rich melody of his voice, and marked the lofty and not
                  unfrequently poetical and original sentiment which flowed from his lips, with
                  feelings both new and strange to her—the while she took no note of Time, who,
                  casting aside his glass, and renewing his youth for the nonce, now flew by on the
                  wings of lightning.
               Passing from one thing to another, the conversation at last turned upon poetry, a
                  theme with which all were familiar, and in which all were alike interested.
               "O, above all things, do I love poetry!" said Virginia, with enthusiasm; and then
                  she added, a moment after, in a faltering tone, vainly struggling to suppress her
                  emotion: "And so did our poor, dear mother."
               For a short time there was a dead silence; and the tears sprung from the eyes of
                  both Edgar and his sister, as they thought upon her who had so loved, but who was
                  forever gone from among them. Even Dudley was much affected at witnessing their
                  silent grief; but knowing it both useless and detrimental, since it could not
                  restore the dead and must impair the energies of the living, he began, in a mild,
                  soothing tone, to console, and gradually lead their thoughts back to their
                  previous channel.
               "We should not mourn too much," he said, "for those who have preceded us only for
                  a brief space at the longest; but rather console ourselves with the thought, that
                  earth is not our abiding place, and that we are destined to meet again in that
                  bright realm where the poetry of music makes an eternal melody to delight us
                  forever. And speaking of poetry again—who among the great masters of song is your
                  favorite, Edgar?"
               "It is difficult for me to say," replied the latter, drying his eyes, "for each is
                  my favorite in his particular sphere. When I read Milton, I think none can
                  approach him, for he is great in sublimity; and in his masterly conceptions of
                  what we never saw, stands pre-eminent—a something ennobled, exalted and inspired
                  far above frail humanity, and almost beyond human comprehension. I read
                  Shakespeare, and feel he is equally great in his line—that of creating what we
                  have seen, and depicting all the varying passions of the human heart. I read
                  Byron, and love him for his wild grandeur of thought, when he grapples with the
                  dark spirits of the storm, expands his soul over the mighty relics of the past,
                  throws out the sarcasm of a noble heart on the villainies of a hollow-hearted
                  world, or portrays, with an immortal pen, the grandest scenes in nature and art. I
                  delight in the melodies of Moore; for when I drink his flowery thoughts, I ever
                  fancy myself reposing on a bed of roses, beside some murmuring stream, whose
                  continual ripple ple sings me to a
                  quiet sleep. The argument and classic beauty of Pope excite my admiration, and the
                  poetical romance of Scott is a source of unalloyed pleasure. Take them all in all,
                  it is impossible for me to select my particular favorite; for like the dishes on a
                  table at a feast, we needs must take a little of each, to satisfy our changing
                  desires and make our repast complete."
               "You have expressed my own views and feelings, as regards the great poets, better
                  than I could have done myself," rejoined Dudley, delightedly. "And now that I have
                  had your opinion, I must see your own composition."
               "Nay," said Edgar, blushing, "since we have been speaking of the great masters, I
                  am really ashamed to display my humble efforts."
               "You should remember, my friend, that all were beginners once; and that no one
                  could have predicted, from a first attempt, that a Milton, a Shakespeare, or a
                  Byron would follow. Nature has never produced what she cannot again; and so we may
                  even look to see poets of the present become as great as the greatest of the
                  past."
               "Well, as you have bargained for my effusions, unseen, you of course have a right
                  to examine your purchase," rejoined Edgar; "and this shall be my apology for
                  bringing them forward;" and retiring into the adjoining apartment, he shortly
                  returned with a package of some dozen articles, neatly written and folded with
                  care.
               Dudley seized them with avidity, and, in spite of Edgar's protestations, opened
                  and began to peruse them.
               "Beautiful!" he exclaimed, as his eye run rapidly over the first; "beautiful! Ah,
                  better still!" he pursued, as he concluded the second. And then hastily scanning
                  the others, he added, grasping Edgar's hand: "My friend, I do not wish to flatter
                  you, but, for a first attempt, I have never seen any thing to compare with these.
                  I have reason to rejoice at my bargain. Here is your money;" and he counted Edgar
                  down a hundred dollars in gold.
               It would be impossible to describe the feelings of the latter, as he modestly
                  accepted the reward of his toil. It was gold honestly earned, and it was his: gold
                  paid to his genius: gold that told him he had talents above the herd—that at least
                  he was fit for something; and as he thought over the events of the day, his eyes
                  brightened, his soul seemed to expand, and with a sort of giddiness, common to
                  first success, he already fancied he stood on the dizzy heights of fame and beheld
                  an admiring world at his feet. As for Virginia, she was all bewilderment; for the
                  whole proceeding was a mystery to her; but she saw her brother had at least the
                  means of living, and her heart bounded with delight at the thought.
               "When next we meet," said Dudley, as he rose to take leave, "I trust I shall see
                  you both in a station befitting your early years and education;" and pressing the
                  hands of both warmly, but with a heightened color as his own touched Virginia's,
                  he departed.
               As soon as he was gone, Edgar sat down, drew his sister upon his knee, kissed her
                  sweet lips, and, in a voice tremulous with joy, told her all that had happened,
                  and the bright prospects now in store for them; and both mingled their tears of
                  gladness, that the night of their sorrow was passing away and a day of brightness
                  was already dawning.
               "We must not appear before our new friends in these faded garments," said Edgar;
                  "and now that I have money, honestly my own, let us forth and make some purchases.
                  Oh, that our poor mother were living!—how this would make her heart rejoice!"
               Carrying out his own suggestion, Edgar purchased a ready-made suit for himself,
                  and a handsome black dress and bonnet
                  for his sister; and when they had donned their new habiliments, each
                  congratulating the other on appearing again as in the days of their
                  prosperity.
               "And now," said Virginia, as she carefully folded the cast off garments, "let us
                  preserve these, should fortune prove propitious once more, to remind us of our
                  days of adversity; so that when we behold our fellows suffering, we may remember
                  what we have endured and not forget to be charitable."
               "As you will," replied Edgar "but with you and I, my sweet sister, it will hardly
                  need these as remembrancers of what we have been. Ha! what is this?" he added, as,
                  in overhauling his garments, a paper secured in the torn lining caught his eye.
                  "Good heavens! is it possible?" he continued, drawing it forth. "It is the lost
                  check as I live."
               Great were the rejoicings of Edgar and his sister at this discovery, for to them
                  it seemed inexhaustible wealth. As it was not yet past banking hours, Edgar
                  hastened to Wall street, and in a short time returned to Virginia with more than a
                  thousand dollars in his possession. And then what joy was in their hearts, as,
                  with arms thrown fondly around each other, they sat and talked over their plans
                  for the morrow.
               Alas! poor oppressed orphans!-they little dreamed what the morrow, or even the
                  night, had in store for them. The fowler had sprung his net, and they were already
                  becoming entangled in its meshes.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE PLOT THICKENS.
               IT was an early hour in the morning of the day which closes the preceding chapter,
                  and in the same apartment where we first introduced them to the reader, sat Oliver
                  Atherton and Nathan Wesley. The former was in fine spirits, if one might judge
                  from the manner he rubbed together his hands, and the gleam of fiendish delight
                  which over-spread his countenance.
               "And so," he said, turning to his attorney, "he is caught at last?"
               "At last," dryly responded Wesley.
               "Ha, ha! this does my soul good. Now he shall feel what it is to beard me. Now he
                  shall know what it is to fall into the clutches of the tiger he has goaded to
                  madness. Hypocrite, indeed! Thanks to fortune, my hypocrisy is of a useful kind,
                  for by it I can triumph over my enemies, and crush them that lie in my path. Ay,
                  and crush them I will!" he cried, with a hellish gleam of malice darkening his
                  features. "And him above all others will I crush! Yes, by ——!" he fairly shouted,
                  uttering a blasphemous oath, "I will extinguish the race!—and then, and not till
                  then, will I deem myself safe."
               "And will you then?" quietly asked the attorney.
               "Will I then?" repeated Atherton, in surprise. "Will I then? Certainly—why
                  not?—what do you mean?"
               "O, nothing—merely asked the question."
               
               "'Tis false! I know you well—you never speak without a meaning. Do
                     you think to betray me?"
               "I!" replied the other, in pretended astonishment. "I betray you?—betray my
                     master?—(this last was said with sarcastic emphasis)—how can you
                  think of such a thing? Besides, supposing I did? Your gold, you know, would save
                  you."
               "Ha!" cried Atherton, with a start, remembering his words to the other at their
                  last conference: "Beware, Wesley—beware! I am not one to be trifled with. I have
                  already been warned of you: so beware! Even so much as attempt to
                  turn traitor, and, by heavens, I will not wait the slow process of the law! No, by
                  ——! with my own hands will I let out your heart's blood!"
               "And get hung for your trouble," quietly returned the other.
               "No, I thank you, good Mr. Wesley—I will make my gold save me," sarcastically
                  rejoined the millionaire; and then hastily added: "But come, a truce to this. It
                  is all important that you and I should be friends, Wesley."
               "All important," said the attorney, dryly.
               "You must assist me in this affair, Wesley, and swear point blank to whatever I
                  dictate."
               "And so perjure myself."
               "Well, what of that? You have already done darker deeds, you know."
               "Now stop!" cried Wesley, with a terrible gleam in his small black eyes. "No more
                  of that! What I did was for self-defence; but you mustn't throw it in my teeth
                  again! It was a bad job, and I've never had an easy conscience since."
               "Well, well, let it pass, Wesley. You did well—and for doing well got gold—and
                  gold, as they say of charity, will cover a multitude of sins. You have done well
                  now— only finish your good work. Away, good Wesley, and take this warrant for his
                  apprehension. He must be caught and caged to-night. Away, now—set the hounds of
                  the law upon him and drag him forth, though he be kneeling at the altar of Christ!
                  Once convicted, friend Wesley, and it shall be the best day's work you ever
                  performed. Make all safe, and then let me know;" and as Atherton concluded, the
                  attorney rose, bowed, and took his leave.
               For a few minutes after being left to himself, the scheming hypocrite paced the
                  room and rubbed his hands with delight; and then muttering, "Now for my visitor
                  below," he quitted the apartment.
               Mean time Wesley, instead of leaving the mansion at once, ascended a flight of
                  stairs, and carefully opening a door on his right, entered another elegant
                  apartment, where stood a young man before his mirror, carefully arranging his
                  toilet. As the attorney closed the door, he looked round carelessly, and disclosed
                  the features of Acton Atherton.
               "O, it is you, eh?" he said, yawning. "Well, Wes, what deviltry is afoot now,
                  eh?"
               "Your own," answered the other.
               "Speak it out, man!"
               "You want to get that girl in your power?"
               "Yes, yes!" said Acton, hastily, in a low tone, his eyes brightening with
                  interest.
               "I can put you in a way."
               "How? quick! tell me!"
               "And if you succeed?"
               "The fifty dollars I promised are yours."
               "Do you know who she is?"
               "No, and care less, so I once have her in my power, and no particular
                     friend by as before."
               "Then come with me."
               
               "But how will you arrange it?"
               "It's fixed already. Come with me and I'll show you.'
               "In a moment;" and completing his toilet in haste, Acton and Wesley quitted the
                  mansion together, both bent on the devil's mission.
               While these things were transpiring above stairs, Clarence Malcolm, of whom
                  mention has frequently been made, and Arabella Atherton were sitting tete-a-tete in the magnificent parlor below. The
                  former was a fine, noble looking young man, of commanding appearance, who seemed,
                  by his erect carriage and lofty demeanor, to feel himself fully on an equality
                  with the proud, haughty heiress who sat by his side, a sort of queenly, breathing
                  statue, so cold and inflexible she appeared. In fact it was apparent from her
                  present manner, that she either cared nothing for her guest, or that she had taken
                  offence at something in the conversation preceding our introduction of the
                  parties.
               But whatever the cause of her hauteur, Clarence
                  was evidently desirous of removing it; for after two or three ineffectual attempts
                  to draw her into conversation, he said:
               "If I have offended you in any way, Miss Atherton, it has been done unwittingly,
                  and I crave pardon!"
               "Of course you have it," she answered, coldly.
               "Thank you!" he rejoined, with slight sarcasm in his tone. "It is something to
                  know one is forgiven, albeit one never learns wherein one has offended."
               To this Arabella deigned no reply; and after a rather embarrassing silence of a
                  few moments, the other said, abruptly, fixing his eyes steadily upon the haughty
                  beauty:
               "You have cousins in town, Miss Atherton?"
               Arabella started, and her features flushed as she replied:
               "Not that I am aware of, sir."
               "Indeed! that is very strange!'
               "Is it?" dryly responded the other. "And suppose I have cousins in town, is there
                  any thing so very remarkable in the fact?"
               "No, certainly not, Miss Atherton. Your having cousins in town is not remarkable.
                  It is that you should know nothing of them, and, while living in luxury yourself,
                  they should be literally starving."
               "What mean you?" demanded the other, haughtily.
               "What I say, Miss Atherton," replied Clarence, in the same haughty vein. "I never
                  speak with a double meaning."
               "Indeed!" rejoined Arabella, biting her lips with vexation. "Well, sir, you will
                  be good enough to be more explicit, or let the subject drop, for I do not
                  comprehend the drift of your conversation."
               "A single question, then?"
               "Well, sir?"
               "Had your father a sister?"
               Arabella's face flushed as she replied:
               "I have so understood—I never saw her."
               "She married a Courtly?"
               Arabella nodded haughtily.
               "And had two children?" continued Clarence.
               'So I have heard."
               'The father was lost at sea?"
               'Even so."
               'Your father became possessor of his property?"
               'Sir," rejoined Arabella, indignantly, rising proudly from her seat, "you are now
                  touching upon family affairs, with which you and no other stranger has any
                  business."
               "Nay," said Clarence, gravely, "I am not exactly a stranger, Miss Arabella, and am
                  not yet convinced I have no right to question as I do."
               
               "Then question those who will answer you," she said, scornfully, preparing to quit
                  the apartment.
               "Stay!" said Clarence, rising and gently touching her on the arm. "I do not wish
                  to give offence, Miss Atherton—nor do I ask these questions idly. They are perhaps
                  all important to you, to me, and to others. Sit down, I pray you! I will not
                  detain you long."
               Arabella hesitated, but finally resumed her seat.
               "Your father, I say, became possessed, by will, of his brother-in-law's property;
                  and a vast possession it was, which he still holds; but his sister, after spending
                  the little bequeathed to herself, removed with her children to this city, and here
                  died of starvation and a broken heart."
               "Sir!" cried Arabella, turning pale: "Mr. Malcolm! do you say this to insult
                  me?"
               "No, Miss Atherton; I pride myself on being a gentleman, and no gentleman will
                  insult a lady; nevertheless I must tell you the truth."
               "How know you this?"
               "That, begging your pardon, is a secret I must withhold. Let it suffice, that my
                  information comes from a worthy source."
               "You speak in riddles to me, Mr. Malcolm: I cannot comprehend your object. If I
                  have relatives in town, so poor as you say, they should have applied to my father
                  and been relieved. I trust you do not hold me answerable for their neglect in
                  making their condition known?"
               "But they did make their condition known to your father, and were refused
                  assistance, even so much as would drive starvation from their door."
               "Hold!" cried Arabella, springing to her feet, her proud bosom heaving with angry
                  passions, and her dark eyes flashing defiance: "I will bear this insolence no
                  longer! You, Clarence Malcolm, are the first that has ever so dared to insult me,
                  and I hate you for it. Ay, were you to become an emperor and sue at my feet, I
                  would remember what you have this night uttered, and spurn you from me. You have
                  said that my father refused assistance to his poor relations, knowing them to be
                  destitute."
               "I repeat it," rejoined Clarence, firmly, also rising and confronting his angry
                  hostess. "Yes, Miss Atherton, I repeat it; for I have it from a source entitled to
                  all confidence—no less than from the parties themselves. But stay—understand me—I
                  do not accuse you. A thousand things may transpire, even in your own mansion, of
                  which you may be ignorant; and from your manner and conversation, I sincerely
                  believe you knew nothing of your cousins; and that had you known their condition,
                  your own private purse would have generously relieved them. So much I will say;
                  but that your father was not ignorant, and that he did refuse them the means to
                  live until his sister was in a dying state, I do boldly assert."
               If Arabella could have withered and annihilated Clarence Malcolm with a glance,
                  the glance of hate and scorn she bestowed upon him, as he concluded, would have
                  done so. For a few moments her excited passions would not allow her to answer; and
                  she stood before him with heaving breast, expanded nostrils and flashing eyes. At
                  length, with all the haughty scorn she could throw into her words, she
                  rejoined:
               "Mr. Malcolm, allow me to give you due credit for having once
                  to-night spoken the truth; and that when you said, had I known the condition of my
                  kins-people, I would have relieved them. But what you say of my father, begging
                  your pardon for the unlady-like expression, is false! No man, sir, is more
                  benevolent than my father; and that he has given large sums to benevolent
                  societies, and to the poor, you, sir,
                  know as well as I; and therefore, I again repeat, what you have said is false—a
                  base, wilful, malignant slander! Henceforth, sir, we are strangers; and as I hear
                  my father's step, perhaps you will have the audacity to re-speak your slanderous
                  language to his face."
               Saying this, Arabella walked proudly to the door, where she was met by Atherton,
                  just come down from his interview with Wesley to join her, and, if possible,
                  further his scheme of effecting a union between herself and Clarence.
               "Eh! my daughter—what is this?—what is this?" he said, hastily, making an effort
                  to detain her, and glancing at Malcolm as if for an explanation, who stood proudly
                  drawn up to his full height, where Arabella had left him, calmly watching her
                  motions.
               "Question him!" replied Arabella, with a gesture of displeasure toward Clarence;
                  and stepping proudly aside, she passed her father and disappeared.
               "Ah, my dear Malcolm," continued the hypocrite, closing the door and approaching
                  the other with hand extended, "I am delighted to see you. How is your health this
                  evening, and that of your good mother?"
               "We are well," answered Clarence, coldly, barely taking the hand of the
                  millionaire, and letting it fall without pressure.
               "Ah, yes—glad to hear it," said the other, affecting not to notice his cool
                  reception. "So you have had a little love quarrel, eh? you and Arabella. O you
                  lovers!—always fighting and making up again, Well, well—just so with my wife and
                  myself before we were joined in holy wedlock. Ah, me!" he sighed, affecting to
                  weep: "Poor Fanny! she is gone to her long home now. Well, such things must be,
                  you know, in this ever, changing world of sin and death; and we should not repine,
                  but like true Christians, be resigned to the will of our Maker.'
               "A truly pious sentiment, Mr. Atherton," dryly responded Clarence, eyeing the
                  other closely.
               "There is nothing like a Christian's hope in such hours of affliction," meekly
                  rejoined the dissembler, with a sanctimonious face befitting a godly priest. "When
                  my dear wife Fanny died, a year ago, I thought my heart would break; but I looked
                  to Him for support in my trying hour, and not in vain; for he filled my soul with
                  the hope of an eternal meeting beyond the grave. But I beg pardon, friend
                  Clarence! I am keeping you standing. Come, let us be seated, and have a little
                  private conversation."
               "With all my heart," said Clarence; "for there is a matter of some little moment I
                  wish to touch upon."
               "O, yes—exactly—I understand," returned Atherton, with what he intended should be
                  thought a knowing smile. "Well, to come to the point at once—and that is what all
                  lovers desire, though most of them are backward enough in doing it themselves—I
                  must say that, though a little petulant and proud at times, Arabella is a dear,
                  sweet girl, with whom I am extremely loth to part; but then, when I consider she
                  is to be united to one so highly esteemed as yourself——"
               "Sir," interrupted Malcolm, with crimson features, "you mistake. My desired
                  conversation has no reference to your daughter."
               "Ah, indeed!" said the worldly man, seeming to be abstracted, though his cold blue
                  eye was seeking the while to penetrate the very soul of his guest. "Indeed, my
                  young friend, I exceedingly regret that two persons of such good sense as you and
                  Arabella possess, should let a trifling love-quarrel so interfere with your
                  desires."
               "Again you mistake," rejoined Clarence, sternly. "We have had no love-quarrel, as
                  you term it."
               
               "No? Then I was mistaken in supposing you offended with each other?"
               "No, Mr. Atherton, in that you were not mistaken."
               "Hum! hum! Well, you lovers are mysterious."
               "Nay, sir, be so good as to understand me, once for all, that we are
                     not lovers!" said Clarence, indignant at the other's perverse
                  assumption of what he knew was false.
               "Not lovers? and you visiting her regularly? Poh! poh! don't tell me that!"
               "True, I have visited her somewhat regularly of late, and may have had some
                  serious intentions in so doing—but they are past now, and this is my last
                  visit."
               "Indeed!" returned Atherton, seriously; "you surprise me! Is not my daughter good
                  enough for you?"
               "Too good, perhaps—at least she would have me think so—but that is neither here
                  nor there."
               "Pray tell me the reason of your quarrel?—for quarreled you have, I see."
               "I will—at least as far as I know. What she first took offence at, she better
                  knows than I—for I had said nothing that I am aware of to give her cause—but the
                  last matter in discussion, and at which she most took fire, was regarding her
                  cousins and yourself."
               As he said this, Clarence fixed his eyes upon Atherton, and witnessed a most rapid
                  and fearful change, which convinced him he was right in the course he was
                  pursuing. A deadly pallor overspread his countenance, his brow darkened, his lips
                  compressed, and a cold, sullen gleam shot from his blue eyes. For a moment he
                  gazed sternly upon his guest, without speaking, and then said, with assumed
                  composure:
               "Well, sir, what of her cousins?'
               "Why, in the course of conversation, I remarked that it was singular she should be
                  living in splendor, while they were starving in the same city."
               The millionaire started, and his face grew darker—more devilish—so much so, that
                  Clarence gazed upon him in astonishment.
               "Well, sir?" he said.
               "Your daughter denied all knowledge of the fact," pursued Clarence, quietly, still
                  eyeing the other closely, "and said if such were the case, they should have made
                  known their condition to you and been relieved. I replied that they had done so,
                  and been refused assistance."
               "'Tis false!" cried Atherton, springing up in rage, completely thrown off his
                  guard. "'Tis false, I say—false as hell! I gave Edgar Courtly a check for a
                  thousand dollars."
               "But not until his mother, your sister, was dying.
               "How know you that, sir?"
               "That is my secret."
               "And even if she was dying, what is that to you?"
               "Every thing—since their cause has now become mine."
               "Indeed! and what do you intend to do?"
               "Set the wronged right, and make villainy tremble."
               "Is it possible? I trust you will have a pleasant time of it!"
               "If I succeed, I doubt not I shall."
               "Take my advice, young man—go home, and meddle no more with what does not concern
                  you!"
               "But this does concern me, I say; and since you are free to give advice, Mr.
                  Atherton, take a little of mine, and be cautious what you do hereafter; for every
                  action will be watched—every motive closely scanned."
               "Then I am to have spies upon me, am I?"
               "And have no more than you deserve, since your former deeds are becoming
                  known."
               
               "Ha! what do you know?" quickly interrogated the other turning very pale.
               "Time will show, sir, what I know. Again I say, be cautious!"
               "Some villainous report of that cursed nephew of mine. By ——! I will have him
                  hung!"
               "Is this your Christian piety?" queried Clarence. "So, so—the mask is
                  off sooner than I anticipated; and I now behold you what you have been
                  represented—a base hypocrite!"
               "Leave my house, sir!" cried Atherton, stamping his foot violently, completely
                  beside himself with rage.
               "I do so with pleasure," returned Malcolm, calmly, rising from his seat; "and
                  promise you, moreover, I will never again darken your door. And furthermore, I now
                  tell you to your teeth, I am henceforth your determined foe, and will spare no
                  pains to expose your hypocrisy at any and all times and places; and if I can prove
                  you have gained your property wrongfully—taken it unlawfully from the widow and
                  orphan—I solemnly swear to devote time, energy and money, to the last cent I have
                  if necessary, to bring you to the punishment you so richly merit. There are so
                  many hypocrites in the world—so many wolves in sheep's clothing—that it is not
                  only an act of justice, but a righteous act, to expose and punish all we can."
               It is impossible to portray the appearance of Atherton as he heard these words.
                  His usually serene features became almost haggard with fear and rage, his eyes
                  glared wildly, and there was a foam and lividness about the lips, such as madmen
                  sometimes exhibit. As Clarence ceased, he clenched his hand and took a step
                  forward as if to strike him. Then pausing irresolute, he turned, and casting
                  himself upon a seat, buried his face in his hands and groaned.
               Gazing sternly upon him for a moment, Clarence turned upon his heel and left him
                  to his own bitter reflections.
               For the space of ten minutes the schemer rocked to and fro, like one in agony, and
                  then started up suddenly.
               "Fool! fool!" he exclaimed; "a cursed fool I am! Foiled again, by ——! Why did I
                  admit that matter of the check? But he at least shall not escape me!
                  No, sooner than that, I will bribe a dozen witnesses to swear him to eternal
                  perdition;" and with these dark words upon his lips, Oliver Atherton quitted the
                  apartment to plot new schemes of hell.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE ARREST.
               IT was about nine o'clock in the evening, that Edgar and Virginia sat together
                  before a cheerful fire, recalling the events of the day. There was an air of
                  gladness on the features of each, mingled with a slight shade of gloom, like the
                  first breaking forth of the sun upon a late stormy landscape, which made them
                  appear very interesting. The dark habiliments of mourning now worn by each,
                  contrasting with their pale, expressive features, gave them a sort of classic
                  interest, if we may be permitted the phrase, over which an artist would have
                  lingered with delight.
               "And what is he to do with your poems, dear Edgar?" asked Virginia, with her
                  beautiful hand resting gracefully on his shoulder, and her soft blue eyes looking
                  tenderly and earnestly into his, while around the half parted lips lingered a
                  sweet though rather melancholy smile, as if the sorrow of the past and the joy of
                  the present were commingling in her soul.
               "Indeed, sweet sister, I do not know," replied Edgar, turning to her his manly,
                  noble countenance, and imprinting on her lips a kiss of fraternal love. "As I told
                  you before, he spoke something of a magazine and newspaper, and of giving me the
                  charge of either; but I more than half suspect he made the poetry an excuse to put
                  in my possession the money I had refused as a loan. Generous soul! how noble in
                  him to do this! and what a contrast he forms to our selfish, avaricious,
                  hypocritical uncle, who, though he gave me something at last, did it as he feared
                  to do otherwise—fancying, methought, I had a clue to some dark secret, that, if
                  known, would be his undoing. And this, by the way, reminds me I must not fail to
                  call on Davis to-morrow. Perchance he may be in a condition to explain his
                  mysterious words. But, ah! why do I think of man's baseness now, at a time when my
                  heart is made glad by the nobleness of disinterested friendship and generous
                  gratitude! No, banished be all from my thoughts! I will think of an angel I this
                  day for the first time beheld."
               "Of Edith Morton," quoth Virginia, with an arch smile.
               "Of one, dear Virginia, you shall love as a sister. O, that to-morrow were come,
                  that you might behold her!"
               Virginia sighed.
               "I, too," she said, pretending to search for something at her feet, "will think
                  of——"
               "Dudley," added Edgar, as she paused. "Ay, think of him, sister, for he is worthy
                  of your thoughts."
               "Nay, I said not him, Edgar," cried Virginia, quickly, now showing a face deeply
                  flushed—possibly caused by bending forward—possibly by the fire—or, possibly—by
                  what you will, reader.
               "Hark!" exclaimed Edgar, suddenly; "there are heavy steps on the stairs, and rough
                  voices without. What can be the meaning?"
               Virginia drew close to him in alarm. The next moment there came a heavy
                  double-knock on the door, as if struck with a club, and a voice without said
                  hoarsely:
               "Guard the windows, and see he don't escape by t'other door!"
               "Who are you, and what is wanted?" demanded Edgar, rising and taking a step
                  forward, while Virginia clung tremblingly to him.
               
               "Open, in the name of the commonwealth! I'm an officer of the police."
               "No, no—do not!" cried Virginia, intercepting her brother as he was about to
                  comply with the demand. "This is some plot to murder you."
               "Be firm, Virginia, and reach me yonder knife," said Edgar, in a low tone, with
                  deathly pale features and compressed lips. "Should they prove to be impostors, it
                  shall go hard with some of them. Quick, the knife! and then retire into the other
                  apartment."
               "Open, or I'll split down your door!" said the voice without.
               "Do so, and you are a dead man!" returned Edgar. "Quick, Virginia! There, now
                  hasten into the other apartment."
               "But, Edgar, dear," began Virginia, in trembling tones.
               "Nay, away, before violence is done!" interrupted her brother. "Fly, and close the
                  door!" and as Virginia complied with his entreaty, he turned the key in the door
                  and threw it open.
               Two figures at once advanced into the apartment—one the villainous person of
                  Wesley, and the other a stout, coarse-featured, red-faced individual, partly
                  muffled in a rough over-coat, who carried in one hand a paper, and in the other a
                  heavy hickory club.
               "That's him," nodded Wesley toward Edgar.
               "Edgar Courtly," said the other, advancing and placing his brawny hand on his
                  shoulder, "you're my prisoner."
               "For what?" demanded Edgar, calmly, while Virginia, uttering a wild shriek, came
                  bounding forward.
               "For forgery," gruffly replied the officer.
               "Great Heaven! I arrested for forgery!' You must be mocking me!"
               "There's the document; and if you think there's any mockery in that, why you're
                  welcome to think so, that's all," replied the constable, showing Edgar the writ
                  for his apprehension.
               "'Tis even so," said Edgar, clasping the almost fainting Virginia to his beating
                  heart. "Great God! are we never to know the end of our misery! Must one affliction
                  tread upon another till they crush us into our graves! Oh, God of the orphans!" he
                  cried, wildly, clasping his hands and looking upwards, "bid death be speedy and
                  summon us to a better world!" Then turning fiercely to the officer, he continued:
                  "Who hath done this, sir?—who dares accuse me of the crime you have named? In the
                  presence of my Maker, sir, I swear I am innocent!"
               "Yes, yes," screamed Virginia, wildly, "he is innocent—he never did any wrong—and
                  you shall not tear him from me! Go! go!—you shall not take him!"
               "Come, come, pretty Miss, it's no use to whine," returned the officer; "because,
                  you see, now, I've got to do my duty whether or no. I've no doubt the young man'll
                  be able to prove his innocence—but with that I've nothing to do. There's my paper,
                  which says arrest Edgar Courtly, and I've got to do it. So, (to Edgar) come along!
                  for it's time we's a moving."
               "I see it all!" exclaimed Edgar, as a thought flashed through his brain. "It is a
                  damnable plot of my uncle to put me out of his way: but I will triumph yet, and
                  then let him beware! Cheer up, Virginia! I have friends, and shall not long be
                  kept in durance; and then let them that have done this beware! Cheer up, sweet
                  sister—stay here to-night—and early in the morning hasten to Calvin Morton and
                  tell him all. Farewell!"
               "No, no!" screamed Virginia, clinging tightly to him; "you shall not go! I will
                  not let you go—they will murder you! Oh
                  God! oh God! to come to this! You shall not go!"
               "Nay, dearest Virginia," said Edgar, in an agony of mind better conceived than
                  described, pressing his lips to hers, and straining her to his heart in a fond
                  embrace, "I must go; the officer is waiting; you must not detain me!"
               "Then I will go with you—they shall imprison us both—we will not part!"
               "That cannot be," spoke up Wesley. "The rules of the prison wont allow it. Better
                  stay where you are, lady, and I'll bring you any information you desire. Although
                  I'm here with the police officer, yet I'm your brother's friend, and will do all
                  in my power to render this disagreeable business bearable. You spoke of Calvin
                  Morton, the lawyer: do you know him, Mr. Courtly?"
               "Thank Heaven, I do!" replied Edgar. "I did him some service, for which he is
                  grateful, and will stand my friend. Oh, sir, if you are friendly toward us, as you
                  say, will you not hasten to him at once, and tell him the condition in which we
                  both are placed? It is the greatest favor I can ask of you at present, and you
                  shall have gold for your trouble."
               "I'll do it," said Wesley, with a singular gleam in his small, black eyes—"that
                  is, if you persuade your sister to remain, so that if they send after her, as I
                  know they will, she can surely be found."
               "Do you hear, Virginia? Now, sweet sister, stay where you are till this gentleman
                  returns, or sends some one to take you among friends; and in this way you will
                  both hasten my release and relieve my mind."
               "Then farewell, brother!" cried Virginia, throwing her arms around his neck and
                  bursting into tears. "Farewell, Edgar!—I—I will do as you say. God bless
                  you!—adieu!" and as if fearful to longer test her resolution by remaining, she
                  sprung away from him and into the adjoining apartment.
               "Lead on!" said Edgar to the officer; and with a firm step, but with a deathly,
                  sickening sensation at heart, he left the house, accompanied by Wesley and the
                  constable.
               As the party reached the foot of the stairs, two figures approached them, and a
                  voice said:
               "Why, Gus, I'd begun to think you wasn't a-coming. What in thunder kept you so
                  long?"
               "Why, the chap's got a sister up there," answered the other, "and she, woman like,
                  wouldn't let him go till she'd cried a few—that's all."
               "Well, I 'spose we can push ahead now;" and the speaker came along side of Edgar,
                  while the fourth personage drew aside and was joined by Wesley.
               As Edgar now moved away between the two officers, he noted, with considerable
                  misgiving, that the other two persons loitered about the premises, conversed in
                  low tones, and occasionally pointed toward the apartments of his sister.
               Could it be possible, he mused, that they meditated treachery! And then, like
                  lightning, the remembrance came over him, of how strenuously Wesley had been in
                  urging his sister to remain. Perhaps this was some devilish plot to remove him and
                  get her in their possession! and he felt his blood run chill and his brain reel at
                  the thought.
               Halting abruptly and looking back, he said to the officers:
               "Before I go with you to prison, I must return to my sister: I have something
                  important to tell her."
               "Can't do it," replied one, gruffly, placing his hand heavily on Edgar's shoulder.
                  "You've kept us bothering too long already, and must come now whether or no."
               As the other spoke, Edgar saw the two figures slowly depart in an opposite
                  direction, and watching them dis
                  appear, he strove to banish from his mind all suspicion of wrong; and turning,
                  signified his readiness to proceed.
               With a heavy step and heavier heart, Edgar moved through the streets, bitterly
                  reflecting upon his hard destiny, in having the only cup of happiness he had
                  possessed for years, dashed suddenly from his lips at the very moment his wearied
                  and thirsty soul was about to take a refreshing draught. And what could be the
                  meaning of the accusation for which he was now held a prisoner! He strove to
                  recollect what he had done, to bring himself even under the curse of suspicion;
                  but for a long time he puzzled his brain without success, when suddenly the truth
                  flashed upon him with almost overwhelming force. His uncle—his base, inhuman
                  uncle—was at the bottom of it! Yes, this was the cause of that liberality which
                  had so surprised him—this the cause of that gleam of triumph which he had marked
                  at the time, but without a suspicion of what it imported. And to what extent had
                  he power to carry his villainy? He would of course attempt to prove the check he
                  had given him a forged one. But would he succeed? Doubtless he already had
                  witnesses bribed to swear falsely; but notwithstanding, Edgar knew himself
                  innocent, and could not but believe that all would turn out right in the end, and
                  that the black-hearted baseness of his uncle would recoil upon himself and his
                  tools with overwhelming force.
               As he came in sight of the Egyptian Tombs, rearing its massive walls high in the
                  starlight air, and standing out vague, and dim and gloomy from its murky
                  background, the same cold, sickening shudder he had twice before experienced,
                  passed over his frame, and he knew it now a strange omen of evil. And what
                  singular feelings were his, as, ascending the steps, he walked over the very spot
                  whither he had borne the lovely Edith, then an unknown female just rescued from
                  peril, but now an object in his eyes of no little interest! And with what peculiar
                  emotions he recalled the plans he had laid for the morrow, in each of which she
                  had formed a part, only to know them all swept away by the strong hand of destiny,
                  and himself a prisoner, on his way to the dungeon of the criminal! And with what a
                  sinking heart, a sense of loathing and utter desolation, he entered the cheerless,
                  noisome cell apportioned him, and heard the harsh grating of the iron door as it
                  swung to on its rusty hinges, shutting him from light, and air, and seemingly from
                  the world forever! And lastly, when all were gone and all was silent, save the
                  dull sound of his feet, as to and fro he paced the rocky floor of his present
                  narrow abode, what a whirlwind of thought, what a chaos of ideas, crowded his
                  feverish brain, straining it to the verge of madness, and making his very soul
                  seem like a thing of flesh and blood filled with barbed irons dipped in rankling
                  poison!
               But with all his misery—his mental anguish—Edgar had an easy conscience; and with
                  this we leave him; while we return to those who were even now taking the
                  preliminary steps to a fearful retribution.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE PLOT AND THE TRAITOR.
               "I TELL you, Acton," said Wesley to his companion, as they stood before the
                  lodgings of Edgar and Virginia, "it's no use to think of venturing there now, for
                  she'll know it's some trick to deceive her; so come away, leave all to me, and
                  I'll make my plan succeed."
               "Why, Wesley, you see we are here now, and the bird is caught."
               "But surely, Acton Atherton, you're not fool enough to attempt force with a woman,
                  when stratagem will succeed better. If she should scream, we'd have the whole town
                  upon us."
               "O, I would only attempt the gentlest persuasion."
               "Pshaw! what would your persuasion do with her! And see," continued Wesley,
                  pointing toward Edgar, "that young scape-grace has stopped. He likely suspects
                  something; and if we stand here much longer, we'll have him back upon us. Come! we
                  must leave, if only for policy's sake."
               Acton grumblingly consented, and the two worthies moved away together. Entering
                  the Bowery, they shaped their course to one of the many groggeries surrounding the
                  theater; and passing through the bar-room into a more private apartment, called
                  for a couple of bottles of wine, over which, in low tones, they discussed the
                  matter uppermost in their minds.
               "But, Wesley, how will you manage it?" asked Acton.
               "As I said before, leave that to me and you'll see. But, I say, where'll you take
                  her to, Acton?—have you got that fixed?"
               "Why, not exactly: I must take her where I'm acquainted, for there might be
                  trouble with strangers. Ha! by Jove, I will do it!" he added, with flashing eyes,
                  striking his fist on the table with a force that made the bottles and tumblers
                  ring again. "Yes, she shall go there," he continued, rather to himself than his
                  companion. "She has dared to threaten me to my teeth and cast me off, and I will
                  show her that I can console myself with the society of one more beautiful still.
                  And then, peradventure, she'll get in a passion and do some rash act—for of course
                  she'll be jealous of her rival. Well, so much the better; for if she but break the
                  law in one iota, I will have her dragged to prison, where I'll manage to keep her
                  until my wedding is over. Yes, by ——! I'll do it!"
               "And who is this person you're speaking of?" asked Wesley, carelessly.
               Acton gave a start of surprise.
               "Well, that is my business," he answered, sharply, now for the first time aware he
                  had been thinking aloud. "You do your part, sir, and leave mine to me."
               Wesley made no reply; but there was a peculiar cunning expression on his ugly
                  features, and a malicious gleam in his small, black eyes, as stealthily he watched
                  the countenance of the other. Then he said, in a careless tone:
               "By-the-by, Master Acton, have you that fifty handy?"
               "Insolent dog!" returned the other, angrily; "do you want your pay before you do
                  your work? Don't intrude mercenary affairs upon me, when you see I am busy with
                  weighty matters."
               "So, so," grumbled Wesley to himself—"he calls me an insolent dog, eh!—and his father will make his
                  money save him, eh! O ho, my good masters—we shall see—we shall see."
               "What do you think, Wes?" said Acton, in a familiar, patronising tone, intended
                  perhaps to allay any harsh feelings his previous language might have excited, and
                  throwing off as he spoke a tumbler of wine: "think the little jade will be
                  refractory, when she finds there is no backing out of the matter, eh!"
               "Hardly," answered Wesley.
               "Sewing girls, you know," continued the other, on whom the wine already began to
                  take effect, "are not apt to be troublesome—at least I—ha, ha—I never found them
                  so. But then you know," he added, with assumed gravity, stroking his chin
                  complacently, "there is every thing in the looks of the person—eh! Wesley?"
               "Every thing," rejoined the other, quietly, eyeing him closely.
               A few more turns at the bottle made Acton very loquacious, and he began to talk of
                  his own private plans with less and less reserve. Urging the liquor upon him, but
                  taking care to keep a cool brain himself, Wesley watched his opportunity; and when
                  he found the other in the right mood to be communicative, said:
               "Between friends, you know, Master Acton, there should be no reserve!"
               "That's a fact," hiccupped the other; "that's a fact, by ——! What do you want to
                  know, Wes? Eh! what is it?"
               "Know? O, nothing in particular; only I was just thinking how —— touchy you were
                  about that little matter of the female."
               "Ha! ha!—yes, I see. Ah, you're a sly dog, Wes, by Jove, you are! Well, now, I'll
                  tell you—for as you say, there should be no reserve among friends, and we're
                  friends—eh! Wesley?"
               "We're friends," grinned the other.
               "Well that, you see, was my wife. Stop, now—that is, you see, she would have been
                  my wife; but the priest or minister that married us, didn't happen to be either a
                  priest or minister. You take, Wes, eh?—ha, ha, ha!"
               "I take," quietly rejoined the other; and then added, carelessly, sipping his
                  wine: "A good joke—a capital joke. But, by-the-by, who is this female? and where
                  does she live?"
               "O, she?—why, her name's Ellen Douglas, and she lives in Mott street."
               "And so she's going to interfere in some wedding of yours, eh?"
               "Ha! ha! yes; and that's the richest joke of all. Come, I'll tell you about it.
                  You must know I have been paying my addresses to the fair, and lovely, and angelic
                  Edith Morton, and—— But stop—her health first, Wesley, and then to proceed."
               And having drank her health, as he termed it, with drunken gravity, Acton
                  proceeded to give the other a short history of Ellen Douglas, and of the most
                  important events which had occurred during their acquaintance, up to the time when
                  he was commanded from her presence, of all of which the reader has a knowledge.
                  And then he said, in conclusion, with somewhat awakened energy:
               "But she must not interfere in this affair of Edith! No, by ——! she must not
                  interfere there! Is there not some way to prevent it, Wesley?" and he gave his
                  confederate a peculiar look.
               "Some way," nodded Wesley, catching the other's dark meaning.
               "Yes," pursued Acton, slowly, eyeing the other steadily ily, "there is a way, and I may yet
                  need your services. If she attempt what she has threatened, I——"
               "May put her out of the way," chimed in Wesley, in a low tone, as the
                  other paused.
               Acton started, his eyes gleamed darkly, and reaching across the table, he seized
                  Wesley's hand and shook it heartily.
               "You are a clever fellow," he said; "you see things at a glance that others might
                  never see. By Jove! I was getting drunk just now—but the thought of this affair
                  has made me sober again. Come, as it is not far from here, by Jove, I'll show you
                  where Ellen lives, and on the way we will talk over the matter."
               No proposition, at the moment, could have suited Wesley better; for he had deep
                  schemes of his own to concoct; and to know the abode of Ellen, was one of the most
                  important steps towards their completion; therefore he quickly arose and signified
                  his readiness to depart immediately. Acton had more than once insulted him, but he
                  had passed it by, simply because he had seen no opportunity to revenge himself
                  compatible with his devilish nature. To-night he had called him an insolent dog;
                  and now that he fancied there was a chance for deep and lasting retaliation, he
                  had sworn in his heart to execute it. To what extent he succeeded will presently
                  be seen.
               By the time Acton and Wesley reached the abode of Ellen, the former had become
                  perfectly sober—owing, doubtless, to the weakness of the wine and the excited
                  state of his feelings—and already began to regret having made the other his
                  confidant; but it was too late now to repent; and so he determined, if possible,
                  to profit by a sorry mistake.
               "That is the house," he said, pointing to the building from the opposite side of
                  the street.
               "And you design taking the girl there, eh?" queried Wesley.
               "Why, that was my intention—but, by Jove, I hardly know what to think
                  of it. Ellen has a high temper, and may prove troublesome."
               "Pshaw! cannot you manage a woman?" sneered Wesley.
               "By ——! it shall be so!" cried the other, taking fire at the thought. "I will take
                  her there; and when she is fairly mine, I will set them face to face,
                  and show the haughty Ellen another triumph. I hate her—for twice has she made a
                  coward of me—and I would have her see that I have regained the courage of a man,
                  and dare urge her to do her worst. If she attempt to harm me, by ——! I'll kill her
                  on the spot, and get off by proving it self-defence—though I would rather avoid so
                  bold a measure, for it would of course make a talk and reach the ears of Edith.
                  But better even that," he added, in the next breath, "than have her go there in
                  person; for I could easily trump up some story to screen myself, and money can buy
                  all kinds of evidence. Yes, it's settled—I'll do it!" he concluded abruptly.
               "Right," rejoined Wesley. "Now I'll tell you how to proceed. You must go back to
                  the place and reconnoiter till I come with a coach; and then I'll manage, with
                  your assistance, to entice the girl into it, and give you further
                  instructions."
               "Good!" said Acton, approvingly. "Be quick, Wesley, and you shall find me on
                  hand;" and the two worthies separated, going opposite directions.
               Wesley managed, however, to keep his eye on Acton till he had completely
                  disappeared; and then hastening to the abode of Ellen, he requested to see her on
                  business admiting of no delay. He was kept some time in waiting, but finally gained admission, and was
                  conducted to her apartment. Although a rather advanced hour, Ellen had not yet
                  retired, but was partly reclining on an elegant sofa, guitar in hand, singing a
                  plaintive song, the following words of which sounded mournfully in the ears of
                  Wesley, as, full of astonishment and admiration, both of the apartment and singer,
                  he halted just within the door, gazed around, and listened. 
                     
                        SONG.
                        "My hope, alas! is o'er,
                        My sun must set in gloom,
                        And for me, nevermore
                        All refreshing spring shall bloom—
                        For my feet must pass before
                        To the dark and silent tomb.
                     
                     
                        "Shall we meet, mother, dear,
                        When the cord is cut in twain
                        Which doth bind my spirit here,
                        Where no sorrow is nor pain?
                        O say thou wilt be near,
                        And thy child shall live again!"
                     
                  
               
               She ceased, and laying aside her instrument, arose and advanced to Wesley, who was
                  still so much amazed at what he saw as almost to forget his errand. Her pale
                  features, viewed by the soft light of the apartment, he fancied the most beautiful
                  he had ever beheld; and he was already pondering how to address her, when she
                  relieved him by saying:
               "Well, sir, I understand you wish to see me on important business!"
               "I—I—do," stammered Wesley.
               "Say on, then—for it must be important that calls you here at this late hour. If
                  you have much to say, perhaps we had better be seated."
               "Not—not much to say," rejoined Wesley, in his blandest tone. "Madame—Miss Ellen,
                  I mean—I hardly know how to begin. I suppose you know Acton Atherton?"
               Ellen started, her eyes flashed, and her form towered aloft, as she replied,
                  haughtily:
               "If you bring a message from him, sir, our conference is ended."
               "I bring no message from him, Miss Ellen—but I've come to speak
                     of him. He's a villain!"
               "How know you that?" rejoined the other, quickly.
               "Because I know him well, and have known him long, and because it's of meditated
                  villainy on his part I've come to see you."
               "Say on, sir!"
               "He's about to bring a lady here, to this house, this night, whom he will entice
                  away by treachery."
               "Indeed, sir! and how know you this?" inquired Ellen, eagerly, changing color and
                  breathing hard.
               "Because he told me so himself—or rather, because I overheard him laying the
                  plan."
               "Bring her here!—brave me to my face again!" muttered Ellen, striving to keep down
                  her excited passions: "Let him—let him if he dare!" And then to Wesley: "Well,
                  sir, do you know this female? and who is she? and why come you to me, when you
                  should be doing her a service by warning and defending her as becomes a man?"
               "I'll answer your questions as you've asked them," replied Wesley. "This female I
                  know—she's poor, but virtuous—and I come to you, that you may render her a good
                  service and get her honest thanks for it. She'll be enticed away, thinking she is
                  going to another place—but she'll be brought here, and the rest I'll leave to you.
                  If you want to revenge yourself on a black-hearted villain, now is your chance to
                  do it by protecting her."
               
               "But why do you think I desire revenge? Do you know any thing of my history?"
               "If I did'nt," replied Wesley, "I'd never been here on this errand. I know all,
                  Miss Ellen—and I know you've been shamefully abused and wronged, by one who has
                  abused and wronged me! (and his eyes gleamed maliciously,) for which
                  I'll be revenged if it hangs me!"
               "And so he has made a boast of my disgrace, has he?" rejoined Ellen, in a low,
                  deep tone, eyeing the other intently.
               "Yes, time and again, over his cups; and he laughs at your threats, and drinks
                  toasts to your speedy passage to another world."
               For a few moments Ellen stood speechless, gazing upon Wesley with an expression
                  that seemed to freeze his blood, and made him fearful for what he had said. Then
                  she slowly sunk upon an ottoman, bowed her face upon her hands, and groaned as one
                  suffering the extreme of bodily pain. Wesley did not venture another remark, till
                  again looking up, with truly haggard features, she broke the gloomy silence, by
                  saying:
               "And who is this new victim? You have not yet told me who she is."
               "Why she's a poor orphan girl that came to this city some time ago, with her
                  mother and brother, expecting to get money from a rich uncle here. But she and
                  they were disappointed, I believe, and the old woman took on and died about it;
                  and she and her brother, as I understand, have had a rather hard time to get
                  along. Not more than three hours ago, her brother was arrested for forgery—and of
                  the peril she's in, I've already told you."
               "Her name?" almost shrieked Ellen, springing up so suddenly that Wesley
                  involuntarily took a step backwards. "Her name?" she cried again, starting forward
                  and seizing ing the astonished attorney by the arm, who looked as if he doubted
                  her sanity. "Speak!" she continued vehemently: "tell me the name of this
                  girl!"
               "Why, perhaps I should be——"
               "Nay, her name? her name?" interrupted Ellen, stamping her foot impatiently. "Is
                  it Courtly? Do you speak of Edgar and Virginia Courtly?"
               "What! you know them?" rejoined Wesley, all amazement.
               "Ha! it is so—it is so!" cried Ellen, almost frantic with passion. "The wretch!
                  the villain! the monster!—and he dares assail her virtue—his own flesh and blood,
                  as it were! Ham like, he should be cursed to all posterity, and die the death of a
                  brute—unwept, unpitied, and unremembered, save with loathing! O, I could tear him
                  in pieces for the thought! Let him but harm a hair of her innocent, unprotected
                  head, and by the Justice Seat of Heaven, I swear to follow and drag him to an
                  early grave, and to endless perdition! His own cousin!—his father's sister's
                  child! O, Heaven! what a wretch!"
               "But he don't know she's his cousin," put in Wesley, as the other paused.
               "Indeed! are you sure?" cried Ellen, catching at the thought.
               "Sure," answered the other.
               "And do you think this knowledge would make any difference with him?"
               "Think it would."
               "I have it, then!" said Ellen, triumphantly. "Let him bring her here; and if he
                  have one iota of a man's soul in his breast, he shall, ere he leave this house, be
                  made to curse himself as the meanest thing that walks the face of the earth. And
                  Edgar dragged to prison!" she continued, looking straight at Wesley: "Oh, there is
                     foul wrong somewhere, which the
                  guilty shall yet tremble for! God help the right, and shield the innocent from
                  hell's own dire inventions! And how soon will Virginia be here?"
               "Soon," was the answer.
               "Go, then, sir; and if you have aught to do with this dark scheme, help it to
                  succeed. Your part—if, as I fancy, you have one in the game—shall be winked at,
                  for the important information you have given me."
               "I've told you before," replied Wesley, "I seek revenge on Acton Atherton; and
                  besides, the girl is a sweet creature to look at; she never wronged me, and I'd
                  save her from harm."
               "Go, then, and rest satisfied, that, once here with his fair cousin, you shall be
                  revenged on Acton, and Virginia shall escape scatheless. Go, now—for I have plans
                  of my own to perfect, and would be alone."
               "I obey, Miss Ellen," answered the attorney, respectfully; and bowing, he
                  departed.
               So soon as she was once more by herself, Ellen rung a bell; and to the domestic
                  who answered it, she said, in a commanding tone:
               "I would speak with Madame Costellan."
               The servant withdrew; and in a few minutes Ellen was joined by the person whose
                  presence she desired—a handsome female, richly dressed, and scarcely turned of
                  thirty years. With her, Ellen held a short but eager conference, the nature of
                  which it is needless for us here to disclose.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE ABDUCTION.
               HURRYING to the nearest coach-stand, Wesley sprung into the first vehicle he came
                  to, and bade the driver urge his horses to Elizabeth street, as if life and death
                  depended on his speed. When the carriage stopped at the place designated, he
                  leaped out in haste, and was immediately joined by Acton, who said, in a low
                  tone:
               "Curses on your laziness, Wes! I have been waiting till the marrow of my bones
                  seems frozen. Had you delayed five minutes longer, I should have been cosily
                  making love to that pretty seamstress up there, and warming myself by her cheerful
                  fire."
               "And you'd have spoiled all by doing so," replied the other; "and my plan would
                  not have been worth repeating."
               "I don't know about that. I think the girl would have been perfectly satisfied
                  with such a good looking gallant by her side;" and again he stroked his chin, as
                  was his wont when egotism led him to compliment himself. "But I didn't do it,
                  Wesley, you know; and so for the plan at once—for I am very impatient to be
                  off."
               "Well, you must remember and follow my instructions to the letter, or all's up
                  with us. In the first place, you must be very civil to the girl—must not even ask
                  her her name—and only speak when she questions you, and then only to answer
                  her."
               "What! and must I not make love, eh?"
               
               "Pshaw! be done with your nonsense. The girl thinks she's going to be taken to a
                  friend's house, a long ways off, which she never saw nor the friends either."
               "Good! I like that—it is capital. But what is her name, Wes?"
               "Hush! You must of course take a long ride before you come to Mott street; and no
                  matter what she asks or asserts, you must pretend to know all about it, and answer
                  to please her."
               "Good again—that I can do."
               "May be she'll think she knows the place, and that it isn't her friend's house;
                  but you must swear it is, you know, and say the resemblance is great, and so
                  on."
               "I understand."
               "And then, when you've once got her under cover, why you know what to do better
                  than I can tell you."
               "Right there, my diamond!"
               "Your own name, for the present, is Mr. Wallace, and you're a particular friend of
                  the Mortons."
               "What Mortons?" inquired Acton, quickly, in an altered tone.
               "O, hang it! any Mortons to suit her."
               "Bravo!—ha, ha, I take."
               "And that's all. Now I'll go and bring her down to you, and you can tell the
                  driver where to go."
               Saying which, Wesley separated from Acton, and ascending the stairs, knocked at
                  Virginia's door. In a moment it cautiously opened, and the latter, all pale, and
                  tearful, and seemingly heart-broken, stood before him. A sight of her disconsolate
                  appearance, and the remembrance of its being caused by his own villany, somewhat
                  touched the callous heart of even Nathan Wesley, and he muttered to himself:
               "If it wasn't I know no harm 'll come to her—curse me if I'd go on with this
                  affair any further! As it is, she'll think me a scoundrel, and so will Ellen. But
                  no matter; I've been so considered all my life, and might as well have the game as
                  the blame."
               Then addressing her:
               "Well, Miss Courtly," he said, "the coach is at the door, and Mr. Wallace waits
                  with it to conduct you to the Mortons, who will be happy to see you as soon as
                  possible."
               "You have seen them then?" said Virginia, eagerly.
               "Have seen them."
               "And what said they of my brother?"
               "Why, that you needn't give yourself any uneasiness, Miss Courtly—that he'd soon
                  be free."
               "Thanks! thanks! sir, for your kindness! Oh, poor Edgar! how much he has to
                  suffer! and then to sleep in a prison!"
               "I beg pardon, ma'am," interrupted Wesley, who was fearful of a scene, and
                  impatient to take himself off: "I beg pardon—but the coach is waiting, and Mr.
                  Wallace bade me ask you would hurry, as it is already late."
               "I will be ready in a moment," returned Virginia; and hastily covering the fire,
                  putting on her bonnet and shawl, she blew out the light, locked the door, and
                  accompanied Wesley down stairs.
               The coach was standing ready, with the door open; and assisting Virginia into it,
                  Wesley motioned Acton, who stood at a little distance, to approach, when he simply
                  introduced him as Mr. Wallace. Then seeing him seated by Virginia, he shut the
                  door, and sung out to the driver that all was right. Crack went the whip, and away
                  rolled the carriage, to the great satisfaction of the attorney, who, watching it
                  out of sight, shook his fist after it, and muttered:
               "You called me an insolent dog to-night, did you, Master Acton? and your father says he'll make his
                  money save him! By my soul! I'm neither a dog nor a fool, as you both shall find
                  out to your cost before many days;" and chuckling inwardly at some scheme of his
                  own, he turned away and directed his steps to Mott street.
               Stationing himself nearly opposite the lodgings of Ellen, Wesley rather
                  impatiently awaited the arrival of the vehicle containing the cousins. And sorely
                  was his patience tried; for it was a cold night, and a full hour before the
                  carriage made its appearance. But it came at last, stopped at the right place, and
                  immediately the figure of a man sprung from it, assisting a female to alight. The
                  latter looked around curiously, and then Wesley heard her say:
               "Why is this Calvin Morton's?"
               "Calvin Morton's!" exclaimed Acton, in astonishment; and then remembering Wesley's
                  instructions, he quickly added: "Ah—yes—O, I had forgot. Yes, this is the
                  place—this is Morton's."
               "Strange!" said Virginia, glancing round, and over the way, to the very spot where
                  her poor mother had breathed her last. "It all looks very familiar to me, and I
                  could almost make oath I stand in Mott street."
               "Yes," said Acton, hurriedly, and rapping heavily on the door—"there is some
                  resemblance, I own. How tardy servants are," he continued, for the purpose of
                  engaging the other's attention till he could get her within the house. "I am
                  sometimes completely out of patience, waiting their slow motions. Ah, here is one
                  at last!" he added, as he heard the rattling of bolts and chains; and almost at
                  the same moment the door opened slightly, and a voice from within said:
               "Who's there?"
               "It is I—Mr. Wallace," answered Acton, loudly; and then in a hurried whisper, too
                  low to reach the ears of Virginia ginia, added: "Acton Atherton, with a lady. Open
                  quick, and call me Wallace!"
               The door immediately swung open, and Mr. Wallace was politely invited to
                  enter.
               "This is the lady of whom I went in quest," he continued, slyly winking at the
                  attendant. "Show me up stairs, and (winking again) send Mrs. Morton to us at
                  once." Then watching his opportunity, he whispered in the attendant's ear:
                  "Conduct us to the Green Room, as we call it, and send your mistress after a
                  little, and tell her my name is Wallace, and hers Morton. I have a beauty to tame,
                  you see. Isn't she pretty?"
               The other nodded and smiled.
               "And how is Ellen?"
               "Not well."
               "Curse her! she always was getting sick, and so I've picked up something better.
                  But mum! Not a word to her of this!"
               Then joining Virginia, Acton said he had just been giving the servant a few
                  instructions, and forthwith conducted her into a very handsomely furnished
                  apartment, though possessing nothing of the gorgeousness of Ellen's, from which a
                  door opened into a bed-room, of which this was the ante-room or parlor. A jet of
                  gas sent forth a soft, pleasant light, and a cheerful fire was burning in the
                  grate. Placing a couple of chairs before the latter, Acton requested Virginia to
                  remove her bonnet and shawl and be seated. Scarcely had she done so, when the door
                  opened, and the mistress of the house, familiarly known as Madame Costellan,
                  entered. Acton rose and introduced her to Virginia as Mrs. Morton, but did not
                  introduce Virginia to her, for the simple reason he did not know her name himself,
                  owing to the cunning precaution of Wesley, who rightly judged such knowledge would
                  ruin his scheme: for base as Acton
                  Atherton was, he had a family pride, and would just as soon have meditated the
                  cutting of his own throat as treating his kinswoman in this scandalous manner.
               But circumstances had completely deceived him in this matter. In the first place,
                  his plotting father had never told either of his children that the Courtlys were
                  in the city—in fact, he never at any time mentioned the name of Courtly in their
                  presence—and hence, neither dreamed of having indigent relations so near. In the
                  next place, Acton had seen Virginia for the first time when she was procuring
                  work, as already recorded; and struck with her beauty, and believing her an
                  ordinary seamstress, had made the insulting advances which were checked by Dudley,
                  whom he knew as an honorable young man, and therefore little cared to meet under
                  such humiliating circumstances. He had apparently taken an entirely different
                  course than the one pursued by Dudley and Virginia; but, notwithstanding, had kept
                  them in view, and traced the latter to her own quarters. Returning home, he had
                  related his adventure to Wesley, whom he had long before discovered an adept in
                  the arts of villainy, and offered him fifty dollars if he would find a way to
                  place this girl in his power. Wesley, ever ready to gain money, without any
                  scruples as to honesty, soon reconnoitered the premises, and found, much to his
                  surprise and gratification, it was the abode of Edgar and Virginia, for whom he
                  had been searching since their removal from Mott street. This fact he at once made
                  known to the millionaire, but concealed from Acton, well aware that to inform him
                  the girl was his own cousin, would be to lose himself the fifty dollars, besides a
                  little quiet revenge, which he had determined on from the first, in order to wipe
                  out old scores. As chance would have it, and as he partially expected, Wesley was
                  enabled to kill two birds with one stone; for the arrest of Edgar gave him an
                  opportunity to entrap Virginia, in what manner the reader has already seen. At
                  first Wesley had thought of nothing more than to gain his reward and revenge, by
                  getting Acton to abduct his cousin, and leaving him to his own chagrin,
                  mortification and disappointment when he should become aware of the fact, which he
                  doubted not would occur in time to avoid serious consequences. But when Acton
                  again insulted him, he determined to be more deeply revenged; and therefore,
                  guided by circumstances, took the course already described.
               Wearing different habiliments—never having scanned his features closely, and her
                  mind, too, being otherwise occupied—Virginia had not yet recognized in Acton the
                  individual who once insulted her.
               Having thus, we trust, explained every thing to the satisfaction of the reader, we
                  will again take up the thread of our story.
               On being introduced as Mrs. Morton, Madame Costellan bowed to her guest, eyeing
                  her closely the while, and then advancing, offered her her hand and bade her
                  welcome. But she had a part of her own to play, under the directions of Ellen; and
                  turning to Acton, she whispered a few words in his ear, and both left the
                  apartment together. Scarcely had the door closed behind them, when it again opened
                  quickly, and Ellen Douglas, entering in haste, flew to Virginia, her features very
                  pale and her step nervous with excitement. Surprised, yet pleased to see her where
                  she least expected, Virginia started to her feet, with a smile of recognition, and
                  extending her hand, exclaimed:
               "You here, Ellen Douglas?"
               "Rather let me say, you here, Virginia Courtly!—alas! poor girl! you
                  little dream where!"—said the other, hurriedly
               
               "What mean you?" asked Virginia, alarmed at Ellen's tone and manner.
               "That you are in the snares of a villain, who, but for the treachery of a
                  confederate, might soon have had another damning sin added to his long catalogue,
                  already stretched beyond God's mercy."
               "You alarm me!—you speak in riddles—I cannot comprehend!"
               "Poor girl! you little know you are beneath a roof which covers none but guilty
                  heads."
               "And are the Mortons, then, so base?"
               "The Mortons!" cried Ellen, in her turn astonished; "what Mortons?"
               "Is not this the house of Calvin Morton, to which my brother, who has just been
                  dragged to prison for a crime he never committed, bade me instantly repair?"
               "Calvin Morton!" exclaimed Ellen, still more astonished: "Are you then acquainted
                  with him or his family?"
               "I am not—but Edgar is. Good heavens! what do you mean, Ellen? Am I not beneath
                  his roof!"
               "I would to God you were! No! you are beneath the roof that has long sheltered
                  me—within a stone's throw of where your poor mother died."
               "Merciful God!—do you speak truth?—you set my poor brain in a whirl of
                  bewilderment!"
               "No wonder, girl, if you fancied yourself secure at Calvin Morton's. You have been
                  deceived, Virginia—wofully deceived—and by the same villain who first deceived
                  me—whom I once loved but now hate—your own cousin—Acton Atherton,"
               "Impossible!" gasped Virginia, too much astonished, alarmed and bewildered to say
                  more.
               "All true as holy writ! It was Acton Atherton that brought you here—but by what
                  juggler's art I know not. Tell me how it chanced, and I in return will tell you
                  what I know. Be quick, or we may be interrupted before my plans are completed!"
                  and hurriedly Virginia and Ellen related to each other the prominent events of the
                  night.
               "You are supposed," said Ellen, in conclusion, "to be a poor, unprotected girl,
                  and are brought here for the worst of purposes—that Acton Atherton may triumph
                  over me. But I have him, and he shall sneak from this house like a whipped
                  cur!—or," she added, with a wild, vindictive glare, "he shall hence on a journey
                  that sends no travellers back. Calm your agitation—act as though nothing had
                  occurred to annoy you—let him draw himself into his own devilish snare. Fear not;
                  all is arranged; no harm shall come to you. He knows you not yet—but he shall, and
                  to his sorrow. I will be near you—so fear not! Hark! I hear steps. I must conceal
                  myself. Remember! be calm and firm!" and Ellen sprung into the adjoining
                  apartment, leaving Virginia half frightened out of her senses, just as the other
                  door opened and admitted Acton Atherton,
               "I beg pardon for keeping you so long waiting alone!" he said, blandly, searching
                  in vain on both sides of the lock for the key, which the wise precaution of Ellen
                  had removed. "Curse it!" he muttered to himself, as he closed the door and sprung
                  a bolt, which might prevent ingress if not egress; and then turning to Virginia,
                  he added, with a smile, and in the softest tone he could assume: "Mrs. Morton
                  wished to see me on a little private business—but I fear my absence has made the
                  time tedious. Ha!" he ejaculated, for the first time marking the agitation of
                  Virginia, and coming close to her; "what has happened to make you tremble so, and
                  look so pale?"
               "I am not well," she answered, shuddering and turning away her head.
               "Nay, sweet girl," he said, placing one hand carelessly on her shoulder, "do not turn away from one who
                  loves you."
               With the bound of a tiger springing upon its prey, Virginia leaped from her seat,
                  and with heaving bosom and flashing eyes boldly confronted her cousin. As she did
                  so, she for the first time became aware that he who now stood before her was the
                  same who had once insulted her.
               "Ha! I know you now," she said, indignantly. "This is not the first time we have
                  met. Go! I would not see your face again. Go! and send my friends to me."
               "I am your friend," rejoined Acton; "the best friend you have in the world. See
                  here," and he proffered her a well filled purse.
               Crimson with shame and indignation, Virginia looked him defiantly in the eye for a
                  moment, and then said, with assumed composure, and in a tone peculiar for its
                  determined distinctness:
               "Go, sir, ere I call those here who will chastise you for a scoundrel!"
               Acton laughed.
               "Do not think to intimidate me, my pretty one," he said: "I have tamed many a one
                  as wild as you. Come! let me swear to you I love you."
               "And swear falsely, villain!"
               "No, on my honor, truly! I love you, and you alone; and it was to tell you my love
                  I brought you here."
               "Here!" echoed Virginia, in pretended surprise, carrying out the instructions of
                  Ellen. "Did I not come here at my own request?"
               "Not exactly!"
               "How so? Is not this the house of Calvin Morton?"
               "Calvin Morton!" exclaimed Acton, turning pale, and his whole manner changing. "Do
                  you then know Calvin Morton or his family?"
               "O, no!" answered Virginia; "but I have understood he is a great lawyer, and my
                  brother wished me to see him."
               "O, yes," rejoined Acton, greatly relieved, "he is a great lawyer, and to-morrow I
                  will take you to him, and will go bail for your brother besides—that is," he
                  added, "if you will not treat my love with disdain. I have deceived you in
                  bringing you here, I admit; but then you will recollect it was done for love, and
                  forgive me—will you not, my little beauty?"
               Virginia replied not; and Acton, fancying he had made some impression, proceeded
                  in a still softer and more musical strain:
               "O, if you did but know how ardently I love you—how I have pined for your sweet
                  presence ever since I first beheld you—how I have sworn to prize and adore you
                  above all others—I am sure you would let your beautiful eyes, in which there is a
                  heaven of blue, look pityingly upon me and bid me hope! Come, dearest, sit thee
                  down, and let me breathe my tale of holy love into, I trust, a not unwilling ear!"
                  and he approached to take her hand.
               "Off!" cried Virginia, playing her part; "you do not love me!"
               "By heavens, I do! By all things bright and beautiful, on earth or above earth—by
                  all the beaming stars, which are no match for your sparkling eyes—I swear to you I
                  love you, and only you—that I never loved before, and never will again!"
               "Then if you love me, you will do what I command."
               "Any thing, my angel—only name it, and it shall be done."
               "Stand aside, then, and let me pass, and do not attempt to follow," returned
                  Virginia, resolutely, taking a step or two toward the door, as if to quit the
                  apartment.
               
               "Nay not that—any thing but that!" cried Acton, springing forward and intercepting
                  her. "You must not leave here so soon."
               "What, sir!—dare you stop me? Begone, I tell you, or I will alarm the house!"
               "Well, then," answered Acton, with a smile of triumph, "I may as well inform you,
                  that your alarming the house, as you call it, will avail you nothing, since it is
                  well understood here that you and I are lovers. None, I assure you, will
                  interfere, even should you cry your lungs hoarse; so make your calculations
                  accordingly."
               "But I will pass!" persisted Virginia.
               "Nay, you shall not!" cried Acton, catching hold of her; "and for the attempt,
                  even, I will have a kiss, if I die for it."
               Virginia gave a piercing scream, and struggled violently to escape—but in
                  vain.
               "Be quiet, do!" said Acton: "I tell you I will have a kiss, and resistance is
                  useless;" and as he struggled to make good his boast, Virginia screamed again.
               At this moment, a third figure, unseen by Acton, glided swiftly to his side, and
                  the voice of Ellen sounded in his ear.
               "Wretch!" she cried; "guilty wretch! what do you with the innocent more?—Have you
                  not damned your soul enough already?"
               "Ha!" exclaimed Acton, turning fierce upon the intruder, almost overpowered with
                  surprise and rage: "What do you here, interfering with my affairs?"
               "I come to protect the unprotected—to guard the innocent—to right the wronged and
                  curse the guilty! For shame, vile wretch that you are—base miscreant—for shame!
                  Down on your knees and sue for the pardon of her who is your equal in birth, as
                  she is your superior in virtue so much as Heaven is of Hell! Is it not enough that
                  you would wrong and have wronged those who are no kin to you, but you must bring
                  your hellish deeds home upon your own relation—your father's sister's child?"
               "What is the meaning of this?" cried Acton, all amazement.
               "It means, vile dog! that you have this night enticed away, for a base purpose,
                  your own poor cousin, Virginia Courtly; and that but for a more honest villain
                  than yourself, you might have been guilty of a crime for which slow death on the
                  rack were the only adequate punishment!"
               "My cousin!" exclaimed Acton, looking at Virginia. "Impossible! This is some trick
                  to deceive me! I have no cousins in the city—the Courtlys are in Baltimore."
               "On my part," returned Virginia, "there is no deceit. As sure as your name is
                  Acton Atherton, mine is Virginia Courtly; and as sure as you are the son of Oliver
                  Atherton, I am the child of his late sister, and your own cousin by birth, though
                  I shame to own it, and would to Heaven I could sunder the tie of
                  consanguinity."
               "Hear you that, most monstrous of monsters!" hissed Ellen in his ear. "Go! take
                  your worthless body hence!—crawl away like a thrice-beaten cur!—and the next time
                  you attempt to triumph over me, entice your own sister to be your companion, and
                  be sure you have neither confidants nor confederates!"
               "By ——! there is such a thing as goading me too far, Ellen Douglas; and though I
                  played the coward twice to you—mark me! I will never do it again: so beware, ere
                  you crowd a desperate man too far!"
               "You fancy yourself desperate and no coward?" asked Ellen, quickly, with a
                  singular, almost unearthly gleam in her dark eye, which she fixed piercingly upon
                  Acton's.
               "I fancy myself both," replied Acton: "so be careful!"
               
               "Now will I prove you," she cried, triumphantly. "Here are two vials, (holding one
                  in each hand) both alike, and both contain the deadliest of poison. If you are
                  desperate, and not a coward, now is the time to wipe out your disgrace. I dare you
                  to the trial! Drain one, and I will the other;" and she reached both toward him,
                  that he might take his choice.
               At first Acton turned pale and took a step back, as if aghast at the idea. The
                  next moment a malicious smile of triumph flashed over his features and sparkled in
                  his eyes; and seizing one of the vials, he threw out the cork suddenly, and
                  crying, "I accept your challenge," placed it to his lips.
               Quick as lightning Ellen imitated the movement, and would have drank, but for
                  Virginia, who, with a scream of terror, sprung forward and dashed the poison to
                  the floor.
               "Here is the other," said Acton, coolly, reaching his own vial toward Ellen. "I
                  was only trying to see if you were in earnest."
               Ere Ellen could reply, there came a heavy rap on the door; and springing forward
                  she threw it open. To her surprise, a fine, noble-looking gentleman, accompanied
                  by two roughly clad individuals, entered, one of which latter stepping up to the
                  astonished Acton, laid a hand heavy on his shoulder, saying gruffly:
               "Acton Atherton, I arrest you!"
               At the same time the foremost approaching Virginia, breathed her name in a low,
                  tender voice. She started, looked at him eagerly, blushed, hesitated, and then
                  yielding to a powerful impulse, threw herself forward, and was caught half
                  fainting in the arms, and tenderly strained to the wildly beating heart
                  of—Dudley.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE HAPPY DELIVERANCE.
               NOT more astonished was Virginia at the sudden entrance of Dudley and the officers
                  of police, than was Ellen herself—for these new-comers formed no share in her
                  plot, which only concerned a few inmates of the house, with whom she had so
                  arranged, that, at a given signal, they were to rush in and witness the chagrin,
                  rage and disappointment of Acton; and, in case he meditated violence, prevent him
                  doing injury.
               In fact Dudley did not appear by any preconcerted arrangement, but by one of those
                  singular yet common-place accidents, which, happening at an important crisis, seem
                  strange and mysterious, and almost force one to believe in a special Providence.
                  He had been in the lower part of the city on business, and was on his return home
                  at a rather advanced hour, when the fancy struck him that he wished to see
                  Edgar—we will not say that he did not think of Virginia, but leave
                  the reader to his own inference—and he therefore shaped his course accordingly,
                  trusting to good fortune to find the party he sought still astir.
               As he came in sight of the house, a coach was standing before the door; and almost
                  at the same moment a female entered it, followed by a gentleman, and then it drove
                  away, leaving a third party behind. Dudley would have thought nothing of this, but
                  that he somehow fancied the female was Virginia Courtly, and that the manner of
                  Wesley—whom he well knew as a sort of attorney for Atherton, and whom the light of a lamp under which
                  he now passed enabled him to recognize—had something in it calculated to arrest
                  attention; for he shook his fist after the carriage, and muttered words, the
                  import of which Dudley could only judge from his actions was of a threatening
                  nature. To say the least, there was something very singular in all this, time and
                  place considered; and perceiving a man standing in the door of the lower story,
                  Dudley hastened to him, and inquired if he knew the persons who had just driven
                  off in the carriage. The man replied that the lady was a tenant of his, whose
                  brother had just been arrested for forgery and taken to the Tombs; but that the
                  gentleman who accompanied her was one he had never before seen.
               As a matter of course, the intelligence of Edgar's arrest for so startling a crime
                  as forgery, fell upon Dudley with stunning force, and for a few moments he stood
                  as one bewildered. Then bethinking himself of Wesley, who he fancied must know all
                  about it, he darted away to overtake him, leaving his informant to stare after him
                  and wonder whether or no he was in his right senses. Turning the corner where he
                  had last seen Wesley disappear, Dudley hastened on for a square or so, when he
                  again came in sight of him, moving along at a very leisure pace. As he drew near,
                  and was in fact about to accost him, he discovered that the attorney was in one of
                  those deep reveries, when the mind, turned upon itself, takes no cognizance of
                  outward things, and was muttering, but loud enough for Dudley to overhear:
               "Yes, by heavens! I'll do it; and then he may make his money save him if he can.
                  I've had this matter on my conscience long enough; and after I've forced him to
                  buy my silence, I'll to——" Here the words became indistinct, though the speaker
                  grumbled to himself for some time afterwards. At length Dudley heard him say, as
                  if in conclusion: "But first to see this madcap fairly caught in his own
                  trap."
               The effect of this on Dudley was to alter his first determination, and, without
                  letting himself be seen, to keep the attorney in sight, rightly judging from his
                  words and manner there was some dark scheme afoot, a knowledge of which he might
                  never gain by showing himself too soon. Accordingly when Wesley stopped in Mott
                  street, before the house where Ellen resided, Dudley screened himself, so that he
                  could, unseen by the other, not only watch all his motions, but note every thing
                  taking place around him.
               Here his patience was much tried by long waiting; and he was just on the point of
                  throwing up his office of spy, and accosting the attorney as to the meaning of his
                  singular manœuvres, when the carriage, containing Acton and Virginia, halted
                  nearly abreast of him, and he heard the dialogue between them as they entered the
                  house. There was no longer doubt in his mind as to who they were—for well he knew
                  them both—and remembering their first meeting, when he had interfered to save
                  Virginia from insult, he felt almost certain the latter was now the victim of some
                  damnable plot. His first impulse was to spring forward to rescue; but prudence
                  counselled the wiser course of being positive he was not mistaken in the matter,
                  and then going armed with the strong majesty of the law. He therefore turned on
                  his heel, and the next instant stood confronting the astonished Wesley, who would
                  scarcely have been more surprised had a specter arisen in his place. Seizing the
                  attorney with a grip that both pained and startled him, he said, in a low, eager,
                  emphatic tone, pointing with his other hand toward the house opposite:
               "Who are those I have just seen enter?"
               "How should I know?" replied Wesley, trembling.
               "Villain! you do know!" rejoined Dudley, firmly, but still in a low, deep tone; "and if you do not tell
                  me on the instant, I will have you arrested by the night-watch and dragged to
                  prison!"
               "By what authority?" asked Wesley, attempting to assume an easy assurance he was
                  far from feeling.
               "By the authority of that law, sir, which punishes most severely a foul conspiracy
                  like this. Nay, do not seek to evade me by inventing falshood. It will not pass. I
                  have long been watching you, and know enough already to put you in limbo. Speak
                  quick, make a clean breast of it, and you may go—otherwise I will give you into
                  custody."
               Thus menaced, fearful of the consequences if he remained obdurate, anxious to
                  escape, and at the same time deepen his revenge on Acton, the trembling attorney
                  only stipulated that he should not be called in question; and then, in a few
                  words, hurriedly put Dudley in possession of the whole scheme of his confederate,
                  his designs upon Virginia, and the part he had himself played to prevent the
                  accomplishment of his fell purpose. So eagerly spoke both, that the time consumed
                  was scarce five minutes, ere Dudley had gained all he then cared to know; and
                  bidding Wesley go home, as he valued his own safety, he turned away to seek means
                  for punishing the offender, and rescuing one who had, for some time, occupied no
                  small share of his thoughts.
               As chance would have it, the coach was still in waiting; and the driver, who had
                  delayed departure on some business of his own, was just in the act of mounting his
                  box. Hailing him, Dudley bade him remain a few minutes; and then hurrying away, he
                  summoned a couple of the watch, informed them what had transpired, and requested
                  their assistance—which being readily granted, he, in their company, appeared upon
                  the scene of action at what time and in what manner the reader has already
                  seen.
               Thither let us again repair.
               Overcome with astonishment, fear and rage, it was not until Virginia,
                  half-fainting, had been placed on a seat by Dudley, and the room been tolerably
                  well filled with the inmates of the house, drawn hither by alarm and curiosity,
                  that Acton found sufficient command over his voice to render his words
                  intelligible.
               "Villain!" he cried at last, addressing himself to Dudley; "this is the second
                  time you have crossed my path, and by ——! you shall rue it!'
               "Keep your threats for those who fear you," retorted Dudley in a calm tone; "and
                  beware what villainies you attempt in future, or it will not be the last time you
                  find me a stumbling block in your guilty course."
               "O, that I were free!" shouted Acton, making as if he would spring upon Dudley,
                  were he not restrained by the officers.
               "If so you like, gentlemen," returned Dudley, addressing the latter, "set him
                  free; and if he want justice and chastisement at my hands, he shall have both, to
                  his full satisfaction—I only protesting, that if I am forced to soil my fingers on
                  so mean a coward as one who has sought by the basest arts to degrade a lady to his
                  own level—that lady his lawful cousin—I do it merely to show him he now stands in
                  the presence of his master and superior."
               Saying which, Dudley folded his arms on his breast, and fixing his eyes steadily
                  upon Acton's, gave him such a look of cool, calm, resolute defiance, that the gaze
                  of the latter quailed before it and fell.
               "No, no, gentlemen—we can't have any quarreling here!" now spoke up one of the
                  watch.
               "Have no fear," replied Dudley, sarcastically; "the youth is perfectly harmless
                  among his own sex;" and he turned away to speak with Virginia.
               
               "By my soul, you shall eat your words some day!" replied Acton, fiercely, whose
                  courage, like that of many others, always rose as the danger diminished.
               "Look at him!" cried Ellen, tauntingly, pointing at Acton with her finger, and
                  addressing those around her. "Is he not a brave youth and proper, to steal away
                  his own cousin by treachery, for his own foul ends? Look at him—mark him—that is
                  Acton Atherton—son of the great millionaire, Oliver Atherton—who is, I have
                  learned, the first in his profession of a hypocritical villain. By my faith! he
                  has a hopeful pupil in his own son!" and she concluded with a hysterical laugh,
                  that thrilled the nerves of all who heard it.
               Even Acton himself, who was gnashing his teeth in rage at her taunts, suddenly
                  changed countenance when he heard that laugh, and glanced toward her a startled
                  expression, in which something like pity could be traced. As he did so, he saw her
                  stagger and fall, and heard the females around cry that Ellen Douglas had
                  fainted.
               Mortified, abashed, ashamed of himself, Acton now quitted the room in company with
                  the officers; and as he did so, he saw Ellen borne behind him to her own
                  apartment, in a state of unconsciousness.
               As slowly he threaded his way to the gloomy Tombs—reflecting upon his past career,
                  his dissolute course and deeds of villainy—the pale specter of Ellen Douglas
                  seemed to rise up before him, with a wobegone visage, and point to him as the
                  author of her misery—her sad voice, in humble entreaty, seemed sounding in his
                  ear—and for the first time in his life, perhaps, Acton felt the bitter stings of a
                  conscience touched with remorse.
               "Are you able to ride, Virginia?" asked Dudley, in a low, tender voice, as soon as
                  the room had become partially vacated. "If so, we will at once away, for this is
                  no place for such as you."
               "But whither shall I go?" interrogated Virginia, bursting into tears. "I have no
                  home now; and my poor brother, God help him! is in prison."
               "Nay, do not weep, Virginia—I pray you, do not!" pleaded Dudley, in soothing
                  tones. "Your brother shall soon be restored to you—for he has friends more
                  powerful than he thinks—and like you, I believe him innocent. He is doubtless the
                  victim of some foul conspiracy; and rest assured he shall yet triumph, while his
                  enemies plunge into the pit they have dug for him. I have my suspicions of the
                  author of this black scheme; and if I find them verified, he shall wish he had
                  never been born. But come! if you feel able to ride, we will no longer tarry
                  here."
               "But whither will you take me?"
               "To the widow Malcolm's, or Calvin Morton's, whichever you prefer; and I, being
                  acquainted with both parties, will insure you a warm reception at either
                  place."
               "To the latter, then," said Virginia, "if it will not incommode them and you too
                  much—for thither dear Edgar bade me repair."
               "Speak not of incommoding, Virginia," said Dudley, earnestly, while a warm,
                  enthusiastic glow overspread his features, "for I would go to the ends of the
                  earth to serve you!"
               "I thank you!" faltered Virginia, blushing and giving the other one sweet look
                  from her soft blue eyes, that thrilled his soul as never look had done before. And
                  then she added quickly, as if to cover a rising embarrassment: "But I must see
                  Ellen before I go, and thank her for her kindness in protecting me!"
               In this Virginia was disappointed; for on inquiry, she learned that Ellen, having partially recovered from
                  her swoon, was now delirious, and would not recognize her.
               "Poor child of grief and misfortune!" sighed Virginia, as she turned away, and,
                  accompanied by Dudley, quitted the house.
               The coach which had borne her hither was still standing at the door; and entering
                  it again, but with a very different companion, Virginia rode away, with a heart
                  much lightened by a strong feeling of protection and hope, the first she had
                  experienced since Edgar's arrest.
               On their way to the Mortons, Dudley and Virginia conversed freely—he detailing the
                  manner he had been brought to her rescue—and she, all she knew of the imposition
                  which had caused her to need his assistance.
               "That rascally attorney had more to do with this affair than I thought," said
                  Dudley, as Virginia explained the stratagem he had used to entice her away; "but
                  he only serves a master whom I may yet make tremble for his black-hearted deeds.
                  The very fact of his being there at the time of arrest, shows plainly that Oliver
                  Atherton is the master-worker of the plot, doubtless contrived to ruin you and
                  Edgar, so that none may be left to bring his former villainies to light. But he
                  has over-shot himself in this matter; and will find, to his cost, that he has
                  roused a spirit that can and will be as bold in the cause of right as he dare be
                  in that of wrong!"
               It was past midnight when the coach drove up before the door of Calvin Morton.
                  Save a light in the hall, all appeared dark and gloomy; and Dudley, as he boldly
                  rung the bell, doubted not that all the inmates were locked in slumber. But in
                  this he was mistaken; for scarcely had the echoes of the bell died away, ere he
                  heard quick footsteps along the hall; and the next moment the door was thrown
                  open, and Calvin Morton himself, with a book in his hand and a pen in his mouth,
                  stood before him.
               "Why, bless my soul! is this you?" he said, in his rapid, impetuous manner.—"Come
                  in—come in! Heaven save us all! I trust nothing alarming has occurred! Your mother
                  is well, eh?"
               "Quite well, I thank you, Mr. Morton," replied Dudley, glancing at the coach
                  significantly.
               "Eh! what!" said Morton, following the other's glance with his own. "Who is in
                  there, eh?"
               "One who needs your kindest protection, as she amply deserves it."
               "God bless her, then she shall have it!" rejoined Morton, emphatically.
               "A word in private first," said Dudley; and drawing the other aside, out of
                  earshot of Virginia, he hurriedly narrated the leading events of the night,
                  beginning with Edgar's arrest, and ending with his own rescue of Virginia from her
                  cousin.
               "So, so—the foul fiend seize them that play the devil's game, say I! The old one
                  plans, and the young one executes. A hopeful pair, truly. Heaven help and God
                  bless him! poor Edgar has been sent to prison! Well, well, it shall work out his
                  own salvation; for when the devil prompts too much, you know his pupils often lose
                  most where most they think to win. I am glad to see you on the right side,
                  Cla——"
               "Hush! a word in your ear!" interrupted the other.
               "O, yes—certainly, Mr. Dudley—any thing to oblige. I see you are sly; but no
                  matter; we all have our whimsicalities. Why, bless my soul! here I am rattling
                  away, and yonder sits the maiden, waiting as patiently as a bird in a cage;" and
                  he darted down the steps to the carriage, exclaiming, as he reached out his hand
                  to Virginia:
               
               "My dear Miss Courtly, I don't know that we ever met before—but I knew your
                  lamented father, and a gentleman he was—I know your brother, and a most noble
                  young man he is—I have heard of you; and so pardon me, if I eschew all formality,
                  consider ourselves acquainted, and welcome you here as I would a long absent
                  daughter."
               "I can but thank you," replied Virginia, her eyes moist and voice faltering at the
                  frank and hearty kindness with which the other received her.
               "Why, Heaven bless you, sweet creature!" pursued Morton, as he assisted her to
                  alight and conducted her up the steps of his dwelling; "what more could one ask
                  than thanks from such pretty lips, unless it were a taste of their sweetness! But
                  pshaw! compliments are not in my line; and so I'll leave them and you to my friend
                  Ma—Dudley here, while I go and call Edith."
               "Stay!" said Virginia, earnestly, touching his arm as he was moving away; "do not,
                  I beg of you, disturb any one to-night on my account! I fear I have proved too
                  troublesome already."
               "Why, bless your modest soul!" replied Morton, with warmth, smiling cheerfully
                  upon his guest, "I see you don't know us yet, or you wouldn't talk of being
                  trouble-some to those who are indebted to your noble brother that this house is
                  not decked in the sable weeds of mourning. Why, Edith has done nothing but talk
                  about you all day, and would grieve herself sorely, should I let you sleep here
                  without her knowledge. Conduct her into the parlor—a—Dudley—you know the way—and I
                  will soon join you."
               Saying which, Mr. Morton hastened forward, threw opon the parlor door as he
                  passed, and disappeared up a flight of stairs at the far end of the hall. Scarcely
                  had Dudley complied with his request, and seated his fair charge and himself, ere
                  the other again made his appearance, saying Edith would soon be with them.
               "And now," he concluded, "as I have important business that must be attended to
                  before I sleep, I trust to your good sense to excuse me. Good-night, Virginia," he
                  added, taking her hand and pressing it warmly; "I shall see you, I trust, at
                  breakfast, and will immediately take what steps I can to release your brother,
                  who, I doubt not, is in prison by means of a foul plot. Dudley, let me see you
                  early, to concert our plan of operations. Goodnight again—God guard us all!" and
                  bowing he withdrew.
               In a few minutes Edith glided into the parlor, with a step so light that neither
                  of her guests heard her till she stood before them. With a graceful bow and smile
                  of recognition to Dudley, she at once sprung to Virginia, and seizing her hand,
                  kissed her affectionately, and bade her welcome to her new home, which she trusted
                  would always be one to her. In return, Virginia thanked her warmly, with tearful
                  eyes; and in a moment, as it were, these two artless beings felt they were friends
                  for life.
               "No one—not even yourself, dear Virginia," said Edith, naively, "can
                  feel more deeply grieved for your noble brother than I; but father says the charge
                  against him is false, and I believe him; for surely, if ever a man was incapable
                  of crime, it is he."
               Virginia, unable to repress her emotion longer, burst into tears; while Edith,
                  with true affection, hastened to console her.
               "Grieve not, my dear sister," she said,—"for you shall be a sister to
                  me,—to-morrow, trust me will set all right. And Acton, too—I have heard of his
                  baseness, and have torn him from my heart as I would a viper from my bosom. Oh,
                  the wickedness of those to whom we look for ennobling virtues!—but they will not
                  always prosper; and Retribution tion,
                  with a heavy hand, will surely overtake them at last. Let us put our trust in a
                  Higher Power, and with an easy conscience fear not the machinations of the evil
                  minded. Sin ever carries its own punishment, and sooner or later the guilty must
                  feel it."
               "Nobly spoken!" chimed in Dudley, rising to take his leave; and then, motioning
                  Edith aside, he whispered a few words in her ear. Edith smiled, glanced slyly
                  toward Virginia, and rejoined:
               "I will remember, Mr. Dudley."
               "Do so," said Dudley, "and put me under an obligation. Cheer up your fair guest,
                  Edith, and count on seeing me early in the morning. Good-night to both, and
                  pleasant dreams;" and bowing, he departed, sprung into the coach, and was driven
                  home.
               "You are fatigued, dear Virginia," said Edith, as Dudley left, "and need repose.
                  Come, you shall be my guest for the night;" and she conducted the latter to her
                  own splendid apartment, where for the present we leave them both.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND.
               IN the elegant mansion of Oliver Atherton, on the third floor, separated alike
                  from the members of the family and the servants or domestics of the house, Nathan
                  Wesley had his own sleeping-apartment. It was a small room, plainly but neatly
                  furnished, containing a bed, wardrobe, secretary, and a few books, scattered, many
                  of them carelessly, about, and such other articles as the attorney fancied both
                  convenient and useful. Here, at an early hour on the morning ensuing the night of
                  the events just detailed, the lordly millionaire, with his toilet half made, was
                  pacing to and fro with rapid steps, his features expressive of vindictive passions
                  excited to a pitch little short of frenzy; on whom Wesley, just startled from a
                  sound sleep, and partly risen in bed, still rubbing his heavy eyelids, was staring
                  with a sort of drowsy wonder, that had in it much of the ludicrous.
               "Up, sluggard!" shouted Atherton, looking fiercely at the other, and seeming by
                  his manner undetermined whether or no to use violent measures to bring him
                  speedily to his senses. "Up, villain! and give an account of your last night's
                  treachery! Where is Acton, my son?"
               "How should I know?" replied the attorney, in some trepidation.
               "How should you know?" repeated Atherton sneeringly; "because the devil should
                  know what becomes of his victims?"
               
               "Then you ought to know, without asking me," was the impudent
                  reply.
               "Villain!" cried Atherton, completely beside himself with passion, springing
                  forward and seizing Wesley by the throat: "bridle thy saucy tongue, and give
                  straight answers, or I'll tear it from thy foul mouth, and feed my dogs on it!
                  Where is Acton, I say?"
               "I don't know," replied the other, sullenly, as Atherton released his hold.
               "Liar, you do know! Where did you leave him?"
               I didn't leave him at all. He left me, to run off with a woman."
               "And you enticed him into the scheme."
               "No I didn't," contradicted Wesley bluntly. "He enticed me to assist him."
               "And then you betrayed him."
               "But he insulted me first," muttered the attorney.
               "Wretch! I have a mind to strangle you for your treachery! As if he could insult
                  you—mean worthless dog that you are—almost unfit to do his menial services! And
                  what think you became of your baseness?"
               "I don't know," answered the other, doggedly.
               "No, nor you don't care," rejoined Atherton.
               "Nor don't care," grumbled the attorney, too low to reach the other's ears.
               "Well, I will tell you what became of him, base ingrate!" pursued Atherton,
                  vehemently. "He spent the night in prison! In prison, do you hear? Think of that,
                  sir! Acton Atherton, my son, in prison, in company with common thieves and
                  vagabonds, and all through your infernal villainy!"
               "Where I'll put the father soon," muttered Wesley to himself, with a devilish grin
                  of triumph lurking around the corners of his mouth.
               "Cease your grinning!" shouted Atherton, his features distorted with frantic rage,
                  as he glared ferociously upon Wesley, who, springing up in bed, and hurrying on
                  his garments, withdrew to the farther side, as if fearing the other would do him
                  violence. "Cease, I tell you!" pursued Atherton, advancing toward him; "or, by ——!
                  I'll make it the grin of death! My son in prison, through the machinations and
                  treachery of you whom I picked up in the streets of Baltimore, little better than
                  a beggar, and raised to the exalted position of attorney and confidant: think of
                  that, villain! Not half an hour since, I received a message from Acton, accusing
                  you, and praying me to come to his relief! I came up here to chastise you; and if
                  I do not, ere I leave, you may thank your lucky stars! Acton in prison—my family
                  disgraced—what will the world say?"
               "Say that he deserves it," replied Wesley, who, though afraid of the other, could
                  not restrain a malicious propensity to irritate him still further.
               Atherton made no direct reply; but clenching his hand, he came close to the bed,
                  and raised it as if to strike.
               "Stop!" cried Wesley, fixing upon him a demoniacal look of defiance, that, enraged
                  as he was, made him hesitate.—"Stop!" he repeated, placing one hand in his pocket,
                  as if to draw a concealed weapon. "You've laid hands on me once already: do so
                  again, and by the blood of the murdered! I'll send your spirit after his!"
               "Well," rejoined Atherton, lowering his fist and turning very pale, evidently
                  fearful the other would keep his oath should he attempt violence, and, at the same
                  time, desirous to impress Wesley with the belief he had only changed his design
                  for one still more severe: "now since you have mentioned that, mark me! If Acton
                  comes to harm, through this baseness of yours, I'll have you hung, if it sinks my
                  fortune to do it!"
               
               "Will you?" grinned Wesley. "Now mark me, Oliver Atherton, and don't forget one
                  word I say! You've been talking largely of what you'll do, and what you've done,
                  and now I want you to listen to me! You say you picked me up in the streets of
                  Baltimore, little better than a beggar, and raised me to the honorable position of
                  being your attorney and confidant. Rather say you degraded me to that
                  position by your own devilish arts! If I was poor then I was a much honester man
                  than now, and had a conscience that didn't trouble me. But you found me, and knew
                  from my nature I could be tempted to guilt for money; and you offered me money to
                  do your dirty work; and after I'd done it, you dared not let me go, for fear I
                  might get you into difficulty by speaking of something that had happened; and so
                  you kept me near you, and made me what you've boasted of, and promised me you'd
                  not only make a great man of me, but what is of still more consequence, a rich
                  one. Well, sir, I've been with you about five years now, and don't see as I am
                  much richer than I was before, excepting my salary, which has been a small one.
                  Now that these matters have been brought forward by you, and you've taken the
                  liberty to tell me of my baseness and meanness, which you've had the benefit of,
                  and how I'm hardly fit to serve your honorable son as a menial, I'll trouble you
                  for that little balance, cry quits, and let you get somebody that will serve you
                  better."
               "Nay, good Wesley, I was but in a passion, and spoke hastily," returned the
                  hypocrite, alarmed at the other's words, and changing his angry countenance to one
                  of smiles, and his harsh tone to one of blandness. "I could not think of parting
                  with you on any terms."
               "Well, I must have that balance, at all events," rejoined Wesley, looking slyly
                  and maliciously at the other with his small, black, fiery eyes.
               "To what balance do you allude?" mildly asked the hypocrite.
               "Why, the balance that was to make me rich."
               "I do not understand you."
               "Probably not: I know it is very hard for a man to understand when he don't want
                  to. I'll simplify the matter; I want twenty thousand dollars."
               "Good heavens! Wesley, you are not in your senses."
               "O, but I am, though. I am in my senses now, and should have been long before, but
                  that I thought your generosity would save me the painful necessity of asking you
                  for what you promised."
               "But I never promised this, my dear Wesley."
               "No; but you promised to make me rich; and twenty thousand dollars is the very
                  lowest sum I could accept for an independency."
               "But consider?"
               "I have," replied the attorney, with a malicious grin: "I have considered: five
                  years of servitude, crimes worthy of the gallows, besides a good many insults
                  before these I've just received, and the strongest fact of all, that I hold a
                  secret would ruin you."
               "But I cannot part with such a sum."
               "Then lose the whole."
               "But, my dear Wesley——"
               "Stop! Dear Wesley me no more. I'm talking on business matters now, and
                  particularly want all dears left out. Keep them to cozen new dupes with. I want
                  twenty thousand dollars at once!"
               "How will you have it?'
               "In cash."
               "Why, you must have lost your senses, surely!"
               "O, no—just found them. You have fifty thousand dollars in the hands of John
                  Peyton, subject to instant withdrawal.
                  Give me a check on him for twenty thousand, or you're not safe twenty-four
                  hours!"
               "You would betray me, then!" said Atherton, sternly, his brow again darkening; and
                  stepping hastily to the door, he locked it and withdrew the key.
               Wesley turned pale, but still trusted to his brazen assurance to triumph at
                  last.
               "What is the use of such caution?" he asked, with assumed carelessness. "Nobody is
                  about to trouble or overhear us."
               "So much the better," replied Atherton, glancing eagerly around, as if seeking
                  means to accomplish some dark design.
               "I know your thoughts," spoke Wesley, retreating to the further end of the room.
                  "You're thinking how you can put me out of the way, and silence my tongue. But
                  you're very foolish; for if you kill me, of course it will be proved on you, and
                  you'll have to swing for it. Better give the twenty thousand and save
                  yourself."
               "Never!" exclaimed the millionaire, stamping his foot violently. "I will not be so
                  imposed on! Down on your knees, villain! and swear, by all you hold sacred, to
                  keep my secret—or, be the consequences what they may, you shall never quit this
                  apartment alive!"
               As he said this, Atherton made a bound forward to seize the attorney; but the next
                  moment recoiled in dismay, as the click of a pistol sounded ominously in his
                  ear.
               "Turn about is fair play," cried Wesley, following up the hasty retreat of the
                  other with a pistol leveled at his head. "Open that door now, and give me free
                  exit; or, by ——! you're a dead man before you can say your prayers!"
               "I yield," returned Atherton, biting his nether lip till the blood sprang through;
                  and he unlocked and threw open the door.
               "How about the money?" queried Wesley, carelessly playing with the weapon to the
                  endangerment of the other's safety. "Are we to part as friends, or how?"
               "If we part in life, Heaven send we part not as foes!" answered Atherton. "We have
                  both been too hasty. Come down and you shall have a check for all you ask; and
                  then we must see what can be done with Acton and young Courtly."
               "Well, since you've got reasonable," said the other, impudently, his late success
                  having greatly exalted him in his own estimation, "I will honor you with my
                  company."
               "You are very condescending," rejoined Atherton; and the two descended to the
                  library—a large square room, on the second floor, well stored with books of every
                  description.
               Pointing Wesley to a seat, Atherton opened his escritoir, wrote a few lines, and
                  handed the other the paper.
               "This is all right," said Wesley, glancing over it—"with the exception of one
                  thing," he added, returning it.
               "What is that?" asked the other.
               "I want you to give it to me before witnesses. No Edgar Courtly games, you
                  know."
               The sudden but marked change in the countenance of the millionaire indicated he
                  had something of the latter kind in his thoughts; but he said, quickly:
               "Certainly, certainly—you shall be satisfied;" and he rung for the servant, who,
                  so soon as he appeared, he bade hasten all the other servants and his daughter, if
                  she had risen, to the library.
               All appeared save Arabella; and in their presence, Atherton placed the check in
                  Wesley's hand, saying it was a gift from him to the other of twenty thousand
                  dollars, and he desired all to bear witness to it. He then dismissed them, and
                  turned to Wesley. "Now," he said, "you
                  are bound to me. I have fulfilled my part of the agreement, and claim your
                  services hereafter on all difficult points. In the first place, what is to be done
                  with this young Courtly?"
               "Let him go," replied Wesley.
               "How, sir! after all our trouble to get him there?"
               "Can't help it; but you see, in the first place, it will be very hard to prove the
                  forgery, which can only be done by false witnesses, even if he had no friends—but
                  next to impossible now, since he's got, by some sorcery or other, that I can't
                  understand, two of the most powerful ones I know of?"
               "Who are they?"
               "Calvin Morton and Clarence Malcolm."
               "Indeed! is it so?" cried Atherton, with a start. "So, so—then we must not appear
                  against him—for even Satan himself could not outwit this Morton. And besides,
                  being thrown off my guard last night, like a fool. I fairly betrayed myself, by
                  telling Malcolm I had given Edgar a check for a thousand dollars; and since he is
                  so much interested, of course he would come forward as a witness. At first I
                  thought, with your help, we might outswear Clarence—but if Morton has taken hold
                  of the matter, we might as well let it drop as it is. But, Wesley, (and the
                  scheming man glanced warily around and spoke low,) could not you contrive some
                  plan to rid us of him, as you did of ——?"
               "Hist!" interrupted Wesley, starting up and looking fearfully around. "Never
                  mention his name again to me! never, never! I've had enough of him already."
               "Well, well, let him go. You understand what I mean!"
               "I understand."
               "And is there not some way, think you?"
               "Well, I'll consider it."
               "Do so, my good Wesley. Only hit upon some plan to rid us of him, and I will
                  double the amount already given."
               "But why do you want him out of the way?'
               "Why? Because I both fear and hate him. He has dared to threaten me to my face—and
                  no man shall do that without feeling my revenge."
               "Well, as I said before, I must consider on it. I'll see what can be done," he
                  continued, giving the other a very peculiar look, "and then you shall hear from
                  me."
               "That is right," rejoined Atherton, grasping the attorney by the hand. "Let us be
                  friends henceforth, and that little affair of this morning be forgotten.
                  Remember—another twenty thousand. And as for Acton—why hasten at once to Malcolm,
                  make my most humble apologies for what happened last night, plead youthful
                  indiscretion for my son, say he is sorry for it, that it was in a great measure
                  your own fault, beg him to be lenient, and in short, get his promise not to appear
                  against him. That done, he is safe; for the other witnesses, if there are any, can
                  be easily bought off. Now hasten, good Wesley, and return soon and let me know the
                  result; and besides, think over in the meantime what can be done with this
                  Courtly. Our cards have been rather unskilfully played of late, and this cursed
                  nephew is deep at work undermining my stainless reputation, so that we must move
                  cautiously in the matter. If we can only get him silenced trust me, the sun shall
                  again brightly beam through the clouds that are lowering upon us. Do your part,
                  good Wesley, and leave the rest to me. Now away and report me soon;" and bowing,
                  with a glance of triumph on his countenance, which Atherton fancied augured
                  success to his own cause, the attorney quitted the apartment.
               "Now diamond cut diamond," pursued Atherton, in an exulting tone, as soon as Wesley was out of sight.
                  "Now then, I have them both! Wesley shall make away with Edgar, like a short
                  sighted fool as he is, and then good Nathan Wesley shall swing for his pains,
                  while I will laugh in the triumph of security that I am master of my own
                  secret."
               "Will you," grinned Wesley to himself, who, instead of instantly departing, had
                  lingered by the door with his ear to the key hole. "Will you?—ha, ha!—and you will
                  make your money save you! O yes, most certainly;" and shaking his check with an
                  air of defiance, and chuckling at his own thoughts, he glided silently down
                  stairs, and the next moment was in the street.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE EXAMINATION.
               ABOUT half an hour later in the morning, Calvin Morton was pacing the floor of his
                  library with a hasty step and an anxious countenance, the latter expressive of
                  fear mingled with hope, doubt weighed against faith.
               "Pshaw!" he said to himself; "it isn't possible! I could not be so deceived; and
                  yet if it should prove true—— But no! no! I will not so wrong him. I would
                  Clarence were come, that I might know the result of his interview. Ha! perhaps
                  that is he!" he added, as at the moment he heard a coach drive up to the door.
               The lawyer was not long kept in suspense; for almost the next moment he heard
                  rapid steps along the hall, and then the door was flung suddenly open and Dudley
                  entered.
               "Well, you have seen him?" said Morton, quickly.
               "I have."
               "And how fares he?"
               "As well as could be expected under the trying circumstances. He was delighted to
                  see me, and I thought would never cease shaking my hand and expressing his
                  boundless gratitude."
               "You delivered my message?"
               "I did."
               "Well?"
               "And he vowed, by all he held sacred, that a child unborn born was not more free from such a crime, even in
                  thought, than he."
               'I knew it—I knew it!" almost shouted Morton, fairly dancing around the room in an
                  ecstacy of delight. "God be thanked! I knew he was innocent! And what does he
                  think of it?"
               "That it is a base plot of his uncle to crush him. The check for a thousand
                  dollars——"
               "Yes, yes, I know all about that."
               "He found, yesterday, after he saw you, and had it cashed."
               "Ha! yes—now I see—and his uncle arrested him for forging it?"
               "So he thinks."
               "But, can he prove Atherton gave it to him?"
               "Yes, I will swear to that."
               "Then we are safe; and the old scoundrel shall find, ere long, it is imprudent to
                  play carelessly with edge tools. Well, what about Acton?"
               "I thought Edgar would go demented, when I explained the infernal plot against his
                  sister, and how I had succeeded in arresting his cousin in the very act of his
                  villainy. He declares I must appear against him, with what other evidence I can
                  find, and that he must be pushed to the extreme of the law. I replied, I would
                  consult with you, but that I was fearful it was one of those aggravated cases
                  which the law will not reach. There can be nothing proved save deception—for
                  Virginia herself admits she went willingly, under the supposition she was being
                  taken here—and I know of no law that will reach such a case. What think you, Mr.
                  Morton?"
               The lawyer mused seriously a moment, and then replied:
               "For a case of deception, such as you represent, the law has no penalty; but
                  methinks this may be taken on another ground. Remain a moment—I must first
                  question Virginia."
               Here Morton absented himself about ten minutes, and then returning, said:
               "We have him now, if we prefer the charge of false imprisonment—for he locked the
                  door on Virginia, and by force detained her against her will. This can be proved
                  by Ellen Douglas, who was in an adjoining apartment and witnessed all. In an
                  aggravated form like the present one, this is a serious offence, and he will do
                  well to escape imprisonment."
               "Which Heaven grant he may not do!" rejoined Dudley; "for if all I hear of him is
                  true, it is time his infamous career received a check sufficient to startle him
                  into a long-needed reformation. But as I am to appear against him, I suppose it is
                  high time I was there."
               "True; the Recorder holds his court early; and should his turn come, and there be
                  no witnesses present, he will be discharged."
               "Then I will go at once. But as regards Virginia?"
               "Why, she must go along with you. Stay! I will inform her at once, and Edith shall
                  be her companion. You will remain to Edgar's examination also, at which I will
                  endeavor to be present myself;" and the lawyer hastened out of his library.
               In less than five minutes he returned, accompanied by Virginia and his daughter,
                  both bonnetted and shawled for instant departure. Dudley greeted each warmly, and
                  immediately conducted them to a splendid barouche standing at the door, attached
                  to which was a noble span of black horses, and, holding the reins, a black driver
                  in livery.
               Assisting the ladies into the vehicle, Dudley was in the act of following, when he
                  heard his name pronounced in a low
                  tone; and looking round, to his surprise and indignation, he beheld Nathan
                  Wesley.
               "I've been seeking you some time," said the latter, "and would like a few minutes'
                  conversation."
               "Another time, then," replied Dudley; and springing into the carriage, he gave
                  some directions to the driver, who, cracking his whip, drove off in haste.
               Wesley gazed after him for some moments, with a crestfallen countenance; then
                  muttering something in a low tone, he ascended the steps and rung the bell.
                  Inquiring for Mr. Morton, he was shown into the library, where he remained in
                  eager conference with the lawyer for more than half an hour, when both came forth
                  together, and the latter, ordering his carriage, rode swiftly away, while the
                  other sauntered off leisurely in a mood of deep abstraction.
               Meantime Dudley and his companions reached the police-court, just as Acton was
                  being brought forward for examination. His features were very pale and somewhat
                  haggard, as though he had experienced a restless night of mental torture. As
                  Dudley entered the court room, in advance of Virginia and Edith, Acton gave him a
                  look of hate and malicious defiance; but perceiving the next moment who followed,
                  his features crimsoned to his forehead, his countenance fell, and he finally hung
                  his head in very shame. And well he might! to behold his own cousin, whom he had
                  so shamefully abused, in company with her to whom he had paid his addresses,
                  before whom he would have appeared the most honorable of his sex, and to whose
                  hand he had already boasted of having a claim, much to the annoyance of at least a
                  score of discomfited suitors. It was a punishment far beyond that of any prison,
                  to be so exposed at such a time; and could he have had his wish at that moment,
                  the stone walls of the mighty fabric beneath which he stood, would have crumbled
                  to pieces and buried him under their ruins.
               "Well, sir! what is your name?" said the sharp, clear, stern voice of the
                  Recorder.
               "Acton Atherton."
               "Your occupation, sir?"
               "A gentleman at large," replied Acton, somewhat pompously, thinking such a course
                  would best cover the disgrace he felt in being so arraigned and questioned.
               "Umph! hardly at large now," rejoined the other, dryly. "Well, sir, what brought
                  you here?"
               "My legs."
               "Ha! sir, you are impudent! Have a care, young man, or I will commit you for
                  contempt of court. Has any one present a charge to prefer against Acton Atherton?"
                  he asked, looking around.
               "So please your Honor, I have," answered Dudley, stepping forward.
               "Well, sir, your name, residence, and occupation?"
               Dudley drew close to the bench, and gave satisfactory replies, in a low tone. He
                  was then sworn and told to proceed with his accusation; which he did—stating
                  clearly and concisely under what circumstances he had found the prisoner. Virginia
                  being next called upon and put under oath, told her own story briefly, confirming
                  the words of Dudley. The Recorder mused a moment, and then said:
               "As the lady went willingly, I do not think I can find this a criminal offence,
                  although one worthy of the severest censure."
               "So please your Honor," returned Dudley, "I do accuse Acton Atherton of detaining
                  Virginia Courtly against her will."
               "Ha!" rejoined the magistrate; "is this so? Were you so detained, Miss
                  Courtly?"
               
               "I was."
               "This alters the case materially. Have you any proof of this?"
               "One Ellen Douglas was a witness to it."
               "Let Ellen Douglas come forward."
               "I beg leave to say, your Honor," spoke up Dudley again, "she is too ill to attend
                  court. I have seen her this morning, and she is unable to quit her apartment. But
                  if your Honor like, her deposition can be taken."
               "It is scarcely necessary at this examination, unless the prisoner desires it. Let
                  the officers who arrested Acton Atherton stand forward, and state what they know
                  of this affair."
               The watchmen appeared, and being sworn, gave in their evidence, which, so far as
                  it went, corroborated what had gone before. The Recorder mused again a short time,
                  and then said, addressing Acton:
               "Mr. Atherton, as the matter stands, I shall be under the necessity of binding you
                  over to the next term of the Court of Sessions. You will give bail in the sum of
                  one thousand dollars, or be remanded to prison."
               At this moment the father of the accused came rushing into the court-room, much
                  excited; and glancing from one to another, with an expression of mortification and
                  dismay, mingled with a look of defiance as his eye fell upon Dudley, he exclaimed,
                  in a hasty, pompous tone:
               "What is this?—what is this?"
               "Silence, sir!" cried the Recorder, frowning. "Is there any one present who will
                  go bail for Acton Atherton?"
               "I will," said his father; and inquiring the amount, he proceeded to give bonds
                  for his son's appearance at the proper time and place.
               Acton was now at liberty; and bestowing a glance of hate upon Dudley, who returned
                  his look with perfect com posure, he hurried from the court-room without speaking
                  a word.
               "This is your doing, sirrah?" said Atherton, coming close to Dudley, and fairly
                  hissing the words in his ear. "Do not flatter yourself I will easily forget
                  it."
               "Rather say your own doing, in teaching your son so little of the character of a
                  gentleman," replied Dudley, calmly, but haughtily. "As to your forgetting or
                  remembering, both are alike immaterial to me;" and turning his back on the other,
                  he coolly walked away.
               Atherton glared after him with a look in which all his worst passions seemed
                  blended. Then turning, his eye fell upon Edith, and his whole manner and
                  appearance changed, from that of a fiend incarnate, to an humble, obsequious,
                  affable, smiling gentleman.
               "How fares my fair Edith this morning?" he said, bowing politely, and speaking in
                  his blandest tones: "and how is her good father?"
               "We are usually well, I thank you,' Edith answered, somewhat coldly.
               "This is a very painful affair to a fond father's feelings," he pursued, in a low
                  tone—"this youthful folly and indiscretion of Acton. I grieve sorely that my son
                  should have been tempted to such imprudence, by one in whom I had placed the
                  utmost confidence. You must bear in mind, my dear Edith, that it was not a scheme
                  of his own planning, and that he was drawn into it by the machinations of another.
                  But it has taught him a painful lesson, which he will never forget. He already
                  regrets it as much as myself; and you may rest assured, on the word of a father,
                  he will never be guilty of the like again."
               "I trust not," rejoined Edith.
               "It rejoices me, sweet Edith, to see you take sufficient interest in him to be
                  present at his examination. There," he
                  added, as, coloring deeply, she was about to reply: "There, there—I see—no excuse:
                  I will spare your blushes. But who is this pretty companion of yours?" and he
                  glanced towards Virginia, who, on his addressing Edith in a low tone, had modestly
                  withdrawn out of ear-shot, and now stood regarding him, with heightened color, and
                  an expression in which maidenly timidity, sadness and curiosity were strangely
                  mingled. "I have rarely seen a more lovely countenance."
               "Or a sweeter owner," rejoined Edith. "Shall I introduce you?"
               "O, with pleasure, Miss Edith."
               There was a smile of triumph on the features of the latter, as she advanced to her
                  companion, and, taking her by the hand, said:
               "Miss Virginia Courtly, allow me to present you to your uncle, Mr. Oliver
                  Atherton, the father of Acton, who had the kindness, no later than last night, to
                  steal you away by treacherous arts, and basely misuse your confidence."
               Had an earthquake at that moment shook the Tombs to ruins, it would have added
                  nothing to the astonishment and dismay of Oliver Atherton. As Edith began to
                  speak, he was just in the act of bending forward, with a smile on his hypocritical
                  features, and his hand partly extended to greet his new acquaintance; but as her
                  first words caught his ear, he started back, his whole countenance changed, became
                  as pale as death, and then as quickly flushed with bewildered confusion. For a
                  moment he stood regarding her as one spell-bound; and then muttering a low, deep
                  oath of disappointment, turned on his heel and rushed from the court-room.
               "Let the prisoner, Edgar Courtly, be brought forward for examination," said the
                  sharp, clear voice of the Recorder at this moment; and both Virginia and Edith
                  became very pale and tremulous as they heard the words.
               "Give yourselves no alarm, my friends," said Dudley, instantly joining the
                  maidens; "for Edgar Courtly, believe me, will come off triumphant."
               As he spoke, Calvin Morton entered the court-room and advanced to the party with
                  hasty steps.
               "Heaven save us all!" he exclaimed: "I trust I am not too late!"
               "Just in time for the examination of Edgar," replied Dudley, "but too late to
                  witness the discomfiture of his uncle."
               "Ha! yes—I met him coming down the steps," rejoined Morton; "and, from his manner,
                  I almost fancied him insane. What has happened?"
               Edith hastened to explain.
               "Well, he will be worse confounded and discomfitted than this ere long," replied
                  her father, "or I am very much mistaken. I have him now," he pursued, with
                  sparkling eyes: "I have him now, the hypocritical villain! Virginia, you shall
                  have justice!"
               At this moment Edgar Courtly entered the court-room, attended by an officer, and
                  all eyes eagerly turned upon him. He was very pale, and evidently much excited;
                  but there was the proud look of conscious innocence on his noble countenance, and
                  his head was erect, and his step firm and bold. On seeing him, for a moment
                  Virginia half supported herself against the agitated Edith, and the next could
                  hardly resist the impulse to rush forward and throw herself into his arms. As
                  Edgar beheld his friends, his features lighted with a look of joy and hope, and
                  his feelings became powerfully excited. Subduing them as much as possible, he made
                  a cheerful bow of recognition to each; but the warm, tell-tale blood deeply
                  crimsoned his fine, manly features, as
                  he encountered the soft, gray eye of the lovely Edith fixed upon him, with an
                  expression of sympathetic tenderness; while a close observer might have scen that
                  her own fair countenance brightened with an unwonted glow.
               "Remain where you are for the present," said Morton to his daughter and Virginia;
                  and advancing with Dudley to Edgar, each shook his hand warmly, and bade him be of
                  good cheer.
               "Edgar Courtly," said the Recorder, glancing over a paper in his hand, "I perceive
                  you are arrested at the instance of Oliver Atherton, on the accusation of forgery.
                  Let the prosecutor stand forth."
               "He is not present, your Honor," replied Dudley.
               "If there is any one here who has the charge of forgery to prefer against the
                  prisoner, Edgar Courtly, let him or her stand forth!"
               Not a soul moved. The Recorder repeated his words. Still no one stirred, and the
                  silence was so deep you could have heard the fall of a pin.
               "Once more, and for the last time," said the magistrate, as he again repeated his
                  words. Then finding the result the same as before, he added, hastily: "Our time is
                  too valuable to be trifled with. Mr. Courtly, you are discharged."
               Scarcely was the last sentence uttered, when, with a cry of joy, Virginia sprung
                  forward, and was caught in the arms of her brother, and their tears of happiness
                  mingled. Then Edgar received the congratulations of his true friends—but heard
                  nothing that thrilled more sweetly to his very soul, to be treasured there as "a
                  joy forever," than the simple sentence uttered by Edith, as, her delicate hand
                  locked in his, she fixed her mild, gray eyes tenderly upon him, and said,
                  earnestly:
               "I knew—I knew you were innocent!"
               "Come," said Morton, "this is no place for us. Our carriages wait below. Edgar,
                  you shall with me and Edith. Cla—Dudley I mean—we will trust Virginia to your
                  gallantry. Sorry to part brother and sister at such an interesting time—but can't
                  help it. I have something important to tell you all—but not until we reach
                  home."
               No one of course objected to an arrangement so consonant to the feelings of each;
                  and Edgar, offering his arm to Edith, while Dudley did the same to
                  Virginia—preceded by Morton, who jocularly remarked he was one too many—the whole
                  party quitted the Tombs, and descended the long flight of stone steps with very
                  different feelings from what they had experienced in making their ascent.
               "Yonder," spoke Edith, in a low tone, pointing down before her, slightly
                  shuddering, and pressing closer to the side of Edgar: "Yonder is the spot where
                  you saved my life."
               "The happiest act I ever performed," was the low, earnest reply.
               Entering the splendid vehicles which stood in waiting, each party signed the other
                  a cheerful adieu; and then off went the horses at a gay, proud trot, as if
                  conscious they bore away lighter hearts than they had brought thither.
               The ride was not long, it is true; but four of the company fancied it the most
                  delightful they had ever experienced.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE DAMNING DEED.
               THE communication which Morton had to make, was one of great importance to Edgar
                  and all interested in his welfare, and was the result of his interview with the
                  treacherous Nathan Wesley. What this communication was, it is not our purpose here
                  to reveal; suffice, that it altered Edgar's previous arrangement of taking up law
                  as a profession.
               A week rolled away, and both Edgar and Virginia remained the honored guests of the
                  Mortons. Dudley was a daily visitor, and always found a cordial welcome; but from
                  none a more heart-felt one, perhaps, than from Virginia. In company with him, her
                  brother and Edith, she took daily rides or strolls through the city, and appeared
                  to enjoy herself as much as it was possible for one who had so recently been
                  bereaved of an affectionate and beloved parent. But with herself and brother, the
                  sad thought of their poor mother would intrude itself upon them in their happiest
                  moments, and cloud the sunshine that otherwise had lain upon their hearts.
               But leaving those who form the bright parts in this our picture of life, we must
                  return to Acton Atherton. We have said that one of his strongest passions was that
                  of vanity; and never had this received so powerful a shock as at his examination,
                  when he was not only confronted with his cousin, whom he had so basely treated,
                  but also with one in whose eyes he would have stood a paragon of virtue; and who,
                  as he now saw, being the companion of the other, must necessarily know much of his
                  dissolute and even guilty career. As soon as bonds had been entered into for his
                  appearance, he quitted the Tombs, feeling himself abashed, humiliated and
                  disgraced. With a clouded brow and hurried pace, he made his way homeward,
                  plotting in his own dark mind what steps to take to make even a show of
                  maintaining his honor, by retaliation on those who had been the means of exposing
                  him. That Wesley had played a double game, he felt well convinced; and his design
                  was to seek him out first, upbraid him with treachery, and should his suspicions
                  prove correct, let his mode of revenge be the result of succeeding
                  circumstances.
               As chance would have it, he met Wesley on the steps of his father's mansion—both
                  having arrived from opposite directions at the same moment—and seizing him by the
                  collar, he accused him at once of having betrayed him, and threatened his life on
                  the spot should he dare to deny it. But notwithstanding this, Wesley did deny it,
                  with all the brazen effrontery of which an accomplished villain like himself was
                  capable. He did more. He not only denied having given even a hint of the matter to
                  a living soul, but he openly accused Clarence Malcolm of being the cause; and said
                  that he had, by some unaccountable means, played the spy upon them—overheard, he
                  presumed, their secret conference—had been and warned Ellen Douglas, and then had
                  laid in wait to entrap them; and wound up by swearing roundly, that going to Mott
                  street to see how the affair would terminate and be at hand, in case he (Acton)
                  needed help, he had been chased by the watch, set on by Clarence, and had barely
                  escaped a night's imprisonment by out-running them.
               To this story of course Acton did not give full credence—knowing the matchless
                  ability of the attorney to forge a truth-like lie on any and all occasions where
                  it suited his humor or purpose—but as he had no evidence to combat it, he was obliged to let it pass current;
                  besides, his anger now having a more worthy and important subject on which to vent
                  itself, he concentrated his whole soul upon devising means to punish the principal
                  aggressor.
               "This hated Malcolm," he said, bitterly—"how shall I revenge myself on him for his
                  insults?"
               "Challenge him," suggested Wesley, who, whatever might be the result, fancied
                  Acton would get the worst of it, or at least become deeper sunk than ever in the
                  mire in which he was already floundering.
               "Ay, that is it!" cried Acton. "Challenge him I will, and you shall be my second,
                  Wesley!"
               And challenge him Acton accordingly did; but his answer was what might have been
                  expected from one of Clarence Malcolm's upright, fearless, noble nature; and
                  should serve as a model for all such as, placed in similar circumstances, have the
                  manly courage to do right, without regard to the opinions of a few empty-headed
                  coxcombs, whose sole valor consists in fighting bravely, in imagination, before a
                  parterre of sentimental ladies.
               The note ran thus.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "SIR:—I regret you have made it a necessity for me to inform you I am
                              not the hot-brained, mad-cap fool you take me for. That I neither love
                              nor fear you, you may rest assured; and also, that when I require a
                              target to shoot at, I shall not gratify your false vanity by selecting
                              your person therefor, and thus exalting you in your own estimation to
                              the dignified position of a hero. Our correspondence ceases here. All
                              letters sent by you, henceforth, will be returned with unbroken
                              seals.
                           
                              "CLARENCE MALCOLM,
                              "Of Malcolm Place."
                              
                                 "TO ACTON ATHERTON,
                                 "Of No, —, —— Street."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This was severely cutting to Acton, and so he felt it, and swore he would have
                  revenge; and had the parties soon met, doubtless something serious would have been
                  the consequence; but as it was, some two or three days' reflection served to
                  dampen the ardor of the challenger for an encounter with one from whom he could
                  only reasonably expect to come off second best. In fact, the whole nature of Acton
                  seemed to have undergone a remarkable change, even in this short period. From a
                  gay, dashing, rollicking, piquant fellow, he had suddenly become morose, taciturn
                  and gloomy, holding little communion with any thing save his own thoughts. He
                  strolled through the city as usual, visited his old haunts of gambling and
                  dissipation, and often drank and played himself—yet with such an abstracted mood,
                  such indifference as to success, and with so much silence and reserve, that his
                  old associates often rallied him upon his gravity, and swore he must have the
                  occupation of a Methodist parson in serious contemplation. But their jests and
                  jeers moved him not, their remarks on his changed appearance fell unheeded, and
                  their questions remained unanswered.
               Thus matters continued for a week, without showing any visible change in Acton
                  after the first two days, though both his father and sister strove to break his
                  gloomy depression of spirits—the former by agreeing to see him safely over the
                  coming trial, only cautioning him to be more prudent hereafter—and the latter by
                  promising to overlook the past, and endeavoring, as much as lay in her power, to
                  remove the disgrace he had put upon the family, and set him right again with
                  Edith.
               In truth, Arabella loved her brother with a strong sisterly affection—perhaps from
                  his nature being so different from her own—perhaps from a natural yearning of the
                  heart for something to cling to and entwine itself around, as the vine does around the tree its supporter—and
                  rarely to him displayed that haughty pride she did towards almost every other. But
                  pride, as we have said elsewhere, was her ruling passion; and setting this aside,
                  Arabella had fewer faults than many of her sex who have been upheld as models of
                  perfection. With her, unlike her father, there was no duplicity—no artifice, to
                  make herself appear better than she was—no masking for the occasion; but all was
                  plain, straight-forward, frank and artless; and if she was not at all times
                  courteous, she was at least ever honest in the expression of her opinions and
                  sentiments. There was a wide difference between her pride and the coxcomb-vanity
                  of her brother; for where hers ennobled, his debased; where hers made dignity, his
                  excited ridicule; where hers upheld truth and honor, his gloried in craft and
                  deceit; where hers required the inner sanctuary of her heart to be pure in the
                  sight of Heaven, his only wanted the outward person to be attractive in the eyes
                  of the world: in short, where hers applauded and sustained true virtue, his
                  revelled and sunk in vice. Arabella was proud, and Acton was vain, and we have
                  drawn the distinction as we understand it.
               And to do Arabella justice, we must say she was, for the most part, right at
                  heart, and would not intentionally do a wrong action. Though she might be led into
                  error in the heat of passion, she would sincerely regret it in moments of cool
                  reflection; and, if possible to do so, without wounding her haughty pride, would
                  ever make the proper reparation. When she so scornfully told Clarence his
                  statement concerning her father's ill-treatment of his kins-people was false—that
                  it was a base, willful, malignant slander—she believed she spoke the truth: not
                  that she thought him seeking to deceive her, but that he himself had been
                  deceived. The assertion of the Courtlys being in town at all, was as much as she
                  could credit; and it was not until the exposure of Acton's abduction of Virginia,
                  and the knowledge of Edgar's arrest at the instance of her father, the news of
                  which fell upon her like a thunderbolt, that she began to admit to herself there
                  might be some truth in Malcolm's report, and some concealed wrong which reflected
                  severely on her father. Then, had there been an opportunity to make Clarence
                  reparation, without too much humiliation, she would have embraced it, and recalled
                  her hasty expressions. She would also have flown to Virginia, and stood her friend
                  and protector, only that she knew she was now safe from further insult, and felt
                  how humiliating would be the result to herself, in case her motives should not be
                  properly understood and appreciated.
               But to return to Acton.
               A week passed away, and found him, as we have said, a constant visiter of the
                  gambling hells and houses of dissipation. The reform, so greatly needed, was still
                  as much wanting as ever. He was changed, but not for the better; for at heart the
                  demon of his nature was silently doing his work, and gradually leading him on to
                  that fatal step in his already guilty career, which was destined to plunge him
                  down, down—far down—into the dark gulf of lasting shame and endless remorse.
               Throughout the day preceding the night when we again introduce him, he had seemed
                  much disturbed in mind, and had drank very freely—so much so, that at an early
                  hour in the evening, he had quitted one of the many drinking saloons with which
                  Broadway abounded, with an uncertain step. It was a clear, cold, star-light night;
                  and reeling against a lamp-post, he paused and cast his eyes upward to the shining
                  host, as if in serious meditation upon the thousands of distant worlds thus
                  revealed to his unsteady gaze. But he mused not on them—for dark and gloomy thoughts were flitting through a brain
                  made feverish by the cursed cup, which contains ruin, insanity, and death! At this
                  moment two persons passed in eager conversation, and the mention of his own name
                  arrested his attention.
               "An unpleasant fix, surely," said one, "to run off with his own cousin, and get so
                  cozened himself. They say it was all a contrived plan to get him into an ugly
                  scrape, and that Ellen was at the bottom of it all. She had sworn to have revenge
                  on him, by making an exposure, and took this means to do it. By my faith, I should
                  little like to be caught the same way, and have all my love intrigues made known
                  to the girl I was about to marry!"
               "And I suppose Miss Morton rejects him?"
               "Of course, and that is why he looks so disconsolate. Poor fellow!—ha, ha, ha! By
                  my faith, I should think it would teach him a little prudence in his amours
                  hereafter!"
               "But do you think Ellen Douglass will appear against him?"
               Think so? I know it. Do you think she would let such an opportunity slip?—Not she.
                  She will send him to Sing-Sing, if her evidence is sufficient to do so."
               "No, by ——! she won't!" swore Acton, deeply, as the voice of the speaker now died
                  away in the distance. "So! I am the laughing stock of the town, as I expected. And
                  this is her triumph! By my soul, it shall be a short one!" and
                  somewhat sobered by the cold air, and the rousing of his worst passions, he drew
                  his cloak which had partly fallen from his shoulders, around him, and, turning
                  into a by-street, disappeared.
               Half an hour later, a person so closely muffled in a cloak that only his eyes were
                  visible, rapped at the door of Madame Costellan's. To the woman who answered his
                  summons for admittance, he handed an English crown, and requested permission to
                  enter unquestioned. The temptation was strong; and after looking at him intently
                  for a moment, the other gave a knowing wink and threw open the door. The stranger
                  passed in, and with a hurried step ascended to the next story; where, finding the
                  door of Ellen's apartment ajar, he entered without knocking, and immediately
                  closed, locked it, and withdrew the key. Then glancing around the apartment, with
                  a nervous, eager look, and seeing no one present, the figure moved stealthily to
                  the door at the right, which communicated with an elegant bed-chamber of suitable
                  dimensions, and pushing it slightly open, reconnoitered the ground before
                  proceeding farther. Satisfied, apparently, that all was right, he swung the door
                  back with some force, and walked in with a bold, determined air.
               This apartment was furnished in keeping with the larger one, with a splendid
                  wardrobe, toilet-table, dressing-chair, bed, &c., on the last of which, her
                  pale, thin features partly revealed by the dim light which stood on the
                  center-table, reposed Ellen Douglas, now sleeping that feverish sleep which is
                  often the result of mental anguish and bodily ailment, and all unconscious who
                  stood by her side, gazing upon her with a darkened brow and lips compressed. The
                  slumberer was evidently dreaming of that eventful period when all her fresh and
                  tender passions were called into action, ere her now guilty soul had trod the dark
                  paths of sin and misery—when she was beautiful in innocence—the gayest of the gay
                  and the happiest of the happy—for she murmured, in tender, pleading, touching
                  accents:
               "Nay, mother, you wrong him by such suspicions! I tell you he is all that is noble
                  and manly; and O, mother, I love him! See! see! what a beautiful present he has
                  given me, mother! It is a massive diamond ring—and it is to be our wedding ring.
                  O, mother, he is so rich, so handsome, and he loves me so! Nay, now, you shall not
                  chide me! I tell you my Acton is all that is noble, honorable able and generous, and I will not listen to aught
                  said against him!"
               On hearing these words, the intruder, who still remained muffled in his cloak,
                  became violently agitated; and sinking upon a seat, bowed his face forward upon
                  his hands and groaned. The groan started Ellen, without awaking her to
                  consciousness, and apparently changed the current of her thoughts; for the next
                  moment she turned over quickly, partly sprung up in bed, and pointing with her
                  finger, as chance would have it, toward the figure in the cloak, exclaimed,
                  vehemently:
               "There! there! do you not see him there? the base villain—the monster—the devil
                  incarnate! I tell you beware of him!—for his sight is poison—his touch the seal of
                  death! Avaunt, thou fiend in human shape!—avaunt! No, no, girl," she continued
                  hurriedly, "he shall not harm you! Me he has ruined, but you he shall not harm!
                  No, sweet Virginia, you are safe, and he shall suffer for his baseness, so sure as
                  there is a God of Justice! What! your cousin? Heavens! how strange! Ha! you want
                  proof, eh?—proof? Well, I am ill now, but as soon as able I will appear against
                  him."
               "Never!" cried the intruder, springing to his feet with an oath, letting the cloak
                  fall, and disclosing the features of Acton, now frightfully distorted with angry
                  passions. "Never!" he fairly shouted, drawing a dagger from his bosom. "By all my
                  hopes of security, there shall be one witness the less!"
               His voice awoke Ellen to a full consciousness, and beholding him in an attitude so
                  menacing, she sunk back upon her pillow with a cry of alarm. For a moment she
                  regarded him with a peculiar look, in which various passions mingled, and then
                  said, in a calm, deep tone:
               "What do you here, Acton Atherton? Will you not allow me to die in peace?"
               "No!" cried Acton, fiercely; "you do not deserve such a death!"
               "Monster! begone! or you will drive me mad; and already I feel my poor brain on
                  the verge of chaos. Is it not enough that you have ruined and brought me to this,
                  but you must now appear, Satan like, to gloat in triumph above my dying bed?"
               "Prove to me," Acton rejoined, a dark gleam of malice in his now fiery eyes:
                  "prove to me, Ellen Douglas, that it is your dying bed, and you shall
                  see my face no more!"
               "And this is he whom I have so loved!" cried Ellen, bursting into tears; "for whom
                  I have sacrificed earthly reputation, and perilled my soul eternally! Oh God! oh
                  God! the way of the transgressor is truly hard!"
               "Tis false!" returned Acton; "you never loved me! You thought to share my name and
                  fortune, and played your part to perfection—but you never loved me!'
               "As I hope for mercy beyond the grave," rejoined Ellen, solemnly, "I loved you
                  with a pure affection, and only thought of your position so far as it might exalt
                  you and make you happy."
               "Then why did you turn against me in my hour of trouble?"
               "I did not. It was you who plotted against me, to cast me off forever, and put
                  another in the place, which, in God's sight, was truly mine. You had resolved to
                  wed Edith Morton!"
               "And you to prevent it!"
               "Yes, I resolved to prevent it, and trust I have."
               "And this was your love?"
               "Surely so; for if any one had a right to your hand, it was I—I who had sacrificed
                  so much for you, and borne so patiently
                  with your many failings and false vows. I had a right to expect you would give me
                  your hand, if not your heart—nay, even felt I had a right to demand it."
               "And is it possible you could be so ignorant of the world, as to suppose I would
                  bestow my name upon one who had disgraced her own?"
               "Villain!" cried Ellen, with all the vehemence her weak state would allow,
                  starting up in bed, her eyes flashing fire, and her pale countenance disturbed by
                  many contending passions: "why do you come here, at this time, to taunt me with
                  being the creature of your own devilish arts? If I disgraced my name, it was you
                  who made me, and on you the sin shall deeply recoil! "Ay," she added, with
                  prophetic power, "it shall recoil upon you through all time!—and the demon Remorse
                  shall gnaw at your heart's core, and, like the fabled Vampire of old, suck your
                  blood drop by drop! and you shall curse the hour that gave you existence! Even now
                  I see, in your pale, haggard features, the first fruits of your guilty course.
                  Already you are a criminal in the eyes of the law, and are meditating another deed
                  of the darkest import! Nay, look not so fiercely upon me, Acton Atherton! and
                  clench not your weapon with such a nervous grasp! I can read in your dark
                  countenance that you came here for the worst of purposes! Strike, then, while the
                  devil prompts, and put the crowning act to your wickedness! Think not I fear you,
                  or longer fear to die! Better death than life for one like me! I cannot live
                  disgraced, without hope. See here! I bare my breast to your gaze. Here is my
                  heart—a heart that beat the truest love for you, until your own unrighteous acts
                  wrought a fearful change. Place your steel here and drive it home; and as you have
                  been the author of all my misery, be my delivering angel from a world of wo! As
                  with you my dark career began—with you let it end! So may we part forever!"
               The tone and manner of Ellen, as she said this, was firm and decided. There was no
                  tremor in her voice—no agitation apparent; and as she concluded, she again sunk
                  back, and fixed her eyes, in which was a cold and seemingly unearthly light,
                  steadily upon his. Acton looked at her fixedly a short time, and seemed undecided
                  what course to pursue. In truth, he began to doubt if she were in her proper
                  senses. At length he said:
               "If you loved me, as you have so often affirmed, why were you not always true to
                  me?"
               "As God is my judge, Acton Atherton, and as I hope for His mercy hereafter, I
                  solemnly declare to you, I have ever been as loyal to you as if bound by the laws
                  of man in the holy covenant of wedlock!"
               'Then why did you plot with others against me?"
               "I never did. I heard of your meditated design upon a lovely creature, whom I
                  would protect with my heart's blood, and I determined to thwart it, and shame you
                  into repentance."
               "And was the dragging of me to prison the proper way to shame me into
                  repentance?"
               "That was none of my planning, and took me as much by surprise as yourself."
               "How went the report abroad, then, that it was all a plot of your own to get
                  revenge?"
               "Of that I know nothing."
               "And why have you made it your boast that you will appear against me at the coming
                  trial?"
               "I have never so boasted."
               "Perhaps you will have the face to deny that you ever had an intention of so
                  appearing."
               "No, you mistake. I shall deny no such thing. If I am summoned as a witness, and it is in my power to
                  get before the court, I shall be there, and give true evidence of all I know
                  concerning your infamous proceeding in that affair of your cousin."
               "And you dare tell me this to my face?" cried Acton, with a burst of
                  indignation.
               "Dare?" echoed Ellen, with emphatic scorn: "why talk to me of dare? I dare do
                  right, if I have done wrong; and I would to God you had the same courage! But I
                  have said enough. Go! I am weak and ill. Go! your presence burdens my sight."
               "Promise me you will not appear against me, and I will go," replied Acton.
               "I will not promise. On that point I am resolved. You have run too long a guilty
                  course, and well deserve some punishment."
               "Look at me!" cried Acton, brandishing his dagger aloft. "Look well! I am a
                  desperate man, Ellen; and, if goaded too far, would not stop short of a nameless
                  crime! Now promise me, or——"
               "Never!" interrupted Ellen. "Acton Atherton, you are a coward; for none but a
                  coward would steal in upon a weak, defenceless woman, and with the air and
                  language of a common cut-throat, seek to awe her into silence, or extort from her
                  a promise against her will. Begone, sir! and never enter my presence again!—With
                  the fierceness of a tiger, you combine the courage of a mouse! Begone, sir! or I
                  will call for aid."
               "It shall be your last call then!" cried Acton, foaming with rage. "You have dared
                  and maddened me beyond myself. Take that!"
               As he spoke, he sprung forward, and, scarcely conscious of what he did, struck a
                  fell blow with his dagger. A deep groan sounded in his ear. He started back, all
                  aghast, and a cry of horror escaped his lips. He beheld the white linen of the bed
                  red with blood! He looked on his dagger, and saw its lustre dimmed with blood!
                  Upon his hand, and beheld it bloody also! It was the warm life-blood of her who
                  had so loved him, and who had sacrificed for him her own happiness! He turned his
                  eyes upon her once more, and saw her already gasping in the death struggle! He
                  strove to call her by name, but he could not speak. He strove to rush to her, but
                  he could not move. He strove to shut the horrid sight from his eyes, but they were
                  rivetted there—there, upon the bloody work of his own hand! Oh! what an age of
                  misery—of woful misery—of hell itself—was in that awful moment. Blood upon the
                  bed; blood upon his dagger; blood upon the floor; blood upon his hands; all—all
                  was blood!—an ocean of blood it seemed to the horror-stricken, fear-stricken,
                  conscience-stricken Acton Atherton.
               "Great God!" burst at last from the lips of the murderer: "Great God! what have I
                  done! Wo, misery, remorse, and hell itself, are henceforth mine!"
               "I forgive you," said a feeble, gurgling voice, the last that ever passed the lips
                  of the poor, ill-fated Ellen Douglass.
               "No! no!" cried Acton, wildly: "Not forgive! Say you curse me!—curse me
                  eternally—forever—for this damnable deed!"
               At this moment there came a loud knock at the outer door of the house. It aroused
                  the murderer to a sense of his danger. He gave one hurried glance around, and
                  darted into the other apartment, the door of which he unlocked in eager haste.
                  From this there was a hall which led to a window overlooking the back yard. He
                  rushed to this, threw it up frantically, and, all reckless of consequences, leaped
                  out. He struck the ground unharmed, and
                  the next moment had cleared a high board fence and was in a dark alley. He paused
                  one moment to decide upon his course. In that moment he heard an awful shriek—the
                  first that told his crime was known. With a groan, wrung from his very soul, he
                  turned and fled: fled from his crime, from justice, from light: fled fast and far
                  into the darkness of the night: fled from all but himself, his conscience and his
                  God!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE INQUEST.
               IT was between eight and nine o'clock in the evening, that Edgar and Dudley,
                  arm-in-arm, were strolling up Park Row towards Chatham street, in close
                  conversation.
               "And could you not prevail on her?" asked Dudley, in connection with something
                  that had gone before.
               "No," replied Edgar. "She said she could not bear the thought of mingling again
                  with those, who, having no stain upon their characters, would withdraw from her
                  their countenance, and point at her the finger of scorn."
               "But she should go where she is not known."
               "So I said to her, but to no effect—she contending, that to feel her own
                  degradation in such society, would be more than she could bear, and for which even
                  death would be a glad substitute."
               "Poor girl! from my soul I pity her. Such a noble, generous nature, to come to
                  such disgrace and degradation! What should be done with the villain that so wrongs
                  a woman, Edgar?"
               "He should serve out the remainder of his days between the four walls of a
                  prison."
               "So think I; for I look upon it as one of the worst of crimes—one of the grossest
                  outrages of which a man can be guilty. And yet the law, Edgar, laughs to scorn our
                  opinion, and holds the seducer innocent. Society, too, gives its sanction to the
                  foul deed; and the pampered villain goes boldly through the world, in a gay,
                     dissolute career, strewing his path
                  with blasted names, broken hearts and ruined souls. We make laws for the poor,
                  Edgar—for those, who, born in wretchedness, without hope above their birth, can,
                  at the best, but eke out a miserable existence. We make laws for them, and we
                  press them home closely—execute them with a diligence, eagerness and fidelity
                  worthy a better cause. For them we make no allowance—they being supposed to
                  inherit immaculate virtue—from which if they fall, they fall as Satan did from
                  Heaven, without any temptation but their own evil passions. Born in
                  degradation—schooled in vice and misery—debarred all the exalted enjoyments of
                  learning and knowledge—scorned, oppressed and down-trodden by those, who, clothed
                  in broadcloths and silks, bow their souls to the shrine of Mammom, the while their
                  knees press the richly carpeted floor of God's holy church—they are still supposed
                  to know all the technicalities of the law—to be above all the vices and errors of
                  mankind—to be, in short, the noble instruments whereby to exhibit the majesty,
                  justice and righteousness of man's civil code: for let one suffer never so much,
                  the law says it is right; let one starve himself, and see his poor family—his dear
                  wife and little ones begging and dying for the bread which he has not to give—and
                  the law says it is right; but let him, driven to desperation, maddened with famine
                  and mental anguish—let him take so much as a handful of meal to protect his life
                  and the lives of those dearer to him than his own—and then the majesty, and
                  justice, and righteousness of the law says it is all wrong; that it is a heinous
                  crime against community; and forthwith the offender is seized, and dragged to
                  prison, tried, convicted, and sent away, a condemned criminal, to serve out his
                  term in a sink of hell's own vice; while his family starve, and die, and turn to
                  dust, for the proud, the arogant, the pampered, the courted, the flattered, the
                  almost lordly robber of female virtue to trample on with scorn! Oh, most truly is
                  there 
                     "'Something rotten in Denmark.'"
                  
               
               "You draw a strong picture," replied Edgar; "and deeply I regret I cannot gainsay
                  its truthfulness. But the world is daily progressing to a better state; and though
                  we may not live to see it, the time will surely come, when man can live without
                  taking what is not his own; and when the act, we both so heartily condemn, will
                  become a crime in the eyes of the law, with a penalty attached commensurate to its
                     wickedness."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Pennsylvania has already come out boldly, and made seduction a criminal
                     offence, punishable with heavy fine, and imprisonment in the penitentiary;
                     and it is the ardent desire of the humble writer of these pages, to see
                     every state in the Union follow her noble example.
               
               Conversing thus, the two friends entered Chatham street; and continuing their
                  course till they came to Mott street, they turned down the latter to visit the
                  unfortunate Ellen—Edgar with a view to cancel the debt he owed her; and also, if
                  possible, to prevail upon her to leave her present abode and retire forever from
                  criminal associations.
               "What wretchedness exists on every hand!" said the latter, as slowly the two
                  friends pursued their way along the narrow, squallid, and dimly lighted street.
                  "And yet," he added, with a sigh, "it is but a few days since my poor mother, my
                  sister and myself were inhabitants of this gloomy region."
               "Oh, how you must have suffered!" replied Dudley, sympathetically. "I do not
                  wonder your poor mother died—I only wonder you and your sister had nerve enough to
                  bear up against so dark a fate. To those born and bred here—who have never known
                  nor ever expect any thing better—it is a paradise, compared to the misery you
                  experienced, from its contrast to those days when almost boundless wealth was yours. But, thank God! you
                  have met with a happy deliverance, and soon, I trust, will be able to resume your
                  proper station. There is an old adage, that 'bought experience is the best, if we
                  do not buy it too dear;' and your suffering here, may be of advantage to you
                  hereafter, by bringing home to you forcibly the necessities of the poor, which are
                  too apt to be overlooked by the wealthy. What a field is every where open to the
                  opulent philanthropist, to give hope to the forlorn and happiness to the wretched;
                  and how much more noble are his labors in the sight of God—how much more exalted
                  should he above his fellows—than he who rides the hero of an ensanguined field,
                  and with his own arm carries death before him—makes the wife a widow, the child an
                  orphan—and leaves mourning and lamentation to follow in his train! And when at
                  last he is laid upon the bed of death, and feels his life slowly but surely ebbing
                  away—knows that his spirit is about to separate from its mortal tenement, and take
                  its flight to the eternal world, bearing with it all the deeds, good and ill, it
                  has done in the body—how cheering and refreshing, to turn his eyes back upon the
                  past, and behold the path, once full of thorns, that he has strewn with flowers,
                  and think that the blessings and prayers of those he has rescued from destruction,
                  will precede him to the Mercy Seat of the Most High and gain him pardon for the
                  minor errors of frail humanity! O, if the rich did but know wherein lieth their
                  true happiness, and would but give heed thereto, thousands upon thousands would be
                  daily snatched from the dark haunts of misery, vice and crime, and sent upon their
                  way rejoicing—the world would be restored to its pristine happiness—and the
                  glorious Millenium, foretold of old, and for which all good Christians watch and
                  pray, would truly come to make a second Heaven on earth!"
               "You are most eloquent in a good cause, friend Dudley, and I heartily concur in
                  all the sentiments you have advanced; and sincerely trust the time is not far
                  distant, when the philanthropist shall be considered the true hero—when nations
                  shall settle their disputes by arbitration instead of battle—when the poor,
                  oppressed, and down-trodden wretches that now every where exist, shall no longer
                  be found, but, in their stead, happy and intelligent beings—and lastly, when the
                  warrior, as an object of antiquity, shall excite more wonder than admiration. But
                  see! we have reached our destination. Yonder," added Edgar, in a faltering voice,
                  pointing across the street with an unsteady hand: "Yonder it was, in that most
                  wretched hovel, surrounded with the dregs of misery, my poor sainted mother took
                  leave of all she held dear on earth!"
               As he spoke, he turned away to hide his emotion, and rapped loudly on the door of
                  Madame Costellan's dwelling. Almost immediately after, the rattling of chains and
                  bolts was heard; and the door, as usual, opened but slightly—sustained in its
                  position by a short, heavy chain, linking it to the casing, that the person within
                  might have an opportunity of knowing the number and wants of those without before
                  admitting them—and a female voice inquired who they were and what their business.
                  Edgar replied by giving his name, and stating that he had called with a friend to
                  see Ellen Douglass.
               "I think she's got company," was the rejoinder; "but I'll go and see;" and closing
                  the door behind her, the two friends heard her hasty steps along the hall.
               Scarcely a moment, as it seemed to them, elapsed after this, ere they heard a
                  piercing scream from the room above their heads, followed immediately by another
                  and another, more wild and frightful still, and then by the noise of many feet, as
                  of others rushing to ascertain the cause of alarm.
               
               "Good heavens!" exclaimed Edgar; "what can be the meaning of this?"
               "Something frightful, I fear, has happened," replied his companion.
               Presently the two friends heard an agitated rattling of the chains and bolts at
                  the door, and then it swung wide open, and the same female who had first given
                  Edgar admission, now stood before them, pale, bewildered and terrified.
               "What has happened?" cried Edgar, as he sprung within.
               "Oh God! sir," gasped the attendant, with a look of horror, "poor—poor Ellen
                  Douglas!"
               "Well, well—what of her?"
               "She's been foully murdered!"
               "Murdered?" fairly shouted Edgar. "Murdered? Great God! poor Ellen murdered?" and
                  he rushed up stairs in frantic haste, followed by Dudley.
               As they reached Ellen's apartment, they encountered some half-a-dozen females,
                  (among whom was Madame Costellan herself,) and two or three of the opposite sex,
                  some half frenzied, and all looking bewildered and terrified.
               "Oh, gentlemen," cried Madame Costellan, rushing up to Edgar and Dudley—"such a
                  terrible thing to happen in my house! Look there, for Heaven's sake!—oh, look
                  there!" and she pointed towards the inner chamber, and hid her face in her
                  hands.
               Edgar and his friend sprung forward, and soon beheld what froze their blood and
                  sickened them with horror. Upon the bed, bathed in her own heart's blood, which
                  had run down the snowy sheets and puddled on the floor, reposed the earthly
                  remains of the beautiful Ellen—beautiful even in death—with her fair hands, all
                  stained with gore, crossed on her bosom, as if to stanch the wound in her left
                  breast, and her features calm and composed, and almost dazzling white, save where
                  they were spotted here and there with the red current of life. On the floor, all
                  sanguine from hilt to point, lay the fatal instrument used in this hellish work;
                  and just beyond it a man's cloak, one slight portion of which was dabbled in the
                  blood of the owner's victim. It was, all-in-all, a sight to pale the features and
                  move the heart of a stoic, and make the sensitive soul sicken, shudder and
                  recoil.
               "Great God!" ejaculated Edgar, shutting the horrid scene from his sight with his
                  hands: "what a foul murder! Alas! poor, erring, but noble-hearted Ellen
                  Douglas—thy earthly misery is over now!"
               "Who hath done this damnable deed?" questioned Dudley, turning to those who
                  pressed hard behind him. "Who was with the unfortunate deceased when this
                  happened?"
               "As I hope for mercy, no one to my knowledge!" cried Madame Costellan, in wild
                  agitation. "Oh, gentlemen," she continued, greatly alarmed for the consequences
                  that might ensue to herself and household should the affair become public, and
                  appealing to each and all—"for Heaven's sake! do not let the report of this get
                  abroad, or I shall be ruined!"
               "Peace, woman!" rejoined Dudley, sternly. "You know not what you ask. As if we
                  could be privy to a foul murder, and suppress the tale! Where is she who gave us
                  admittance?" he continued, in a tone of authority.
               "Here—here—I—I—am, sir," stammered the terrified domestic, coming forward.
               "Who was here with poor Ellen Douglas but a few minutes since, of whom you spoke
                  when we inquired for her?" questioned Dudley.
               "Why—why—sir—I—I—"stammered the woman, sinking upon her knees before Dudley, in an
                  attitude of entreaty, as if she fancied
                  he had the power to pardon or condemn her: "I say—'pon my soul! if it's the last
                  words I've got to utter—I—I—didn't think any harm, I didn't—I——"
               "Up, woman, and answer my question, or you will be suspected of having a hand in
                  the murder yourself!" interrupted Dudley, sharply.
               "Well, sir—well, sir—"continued the other—"a man came to the door, and gave me
                  this gold piece to let him in—and say nothing—and I—I—did it; but—but without
                  thinking the least bit of harm—'pon my soul! if it's the last word——"
               "Who was the man?" interrupted Dudley again.
               "I couldn't see his face, sir, for the cloak which he held round it; but—but by
                  his eyes, sir, I guessed it—it—was Acton Atherton."
               Both Dudley and Edgar uttered exclamations of surprise together, and gave each
                  other a look expressive of more of bewildered belief than doubt.
               "Great Heaven!" groaned Edgar; "this is more terrible still!"
               "O, you daring good-for-nothing!" cried Madame Costellan, now rushing forward to
                  the still kneeling domestic, and dealing her a blow on the head with her fist.
                  "Out of my house, and get you gone forever! Oh, you have ruined me! you have
                  ruined me!"
               "Peace, woman!" commanded Dudley, stamping his foot on the floor. And then to the
                  domestic: "Stir not from here for your life! You shall not be harmed. Let some one
                  hasten and summon the coroner immediately."
               "I will go," said Edgar, darting through the crowd, down the stairs and into the
                  street, the door to which had been left unfastened by the agitated and frightened
                  servant.
               In less than half an hour Edgar returned, bringing the coroner and his jury, who
                  at once proceeded to hold an inquest on the body of the murdered Ellen
                  Douglas.
               It is unnecessary for us to enter into further particulars. On examination, it was
                  found that the steel, striking upon one of her left ribs, had glanced and entered
                  the heart of poor Ellen in an oblique direction, thus speedily terminating her
                  existence. Each member of the ill-fated house was then closely interrogated, as
                  was also Edgar and Dudley—but from none save the domestic, who gave her name as
                  Sarah Farling, was there elicited any important evidence. She having now become
                  somewhat calm, being assured by the coroner no harm could accrue to her, told her
                  story in a straight-forward manner; and mainly from her testimony, the jury, after
                  a short consultation, returned the verdict:
               "That the deceased came to a violent death, by means of a wound inflicted by a
                  dagger, supposed to be in the hands of Acton Atherton."
               Ordering the remains of Ellen to be properly laid out and prepared for interment,
                  and securing the cloak and dagger for further evidence, the coroner, after an
                  examination of the premises, especially where the open window showed the murderer
                  had made his escape, quitted the house, accompanied by the jury, Edgar and Dudley.
                  Proceeding to the nearest magistrate, a writ was sworn out against Acton Atherton
                  and placed in the hands of an officer for his apprehension; while the two friends
                  bent their steps homeward, with what feelings we leave the reader to imagine.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE GUILTY IN TROUBLE.
               IT was far advanced toward midnight, and in her own handsomely furnished
                  apartment, with a book in her hand, which she seemed intently perusing, sat
                  Arabella Atherton. The lamp, on a center-table by her side, was already growing
                  dim, and barely served to relieve the more obscure portions of the chamber from
                  utter darkness; but, faint as it was, its pale beams seemed to gain additional
                  strength as they fell upon the white, marble-like countenance of the haughty
                  beauty. At length Arabella paused in her reading, let her book fall listlessly in
                  her lap, and resting her elbow on the table and her forehead in the hollow of her
                  hand, appeared to be absorbed in deep thought. While thus occupied, she heard a
                  gentle tap on the door; and supposing it to be her waiting maid, she said:
               "Come in!"
               Her surprise was great, therefore, when, instead of the person she expected, her
                  brother entered and hurriedly shut the door behind him. There was something
                  frightful in his look and manner; for his features had assumed a ghastly, almost
                  livid hue—his lips were ashy and tremulous, though compressed—his eyes strained,
                  bloodshot and rolling—his step eager, stealthy, frightened and uncertain—his voice
                  harsh, sepulchral and fearful—as, advancing toward her, he glared cautiously but
                  wildly around, and seizing her arm with a grip that drew from her an exclamation
                  of pain, said:
               "You are alone, sister?"
               "To be sure I am, Acton," she replied, starting to her feet in alarm. "In Heaven's
                  name! what has happened, to make you look and act thus, like one demented?"
               Acton did not reply; but he gave her one awful look of agony—such an expression as
                  one would expect to behold on the faces of the damned—and then staggering to a
                  seat, sunk down, buried his face in his hands, and uttered a groan that seemed to
                  wrench his very soul.
               "Great God! what is the meaning of this?" cried Arabella, greatly terrified.
                  "Speak, Acton!—speak! and tell me what has happened?"
               "The earth has become an ocean of blood!" groaned rather than spoke her brother,
                  with his face still hid in his hands.
               "Speak understandingly, or I shall doubt your sanity!"
               "Do! do!" shouted Acton, starting to his feet suddenly, and revealing his face,
                  now awfully distorted and haggard. "Do doubt it, Arabella!—say I'm mad!—swear I'm
                  mad!—for I am mad—mad as the maniacs men cage! My brain—my poor brain burns with
                  fire unquenchable—my eyes see blood—and my ears ring with the words of mortal
                  forgiveness, and the curses of a conscience whose torments shall be forever and
                  ever!"
               "Merciful God!" screamed Arabella: "his reason has deserted him truly!"
               And seizing the cord connecting with a bell in her waiting-maid's room, she was
                  about to ring, when Acton, springing forward, grasped her hand, saying, in a low,
                  eager, emphatic tone:
               "Call no one here, as you value your life!"
               "What means this strange manner of yours?" Arabella now asked, in a clear,
                  distinct, unfaltering tone, fixing her
                  dark eyes steadily upon his, in the way she had understood maniacs were the most
                  completely subdued.
               "It means," he groaned, "that I have a hell in my breast, and a hell in my
                  brain!"
               "Speak! I charge you, Acton!—what have you done? Ha! see!" she added, almost
                  wildly; "there is blood upon your hands! Oh! Acton, my brother—Acton, my
                  brother—for the love of Heaven, relieve me of this suspense, and say you have done
                  no further crime!"
               "Where do you see blood?" cried Acton, fiercely looking wildly upon his hands,
                  which he turned over and over, rubbing each hard against the other. "Where do you
                  see blood, Arabella?" he continued, now holding them out for her examination.
               "I do not see it now—it is gone," she replied.
               "Ha! ha!" he laughed hysterically; "it is gone, is it?—gone from your eyes, but
                  not from mine: I see an ocean of it!"
               At this moment the street bell was rung violently, accompanied by a heavy rap on
                  the door. Acton heard it, and for a moment stood as one petrified with horror.
                  Then bounding forward, he seized both the hands of Arabella, pressed them hard,
                  and cried piteously:
               "Save me! save me! Quick! quick! dear Arabella—save me! They come to drag me to
                  prison!"
               "You are guilty of some foul crime, then?" gasped the other. "That blood—that
                  blood——"
               And sick with horror, she could utter no more, but sunk half fainting, upon a
                  seat.
               "Ha!" cried Acton; "I hear voices. They are coming: they inquire for me. For the
                  love of Heaven and eternal mercy, tell me what I must do, Arabella!"
               The latter started to her feet, gave her brother a strange, peculiar look, in
                  which shame, horror, fear, pity, pride and resolution confusedly mingled—the two
                  last being the last in ascendancy—and then stamping her foot to make her words
                  impressive, exclaimed firmly:
               "Be a man! Seat yourself—be calm—and, if guilty, let not your looks betray you!
                  Sit down!—there is a book—read!"
               "They are coming," faltered Acton, as he tremblingly complied with the
                  instructions of his sister.
               Arabella seated herself and listened. She heard steps upon the stairs, and
                  confused speaking. Presently she could distinguish her father's voice in what
                  seemed angry expostulation.
               "I tell you this is uncivil rudeness, to disturb my house at this time of night,
                  in this manner. Acton has, I presume, been abed and asleep these two hours."
               "We must do our duty, nevertheless," was the reply; "and the sooner we find him,
                  the sooner we leave you. Is this the room?"
               "No, yonder—this is my daughter's," replied Atherton.
               "Go you to that, then," said the other, apparently addressing a third person. "I
                  see a light here and will examine this;" and as he spoke, there came a loud rap on
                  the door.
               "Be calm!" whispered Arabella to her terrified and half-distracted brother; and
                  rising, she walked boldly to the door and threw it open.
               'I beg pardon!" said the officer, as he met the calm, cold, haughty stare of
                  Arabella; "but I am seeking Acton Atherton."
               "Yonder he sits, sir," nodded Arabella, as if displeased at so unceremonious an
                  interruption.
               "It is my unpleasant duty," said the officer, advancing to the side of him he
                  sought, and placing a hand on his
                  shoulder, which fairly quivered at the touch, "to arrest you for the crime of
                  murder!"
               "Murder!" screamed Arabella, staggering against the wall, no longer able to mask
                  her feelings.
               "Murder!" echoed her father, clinging for support to the casing of the door. "Oh
                  God! can this be so?" he groaned. "Oh, Acton, why do you not contradict it? say it
                  is not true?"
               But Acton made no reply; and the other officer entering at this moment, the two
                  bade him come with them, as they had no time for delay. Acton arose, partly reeled
                  forward, and then seeming to gather new courage, passed out of the room without
                  speaking.
               As soon as he was out of sight, Atherton moved slowly forward to a seat, where he
                  sunk down with a groan of mental anguish—a groan wrung from the very soul of one
                  who had made others suffer the like without the slightest compunctions of
                  conscience. And oh! what terrible thoughts were now passing through the mind of
                  this dark man, loaded as he was with hidden crime, but who had thus far appeared
                  to the world at large as the true embodiment of all that was noble and virtuous!
                  And what schemes of proud ambition did he feel were now dashed to the earth by one
                  fell, annihilating blow! His son—in whom so much of the pride, ambition and
                  fondness of even a mercenary father centered—to be dragged to prison, from his own
                  stately roof, and there tried like a common felon—perhaps be condemned and
                  executed for a heinous crime, which he tacitly acknowledged by not openly
                  refuting! And then the disgrace—the lasting disgrace—that would attach to even
                  himself, as the father of a murderer! Would not men shun, rather than court his
                  company? and, with all his wealth to support his dignity, point him out as an
                  object more worthy of commisseration than emulation? And then that wealth—the all
                  he had to rely on—that wealth, so basely gained, and which, by having supported
                  his son in a dissolute career of vice, was already bringing upon him its own
                  retribution—how soon might that be snatched away by the strong arm of right and
                  justice, and he himself be left pennyless, and friendless, to his own guilty
                  thoughts, in the cell of the criminal! Fortune, so ever propitious before, now
                  seemed to frown darkly, and tell him his outwardly brilliant, but inwardly dark
                  career, was about to close in ignominy! In his pride of wealth and position, he
                  had boasted he would make his money save him; but now, since so many of his plans
                  had failed—since those he hated and had striven to crush had escaped his snares
                  and were soaring above him—now he felt how impotent was the boast; and that so far
                  from saving, his ill-gotten gains might prove a mill-stone round his neck to drag
                  him down the dark gulf of perdition! Oh, harrowing to the soul, and black as the
                  midnight cells of Erebus, were those thoughts, as they rapidly chased one another
                  through his heated and half-maddened brain!
               And well mayest thou doubt, and tremble, and lose confidence in thine own dark
                  resources, thou vain, proud, scheming hypocrite! for already the sharp sword of
                  Justice hangs over thy guilty head, soon to fall and sever the last hope that
                  supports thee!
               For some minutes Atherton remained buried in his own reflections; and then
                  starting suddenly to his feet, called Arabella. But all unconscious of the call,
                  or even of her own existence, Arabella, partly resting against the wall, and
                  partly extended on the floor, lay in a death-like swoon.
               Alarmed for his daughter, Atherton now rung the bell and shouted for his
                  domestics. In a short time all the occupants of the house rushed into the chamber,
                  their faces the picture of excitement and dismay; and crowding round the sufferer, some chafed her hands,
                  some her temples, and some applied salts, while others looked on bewildered.
               Perceiving signs of returning animation, Atherton ordered her to be placed in bed,
                  to have the family physician sent for immediately, and all to withdraw save her
                  own waiting-maid. At length Arabella slowly opened her eyes, and giving her father
                  and maid a stare of wonder, suddenly raised herself, and glancing eagerly round
                  the apartment, in a low, eager voice exclaimed:
               "Acton—my brother—where is he?"
               "He has just stepped out," replied her father, making an effort to appear
                  composed.
               Arabella looked at him steadily a moment, with the expression of one endeavoring
                  to recall something that has slipped the memory. Then her features gradually
                  assumed a look of heart-touching anguish; and placing her hands to her throbbing
                  temples, she slowly fell back on the pillow, and murmuring, "Oh, my God! my God!"
                  sunk into a state of apathy bordering on unconsciousness.
               When the physician came and examined her, he shook his head dubiously; and, to the
                  anxious inquiries of her father, replied that hers was a case beyond the science
                  of medicine; and that he could only recommend the most careful nursing, and the
                  avoidance of all topics of an exciting nature.
               "Her reason," he concluded, "totters on its throne, and quiet, for a few days,
                  will either restore her or make her a confirmed maniac."
               On hearing these words, Atherton, without trusting his voice in reply, rushed
                  almost frantically to his own apartment; and locking the door against all
                  intrusion, he there passed an hour of such agonizing wretchedness, as might, in
                  some measure, atone for his guilty career.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE MURDERER AND THE MURDERED.
               NEWS of the horrid murder of poor Ellen Douglas, and the arrest of Acton Atherton
                  for the crime, flew like wild-fire over the city, and created the wildest
                  excitement and consternation—insomuch, that citizens of all professions left their
                  business, and collected in groups at the corners of the streets, on the pleasure
                  grounds, and in all public places, to talk the affair over in low, eager,
                  mysterious tones, express their own opinions, and listen to comments from others.
                  To fan the flame of popular excitement and put money in their own pockets, several
                  of the daily journals issued extras, setting forth the affair in the wildest shape
                  of exaggerated romance, and giving a minute and sickening detail of how they
                     supposed the horrid deed had been perpetrated; and though each
                  differed essentially from every other, yet all were received and swallowed with
                  eager credulity by an excited populace, ready to gulp down any thing that would
                  strain their wonder and feed their morbid passions.
               And even had the press been silent, there was enough of the wild, startling and
                  romantic in the affair, as it flew from ear to ear, to put the city in unusual
                  commotion In the first place, the father of the murderer, as a princely
                  millionaire, was generally known by reputation, if not personally; and the
                  murderer himself had moved a bright particular star in the highest circles of
                  aristocracy and fashion. Connected with this, the story at once got abroad of how he had treacherously seduced
                  poor Ellen, (who was now represented as all that was once lovely, pure, amiable
                  and high-minded,) by a sham marriage; and that being on the point of alliance with
                  one of the oldest, most respectable and opulent families in the city, and fearful
                  of exposure, he had sought to hide his disgrace with the most heinous and damning
                  of crimes. This the reader knows was not strictly correct—as Acton was aware the
                  exposure he so much dreaded had taken place—but of this the mass was ignorant, and
                  consequently surmised as nearly correct as the public generally does in such
                  cases. From the majority of the citizens, or those inferior to him in point of
                  wealth, Acton was destined to receive no sympathy—but, on the contrary, their most
                  bitter curses; and so excited were the vindictive passions of the lower orders,
                  that but for a doubly strong and well-armed police, they would have mobbed the
                  Tombs, broken into his cell, and dragged him forth, a victim to their wild fury.
                  As it was, not only Centre street, but all the avenues leading to the Tombs, were
                  blocked up at an early hour in the morning, by a furious multitude, eager to be
                  present at his examination, or gain the first intelligence of what was taking
                  place. Even the house of Madame Costellan was surrounded by a dense mob, of both
                  sexes, all ages and colors—drawn thither by that same vile curiosity which leads
                  persons to witness an execution—and in consequence, a strong body of police was
                  required to be in constant attendance throughout the day, to protect the premises
                  and guard the body of the deceased.
               It is not our intention to give a detail of either the examination or trial of
                  Acton Atherton, as our space is limited, and other matters, more important to our
                  purpose, must be brought forward ere we close. Let it suffice, then, that the
                  former occupied two sittings of the magistrate, and that a large array of
                  witnesses were summoned before the court, whose evidence, collectively, was
                  sufficient to cause the prisoner to be indicted for willful murder. The Grand
                  Jury, too, returned a true bill; and his not being a bailable case, Acton was
                  remanded to prison, to take his trial at the spring term of the court of Oyer and
                  Terminer.
               During the prisoner's examination, his half distracted father was present, and
                  exerted his wealthy influence to the utmost to get him clear; but this was a case
                  of too strong circumstantial evidence for his purpose; and he was forced to retire
                  from the field—which he did, cursing his own natal hour and the impotence of his
                  ill-gotten gains. It was the last desperate struggle in his wicked career, made on
                  the very verge of his own terrible overthrow and ruin, of which more anon.
               Meantime, Edgar and his friends came forward and offered their services to consign
                  to dust the mortal remains of the poor, ill-fated Ellen Douglas. Permission being
                  granted by the authorities, they set about their mournful task; but so great was
                  the excitement, and the desire, excited by curiosity, of hundreds of strangers to
                  be present, that the police were forced to interfere, and it was judged advisable
                  to bury her in the night—which was finally done—Edgar and Virginia accompanying
                  the deceased as chief mourners, and dropping a tear upon her humble grave, at the
                  recollection of her many kindnesses to them and the thought of her awful and
                  untimely fate.
               It was a solemn scene, to stand, with flaming torches, in the dead hours of night,
                  around the open grave of this child of sorrow, cut down in the bloom of life, and
                  behold her coffin lowered into the cold, damp earth, with which its frail tenant
                  soon must mingle, dust to dust, to come forth never more till the sound of the
                  Last Trump should summon it to another life and final judgment; and remember,
                  withal, that she, erewhile, was as pure, and lovely, and happy as any present; and, but for one fatal error,
                  less her fault, perhaps, than her misfortune, might even now be exulting in life,
                  and pride, and hope, and joy—the admired and loved, extolled and honored of a wide
                  and brilliant circle of light-hearted friends. It was a sad and dismal scene, and
                  one calculated to impress itself on the beholder so deeply, that time, with all
                  its events and changing circumstances, might never be able to erase it from the
                  mind.
               "Alas!" sighed Morton, as, with his wife on one hand and his daughter on the
                  other, he stood on the verge of Ellen's last earthly home, and heard the hollow
                  sound of the earth rattling on her coffin: "Alas! what a creature is man!—here
                  to-day and gone to-morrow—now in the joy, pride and exultation of happy life—now
                  in the cold, dark embrace of death, with weeping friends around, taking the last
                  parting look of all that was once so dear to them. How wise is the Great Infinite,
                  in shutting from us al' knowledge of the future, that we may the better live in
                  and enjoy the present—or, with the shining shield of hope for our defence, do
                  battle bravely against the 'ills we have.' Poor Ellen!—poor, ill-fated, untimely
                  Ellen Douglas!—child of misfortune, 'more sinned against than sinning'—little
                  could she dream, in the flowery days of happy youth that her first years of
                  blooming maturity would find her thus! Oh! what a powerful and painful lesson, to
                  guard us all, my friends, against the first fatal step from virtue and honor! She
                  is gone, and thus we bury her forever from our sight, trusting in God's mercy she
                  finds that happiness beyond the grave which sinful earth denied her. God help us
                  all!—we know not whose turn it next may be to follow her! Let us go;" and slowly
                  the small procession moved away and silently departed to their several homes.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               HYPOCRISY AND CRIME.
               IT was the fourth day from the arrest of his son for his last great crime, that
                  Oliver Atherton sat beside the bed of his daughter, holding one of her hands in
                  his, and gazing upon her features—now white as the driven snow, but seemingly
                  composed—his own countenance haggard, and pale, and full of sorrow and
                  anguish.
               "And how do you feel to-day, my child?" he asked, with a tenderness hitherto
                  foreign to his nature.
               "Better, I thank you, father," was the low, calm reply.
               "I am rejoiced to hear it, Arabella; for since Acton is gone, you are my only
                  solace."
               "O, I am so happy to know he came off clear of the foul charge; for I was fearful
                  he had been led, in the heat of passion, to do some rash act; and when the officer
                  came to arrest him, I thought my brain would consume and fly from me, it felt so
                  heated and light. But where think you he has gone, father?"
               "I do not know," replied the other, turning away his head to conceal his
                  emotion—not so much for the deception he was practising, as for the deep regret
                  that the story he had told his daughter could not be verified and Acton be at
                  liberty.
               "But he will come back soon, father?"
               "I trust so, Arabella; though the excitement is still so great, on the account of
                  even suspicion attaching itself to him,
                  that for the present perhaps he had better remain away."
               At this moment the negro Jeff entered the room, and handed Atherton a card.
               "Where is he?" asked the latter, as he glanced at the name.
               "In de parlor, Massa."
               "I will be down directly. Or stay—perhaps I had better invite him up here. It is
                  our clergyman, Arabella—the Rev. Stephen Parkhurst."
               "Show him up," answered Arabella—"I shall be pleased to see him."
               "I will do it myself," said Atherton to the negro; and he arose and left the
                  room.
               In a few minutes he returned, in company with the reverend gentleman, a man of
                  middle age, with gray hair, and a countenance somewhat remarkable for its
                  placidity, and a sweet, benevolent smile which lingered over it. His appearance
                  was very prepossessing, for his every look showed you he was at heart what he
                  openly professed to be, a true Christian. He greeted Arabella warmly and kindly,
                  and immediately entered into a conversation with her, which lasted some quarter of
                  an hour, during which he gently urged upon her the importance of her putting her
                  trust in One who was able to support her through every and all trials that she
                  might, in the course of human events, be called upon to undergo.
               "When most sorely afflicted," he said, in conclusion, "we should remember we are
                  chastened by the hand of God for some wise purpose; and instead of weakening by
                  doubt, we should rather strengthen our reliance by faith, that all is done for the
                  best; and that He, in His mercy, will either safely deliver us from adversity in
                  this life, or, what is of still more importance, bear us safely over the dark
                  'valley of the shadow of death.' It is in our hours of trouble, when every thing
                  seems conspiring to crush us, that we most feel the need of Divine aid; and I
                  trust, my daughter, whatever may be your afflictions—and God only knoweth what
                  they will be—you will rely solely upon Him, and come out in the end purified and
                  sanctified, so as by fire, and fitted for that glorious Mansion beyond the shores
                  of time, which he has prepared for all who love Him and keep His
                  commandments."
               Saying this, Mr. Parkhurst turned to the father of Arabella, and drawing him
                  aside, said, in a tone too low to reach the ears of the invalid:
               "My dear brother, I grieve to see you so sorely distressed. It is a terrible thing
                  to have a beloved son, in whom the hopes of a fond father's heart are centered,
                  arraigned at the solemn bar of man for a crime that makes humanity shudder; and
                  deeply, from my very heart, do I sympathise with you in your awful affliction. But
                  God alone, my brother, knoweth what is best; and I humbly pray He will send you
                  Christian fortitude sufficient to carry you through all your terrible trials!"
               The scheming man of wealth groaned.
               "It is very hard to bear up, my dear brother," pursued the divine, in a consoling
                  tone, "when we see those we love snatched away from us by some fortuitous
                  circumstance; but I humbly trust, in this, your trying hour, you will bring
                  religion to your aid, and endeavor, through much prayer, to become reconciled to
                  God's wise dispensation."
               Again the hypocrite groaned; and after looking upon him compassionately, a moment,
                  the other went on:
               "But with you, my brother, it is different from those of the world, who have, in
                  similar afflictions, no hope to depend on. You, I trust, are a Christian, and have
                  the holy courage of those who passed through martyrdom unflinching. You have professed the holy religion
                  of Jesus Christ—"
               "No more—no more!" interrupted Atherton with a groan, and a shudder that shook his
                  whole frame; and covering his face with his hands, he kept it some moments
                  concealed from the other.
               How did his hypocrisy stand him now? Where was the Christian resignation he had
                  openly professed? Where the Christian hope on which he should have been relying?
                  How stood his conscience in this trying moment? Was it perfectly at ease—or did he
                  feel its remorseful stings?
               But Oliver Atherton was not yet changed at heart. His fears of the storm already
                  gathered over him, and about to burst in fury, alone made him quail. Dissimulation
                  was in his nature yet. It was his evil genius, which ever stood ready to prompt
                  him wrongly. And it came to his aid now; for withdrawing his hands, he continued,
                  meekly:
               "My dear brother Parkhurst, what you have said is true. There is consolation for
                  those who have proper faith in Divine mercy; but, at the same time, I must own,
                  perforce, I am 'of the earth earthy,' and in my worldly moments have doubtless
                  committed many errors, for which I must atone by sincere repentance. Still I will
                  endeavor not to despair in this trying hour; but rely upon the mercy of Him whom I
                  have openly professed to serve; and trust, as you say, that I am chastened for a
                  wise purpose."
               "We all have our errors," returned the other, "and must needs have our moments of
                  repentance; but it truly rejoices my soul to see you bear up with so much
                  Christian courage."
               He was on the point of proceeding further; but the opening of the door, and the
                  entrance of the negro in haste, with an anxious look on his countenance,
                  interrupted him. Advancing at once to Atherton, the black whispered a few words in
                  his ear. The other started, and turned readly pale. Then rising from his seat, in
                  some trepidation, he asked to be excused a few moments, and quitted the room,
                  followed by the black. Some five or ten minutes elapsed, when the negro returned
                  and whispered in the ear of the divine; who immediately arose, and saying to
                  Arabella he would presently return, followed the messenger down stairs. In the
                  parlor he found the host, pacing to and fro, with anxious looks and a trembling
                  step; while at a little distance were seated two coarsely habited individuals, who
                  seemed carelessly surveying the gorgeous furniture of the apartment and the
                  splendid paintings adorning the walls.
               "My dear brother," spoke Atherton, in an agitated voice, drawing the clergyman
                  aside, "misfortune, it seems, never comes alone. I am in trouble. By what mistake,
                  or by what foul means, I know not, but I now stand arrested for the startling
                  crime of forgery, and must perforce away at once and answer to the calumnious
                  charge."
               "For forgery, say you, my dear brother?" exclaimed the other, in astonishment.
               "Even so."
               "But you are innocent?"
               "As you are, my worthy friend. I do not understand it. It is, probably, some base
                  conspiracy of my enemies, if I have any—which I am not aware of—to seize me at a
                  time when public opinion, on account of this dreadful affair of my son, is ready
                  to go against me; and so blast my reputation, and crush me, if not with proof, at
                  least with vile suspicion, which is but little better. But I am innocent, and
                  shall in the end come out triumphant—though, as I said before, I must away now and
                  answer to the charge. Oh God!" he groaned, "what is to come next?"
               "This is very unfortunate," rejoined the clergyman, looking hard at the other, "and very mysterious. I
                  am all bewilderment. What is the world coming to, surely, when man arrests and
                  drags to prison his fellow man for a crime of which he is innocent! But fear not,
                  my brother! Rely upon the strong arm of Jehovah, and you shall have justice done
                  you."
               The hypocrite groaned again—perhaps at the thought that the last words of the
                  other might be verified, and that he would have justice done him, which at present
                  was what he most feared.
               "Come," spoke up one of the officers, "we can't delay any longer."
               "A moment," rejoined Atherton; and then turning to Mr. Parkhurst, he continued:
                  "But poor Arabella!—the news of this would kill her. You must not let her know the
                  real state of the case, till it becomes unavoidable; but tell her I have been
                  called away on a matter of great moment, and you know not how soon I may return.
                  This you can do, without making a false statement, which of course I do not
                  require nor expect. All knowledge of Acton must also be kept from her, till she is
                  fully recovered; and, most important of all, my dear friend and brother, (and
                  Atherton grasped the clergyman's hand, looked earnestly and pleadingly into his
                  eyes, while his voice became low, and tremulous, and very pathetic,) whatever may
                  happen—and Heaven only knows what will—should, in fact, my enemies triumph, and I
                  not be able to return—you will be kind to my daughter?—in a word, you will be a
                  father to her, my brother?"
               "I will," replied the other, solemnly, while tears of sympathy started to his
                  eyes: "I will. But, surely, you do not apprehend—"
               "Say no more!" interrupted Atherton, in an agony of mind that drew cold drops of
                  perspiration to his forehead. "Say no more! Be kind to Arabella! God bless you!
                  Farewell!" and giving the clergyman another hearty grip of the hand, he turned
                  abruptly away, and signified to the officers he was ready to depart.
               With a firm step, and a countenance now composed and serene—though within the
                  passion-fires were wildly con suming and ready to explode, like those in the
                  bowels of the earth just prior to a terrible eruption—Atherton calmly led the way
                  to a carriage in waiting, which he entered with the officers, and was driven away,
                  to take his preliminary trial before a magistrate for one of the boldest and most
                  ingeniously executed forgeries on record.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE FORGERY.
               WHEN Oliver Atherton appeared before Alderman Croly and beheld the parties
                  present, he became so violently agitated that it was only by a great effort he
                  prevented himself from sinking to the ground. What he saw at a glance, told him
                  too well that his long guilty career had now come to a frightful terminus. Before
                  him, apparently awaiting his arrival to complete their triumph, stood Morton, and
                  Dudley, and Edgar, and, most dreaded of all, with a sardonic grin on his ugly
                  features, his own vile tool, the treacherous Nathan Wesley.
               To understand the nefarious scheme of which Atherton was the author, it will be
                  necessary for us to give in substance Wesley's testimony. Being put under oath,
                  with the understanding that he was to be considered as state's evidence, and
                  consequently exonerated in the eyes of the law for his own part in the dark
                  transaction, he told his story in such a bold, unhesitating, straight-forward
                  manner, that all present felt convinced, no matter what had been the tenor of his
                  life heretofore, he now at least spoke the truth.
               He began by stating that some five years previous, mentioning the exact date, the
                  accused had found him at a time when, driven nearly to desperation by poverty, he
                  was ripe for almost any scheme that would put money in his empty pockets; and had
                  commenced by asking him what he would do to be rich, and ended by unfolding to him
                  a dark plot, and offering him a fortune if he would venture to become one of the
                  principal actors therein. This plot was no other than forging or altering a will
                  of the defendant's brother-in law, Ethan Courtly, who was about to set sail for
                  Europe, from whence it was his (Atherton's) intention he should never return
                  alive. The will, in the first place, was to be drawn up in due form by a lawyer;
                  and then, to prevent the possibility of detection, was to be copied entire by
                  Wesley, and the copy be presented to the principal and witnesses for signing. This
                  was accordingly done; when Atherton, taking possession of it, for the purpose, as
                  he said, of having it recorded, passed it over to Wesley for alteration. This
                  alteration consisted in extracting, by means of a chemical process, such portions
                  of the will as bestowed the bulk of the property upon the wife and heirs of the
                  deceased, and supplying the place thereof with such language as would make
                  Atherton the principal inheritor.
               This being effected in a manner almost certain to escape detection—from the fact
                  of the hand-writing of both the alteration and original being the same—Atherton,
                  the better to blind all parties, had the boldness to have the forgery recorded the
                  day previous to the embarkation of Ethan Courtly. Of this vile transaction, Wesley
                  stated, in conclusion, there was only one other who had any knowledge. This was
                  the lawyer who drew up the original will, and who, having by chance overheard a
                  private conference between the witness and the accused, and being discovered ere
                  the important secret had escaped his possession, soon after mysteriously
                  disappeared.
               "In other words he was murdered, I suppose?" said the counsel for defence.
               Wesley shuddered and turned pale, as he replied:
               "I didn't say that."
               
               "No, but your language implied as much."
               "So please your Honor, and you gentlemen," said Atherton, with a gleam of malice
                  on his countenance, "I do here boldly accuse Nathan Wesley of committing most foul
                  murder, and beg you will have him arrested forthwith."
               "One case at a time," replied the magistrate.
               "As matters are, I demand that my client be liberated at once!" rejoined the
                  lawyer. "Surely your Honor cannot think of detaining him on the flimsy evidence of
                  a witness who has already owned to the commission of a capital offence?"
               "It's a lie!" cried Wesley, much excited. "I haven't owned to any such thing; and
                  I'll be——if I do, either!"
               "Silence, sir!" exclaimed the magistrate; "and when you speak again, make use of
                  more respectful language, or I will have you imprisoned for contempt of court. Is
                  there any other evidence to be brought forward touching this forgery?"
               "I will bring evidence to impeach the present witness," replied the counsel of
                  Atherton.
               "All in good time, my friend," rejoined Morton, with marked emphasis, and a
                  peculiar glance of deep meaning toward the other. "Before proceeding further, your
                  Honor, I would have an officer despatched for this will, that we may examine it
                  and compare it with the description given by the witness."
               "It shall be done," replied Alderman Croly; and he beckoned to an officer in
                  attendance, with whom he held some conversation, in a tone too low for the others
                  to hear.
               At this the features of Atherton assumed a sickly, cadaverous appearance of
                  despair; while the countenance of Wesley, and more especially his small black
                  eyes, displayed a look of malicious triumph.
               "You'll find it," said the latter, "in a private drawer of the escritoire, which
                  stands in the library."
               The officer soon after passed out of the room; but ere he did so, Morton whispered
                  a few words in his ear; and then resuming a seat before a table, commenced
                  over-looking some manuscripts. For a moment deep silence prevailed; and the
                  magistrate was on the point of inquiring if any more witnesses for the prosecution
                  were to appear, when the door slowly opened, and a pale, emaciated, ghostly figure
                  stood in the entrance, and rolled his protruding and glassy-looking eyes steadily
                  over those present, until they fell upon Wesley, where for a time they remained
                  stationary, with a look well calculated to freeze the blood of one given to
                  believe in the supernatural.
               And most astonishing was its effect upon Wesley in the present instance—insomuch
                  that every eye became fixed upon him. On the first appearance of this ghostly
                  object, the attorney looked towards it with a careless, indifferent air. Then he
                  slightly started, and his features began to pale. Then his eyes enlarged and
                  protruded, his nostrils expanded, and his lower jaw slightly dropped ajar. But it
                  was not till the cold, glassy, unearthly-looking eyes of the figure fastened upon
                  his, that his terror reached its height. Then did he become a frightful picture.
                  With his hand raised in an attitude of horror—his eyes apparently starting from
                  his head—his hair fairly standing on end—his mouth wide open—his breath
                  suspended—every feature of his countenance distorted with fright and rigid as
                  marble—with cold drops of perspiration pressing through the pores of his skin, and
                  a slight tremor running through his frame—he remained, for a brief time, the
                  perfect embodiment ment of guilty fear.
                  At length he found his voice, and fairly shrieked:
               "Man or devil—living or dead—of earth, heaven, or hell—I'll speak to you! Who are
                  you?"
               "Whom you cast into the sea," replied the apparition, in a deep, hollow,
                  sepulchral voice.
               "Great God!" shouted Wesley, springing up frantically: "can the sea give up its
                  dead before its time? Have you come to drag me to judgment?"
               "Do you own to the horrid deed?" was the sepulchral rejoinder.
               "Yes! to any thing—so you'll quit my sight forever! Hell can't have more terrors,
                  and I'd rather be hung than see your ghost again."
               "Then behold me your accuser in the living flesh," replied the figure, advancing
                  into the room; "and thine above all others, thou man of crime!" he added, turning
                  to Atherton, who was by this time almost as much a picture of horror and dismay as
                  Wesley himself.
               "This, your Honor," said Morton, addressing the magistrate, who was all amazement,
                  "is another witness whom I have taken the liberty to introduce in this manner, for
                  the purpose of observing what effect it would have upon the guilty. This, sir, is
                  Alanson Davis, the lawyer who drew up the original will of Ethan Courtly."
               The reader of course has not forgotten the invalid, whom Edgar found and had
                  conveyed to the hospital, although for some time he has been apparently
                  overlooked. His malady, as the physician stated it would be, was for some days
                  very severe, so much so that his life was despaired of. But good medical
                  attendance and careful nursing turned the important crisis in his favor, and from
                  that moment he began to amend even more rapidly than was anticipated. This was
                  doubtless much owing to his strength of will and desire to be abroad. So fast did
                  he recover, that just previous to the murder of Ellen, Morton and Edgar were
                  admitted to see him, when he was able to state concisely what he knew of the
                  forgery of Atherton. This, combined with Wesley's disclosure, which he had made on
                  the morning he was closeted with the lawyer, was evidence sufficient to proceed
                  against the hypocrite; and Morton had only delayed making the arrest till Davis
                  was able to leave the hospital.
               With this explanation we will again proceed.
               As soon as Wesley had sufficiently recovered from his fright to understand that
                  Alanson Davis stood before him in propria
                     persona, his look of fear changed to one of joy; and springing
                  forward, ere the other was aware of his purpose, he threw his arms around him and
                  fairly shouted:
               "Imprison me—hang me—do what you will with me—I don't care for consequences now;
                  for though I'm a villain, I'm no murderer; and since I've told all I know of my
                  dark deeds, which he (pointing to Atherton) put me up to, I've got an easy
                  conscience again, which I wouldn't exchange for the wealth of the Indies. O, sir!
                  (to Davis) if you only knew how I've been troubled day and night in thinking over
                  what I did to you, you'd may be have some compassion. But you don't know any thing
                  of it; and can't, till you do something like it yourself; and so I don't expect
                  any leniency, though I throw myself upon your mercy."
               His plain, common-place, earnest, impetuous words, produced an effect upon Davis,
                  which, in all probability, a strain of polished eloquence would not have done. It
                  showed that the attorney was sincere in his repentance, and not, as he had
                  expected to find him, totally depraved. There was the germ of something better in
                  his nature than the fruits had thus far given evidence of; and being a man more ready to forgive an injury, than
                  do a wrong himself Davis thus replied:
               "Far be it from me to press too hard a repentant man. What I have suffered through
                  your misdeeds, though, God and myself only know. But as I hope to be forgiven for
                  my own errors, I am willing to forgive those of another when I can justly do so.
                  You, Nathan Wesley, have been a bad man—a man of guilt and crime! But as,
                  unknowing of my existence, you have taken the preliminary steps to bring the
                  guilty prompter of all (here he glanced at Atherton, who was grinding his teeth in
                  rage and despair) to punishment, I will take it as evidence you intend to become a
                  better man. Only convince me, by subsequent acts, that your repentance is sincere,
                  and I solemnly promise never to bring an accusation against you."
               "You do?" cried Wesley, with a look of ecstatic delight. "Well, if I don't do it,
                  then, may I be hung higher than Haman, and the carrion-eaters tear off my vile
                  flesh piece by piece."
               The statement which Davis made, under oath, before the magistrate, in substance
                  confirmed the evidence of Wesley. But there were some dark matters, which his own
                  inclination and the promise he had made to the latter, forbade him to touch upon,
                  which we hasten to lay before the reader. It has been said that Davis overheard a
                  conversation between Atherton and Wesley, which placed them both in his power. It
                  occurred in this wise: Atherton had employed Davis to draw up a will for Courtly,
                  in the presence of the latter; and as soon as it was done, he (Atherton) had taken
                  possession of it; and, under the pretext that proper witnesses were wanting, had
                  delayed its being signed at the time; but had requested the lawyer to call again
                  at Courtly's office at a certain hour after nightfall. Davis, mistaking the hour,
                  called previous to the time mentioned; and finding the door ajar, and no light
                  within, entered, and took a seat to await the parties. Soon after Wesley and
                  Atherton came in together; and, locking the door, proceeded to discuss their plan
                  of operation; from which it appeared that a copy of the will, drawn up by Davis,
                  had just been made by Wesley, and was to be presented to Courtly for signing
                  previous to the appearance of Davis, who was to be met by Atherton and informed
                  that Courtly had altered his mind in regard to the original instrument, and had
                  had another drawn up since that suited his purpose better. By this means the
                  lawyer was to be deceived in regard to the whole affair, and his testimony
                  rendered worthless in case the will should ever have a judicial investigation.
               Having at last arranged every thing to his satisfaction, concerning the alteration
                  of the will, and how Courtly was to be prevented from returning, &c., Atherton
                  struck a light, and, to his horror and dismay, discovered that his dark secret was
                  in the possession of one who would, in case he escaped, be sure to betray him.
                  Great evils require powerful remedies; and a cold calculating man of crime is in
                  general prepared for all emergencies. It was so in the present instance; for
                  drawing a pistol, Atherton placed it to the head of the lawyer, threatening his
                  life if he stirred or made the least noise; and then, in a tone too low for the
                  latter to overhear, held a hurried conference with Wesley. This over, the scheming
                  man turned to Davis, and informed him his choice lay between instant death and his
                  secret and sudden departure from the country.
               "There is a vessel," he said, "outward bound, which sails to-morrow morning at
                  daylight. If you will consent to be blindfolded and conducted on board of her,
                  swearing solemnly to keep our secret till a thousand miles are between us, you shall have life, liberty and a
                  fortune. Refuse this, and a speedy death is yours!"
               Davis was not long in deciding, and of course chose the least of the two evils. To
                  be brief, a bandage was instantly passed around his eyes; and completely muffled
                  in a cloak, with the point of a dagger resting on his heart, and the assurance
                  that an attempt to call for aid would cause it to be buried to the hilt, he was
                  escorted by Atherton and Wesley to the water, where, a skiff being procured, he
                  was placed in it, and rowed away by the latter, while the former returned to
                  town.
               For a couple of hours he was thus borne along the waters, until the noise of the
                  city had died away in the distance, and the steady strokes of the oarsman, and the
                  rippling of the light billows against the boat, were the only sounds audible.
                  Suddenly the oars ceased; and thinking himself near the vessel, Davis was on the
                  point of addressing Wesley, when the latter careened the boat, and with a vigorous
                  shove plunged him headlong into the water. As he fell, the bandage slipped off,
                  and he could just see the other rowing rapidly away, and the lights of the town
                  far in the distance. He called to Wesley, and begged him, for the love of Heaven,
                  not to leave him thus to die—but of course his entreaties were in vain. Being a
                  good swimmer, Davis now struck out boldly for a small island about a mile to
                  leeward; but ere he made two-thirds of the distance, he found his strength failing
                  him rapidly. Fortunately, he espied a log floating near, which he managed to gain
                  in a state of great exhaustion; and clinging to this he floated away on the
                  current, which was setting hard toward the open sea. In this manner he passed the
                  night, and the next morning found himself at least ten miles from land, and still
                  floating seaward.
               But it is not our design to detail his adventures, which of themselves would fill
                  a volume. Suffice, then, that ere another night set in, he was picked up in a
                  state bordering on unconsciousness, by a vessel bound on a trading voyage to the
                  coast of Africa. This vessel was afterwards wrecked on that coast, and all aboard
                  of her, save Davis and another, perished. These latter might as well have been
                  dead; for they were made prisoners by the blacks, and subjected to the most brutal
                  treatment. In fact, the companion of Davis was afterwards murdered before his
                  eyes, and his own life only preserved by a whim of the chief of the tribe, who
                  fancied it would become his dignity to have a white slave.
               In this captivity Davis remained for three years, when he effected his escape, and
                  fortunately got on board a vessel bound for the Indies. Thence he sailed to
                  Liverpool; and finally, after a great many perils and vicissitudes, landed in New
                  York, where, being seized with a fever and thrust out of doors, he was found by
                  Edgar as previously related.
               On examination of the Courtly will, the alterations mentioned by Wesley were
                  readily discovered; and notwithstanding the original writing had been extracted in
                  the manner stated, still, on very close inspection, here and there a word, or a
                  part of a word, faintly traced, could be detected. This, combined with the
                  testimony of Davis and Wesley, was overwhelming evidence against Atherton, and he
                  was accordingly committed to the Tombs to take his trial at the next sitting of
                  the criminal court.
               Incarcerated in the gloomy cell of a prison; alone with his own guilty thoughts;
                  abandoned by all who had once fawned upon and flattered him; his previous deeds
                  viewed alike with horror and contempt by the virtuous; his reputation and
                  prospects in life blasted forever; his own children withdrawn from him by the
                  strong hand of fate—the one a murderer,
                  within the same strong walls that barred his own liberty, and about, it might be,
                  to end his career on the gallows—the other a poor invalid, now left to the
                  protection of strangers, perchance to finish her days in a mad-house; without a
                  single hope to cheer the heavy hours that now rolled by more tardily than ever
                  years had done before; the pale, thin spectre of his deeply wronged and almost
                  murdered sister continually before his mental vision: with all this to oppress
                  him, Atherton now gave himself up to the wildest despair, a thousand times wished
                  he never had been born, and would have put an end to his own existence, but that
                  his guilty conscience trembled at the solemn thought of what might be his final
                  doom in the great Hereafter.
               Now it was he saw and felt the fickle-heartedness of worldly friends—of those who
                  fawn upon and hang around the rich while fortune is propitious, as the bee clings
                  to the flower till its honey-sweets are exhausted—for of all his numerous
                  acquaintances, including those he had looked upon as intimate associates, only
                  some two or three called upon him in prison; and these, with the exception of one,
                  more apparently for curiosity's than friendship's sake.
               The exception was the Rev. Mr. Parkhurst, the man of all others Atherton most
                  wished yet dreaded to behold The clergyman, good soul, was deeply grieved; and
                  though he was now aware he had been grossly deceived in the prisoner—whom he now
                  looked upon as a guilty being, who, while enacting the vilest deeds, had doubly
                  perilled his soul by masking all under the semblance of holy religion—still his
                  was a Christian spirit to overlook and forgive, and humbly hope and pray to see
                  the tree give forth better fruits. He still urged upon Atherton the importance of
                  faith in God, and reliance upon His mercy for pardon of his many sins and
                  transgressions, and begged him to seek that consolation solation in sincere
                  repentance, which now, in every other manner, would be denied him.
               Atherton listened to him through, with what patience his harassed mind would
                  allow; and then, without attempting dissimulation again, abruptly changed the
                  subject to his daughter, the one which now bore the hardest upon his half
                  distracted senses. But it was little consolation he received from the answers of
                  the clergyman. Arabella had heard of her father's arrest, and that her brother was
                  still a prisoner; and the effect had been to completely upset her reason. She was
                  now an unconscious guest of Mr. Parkhurst; who, having no children of his own,
                  promised to look faithfully to her welfare; and, in the event of her mind becoming
                  sane, would, with her consent, adopt and make her heir to the little he
                  possessed.
               In the course of a month from his arrest, Oliver Atherton was arraigned at the bar
                  of justice to take his trial for the crime of forgery. Meantime a great sensation
                  had been caused throughout the city and country, and the press in all quarters of
                  the Union, and even in Europe, was teeming with details of the singular affair of
                  both father and son, from the highest circles of aristocracy and fashion, being
                  incarcerated in the same prison, at the same time, for two such flagrant outrages
                  against the law of God and man.
               As the day of trial drew near, great efforts were made, by interested persons, to
                  get the witnesses for the prosecution out of the way, by heavy bribes and threats
                  of assassination—but all to no purpose. Both Wesley and Davis appeared, and amid a
                  court-room crowded almost to suffocation—while thousands without were forced to
                  depart with their curiosity unsatisfied—gave in their testimony. The trial was not
                  a long one; for the evidence was direct and positive—the will showed for
                  itself—the prosecution summed up
                  briefly—and though the counsel for the prisoner attempted to impeach the witnesses
                  and made a labored defence, yet so rapidly was all carried through, that on the
                  second day the judge gave his charge to the jury, who retired for half an hour,
                  and brought in a verdict of "Guilty."
               The prisoner, pale, emaciated, and breathless with fearful excitement, heard the
                  awful word of condemnation, sunk down with a groan of agony that for a time seemed
                  to deprive him of consciousness.
               The judge, after proper deliberation, proceeded to make some very appropriate
                  remarks on the heinousness of his crime; and winding up with the observation that
                  he considered it a very aggravated case, sentenced Oliver Atherton to fifteen
                  years hard labor in the state-prison. He was then, more dead than alive, remanded
                  to his cell, to await his turn to be taken hence to serve out his term of sentence
                  among the vilest of criminals.
               Before he left the city, the forger requested an interview with his daughter; who
                  had, meantime, regained her reason, but was still in feeble health. Arabella, more
                  like a specter than her former self, accompanied by the Rev. Mr. Parkhurst—who had
                  done all in his power to restore her, and soften, by godly counsel, her
                  overwhelming affliction—waited upon him in prison, where, for an hour, father and
                  daughter were closeted together. When Arabella came forth, it was with a tottering
                  step; and being conducted to a carriage, she was conveyed to her present home, and
                  again placed in bed, where she remained, her spirit hovering on the verge of
                  eternity for a period of several weeks.
               Atherton was also, at his own request, granted a parting interview with his guilty
                  son; and when the jailor came in to separate them, he found both lying upon the
                  floor and locked in each other's arms. They finally parted as two beings who
                  fondly love, but expect never to behold each other again in mortal life; and the
                  separation was such, that, hardened as he was in all manner of prison scenes, the
                  jailor could not restrain a tear of pity at the awful doom they had justly drawn
                  down upon themselves.
               The next morning, heavily ironed, like a common felon, the once proud, courted,
                  opulent and philanthropic, but hypocritical and guilty Oliver Atherton, was borne
                  from the city, a condemned criminal, to expiate, according to the law he had
                  violated, his daring offense against the welfare of community.
               Further, for the present, we shall follow him not, but leave him to justice and
                  his fate.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE LOVERS.
               IT was just after the close of the trial of her uncle, by which the law had
                  decided that the immense possessions of her father had been wrongfully withheld
                  from herself and brother, and when she had in a manner exchanged her humble state
                  of poverty and dependance for that of a brilliant heiress of great wealth, and
                  knew that her hand would now be eagerly sought for by thousands, who, a few weeks
                  previous, would have looked upon her with pity and contempt—it was just at this
                  period, we say, when she had every inducement to be vain and proud, had vanity or
                  pride formed a part of her nature—that Virginia Courtly, still an honored guest of
                  the Mortons, who would not listen to aught touching her departure, sat alone with
                  Dudley, in the splendid parlor of the lawyer's elegant mansion, her fair features
                  very pale, and her soft blue eyes fixed with a look of earnest surprise upon the
                  one by her side, as if he had just uttered a sentence whose meaning she did not
                  distinctly comprehend. The eyes of Dudley were looking tenderly into hers; but
                  there was a crimson hue on his cheek, a tremor in his voice, and an embarrassment
                  in his manner, as he said:
               "Yes, Virginia, I repeat, that for your sake and that of your noble brother, I am
                  rejoiced to know you both will soon come into possession of an immense fortune;
                  but still it makes me rather sad than otherwise to think of it."
               "And wherefore, Mr. Dudley, should you be sad?"
               "Why, with wealth, you know, come great expectations; and it sometimes happens,
                  that those who have been friends in poverty, suddenly become estranged when
                  fortune raises one above the other."
               "Why, surely, you cannot so wrong me, as to suppose the mere acquisition of wealth
                  will alter my deep feelings of friendship for you?"
               "Do not say wrong you, Virginia, (and his voice faltered to pathetic tenderness,)
                  for I would not wrong you for the world! Neither can I conscientiously say I think
                  your friendship will be less sincere and ardent, when you have become the heiress
                  of half a million, than at this present moment; but, Virginia, (and his tone
                  became low and tremulous,) you are aware, doubtless, there are sometimes
                  aspirations in the heart that reach beyond mere friendship, and deepen into the
                  stronger and holier sentiment of love; and when this is the case, where there is a
                  great disparity of position, he or she who stands the lowest in the scale, can
                  only hope tremulously, or with a hope full of doubt, and fear, and bordering on
                  despair."
               As he spoke, with his eyes fixed intently upon her, the gaze of Virginia sunk
                  modestly to the ground, her features flushed and paled alternately, and her
                  respiration became somewhat irregular, showing that his words had a power of
                  meaning beyond what they clearly expressed. After looking at her a moment, Dudley,
                  in a low, tender tone, resumed:
               "There was a time, Virginia—ere in my mind there came a foretokening of the events
                  which have since transpired, and by which, as every one can foretell, you are
                  destined to take an exalted position in society—when I gazed upon you with a
                  delight, a rapture, which, though I was then able in a measure to mask, I have not
                  language now to describe—and when I fondly looked forward to a no distant period,
                  and fancied that, as an humble individual, I could ask your hand as an equal, and fear not the
                  rivalry of more wealthy suitors."
               "And has that time passed?" inquired Virginia, with a deeper blush, and in a
                  flatering voice.
               "Perhaps not wholly; but you know, as well as I, that as an heiress of half a
                  million, you are a match for the most brilliant spirits of the age, and can have a
                  host of admirers at your feet, who, if they cannot equal you in fortune, can go so
                  far beyond him who has nothing but a name——"
               "And shall I," interrupted Virginia, now raising her eyes, sparkling with
                  animation, to those of Dudley—"shall I, for these puppets of the world, these
                  butterflies of fashion, relinquish the friends that came nobly forward in my hours
                  of adversity, and raised my drooping spirits when they were sinking under the
                  treble weight of poverty, grief and despair; and taught me there was something
                  still to live for, to hope for, that human nature was not all corrupted and
                  depraved—shall I, I say, because fortune has chanced to smile upon me once more,
                  now prove myself ungrateful, without nobility of soul, and forget the latter and
                  embrace the former—who would, but for my money, turn from me with contempt—simply
                  because in the worthless dross of this world (worthless beyond what we need
                  ourselves, or use to the benefit of our fellows,) we are nearly equal? No, Heaven
                  forbid! What is their wealth to me, if I have enough of my own? Oh! I have
                  suffered too keenly the pangs of destitution, to prize those who look with scorn
                  upon the poor; and would rather have one noble, generous, sympathising soul by my
                  side, though needy as Lazarus, than be surrounded by the most brilliant array of
                  the hollow-hearted world, though every glance from them bestowed my weight in
                  gold, and every smile became a diamond fit for the crown of an emperor!"
               "Nobly spoken!" cried Dudley, with an enthusiastic gleam of delight. And then his
                  countenance seemed to change, as by some painful recollection, and he immediately
                  added, in a subdued tone: "But all who are rich are not hollow-hearted. There are
                  some, who, having almost boundless wealth at their command, seem to seek only the
                  means of spending it to the best advantage of their fellow beings; and who, in
                  every act of life, study to exalt themselves and ennoble others. Of this class
                  there may be congenial spirits, who will seek your hand, and who are possessed of
                  every requisite to make you happy. And this reminds me, Virginia, that I have a
                  charge to execute for a friend, whom I esteem as my own life; and who, having seen
                  you at various times, believes you the very paragon of excellence. But read this,
                  and doubtless you will more fully comprehend my meaning;" and he handed Virginia a
                  letter, beautifully folded and sealed and stamped with care, on which her own name
                  was delicately traced in handsome characters.
               Virginia opened, glanced over it quickly, marked the name at the bottom, and then,
                  with a heightened color, reperused it more leisurely.
               "This is strange!" she said, as she finished the epistle: "This is very strange!
                  Are you aware, Mr. Dudley, what this billet contains?"
               "Nothing, I trust offensive—or I shall never forgive myself for being the
                  messenger of conveyance," replied Dudley, earnestly.
               "No, it contains nothing offensive in reality; and yet I would it had never been
                  written.
               "And wherefore, Virginia?"
               "Because I must disappoint the hopes of the writer. It is, in a word, a
                  declaration of love from Clarence Malcolm, and an offer of his hand."
               
               "And will you refuse to accept both, when I assure you they are made in all
                  sincerity?" asked Dudley, coloring.
               "I have heard much of Mr. Malcolm," replied Virginia, "and believe him all that is
                  generous and noble; and, as your own most intimate friend, must ever hold him in
                  high esteem; but you must remember, withal, I have never seen him; and even if I
                  had, and had found him as near perfection as mortal man can ever become, must
                  still have rejected his suit."
               "On what grounds?"
               "That I cannot give my hand where my heart is not."
               "But an acquaintance with each other might excite a mutual passion."
               "Never, Mr. Dudley; for she who truly loves, can love but one."
               "Ah, then you love!" sighed Dudley.
               Virginia hung her head, with a blush, and was silent.
               "And might I venture to inquire," said Dudley, after a pause, in a faltering,
                  embarassed tone, "who is the fortunate rival of my friend?"
               "And can you ask that?" replied Virginia, naively,
                  turning away her head, and seeming to search for something she had lost.
               Dudley started, his voice was tremulous, but eager, as he rejoined:
               "Do I understand aright? Is it possible that poor Dudley is preferred to his
                  wealthy friend? Speak, dear Virginia, and keep me not in suspense? Let me not soar
                  aloft on the bright wings of hope, only to be dashed back on the dark rocks of
                  disappointment and despair? As poor Dudley, I have nothing to offer you but my
                  hand and heart; but if these will suffice, they are yours; and my very existence
                  shall be devoted to add, by every means in my power, to your happiness. Our
                  acquaintance has not been long, it is true; but there are hearts which so
                  harmonise from the very first, that time can add nothing but its own strength of
                  years to an attachment formed for endurance through this life and the after life
                  beyond the grave. In a word, I felt I loved you from our first meeting; and now
                  that I have, perhaps presumptuously, fancied a reciprocity of feeling, I offer you
                  my hand, and ask that you will be mine. Speak, dear Virginia, the single word,
                  that will elevate me to the very pinnacle of rapture, or plunge me far down the
                  precipice of regret and disappointment! Speak, dearest—will you be mine?"
               Virginia did not reply; but there was that in her appearance and manner—a certain
                  silent language of the heart, shining out in warm blushes upon her cheek, and
                  raising the pearly tear in her soft blue eye, as tenderly and tremulously it
                  beamed upon his—that spoke with an eloquence exceeding words. Quietly Dudley stole
                  her fair hand, and pressed it to his lips; and then, emboldened by this, drew her
                  gently and unresistingly to his heart, and sealed upon her ruby lips the first
                  holy kiss of eternal love and pledge of union on earth and in the life
                  immortal.
               For the space of half an hour there was little or nothing said—for true love is
                  ever the most eloquent in silence—and then Dudley, with an arch smile on his
                  countenance, and in a cheerful tone, spoke:
               "And now, dearest Virginia, say you wish Clarence Malcolm joy in his triumph."
               "Joy in his triumph!" repeated Virginia, with a look of surprise. "I do not
                  understand you. To what triumph do you allude?"
               "His triumph in winning you."
               "In winning me, Dudley? I am more at a loss than ever to understand you."
               "I see you are, dearest," he replied, dropping gracefully fully upon one knee, taking her hand, and looking
                  tenderly into her sweet, blue eye. "Dudley no more, then; but in him who kneels at
                  your feet, behold Clarence Malcolm in propria
                     persona!"
               "You—you Clarence Malcolm?—Dudley and Malcolm one?" cried Virginia, in
                  astonishment.
               "Even so, dearest; and now, ere I rise, I must have pardon for having in the least
                  deceived you; though by this deceit I have been rendered happy above my deserts,
                  in knowing I have been accepted for myself alone, and not for my possessions,
                  which are great beyond my wants. When first I met you, I gave my name as Dudley,
                  without a design other than the whim of the moment; but after circumstances
                  induced me to keep you in ignorance of my real appellation; in which I have thus
                  far succeeded, though at the risk, many times, of an exposure from others."
               "Does Edgar know of this?"
               "He did not till quite recently, when some one calling me by my real name in his
                  presence, I was forced to explain—though I did it by exacting of him a promise to
                  withhold the secret from you."
               "And the Widow Malcolm, then, whom I have so often visited with you——"
               "Is my own mother."
               'I am all bewilderment. I thought it very strange I never met Clarence, but
                  supposed it purely accidental. Now, methinks, I can recall a hundred scenes when
                  you were on the point of being exposed, and many that looked mysterious to me,
                  though not sufficiently so to excite a suspicion of the real cause."
               "Well, dearest, you forgive me?"
               "Freely so, on one condition."
               "Name it."
               "That as Dudley you wooed, and as Dudley you won me, I may still call you by that
                  endearing title."
               "So be it, dearest Virginia, and not wholly call me wrongly; for as my mother's
                  maiden name was Dudley, I shall feel myself entitled henceforth to sign myself
                  Clarence Dudley Malcolm, and seal it thus;" and rising from his kneeling posture,
                  he imprinted a second kiss upon the lips of her who was now pledged to him
                  forever
               
               It was a calm, beautiful, moonlight night, and in the solemn "place of graves"—the
                  sacred sanctuary of those who have "shuffled off this mortal coil" and gone down
                  to that silent, cold, untroubled rest that knows no waking—two forms might be seen
                  moving slowly on together—the one a noble youth in the first vigor of early
                  manhood—the other a maiden in all the sweet, fresh loveliness of the opening rose.
                  Slowly these two beings moved on together, with silent, solemn step, as if their
                  feet pressed the ground with a reverence too sacred to jar the earth above the
                  final sleep of the dead. All was silent here—though the busy hum of the city,
                  whose lights were sparkling not afar, could be faintly heard like the roll of a
                  distant drum. All was still. Not a breeze stirred the blade and plant, that had
                  here grown rank in their summer day, and had fallen crisp and sere beneath the
                  fatal blasts and frosts of chilling autumn and hoary winter. Not a breath rustled
                  the leaves, that, in their day, had made the trees as sylvan bowers, but had long
                  since been stripped of their beauty, and now lay withered and crumbling above the
                  mortal remains of those who had planted and trained their supporters in infancy.
                  The fair moon, riding high in the clear heavens, poured down her mellow beams
                  through the naked trees, upon the
                  crisped plants and blades; upon the faded flowers that had bloomed and decayed
                  above the remains of frail mortality; upon the withered leaves, that now spread a
                  funeral pall over earth's best and fairest—over hearts that had once beat high
                  with hope and joy, or, burning with the passion-fires of unrequited love, or
                  failing ambition, or corroding grief, or stinging remorse, had at last been
                  quenched in despair, and smothered in death; upon sculptured marble, that told,
                  with ostentatious vanity, of the once opulent dust that now reposed beneath; upon
                  plain marble stones, that marked the resting place of those who, having followed a
                  middle course of life, had been quietly "gathered to their fathers;" upon plain
                  mounds of earth, that covered such as had fallen too recently, or too much in
                  poverty, or with friends too few, to have their last homes more conspicuously
                  marked; upon the remains of wealth and poverty, virtue and vice, the good and the
                  bad; upon the quick and the dead the fair moon shone down—here brightening this
                  object to bold relief, there casting that in the gloom of deep shadow—but still
                  shining steadily down, with a silvery, solemn light, as if aware her beams fell
                  upon a spot made hallowed by the frail dust of those who had gone hence
                  forever.
               Slowly the two figures moved on together, in silence, with even pace, past
                  high-wrought monuments and common stones—past tombs of high and lowly born—past
                  graves of rich and poor—past light and shade, and every where amid decay: slowly
                  they moved on, till, far aside from where most lay buried, they paused over a
                  small rise of earth that had never yet been green above its mortal tenant. Here
                  the youth took the hand of the maiden in one that trembled with deep emotion; and
                  while with the other he brushed away the dew that, from the fountain of his heart,
                  had gathered in his eye, he said:
               "What place so fitting for sacred things as above the remains of one we most
                  dearly prized in life! Here it is, beholding the vanities of all things earthly,
                  we feel least tempted with its deceits, and most sincerely desirous to embrace
                  those pure and holy joys, which, though intangible, are still incorruptible, and,
                  being beyond the power of annibilation, can only by death be changed to a more
                  blissful state of existence. Next to the pure enjoyment of religion, is that of
                  mutual love, pledged by two hearts, that assimilate as the quiet stream and placid
                  lake, to become one and undivided when once united. Edith, (and the voice of the
                  speaker became low and tremulous,) we have been much together—in the short space
                  of weeks, I feel we have known each other for years—the sentiments of my heart are
                  already in your keeping—and here, on the most sacred spot which earth holds for
                  me, I offer you my hand, and with it pledge you my unchangeable, undying
                  love!"
               There was a silence, after the voice of the speaker had ceased—a tremulous silence
                  on the part of the maiden—and then, in a solemn, sweet, silvery, artless tone, she
                  replied:
               "Edgar, as sacredly, as solemnly, and sincerely as it is proffered, do I accept
                  your hand and heart; and in return yield you a love as true as Heaven, and
                  constant as the needle to its bridal star."
               "Above thy mortal remains, witness it, O mother, thou saint in heaven! and thou,
                  Great Ruler of all! that here we freely pledge ourselves to each other, and stamp
                  it with a seal of more than mortal affection;" and upon the lips of the lovely,
                  trembling Edith Morton, Edgar Courtly imprinted the first holy kiss of their
                  mutual and enduring love.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               CONCLUSION.
               WE have stated previously, that it was not our design to give in detail the trial
                  of Acton Atherton for the murder of Ellen Douglas—the only one he was destined to
                  have—as Virginia, after hearing of the fate of the latter, had positively refused
                  to appear against him—although, on behalf of the State, her evidence alone would
                  perhaps have been sufficient to convict him. It will therefore only be necessary
                  for our purpose to briefly sketch the proceedings against him and the result.
               The day, then, that Acton was put upon trial for his life, was one marked with an
                  excitement almost as intense as when he was first brought forward for examination.
                  The trial itself was long and tedious, and thousands were daily forced to go away
                  without getting a glimpse of the prisoner—the court-room, from the earliest to the
                  latest hour, being crowded almost to a state of suffocation. The evidence in the
                  case was mainly circumstantial; and in no instance, for the prosecution,
                  positive—the nearest approach to it being the testimony of Sarah Farling; who
                  swore that, to the best of her belief, the person she admitted into the dwelling
                  of Madame Costellan, just previous to the murder of Ellen, was the prisoner—but
                  that it was he, she would not positively affirm. The evidence,
                  therefore, on the part of the state, was wholly circumstantial—but of such a
                  nature, at the same time, that no one doubted of the guilt of the prisoner, and
                  very few of his final conviction. The cloak and dagger were both brought forward
                  and identified as his property—the tailor who made the one being summoned as a
                  witness, and the merchant who sold the other likewise. It was not only proved that
                  these were the property of the prisoner, but that both were in his possession an
                  hour previous to the awful deed, and the sheath of the dagger was found on his
                  person at the time of his arrest. It was proved, too, he had often made bitter
                  threats against the life of the deceased, and that he had been seen going in the
                  direction of her abode only half an hour previous to the fatal deed. Here, on
                  evidence as strong, apparently, as "holy writ," the prosecution rested.
               The defence opened by an attempt to prove the previous good conduct of the
                  prisoner, and impeach some of the witnesses for the state—both of which attempts
                  were little better than failures; and every one had settled it in his own mind
                  that the prisoner must be convicted; when lo! and behold! a witness
                  was brought forward, who astounded and confounded all by proving an alibi. This was a German grocer, who, under solemn
                  oath, in the face of God and man, firmly and directly asseverated, that at the
                  time the murder was committed, the prisoner was in his company, at least half a
                  mile from the scene of the horrid transaction, and that he and the prisoner did
                  not separate for an hour afterwards.
               What though the judges and lawyers, the jury and spectators, were all taken aback
                  by this unlooked for testimony?—what though they believed it false—that the
                  witness had perjured himself?—yet here the evidence was before them—direct,
                  straight-forward, positive, and unimpeached—and, as such, the jury were bound by
                  oath to take it for literal truth. The judges and jury were here to decide a case
                  involving the life of a fellow being—not according to their prejudices—not,
                  strictly speaking, according to their
                  belief—but wholly, and irrespectively of party or person, according to the
                  evidence adduced on the trial. What though they believed the witness had perjured
                  himself? Their belief amounted to nothing until it was proved against him; and not
                  being proved against him, they were bound to take his testimony; and taking his
                  testimony, were consequently bound by their oaths to render a verdict of acquittal
                  for the prisoner. With the falsity or truth of the grocer's statement they had
                  nothing to do, so long as it was unimpeached before the court. The prisoner, most
                  certainly, could not be in two places at the same time; the prosecution had
                     not proved positively he was the person who committed the deed;
                  the defence had proved positively he was the person who did not;
                  consequently there was but one way to decide.
               In giving his charge to the jury, the judge brought forward all these points in a
                  clear, concise and forcible manner; and concluded by observing, that where there
                  was the least doubt regarding the guilt of the accused, the common law of humanity
                  bade them lean to the side of mercy. The jury then retired; but not until some
                  time the following day were they able to agree, when they returned a verdict of
                  "NOT GUILTY."
               This decision was received with great dissatisfaction by the public at large,
                  before whose tribunal Acton already stood condemned; and so high ran the popular
                  feeling against him, that it was deemed expedient to detain him in confinement
                  till the excitement had somewhat subsided.
               Throughout Acton's trial, poor Arabella, who had regained her reason and
                  sufficient strength for the task, was ever, like a guardian angel, by his side,
                  watching his every look, and cheering him with what feeble words of hope she could
                  summon to her aid. Her features, like his own, were very pale and haggard; and it
                  was evident to all who beheld her, that grief, anxiety and keen despair, were,
                  cancer-like, gnawing at her heart's core, and wasting away her once queenly form.
                  Whatever of animosity might prevail against the brother, not a soul, with a
                  particle of humanity in his composition, could view that noble, self-sacrificing,
                  and almost superhuman devotion of the sister, with other than feelings of profound
                  respect and sincere compassion; and many there were who wished him acquitted for
                  her sake. That he was guilty of the crime laid to his charge, Arabella felt well
                  convinced; but in extenuation of the foul act, she sincerely believed he had
                  committed it in the heat of passion, and had deeply regretted it ever since—both
                  of which suppositions were literally true. In any event, he was her brother, had
                  always been kind to her, and was the only being on earth, save her father, she
                  truly loved. Besides, he was now alone in the world, without a sympathising
                  friend, and she could not bear the terrible thought of his coming to an
                  ignominious death. At least she was his sister, she had a right to be with him,
                  and she felt it her duty so to be; and regardless of the opinions of the world,
                  she flew to his side, to stand his steadfast friend, let weal or wo betide. More
                  dead than alive, she was present to hear the verdict of the jury; and when the
                  final words, "not guilty," were pronounced in an audible voice, she swooned for
                  joy, and in an unconscious state was borne from the court room.
               But Arabella's devotion to her brother ended not here. She resolved to share his
                  fortune, whatever it might be; and though the Rev. Mr. Parkhurst tried with all
                  the arguments in his power to dissuade her from it, and offered her a home for
                  life; and though Edgar, who had now come into possession of his father's property,
                  so long and wrongfully withheld by his uncle and her father, proposed to settle
                  upon her an independency; yet all propositions were alike made in vain. She firmly but respectfully declined to
                  accept of either; and when, soon after, Acton secretly left the city, Arabella was
                  his companion, and went no one knew whither.
               And now, the design of the present volume being accomplished, here, for a time at
                  least, ends the history of the family of Atherton. The final fate of father, son
                  and daughter belongs to a subsequent period; and it remains for the public to
                  decide, whether the writer of these pages shall ever again call them from
                  obscurity to the stage of action, or allow them, with all their virtues and vices,
                  to rest forevermore in oblivion.
               Immediately after the conviction of Oliver Atherton, Nathan Wesley left for parts
                  unknwn; while Davis returned to his friends in Baltimore, where Edgar generously
                  settled upon him an income of a thousand dollars per annum.
               Some two or three weeks from the acquittal of Acton Atherton, a brilliant array of
                  wealth, beauty and talent were assembled at Malcolm Place to solemnize the
                  nuptials of Edgar and Edith, Clarence and Virginia; and though every thing was
                  conducted on a scale of sufficient magnificence to excite the envy of the proudest
                  of the beau monde, yet so true were Malcolm and
                  Courtly to their noble principles, that the poor of the city long had cause to
                  remember that day with gratitude, as in truth they still have their generous
                  benefactors.
               On the second morning after his marriage, Edith handed Edgar one of the leading
                  journals of the city; and pointing with her fair, delicate hand to a prominent
                  paragraph, blushingly bade him read. Edgar did read; and his eyes dilated with
                  surprise, and his heart swelled with pride, at the following brief notice:
               
                  "MARRIAGE IN HIGH LIFE.—At Malcolm Place, on the 5th inst., by the Rev. Stephen
                     Parkhurst, Clarence Malcolm, Esq.—long and favorably known to the literary
                     world as a leading writer of the —— Magazine, and a frequent contributor to
                     various other periodicals, and in private life as a philanthropist, gentleman
                     and scholar—was united in the holy bonds of wedlock to Miss Virginia Courtly, a
                     niece of Oliver Atherton, whose trial and conviction, for the forging of a will
                     of her father, by which both herself and brother were long deprived of their
                     rightful possessions, recently excited so much surprise and attention in this
                     city. Also, by the same, at the same time and place, Edgar Courtly, Esq.—a
                     nephew of the said Oliver Atherton, but better known to our readers as a gifted
                     poet, under the nom de plume of "Orion"—was
                     united to the lovely Miss Edith Morton, only child of Calvin Morton, Esq., a
                     lawyer of great eminence. The wedding was a brilliant one—all the talent and
                     fashion of the city were present—every thing went off delightfully—and the
                     joyous couples have our most ardent wishes for their future prosperity and
                     happiness."
               
               "God bless you, my son!" cried Morton, stealing up behind Edgar while he was
                  reading; "you were becoming famous without my knowledge."
               "Ay, and without my own," returned Edgar, blushing. "Ha! here, methinks, comes the
                  cause," he added, nodding toward Clarence, who at this moment entered the
                  apartment, accompanied by Virginia.
               "Well," answered Malcolm, with a smile, as Edgar explained the subject of
                  conversation, "you know I purchased your poems, and of course felt I had a right
                  to use them as suited my humor. But you are still more famous, Edgar, than you
                  have given yourself credit for. Read these at your leisure;" and he threw down
                  upon the table some half-a-dozen different journals, each of which contained a
                  highly complimentary notice of himself and friend. Edgar as by no means vain—but
                  he could not drink in so much praise of his humble efforts and remain totally
                  unmoved. The main-spring of a laudable ambition was touched; and mainly to this
                  circumstance, the world has since been indebted for many a beautiful effusion from
                  his gifted pen; while Clarence, under an assumed title, already ranks among the
                  leading writers of America.
               And now, kind reader, we feel that our task is accomplished. In the pages
                  preceding, we have endeavored to show you how vice may for a time triumph over
                  virtue; how hypocrisy may take the place of truth, and deceive the world with its
                  false glare; how the innocent and pure at heart may be made the suffering victims
                  of the guilty and vicious; how crime may lie concealed, until, in its very
                  security, it breeds exposure; how retribution, sooner or later, follows guilt, and
                  strikes with a heavy hand the guilty doer; how a deviation from the straight paths
                  of virtue and honor generally leads to ruin and death; how the poor, without
                  friends, may struggle in vain and die unpitied; how good actions may proceed from
                  the seemingly bad, and bad actions from the seemingly good—how the innocent may be
                  accused and arrested as guilty; how the guilty may escape the justice of the law
                  as innocent; how a noble act generally finds a noble reward; how true virtue gives
                  way to no temptation, but bears the ills of life with patience, hoping for a
                  better day, and rejoices triumphant in the end. In short, we have endeavored to
                  sketch a true picture of life as it exists in the crowded city; and though aware
                  that the sketch is faintly lined and faulty, yet if it please, so far as it goes,
                  we shall rest satisfied our humble efforts have not been wholly made in vain. With
                  you, gentle reader, rests the moral of our story; and so, for the present,
                  adieu.
               THE END.
            
         
      
      
         
            T. B. PETERSON AND BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS.
            NEW BOOKS ISSUED EVERY WEEK.
            Comprising the most entertaining and absorbing Works published, suitable for all
               persons, by the best writers in the world.
            Orders solicited from Booksellers, Librarians, Canvassers, News Agents, and all
               others in want of good and fast selling books, which will be supplied at very Low
               Prices.
            
               MRS. EMMA D. E. N. SOUTHWORTH'S WORKS.
               Complete in thirty-seven large duodecimo volumes, bound in morocco cloth, gilt
                  back, price $1.75 each; or $54.75 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               Victor's Triumph, $1 75
               A Beautiful Fiend, 1 75
               The Artist's Love, 1 75
               A Noble Lord, 1 75
               Lost Heir of Linlithgow, 1 75
               Tried for her Life, 1 75
               Cruel as the Grave, 1 75
               The Maiden Widow, 1 75
               The Family Doom, 1 75
               Prince of Darkness, 1 75
               The Bride's Fate, 1 75
               The Changed Brides, 1 75
               How He Won Her, 1 75
               Fair Play, 1 75
               Fallen Pride, 1 75
               The Christmas Guest, 1 75
               The Widow's Son, 1 75
               The Bride of Llewellyn, 1 75
               The Fortune Seeker, 1 75
               The Fatal Marriage, $1 75
               The Deserted Wife, 1 75
               The Bridal Eve, 1 75
               The Lost Heiress, 1 75
               The Two Sisters, 1 75
               Lady of the Isle, 1 75
               The Three Beauties, 1 75
               Vivia; or the Secret of Power, 1 75
               The Missing Bride, 1 75
               Love's Labor Won, 1 75
               The Gipsy's Prophecy, 1 75
               Haunted Homestead, 1 75
               Wife's Victory, 1 75
               Allworth Abbey, 1 75
               The Mother-in-Law, 1 75
               Retribution, 1 75
               India; Pearl of Pearl River, 1 75
               Curse of Clifton, 1 75
               Discarded Daughter, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               MRS. ANN S. STEPHENS' WORKS.
               Complete in twenty-one large duodecimo volumes, bound in morocco cloth, gilt
                  back, price $1.75 each; or $36.75 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               Bellehood and Bondage, $1 75
               The Old Countess, 1 75
               Lord Hope's Choice, 1 75
               The Reigning Belle, 1 75
               A Noble Woman, 1 75
               Palaces and Prisons, 1 75
               Married in Haste, 1 75
               Wives and Widows, 1 75
               Ruby Gray's Strategy, 1 75
               The Soldiers' Orphans, $1 75
               Silent Struggles, 1 75
               The Rejected Wife, 1 75
               The Wife's Secret, 1 75
               Mary Derwent, 1 75
               Fashion and Famine, 1 75
               The Curse of Gold, 1 75
               Mabel's Mistake, 1 75
               The Old Homestead, 1 75
               Doubly False, 1 75
               The Heiress, 1 75
               The Gold Brick, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               LIFE OF EDWIN FORREST.
               The Life of Edwin Forrest; with Reminiscences and Personal Recollections. By
                  James Rees, (Colley Cibber.) With a Portrait, Autograph, and Last Will of Edwin
                  Forrest. Bound in morocco cloth. 2 00
            
            
            
               MRS. CAROLINE LEE HENTZ'S WORKS.
               Green and Gold Edition. Complete in twelve volumes, in green morocco cloth,
                  price $1.75 each; or $21.00 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               Ernest Linwood, $1 75
               The Planter's Northern Bride, 1 75
               Courtship and Marriage, 1 75
               Rena; or, the Snow Bird, 1 75
               Marcus Warland, 1 75
               Love after Marriage, $1 75
               Eoline; or Magnolia Vale, 1 75
               The Lost Daughter, 1 75
               The Banished Son, 1 75
               Helen and Arthur, 1 75
               Linda; or, the Young Pilot of the Belle Creole, 1 75
               Robert Graham; the Sequel to "Linda; or Pilot of Belle Creole," 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               BEST COOK BOOKS PUBLISHED.
               Every housekeeper should possess at least one of the following Cook Books, as
                  they would save the price of it in a week's cooking.
               The Young Wife's Cook Book, Cloth, $1 75
               Miss Leslie's New Cookery Book, Cloth, 1 75
               Mrs. Hale's New Cook Book, Cloth, 1 75
               Mrs. Goodfellow's Cookery as it Should Be, Cloth, 1 75
               Petersons' New Cook Book, Cloth, 1 75
               Widdifield's New Cook Book, Cloth, 1 75
               The National Cook Book. By a Practical Housewife, Cloth, 1 75
               Miss Leslie's New Receipts for Cooking, Cloth, 1 75
               Mrs. Hale's Receipts for the Million, Cloth, 1 75
               The Family Save-All. By author of "National Cook Book," Cloth, 1 75
               Francatelli's Modern Cook. With the most approved methods of French, English,
                  German, and Italian Cookery. With Sixty-two Illustrations. One volume of 600
                  pages, bound in morocco cloth, 5 00
            
            
               JAMES A. MAITLAND'S WORKS.
               Complete in seven large duodecimo volumes, bound in cloth, gilt back, price
                  $1.75 each; or $12.25 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               The Watchman, $1 75
               The Wanderer, 1 75
               The Lawyer's Story, 1 75
               Diary of an Old Doctor, $1 75
               Sartaroe, 1 75
               The Three Cousins, 1 75
               The Old Patroon; or the Great Van Broek Property, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               T. A. TROLLOPE'S WORKS.
               Complete in seven large duodecimo volumes, bound in cloth, gilt back, price
                  $1.75 each; or $12.25 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               The Sealed Packet, $1 75
               Garstang Grange, 1 75
               Gemma, 1 75
               Leonora Casaloni, 1 75
               Dream Numbers, $1 75
               Marietta, 1 75
               Beppo, the Conscript, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               FREDRIKA BREMER'S WORKS.
               Complete in six large duodecimo volumes, bound in cloth, gilt back, price $1.75
                  each; or $10.50 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               Father and Daughter, $1 75
               The Four Sisters, 1 75
               The Neighbors, $1 75
               The Home, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
               Life in the Old World. In two volumes, cloth, price, 3 50
            
            
               MISS ELIZA A. DUPUY'S WORKS.
               Complete in eleven large duodecimo volumes, bound in morocco cloth, gilt back,
                  price $1.75 each; or $19.25 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               The Hidden Sin, $1 75
               The Dethroned Heiress, 1 75
               The Gipsy's Warning, 1 75
               All For Love, 1 75
               The Mysterious Guest 1 75
               Why Did He Marry Her? $1 75
               Who Shall be Victor, 1 75
               Was He Guilty? 1 75
               The Cancelled Will, 1 75
               The Planter's Daughter, 1 75
               Michael Rudolph; or, the Bravest of the Brave, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               EMERSON BENNETT'S WORKS.
               Complete in seven large duodecimo volumes, bound in cloth, gilt back, price
                  $1.75 each; or $12.25 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               The Border Rover, $1 75
               Clara Moreland, 1 75
               The Forged Will, 1 75
               Bride of the Wilderness, $1 75
               Ellen Norbury, 1 75
               Kate Clarendon, 1 75
               Viola; or Adventures in the Far South-West, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
               The Heiress of Bellefonte, 75
               The Pioneer's Daughter, 75
            
            
               DOESTICKS' WORKS.
               Complete in four large duodecimo volumes, bound in cloth, gilt back, price
                  $1.75 each; or $7.00 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               Doesticks' Letters, $1 75
               Plu-Ri-Bus-Tah, 1 75
               The Elephant Club, $1 75
               Witches of New York, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               GREEN'S WORKS ON GAMBLING.
               Complete in four large duodecimo volumes, bound in cloth, gilt back, price
                  $1.75 each; or $7.00 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               Gambling Exposed, $1 75
               The Gambler's Life, 1 75
               Reformed Gambler, $1 75
               Secret Band of Brothers, 1 75
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
            
            
               DOW'S PATENT SERMONS.
               Complete in four large duodecimo volumes, bound in cloth, gilt back, price
                  $1.50 each; or $6.00 a set, each set is put up in a neat box.
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 1st Series, cloth $1 50
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 2d Series, cloth 1 50
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 3d Series, cloth, $1 50
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 4th Series, cloth, 1 50
               Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.00 each.
            
            
               WILKIE COLLINS' BEST WORKS.
               Basil; or, The Crossed Path. $1 50
               The Dead Secret. 12mo. $1 50
               Above are each in one large duodecimo volume, bound in cloth.
               The Dead Secret, 8vo 50
               Basil; or, the Crossed Path, 75
               Hide and Seek, 75
               After Dark, 75
               Miss or Mrs? 50
               Mad Monkton, 50
               Sights a-Foot, 50
               The Stolen Mask, 25
               The Queen's Revenge, 75
               The Yellow Mask, 25
               Sister Rose, 25
               The above books are each issued in paper cover, in octavo form.
            
            
               FRANK FORRESTER'S SPORTING BOOK.
               Frank Forrester's Sporting Scenes and Characters. By Henry William Herbert.
                  With Illustrations by Darley. Two vols., cloth, $4 00
            
            
            
               BOOKS FOR PRIVATE STUDY AND SCHOOLS.
               The Lawrence Speaker. A Selection of Literary Gems in Poetry and Prose,
                  designed for the use of Colleges, Schools, Seminaries, Literary Societies. By
                  Philip Lawrence, Professor of Elocution. 600 pages $2 00
               Comstock's Elocution and Model Speaker. Intended for the use of Schools,
                  Colleges, and for private Study, for the Promotion of Health, Cure of Stammering,
                  and Defective Articulation. By Andrew Comstock and Philip Lawrence. With 236
                  Illustrations 2 00
               The French, German, Spanish, Latin and Italian Languages Without a Master.
                  Whereby any one of these Languages can easily be learned by any person without a
                  Teacher, with the aid of this book. By A. H. Monteith. One volume, cloth, 2
                  00
               Comstock's Colored Chart. Being a perfect Alphabet of the English Language,
                  Graphic and Typic, with exercises in Pitch, Force and Gesture, and Sixty-Eight
                  colored figures, representing the various postures and different attitudes to be
                  used in declamation. On a large Roller. Every School should have a copy of it, 5
                  00
               Liebig's Complete Works on Chemistry. By Baron Justus Liebig 2 00
            
            
               WORKS BY THE VERY BEST AUTHORS.
               The following books are each issued in one large duodecimo volume, bound in
                  cloth, at $1.75 each, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each.
               The Initials. A Love Story. By Baroness Tautphœus, $1 75
               Margaret Maitland. By Mrs. Oliphant, author of "Zaidee," 1 75
               Family Pride. By author of "Pique," "Family Secrets," etc. 1 75
               Self-Sacrifice. By author of "Margaret Maitland," etc. 1 75
               The Woman in Black. A Companion to the "Woman in White," 1 75
               A Woman's Thoughts about Women. By Miss Muloch, 1 75
               Flirtations in Fashionable Life. By Catharine Sinclair, 1 75
               False Pride; or, Two Ways to Matrimony. A Charming Book, 1 75
               The Heiress in the Family. By Mrs. Mackenzie Daniel, 1 75
               The Heiress of Sweetwater. A Charming Novel, 1 75
               Woman's Wrong. By Mrs. Eiloart, author of "St. Bede's," 1 75
               A Lonely Life. By the author of "Wise as a Serpent," etc. 1 75
               The Macdermots of Ballycloran. By Anthony Trollope, 1 75
               Lost Sir Massingberd. By the author of "Carlyon's Year," 1 75
               The Forsaken Daughter. A Companion to "Linda," 1 75
               Love and Liberty. A Revolutionary Story. By Alexander Dumas, 1 75
               Rose Douglas. A Companion to "Family Pride," and "Self Sacrifice," 1 75
               Family Secrets. A Companion to "Family Pride," and "Pique," 1 75
               The Morrisons. By Mrs. Margaret Hosmer, 1 75
               My Son's Wife. By author of "Caste," "Mr. Arle," etc. 1 75
               The Rich Husband. By author of "George Geith," 1 75
               Harem Life in Egypt and Constantinople. By Emmeline Lott, 1 75
               The Rector's Wife; or, the Valley of a Hundred Fires, 1 75
               Woodburn Grange. A Novel. By William Howitt, 1 75
               Country Quarters. By the Countess of Blessington, 1 75
               Out of the Depths. The Story of a "Woman's Life," 1 75
               The Coquette; or, the Life and Letters of Eliza Wharton, 1 75
               The Pride of Life. A Story of the Heart. By Lady Jane Scott, 1 75
               The Lost Beauty. By a Noted Lady of the Spanish Court, 1 75
               Rome and the Papacy. A History of the Men, Manners and Temporal Government of
                  Rome in the Nineteenth Century, as administered by the Priests. With a Life of
                  Pope Pius IX., 1 75
               Above books are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50
                  each.
            
            
               WORKS BY THE VERY BEST AUTHORS.
               The following books are each issued in one large duodecimo volume, bound in
                  cloth, at $1.75 each, or each one is in paper cover at $1.50 each.
               My Hero. By Mrs. Forrester. A Charming Love Story, $1 75
               The Count of Monte-Cristo. By Alexander Dumas. Illustrated, 1 75
               The Countess of Monte-Cristo. Paper cover, price $1.00; or cloth, 1 75
               Camille; or, the Fate of a Coquette. By Alexander Dumas, 1 75
               The Quaker Soldier. A Revolutionary Romance. By Judge Jones, 1 75
               The Man of the World. An Autobiography. By William North, 1 75
               The Queen's Favorite; or, The Price of a Crown. A Love Story, 1 75
               Self Love; or, The Afternoon of Single and Married Life, 1 75
               The Dead Secret. By Wilkie Collins, author "The Crossed Path," 1 75
               Memoirs of Vidocq, the French Detective. His Life and Adventures, 1 75
               The Clyffards of Clyffe, by author of "Lost Sir Massingberd," 1 75
               Camors. "The Man of the Second Empire." By Octave Feuillet, 1 75
               Life, Speeches and Martyrdom of Abraham Lincoln. Illustrated, 1 75
               The Crossed Path; or Basil. By Wilkie Collins, 1 75
               Indiana. A Love Story. By George Sand, author of "Consuelo," 1 75
               The Belle of Washington. With her Portrait. By Mrs. N. P. Lasselle, 1 75
               Cora Belmont; or, The Sincere Lover. A True Story of the Heart, 1 75
               The Lover's Trials; or Days before 1776. By Mrs. Mary A. Denison, 1 75
               High Life in Washington. A Life Picture. By Mrs. N. P. Lasselle, 1 75
               The Beautiful Widow; or, Lodore. By Mrs. Percy B. Shelley, 1 75
               Love and Money. By J. B. Jones, author of the "Rival Belles," 1 75
               The Matchmaker. A Story of High Life. By Beatrice Reynolds, 1 75
               The Brother's Secret; or, the Count De Mara. By William Godwin, 1 75
               The Lost Love. By Mrs. Oliphant, author of "Margaret Maitland," 1 75
               The Roman Traitor. By Henry William Herbert. A Roman Story, 1 75
               The Bohemians of London. By Edward M. Whitty, 1 75
               The Rival Belles; or, Life in Washington. By J. B. Jones, 1 75
               The Devoted Bride. A Story of the Heart. By St. George Tucker, 1 75
               Love and Duty. By Mrs. Hubback, author of "May and December," 1 75
               Wild Sports and Adventures in Africa. By Major W. C. Harris, 1 75
               Courtship and Matrimony. By Robert Morris. With a Portrait, 1 75
               The Jealous Husband. By Annette Marie Maillard, 1 75
               The Refugee. By Herman Melville, author of "Omoo," "Typee," 1 75
               The Life, Writings, and Lectures of the late "Fanny Fern," 1 75
               The Life and Lectures of Lola Montez, with her portrait, 1 75
               Wild Southern Scenes. By author of "Wild Western Scenes," 1 75
               Currer Lyle; or, the Autobiography of an Actress. By Louise Reeder 1 75
               Coal, Coal Oil, and all other Minerals in the Earth. By Eli Bowen, 1 75
               The Cabin and Parlor. By J. Thornton Randolph. Illustrated, 1 75
               Jealousy; or, Teverino. By George Sand, author of "Consuelo," etc. 1 75
               The Little Beauty. A Love Story. By Mrs. Grey, 1 75
               Secession, Coercion, and Civil War. By J. B. Jones, 1 75
               Six Nights with the Washingtonians. By T. S. Arthur, 1 75
               Lizzie Glenn; or, the Trials of a Seamstress. By T. S. Arthur, 1 75
               Lady Maud; or, the Wonder of Kingswood Chase. By Pierce Egan, 1 75
               Wilfred Montressor; or, High Life in New York. Illustrated, 1 75
               The Old Stone Mansion. By C. J. Peterson, author "Kate Aylesford," 1 75
               Kate Aylesford. By Chas. J. Peterson, author "Old Stone Mansion," 1 75
               Lorrimer Littlegood, by author "Harry Coverdale's Courtship," 1 75
               The Earl's Secret. A Love Story. By Miss Pardoe, 1 75
               The Adopted Heir. By Miss Pardoe, author of "The Earl's Secret," 1 75
               Above books are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50
                  each.
            
            
            
               WORKS BY THE VERY BEST AUTHORS.
               The following books are each issued in one large duodecimo volume, bound in
                  cloth, at $1.75 each, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50 each. 
                     The Conscript; or, the Days of Napoleon 1st. By Alex. Dumas, $1 75
                     Cousin Harry. By Mrs. Grey, author of "The Gambler's Wife," etc. 1
                        75
                     Saratoga. An Indian Tale of Frontier Life. A true Story of 1787, 1
                        75
                     Married at Last. A Love Story. By Annie Thomas, 1 75
                     Shoulder Straps. By Henry Morford, author of "Days of Shoddy," 1
                        75
                     Days of Shoddy. By Henry Morford, author of "Shoulder Straps," 1
                        75
                     The Coward. By Henry Morford, author of "Shoulder Straps," 1 75
                     The Cavalier. By G. P. R. James, author of "Lord Montagu's Page," 1
                        75
                     Rose Foster. By George W. M. Reynolds, Esq., 1 75
                     Lord Montagu's Page. By G. P. R. James, author of "Cavalier," 1 75
                     Mrs. Ann S. Stephens' Celebrated Novels. 21 volumes in all, 36 75
                     Mrs. Emma D. E. N. Southworth's Popular Novels. 37 vols. in all, 64
                        75
                     Mrs. Caroline Lee Hentz's Novels. Twelve volumes in all, 21 00
                     Frederika Bremer's Novels. Six volumes in all, 10 50
                     T. A. Trollope's Works. Seven volumes in all, 12 25
                     James A. Maitland's Novels. Seven volumes in all, 12 25
                     Q. K. Philander Doestick's Novels. Four volumes in all, 7 00
                     Cook Books. The best in the world. Ten volumes in all, 17 50
                     Henry Morford's Novels. Three volumes in all, 5 25
                     Mrs. Henry Wood's Novels. Seventeen volumes in all, 29 75
                     Emerson Bennett's Novels. Seven volumes in all, 12 25
                     Green's Works on Gambling. Four volumes in all, 7 00
                     Miss Eliza A. Dupuy's Works. Eleven volumes in all, 19 25
                     Above books are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50
                        each.
                  
               
               The following books are each issued in one large octavo volume, bound in cloth,
                  at $2.00 each, or each one is done up in paper cover, at $1.50 each. 
                     The Wandering Jew. By Eugene Sue. Full of Illustrations, $2 00
                     Mysteries of Paris; and its Sequel, Gerolstein. By Eugene Sue, 2
                        00
                     Martin, the Foundling. By Eugene Sue. Full of Illustrations, 2 00
                     Ten Thousand a Year. By Samuel Warren. With Illustrations, 2 00
                     Washington and His Generals. By George Lippard 2 00
                     The Quaker City; or, the Monks of Monk Hall. By George Lippard, 2
                        00
                     Blanche of Brandywine. By George Lippard, 2 00
                     Paul Ardenheim; the Monk of Wissahickon. By George Lippard, 2 00
                     The Pictorial Tower of London. By W. Harrison Ainsworth, 2 00
                     Above books are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at $1.50
                        each.
                  
               
               The following are each issued in one large octavo volume, bound in cloth, price
                  $2.00 each, or a cheap edition is issued in paper cover, at 75 cents each. 
                     Charles O'Malley, the Irish Dragoon. By Charles Lever, Cloth, $2
                        00
                     Harry Lorrequer. With his Confessions. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2
                        00
                     Jack Hinton, the Guardsman. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     Davenport Dunn. A Man of Our Day. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     Tom Burke of Ours. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     The Knight of Gwynne. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     Arthur O'Leary. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     Con Cregan. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     Horace Templeton. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     Kate O'Donoghue. By Charles Lever, Cloth, 2 00
                     Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist. By Harry Cockton, Cloth, 2 00
                     Above are each in cloth, or each one is in paper cover, at 75 cents
                        each.
                  
               
            
            
               NEW AND GOOD BOOKS BY BEST AUTHORS.
               Beautiful Snow, and Other Poems. New Illustrated Edition. By J.
                  W. Watson. With Illustrations by E. L. Henry. One volume, green morocco cloth,
                  gilt top, side, and back, price $2.00; or in maroon morocco cloth, full gilt
                  edges, full gilt back, full gilt sides, etc., $3 00
               The Outcast, and Other Poems. By J. W. Watson. One volume, green morocco cloth,
                  gilt top, side and back, price $2.00; or in maroon morocco cloth, full gilt edges,
                  full gilt back, full gilt sides, 3 00
               The Young Magdalen; and Other Poems. By Francis S. Smith, editor of "The New
                  York Weekly." With a portrait of the author. Complete in one large volume of 300
                  pages, bound in green morocco cloth, gilt top, side, and back, price $3.00; or in
                  maroon morocco cloth, full gilt edges, full gilt back, full gilt sides, etc., 4
                  00
               Hans Breitmann's Ballads. By Charles G. Leland. Volume One.
                  Containing the "First," "Second," and "Third Series" of the
                  "Breitmann Ballads," bound in morocco cloth, gilt, beveled boards, 3 00
               Hans Breitmann's Ballads. By Charles G. Leland. Volume Two.
                  Containing the "Fourth" and "Fifth Series" of the "Breitmann
                  Ballads," bound in morocco cloth, gilt, beveled boards, 2 00
               Hans Breitmann's Ballads. By Charles G. Leland. Being the above two volumes
                  complete in one. In one large volume, bound in morocco cloth, gilt side, gilt top,
                  and full gilt back, with beveled boards. With a full and complete Glossary to the
                  whole work, 4 00
               Meister Karl's Sketch Book. By Charles G. Leland, (Hans Breitmann.) Complete in
                  one volume, green morocco cloth, gilt side, gilt top, gilt back, with beveled
                  boards, price $2.50, or in maroon morocco cloth, full gilt edges, full gilt back,
                  full gilt sides, etc., 3 50
               Historical Sketches of Plymouth, Luzerne Co., Penna. By Hendrick B. Wright, of
                  Wilkesbarre. With Twenty-five Photographs, 4 00
               John Jasper's Secret. A Sequel to Charles Dickens' "Mystery of Edwin Drood."
                  With 18 Illustrations. Bound in cloth, 2 00
               The Last Athenian. From the Swedish of Victor Rydberg. Highly recommended by
                  Fredrika Bremer. Paper $1.50, or in cloth, 2 00
               Across the Atlantic. Letters from France, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, and
                  England. By C. H. Haeseler, M.D. Bound in cloth, 2 00
               The Ladies' Guide to True Politeness and Perfect Manners. By Miss Leslie. Every
                  lady should have it. Cloth, full gilt back, 1 75
               The Ladies' Complete Guide to Needlework and Embroidery. With 113
                  illustrations. By Miss Lambert. Cloth, full gilt back, 1 75
               The Ladies' Work Table Book. With 27 illustrations. Cloth, gilt, 1 50
               The Story of Elizabeth. By Miss Thackeray, paper $1.00, or cloth, 1 50
               Dow's Short Patent Sermons. By Dow, Jr. In 4 vols., cloth, each 1 50
               Wild Oats Sown Abroad. A Spicy Book. By T. B. Witmer, cloth, 1 50
               Aunt Patty's Scrap Bag. By Mrs. Caroline Lee Hentz, author of "Linda," etc.
                  Full of Illustrations, and bound in cloth, 1 50
               Hollick's Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Figure. Illustrated by a perfect
                  dissected plate of the Human Organization, and by other separate plates of the
                  Human Skeleton, such as Arteries, Veins, the Heart, Lungs, Trachea, etc.
                  Illustrated. Bound, 2 00
               Life and Adventures of Don Quixote and his Squire Sancho Panza, complete in one
                  large volume, paper cover, for $1.00, or in cloth, 1 75
               The Laws and Practice of the Game of Euchre, as adopted by the Euchre Club of
                  Washington, D. C. Bound in cloth, 1 00
               Riddell's Model Architect. With 22 large full page colored illustrations, and
                  44 plates of ground plans, with plans, specifications, costs of building, etc. One
                  large quarto volume, bound, $15 00
            
            
            
               NEW AND GOOD BOOKS BY BEST AUTHORS.
               Treason at Home. A Novel. By Mrs. Greenough, cloth, $1 75
               Letters from Europe. By Colonel John W. Forney. Bound in cloth, 1 75
               Moore's Life of Hon. Schuyler Colfax, with a Portrait on steel, cloth, 1
                  50
               Whitefriars; or, The Days of Charles the Second. Illustrated, 1 00
               Tan-go-ru-a. An Historical Drama, in Prose. By Mr. Moorhead, 1 00
               The Impeachment Trial of President Andrew Johnson. Cloth, 1 50
               Trial of the Assassins for the Murder of Abraham Lincoln. Cloth, 1 50
               Lives of Jack Sheppard and Guy Fawkes. Illustrated. One vel., cloth, 1
                  75
               Consuelo, and Countess of Rudolstadt. One volume, cloth, 2 00
               Monsieur Antoine. By George Sand. Illustrated. One vol., cloth, 1 00
               Frank Fairleigh. By author of "Lewis Arundel," cloth, 1 75
               Lewis Arundel. By author of "Frank Fairleigh," cloth, 1 75
               Aurora Floyd. By Miss Braddon. One vol., paper 75 cents, cloth, 1 00
               Christy and White's Complete Ethiopian Melodies, bound in cloth, 1 00
               The Life of Charles Dickens. By R. Shelton Mackenzie, cloth, 2 00
               Poetical Works of Sir Walter Scott. One 8vo. volume, fine binding, 5 00
               Life of Sir Walter Scott. By John G. Lockhart. With Portrait, 2 50
               The Shakspeare Novels. Complete in one large octavo volume, cloth, 4 00
               Miss Pardoe's Choice Novels. In one large octavo volume, cloth, 4 00
               The Waverley Novels. National Edition. Five large 8vo. vols.,
                  cloth, 15 00
               Charles Dickens' Works. People's 12mo. Edition. 21 vols., cloth,
                  32 00
               Charles Dickens' Works. Green Cloth 12mo. Edition. 21 vols.,
                  cloth, 40 00
               Charles Dickens' Works. Illustrated 12mo. Edition. 34 vols.,
                  cloth, 50 00
               Charles Dickens' Works. Illustrated 8vo. Edition. 18 vols.,
                  cloth, 31 50
               Charles Dickens' Works. New National Edition. 7 volumes, cloth,
                  20 00
            
            
               HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WORKS.
               Each one is full of Illustrations, by Felix O. C. Darley, and bound in
                  Cloth.
               Major Jones' Courtship and Travels. With 21 Illustrations, $1 75
               Major Jones' Scenes in Georgia. With 16 Illustrations, 1 75
               Simon Suggs' Adventures and Travels. With 17 Illustrations, 1 75
               Swamp Doctor's Adventures in the South-West. 14 Illustrations, 1 75
               Col. Thorpe's Scenes in Arkansaw. With 16 Illustrations, 1 75
               The Big Bear's Adventures and Travels. With 18 Illustrations, 1 75
               High Life in New York, by Jonathan Slick. With Illustrations, 1 75
               Judge Haliburton's Yankee Stories. Illustrated, 1 75
               Harry Coverdale's Courtship and Marriage. Illustrated, 1 75
               Piney Wood's Tavern; or, Sam Slick in Texas. Illustrated, 1 75
               Sam Slick, the Clockmaker. By Judge Haliburton. Illustrated, 1 75
               Humors of Falconbridge. By J. F. Kelley. With Illustrations, 1 75
               Modern Chivalry. By Judge Breckenridge. Two vols., each 1 75
               Neal's Charcoal Sketches. By Joseph C. Neal. 21 Illustrations, 2 50
            
            
               CHARLES LEVER'S BEST WORKS.
               Charles O'Malley, 75
               Harry Lorrequer, 75
               Jack Hinton, 75
               Tom Burke of Ours, 75
               Knight of Gwynne, 75
               Arthur O'Leary, 75
               Con Cregan, 75
               Davenport Dunn, 75
               Horace Templeton, 75
               Kate O'Donoghue, 75
               Above are in paper cover, or a fine edition in cloth at $2.00 each.
               A Rent in a Cloud, 50
               St. Patrick's Eve, 50
               Ten Thousand a Year, in one volume, paper cover, $1.50; or in cloth, 2
                  00
               The Diary of a Medical Student, by author "Ten Thousand a Year," 75
            
            
               DUMAS', REYNOLDS', AND OTHER BOOKS IN CLOTH.
               The following are cloth editions of the following good books, and they are each
                  issued in one large volume, bound in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               The Three Guardsmen; or, The Three Mousquetaires. By A. Dumas, $1 75
               Twenty Years After; or the "Second Series of Three Guardsmen," 1
                  75
               Bragelonne; Son of Athos; or "Third Series of Three Guardsmen," 1
                  75
               The Iron Mask; or the "Fourth Series of The Three Guardsmen." 1
                  75
               Louise La Valliere; or the "Fifth Series and End of the Three
                  Guardsmen Series," 1 75
               The Memoirs of a Physician. By Alexander Dumas. Illustrated, 1 75
               Queen's Necklace; or "Second Series of Memoirs of a Physician," 1
                  75
               Six Years Later; or the "Third Series of Memoirs of a Physician,"
                  1 75
               Countess of Charny; or "Fourth Series of Memoirs of a Physician,"
                  1 75
               Andree De Taverney; or "Fifth Series of Memoirs of a Physician,"
                  1 75
               The Chevalier; or the "Sixth Series and End of the Memoirs of a
                  Physician Series," 1 75
               The Adventures of a Marquis. By Alexander Dumas 1 75
               Edmond Dantes. A Sequel to the "Count of Monte-Cristo," 1 75
               The Forty-Five Guardsmen. By Alexander Dumas. Illustrated, 1 75
               Diana of Meridor, or Lady of Monsoreau. By Alexander Dumas, 1 75
               The Iron Hand. By Alex. Dumas, author "Count of Monte-Cristo," 1 75
               The Mysteries of the Court of London. By George W. M. Reynolds, 1 75
               Rose Foster; or the "Second Series of Mysteries of Court of
                  London," 1 75
               Caroline of Brunswick; or the "Third Series of the Court of
                  London," 1 75
               Venetia Trelawney; or "End of the Mysteries of the Court of
                  London," 1 75
               Lord Saxondale; or the Court of Queen Victoria. By Reynolds, 1 75
               Count Christoval. Sequel to "Lord Saxondale." By Reynolds, 1 75
               Rosa Lambert; or Memoirs of an Unfortunate Woman. By Reynolds, 1 75
               Mary Price; or the Adventures of a Servant Maid. By Reynolds, 1 75
               Eustace Quentin. Sequel to "Mary Price." By G. W. M. Reynolds, 1 75
               Joseph Wilmot; or the Memoirs of a Man Servant. By Reynolds, 1 75
               Banker's Daughter. Sequel to "Joseph Wilmot." By Reynolds, 1 75
               Kenneth. A Romance of the Highlands. By G. W. M. Reynolds, 1 75
               Rye-House Plot; or the Conspirator's Daughter. By Reynolds, 1 75
               Necromancer; or the Times of Henry the Eighth. By Reynolds, 1 75
               Within the Maze. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "East Lynne," 1 75
               Dene Hollow. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "Within the Maze," 1 75
               Bessy Rane. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "The Channings," 1 75
               George Canterbury's Will. By Mrs. Wood, author "Oswald Cray," 1 75
               The Channings. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "Dene Hollow," 1 75
               Roland Yorke. A Sequel to "The Channings." By Mrs. Wood, 1 75
               Shadow of Ashlydyatt. By Mrs. Wood, author of "Bessy Rane," 1 75
               Lord Oakburn's Daughters; or The Earl's Heirs. By Mrs. Wood, 1 75
               Verner's Pride. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "The Channings," 1 75
               The Castle's Heir; or Lady Adelaide's Oath. By Mrs. Henry Wood, 1 75
               Oswald Cray. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "Roland Yorke," 1 75
               Squire Trevlyn's Heir; or Trevlyn Hold. By Mrs. Henry Wood, 1 75
               The Red Court Farm. By Mrs. Wood, author of "Verner's Pride," 1 75
               Elster's Folly. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "Castle's Heir," 1 75
               St. Martin's Eve. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "Dene Hollow," 1 75
               Mildred Arkell. By Mrs. Henry Wood, author of "East Lynne," 1 75
               Cyrilla; or the Mysterious Engagement. By author of "Initials," 1 75
               The Miser's Daughter. By William Harrison Ainsworth, 1 75
               The Mysteries of Florence. By Geo. Lippard, author "Quaker City," 1 75
            
         
         
            
            CHARLES DICKENS' WORKS.
            GREAT REDUCTION IN THEIR PRICES.
            
               PEOPLE'S DUODECIMO EDITION. ILLUSTRATED.
               Reduced in price from $2.50 to $1.50 a volume.
               This edition is printed on fine paper, from large, clear type, leaded, that all
                  can read, containing Two Hundred Illustrations on tinted paper.
               
                  Our Mutual Friend, Cloth, $1.50
                  Pickwick Papers, Cloth, 1.50
                  Nicholas Nickleby, Cloth, 1.50
                  Great Expectations, Cloth, 1.50
                  David Copperfield, Cloth, 1.50
                  Oliver Twist, Cloth, 1.50
                  Bleak House, Cloth, 1.50
                  A Tale of Two Cities, Cloth, 1.50
                  Little Dorrit, Cloth, $1.50
                  Dombey and Son, Cloth, 1.50
                  Christmas Stories, Cloth, 1.50
                  Sketches by "Boz," Cloth, 1.50
                  Barnaby Rudge, Cloth, 1.50
                  Martin Chuzzlewit, Cloth, 1.50
                  Old Curiosity Shop, Cloth, 1.50
                  Dickens' New Stories, Cloth, 1.50
                  Mystery of Edwin Drood; and Master Humphrey's Clock, Cloth, 1.50
                  American Notes; and the Uncommercial Traveller, Cloth, 1.50
                  Hunted Down; and other Reprinted Pieces, Cloth, 1.50
                  The Holly-Tree Inn; and other Stories, Cloth, 1.50
                  The Life and Writings of Charles Dickens, Cloth, 2.00
                  Price of a set, in Black cloth, in twenty-one volumes, $32.00
                  Price of a set, in Full sheep, Library style, 42.50
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, sprinkled edges, 53.00
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, marbled edges, 58.00
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, antique, or half calf, full gilt backs, etc.
                     63.00
               
            
            
               GREEN MOROCCO CLOTH, DUODECIMO EDITION.
               This is the "People's Duodecimo Edition" in a new style of Binding, in Green
                  Morocco Cloth, Bevelled Boards, Full Gilt descriptive back, and Medallion Portruit
                  on sides in gilt, in Twenty-one handy volumes, 12mo., fine paper, large clear
                  type, and Two Hundred Illustrations on tinted paper. Price $40 a set, and each set
                  put up in a neat and strong box. This is the handsomest and best edition ever
                  published for the price.
            
            
               ILLUSTRATED DUODECIMO EDITION.
               Reduced in price from $2.00 to $1.50 a volume.
               This edition is printed on the finest paper, from large, clear type, leaded, that
                  all can read, containing Six Hundred full page Illustrations, on tinted paper,
                  from designs by Cruikshank, Phiz, Browne, Maclise, McLenan, and other artists.
                  This is the only edition published that contains all the original illustrations,
                  as selected by Mr. Charles Dickens.
               The following are each contained in two volumes.
               
                  Our Mutual Friend, Cloth, $3.00
                  Pickwick Papers, Cloth, 3.00
                  Tale of Two Cities, Cloth, 3.00
                  Nicholas Nickleby, Cloth, 3.00
                  David Copperfield, Cloth, 3.00
                  Oliver Twist, Cloth, 3.00
                  Christmas Stories, Cloth, 3.00
                  Bleak House, Cloth, $3.00
                  Sketches by "Boz," Cloth, 3.00
                  Barnaby Rudge, Cloth, 3.00
                  Martin Chuzzlewit, Cloth, 3.00
                  Old Curiosity Shop, Cloth, 3.00
                  Little Dorrit, Cloth, 3.00
                  Dombey and Son, Cloth, 3.00
               
               The following are each complete in one volume.
               
                  Great Expectations, $1.50
                  Dickens' New Stories, Cloth, $1.50
                  Mystery of Edwin Drood; and Master Humphrey's Clock, Cloth, 1.50
                  American Notes; and the Uncommercial Traveller, Cloth, 1.50
                  Hunted Down: and other Reprinted Pieces, Cloth, 1.50
                  The Holly-Tree Inn; and other Stories, Cloth, 1.50
                  The Life and Writings of Charles Dickens, Cloth, 2.00
                  Price of a set, in thirty-five volumes, bound in cloth, $50.00
                  Price of a set, in Full sheep, Library style, 68.00
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, antique, or half calf, full gilt backs, etc.
                     100.00
               
            
            
               ILLUSTRATED OCTAVO EDITION.
               Reduced in price from $2.50 to $1.75 a volume.
               This edition is printed from large type, double column, octavo page, each book
                  being complete in one volume, the whole containing near Six Hundred Illustrations,
                  by Cruikshank, Phiz, Browne, Maclise, and other artists.
               
                  Our Mutual Friend, Cloth, $1.75
                  Pickwick Papers, Cloth, 1.75
                  Nicholas Nickleby, Cloth, 1.75
                  Great Expectations, Cloth, 1.75
                  Lamplighter's Story, Cloth, 1.75
                  Oliver Twist, Cloth, 1.75
                  Bleak House, Cloth, 1.75
                  Little Dorrit, Cloth, 1.75
                  Dombey and Son, Cloth, 1.75
                  Sketches by "Boz," Cloth, 1.75
                  David Copperfield, Cloth, $1.75
                  Barnaby Rudge, Cloth, 1.75
                  Martin Chuzzlewit, Cloth, 1.75
                  Old Curiosity Shop, Cloth, 1.75
                  Christmas Stories, Cloth, 1.75
                  Dickens' New Stories, Cloth, 1.75
                  A Tale of Two Cities, Cloth, 1.75
                  American Notes and Pic-Nic Papers, Cloth, 1.75
                  Price of a set, in Black cloth, in eighteen volumes, $31.50
                  Price of a set, in Full sheep, Library style, 40.00
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, sprinkled edges, 48.00
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, marbled edges, 54.00
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, antique, or Half calf, full gilt backs,
                     60.00
               
            
            
               "NEW NATIONAL EDITION" OF DICKENS' WORKS.
               This is the cheapest bound edition of the works of Charles Dickens, published, all
                  his writings being contained in seven large octavo volumes, with a
                  portrait of Charles Dickens, and other illustrations.
               
                  Price of a set, in Black cloth, in seven volumes, $20.00
                  Price of a set, in Full sheep, Library style, 25.00
                  Price of a set, in Half calf, antique, or Half calf, full gilt backs,
                     30.00
               
            
            
               CHEAP PAPER COVER EDITION.
               
                  Each book being complete in one large octavo volume.
                  Pickwick Papers, 35
                  Nicholas Nickleby, 35
                  Dombey and Son, 35
                  Our Mutual Friend, 35
                  David Copperfield, 25
                  Martin Chuzzlewit, 35
                  Old Curiosity Shop, 25
                  Oliver Twist, 25
                  American Notes, 25
                  Great Expectations, 25
                  Hard Times, 25
                  A Tale of Two Cities, 25
                  Somebody's Luggage, 25
                  Message from the Sea, 25
                  Barnaby Rudge, 25
                  Sketches by "Boz," 25
                  Bleak House, 35
                  Little Dorrit, 35
                  Christmas Stories, 25
                  The Haunted House, 25
                  Uncommercial Traveller, 25
                  A House to Let, 25
                  Perils of English Prisoners, 25
                  Wreck of the Golden Mary, 25
                  Tom Tiddler's Ground, 25
                  Joseph Grimaldi, 50
                  The Pic-Nic Papers, 50
                  Dickens' New Stories 25
                  Lazy Tour Idle Apprentices 25
                  Hunted Down, 25
                  The Holly-Tree Inn, 25
                  No Thoroughfare 25
                  Mystery of Edwin Drood. Charles Dickens' last work, 25
                  Mrs. Lirriper's Lodgings and Mrs. Lirriper's Legacy, 25
                  Mugby Junction and Dr. Marigold's Prescriptions, 25
               
            
            
               THE LIFE AND WRITINGS OF CHARLES DICKENS.
               THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. By Dr. R. Shelton Mackenzie, containing a full
                  history of his Life, his Uncollected Pieces, in Prose and Verse; Personal
                  Recollections and Anecdotes; His Last Will in full; and Letters from Mr. Dickens
                  never before published. With a Portrait and Autograph of Charles Dickens. Price
                  $2.00.
            
         
         
            
            T. B. PETERSON AND BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS.
            
               ALEXANDER DUMAS' WORKS.
               Count of Monte-Cristo, $1 50
               Edmond Dantes, 75
               The Three Guardsmen, 75
               Twenty Years After, 75
               Bragelonne, 75
               The Iron Mask, 1 00
               Louise La Valliere, 1 00
               Diana of Meridor, 1 00
               Adventures of a Marquis, 1 00
               Love and Liberty, 1 50
               Memoirs of a Physician, $1 00
               Queen's Necklace, 1 00
               Six Years Later, 1 00
               Countess of Charny, 1 00
               Andree de Taverney, 1 00
               The Chevalier, 1 00
               Forty-five Guardsmen, 1 00
               The Iron Hand, 75
               The Conscript, 1 50
               Countess of Monte-Cristo, 1 00
               The above are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               The Fallen Angel, 75
               Felina de Chambure, 75
               The Horrors of Paris, 75
               Sketches in France, 75
               Isabel of Bavaria, 75
               Twin Lieutenants, 75
               Man with Five Wives, 75
               George; or, Isle of France, 75
               Annette; or, Lady of Pearls, 50
               Madame De Chamblay 50
               The Black Tulip, 50
               The Corsican Brothers, 50
               The Count of Moret, 50
               Mohicans of Paris, 50
               The Marriage Verdict, 50
               Buried Alive, 25
            
            
               GEORGE W. M. REYNOLDS' WORKS.
               Mysteries Court of London, $1 00
               Rose Foster, 1 50
               Caroline of Brunswick, 1 00
               Venetia Trelawney, 1 00
               Lord Saxondale, 1 00
               Count Christoval, 1 00
               Rosa Lambert, 1 00
               Mary Price, $1 00
               Eustace Quentin, 1 00
               Joseph Wilmot, 1 00
               Banker's Daughter, 1 00
               Kenneth, 1 00
               The Rye-House Plot, 1 00
               The Necromancer, 1 00
               The above are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               The Opera Dancer, 75
               Child of Waterloo, 75
               Robert Bruce, 75
               The Gipsy Chief, 75
               Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots, 75
               Wallace, Hero of Scotland, 1 00
               Isabella Vincent, 75
               Vivian Bertram, 75
               Countess of Lascelles, 75
               Duke of Marchmont, 75
               Massacre of Glencoe, 75
               Loves of the Harem 75
               The Soldier's Wife, 75
               May Middleton, 75
               Ellen Percy, 75
               Agnes Evelyn, 75
               Pickwick Abroad, 75
               Parricide, 75
               Discarded Queen, 75
               Life in Paris, 50
               Countess and the Page, 50
               Edgar Montrose, 50
               The Ruined Gamester, 50
               Clifford and the Actress, 50
               Queen Joanna; or the Mysteries of the Court of Naples, 75
               Ciprina; or, the Secrets of a Picture Gallery, 50
            
            
               MISS PARDOE'S POPULAR WORKS.
               Confessions of a Pretty Woman, 75
               The Wife's Trials, 75
               The Jealous Wife, 50
               The Rival Beauties, 75
               Romance of the Harem, 75
               The five above books are also bound in one volume, cloth, for $4.00.
               The Adopted Heir. One volume, paper, $1.50; or in cloth, $1 75
               The Earl's Secret. One volume, paper, $1.50; or in cloth, 1 75
            
            
               MRS. HENRY WOOD'S BEST BOOKS.
               The Master of Greylands, $1 50
               Within the Maze, 1 50
               Dene Hollow, 1 50
               Bessy Rane 1 50
               George Canterbury's Will, 1 50
               Verner's Pride, 1 50
               The Channings, 1 50
               Shadow of Ashlydyat, $1 50
               Squire Trevlyn's Heir, 1 50
               Oswald Cray, 1 50
               Mildred Arkell, 1 50
               Red Court Farm, 1 50
               Elster's Folly, 1 50
               St. Martin's Eve, 1 50
               Roland Yorke. A Sequel to "The Channings," 1 50
               Lord Oakburn's Daughters; or, The Earl's Heirs, 1 50
               The Castle's Heir; or, Lady Adelaide's Oath, 1 50
               The above are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               The Mystery, 75
               The Lost Bank Note, 75
               The Lost Will, 50
               Orville College, 50
               A Light and a Dark Christmas, 25
               A Life's Secret, 50
               The Haunted Tower, 50
               The Runaway Match, 50
               Foggy Night at Offord, 25
               William Allair, 25
            
            
               EUGENE SUE'S GREAT WORKS.
               Wandering Jew, $1 50
               Mysteries of Paris, 1 50
               Martin, the Foundling, 1 50
               Above are in cloth at $2.00 each.
               First Love, 50
               Woman's Love, 50
               Female Bluebeard, 50
               Man-of-War's-Man, 50
               Life and Adventures of Raoul de Surville. A Tale of the Empire, 25
            
            
               MADAME GEORGE SAND'S WORKS.
               Consuelo, 12mo., cloth, $1 50
               Countess of Rudolstadt, 1 50
               Jealousy, 12mo. cloth, $1 50
               Indiana, 12mo., cloth, 1 50
               Above are only published in 12mo., cloth, gilt side and back.
               Fanchon, the Cricket, price $1.00 in paper, or in cloth, 1 50
               First and True Love, 75
               Simon. A Love Story, 50
               The Corsair, 50
               The Last Aldini, 50
               Monsieur Antoine. With 11 Illustrations. Paper, 75 cents; cloth, 1 00
               Consuelo and Countess of Rudolstadt, octavo, cloth, 2 00
            
            
               CHARLES J. PETERSON'S WORKS.
               The Old Stone Mansion, $1 50
               Kate Aylesford, $1 50
               The above are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               Cruising in the Last War, 75
               Valley Farm, 25
               Grace Dudley; or, Arnold at Saratoga, 50
            
            
               WILLIAM H. MAXWELL'S WORKS.
               Wild Sports of the West, 75
               Stories of Waterloo, 75
               Brian O'Lynn, 75
               Life of Grace O'Malley, 50
            
            
               MISS BRADDON'S WORKS.
               Aurora Floyd, 75
               Aurora Floyd, cloth 1 00
               The Lawyer's Secret, 25
               For Better, For Worse, 75
            
            
               D'ISRAELI'S WORKS.
               Henrietta Temple, 50
               Miriam Alroy 50
               Contarina Fleming, 50
            
            
            
               HUMOROUS AMERICAN WORKS.
               Beautifully Illustrated by Felix O. C. Darley.
               Major Jones' Courtship, 75
               Major Jones' Travels, 75
               Simon Suggs' Adventures and Travels, 75
               Major Jones' Chronicles of Pineville, 75
               Polly Peablossom's Wedding, 75
               Mysteries of the Backwoods, 75
               Widow Rugby's Husband, 75
               Big Bear of Arkansas 75
               Western Scenes; or, Life on the Prairie, 75
               Streaks of Squatter Life, 75
               Pickings from the Picayune, 75
               Stray Subjects, Arrested and Bound Over, 75
               Louisiana Swamp Doctor, 75
               Charcoal Sketches, 75
               Misfortunes of Peter Faber, 75
               Yankee among the Mermaids, 75
               New Orleans Sketch Book, 75
               Drama in Pokerville, 75
               The Quorndon Hounds, 75
               My Shooting Box, 75
               Warwick Woodlands, 75
               The Deer Stalkers, 75
               Peter Ploddy, 75
               Adventures of Captain Farrago, 75
               Major O'Regan's Adventures, 75
               Sol. Smith's Theatrical Apprenticeship, 75
               Sol. Smith's Theatrical Journey-Work, 75
               The Quarter Race in Kentucky, 75
               Aunt Patty's Scrap Bag, 75
               Percival Mayberry's Adventures and Travels, 75
               Sam Slick's Yankee Yarns and Yankee Letters, 75
               Adventures of Fudge Fumble, 75
               American Joe Miller, 50
               Following the Drum, 50
            
            
               FRANK FAIRLEGH'S WORKS.
               Frank Fairlegh, 75
               Lewis Arundel, 75
               Harry Racket Scapegrace, 75
               Tom Racquet, 75
               Finer editions of the above are also issued in cloth, at $1.75 each.
               Harry Coverdale's Courtship, 1 50
               Lorrimer Littlegood, 1 50
               The above are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               The Colville Family. By author of "Frank Fairlegh," 50
            
            
               WILLIAM HARRISON AINSWORTH'S WORKS.
               Life of Jack Sheppard, 50
               Life of Guy Fawkes, 75
               Court of the Stuarts, 75
               Windsor Castle, 75
               The Star Chamber, 75
               Old St. Paul's, 75
               Court of Queen Anne, 50
               Life of Dick Turpin, 50
               Life of Davy Crockett, 50
               Tower of London, $1 50
               Miser's Daughter, 1 00
               Above are in cloth, at $1.75 each.
               Life of Grace O'Malley, 50
               Desperadoes of the New World, 50
               Life of Henry Thomas, 25
               Life of Ninon De L'Enclos, 25
               Life of Arthur Spring, 25
               Life of Mrs. Whipple, 25
               Lives of Jack Sheppard and Guy Fawkes, in one volume, cloth, 1 75
            
            
               MISS ELLEN PICKERING'S WORKS.
               The Grumbler 75
               Marrying for Money, 75
               Poor Cousin, 50
               Kate Walsingham, 50
               Orphan Niece, 50
               Who Shall be Heir? 38
               The Squire, 38
               Ellen Wareham, 38
               Nan Darrel, 38
            
            
               SAMUEL WARREN'S BEST BOOKS.
               Ten Thousand a Year, paper, $1 50
               Ten Thousand a Year, cloth, 2 00
               The Diary of a Medical Student, 75
            
            
               T. S. ARTHUR'S HOUSEHOLD NOVELS.
               The Lost Bride, 50
               The Two Brides, 50
               Love in a Cottage, 50
               Love in High Life, 50
               Year after Marriage, 50
               The Lady at Home, 50
               Cecelia Howard, 50
               Orphan Children, 50
               Debtor's Daughter, 50
               Mary Moreton, 50
               The Divorced Wife, 50
               Pride and Prudence, 50
               Agnes; or, the Possessed, 50
               Lucy Sandford, 50
               The Banker's Wife, 50
               The Two Merchants, 50
               Trial and Triumph, 50
               The Iron Rule, 50
               Insubordination; or, the Shoemaker's Daughters, 50
               Six Nights with the Washingtonians; and other Temperance Tales.
               By T. S. Arthur. With original Illustrations, by George Cruikshank. One large
                  octavo volume, bound in beveled boards, price $3.50
               Lizzy Glenn; or, the Trials of a Seamstress. Cloth $1.75; or paper, 1.50
            
            
               MRS. GREY'S CELEBRATED NOVELS.
               Cousin Harry, $1 50
               The Little Beauty, $1 50
               The above are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               A Marriage in High Life, 50
               Gipsy's Daughter, 50
               Old Dower House, 50
               Belle of the Family, 50
               Duke and Cousin, 50
               The Little Wife, 50
               Lena Cameron, 50
               Sybil Lennard, 50
               Manœuvring Mother 50
               The Baronet's Daughters, 50
               Young Prima Donna, 50
               Hyacinthe, 25
               Alice Seymour, 25
               Mary Seaham 75
               Passion and Principle, 75
               The Flirt, 75
               Good Society, 75
               Lion-Hearted, 75
            
            
               G. P. R. JAMES'S BEST BOOKS.
               Lord Montague's Page, $1 50
               The Cavalier, $1 50
               The above are each in paper cover, or in cloth, price $1.75 each.
               The Man in Black, 75
               Mary of Burgundy, 75
               Arrah Neil, 75
               Eva St. Clair, 50
            
            
               CAPTAIN MARRYATT'S WORKS.
               Jacob Faithful 50
               Japhet in Search of a Father, 50
               Phantom Ship 50
               Midshipman Easy, 50
               Pacha of Many Tales, 50
               Frank Mildmay, Naval Officer, 50
               Suarleyow, 50
               Newton Forster, 50
               King's Own 50
               Pirate and Three Cutters, 50
               Peter Simple, 50
               Percival Keene, 50
               Poor Jack, 50
               Sea King, 50
            
            
               REVOLUTIONARY TALES.
               The Brigand, 50
               Ralph Runnion, 50
               Seven Brothers of Wyoming, 50
               The Rebel Bride 50
               The Flying Artillerist, 50
               Wau-nan-gee, 50
               Old Put; or. Days of 1776, 50
               Legends of Mexico, 50
               Grace Dudley 50
               The Guerilla Chief, 75
               The Quaker Soldier, paper, 1 50
               The Quaker Soldier, cloth, 1 75
            
            
               J. F. SMITH'S WORKS.
               The Usurer's Victim; or, Thomas Balscombe, 75
               Adelaide Waldegrave; or, the Trials of a Governess, 75
            
            
            
               GEORGE LIPPARD'S GREAT BOOKS.
               The Quaker City, $1 50
               Paul Ardenheim, 1 50
               Blanche of Brandywine, 1 50
               Washington and his Generals; or, Legends of the American Revolution, 1
                  50
               Mysteries of Florence, 1 00
               Above in cloth at $2.00 each.
               The Empire City, 75
               Memoirs of a Preacher, 75
               The Nazarene, 75
               Washington and his Men, 75
               Legends of Mexico, 50
               The Entranced, 25
               The Robbers, 25
               The Bank Director's Son, 25
            
            
               EXCITING SEA TALES.
               Adventures of Ben Brace, 75
               Jack Adams, the Mutineer, 75
               Jack Ariel's Adventures, 75
               Petrel; or, Life on the Ocean, 75
               Life of Paul Periwinkle, 75
               Life of Tom Bowling, 75
               Percy Effingham, 75
               Cruising in the Last War, 75
               Red King, 50
               The Corsair, 50
               The Doomed Ship, 50
               The Three Pirates, 50
               The Flying Dutchman, 50
               The Flying Yankee, 50
               The Yankee Middy, 50
               The Gold Seekers, 50
               The King's Cruisers, 50
               Life of Alexander Tardy, 50
               Red Wing, 50
               Yankee Jack, 50
               Yankees in Japan, 50
               Morgan, the Buccaneer, 50
               Jack Junk, 50
               Davis, the Pirate, 50
               Valdez, the Pirate, 50
               Gallant Tom, 50
               Harry Helm, 50
               Harry Tempest, 50
               Rebel and Rover, 50
               Man-of-War's-Man, 50
               Dark Shades of City Life, 25
               The Rats of the Seine, 25
               Charles Ransford, 25
               The Iron Cross, 25
               The River Pirates, 25
               The Pirate's Son, 25
               Jacob Faithful, 50
               Phantom Ship, 50
               Midshipman Easy, 50
               Pacha of Many Tales, 50
               Naval Officer, 50
               Suarleyow, 50
               Newton Forster, 50
               King's Own, 50
               Japhet, 50
               Pirate and Three Cutters, 50
               Peter Simple, 50
               Pereival Keene, 50
               Poor Jack, 50
               Sea King, 50
            
            
               MILITARY NOVELS. BY BEST AUTHORS.
               With Illuminated Military Covers, in five Colors.
               Charles O'Malley, 75
               Jack Hinton, the Guardsman, 75
               The Knight of Gwynne, 75
               Harry Lorrequer, 75
               Tom Burke of Ours, 75
               Arthur O'Leary, 75
               Con Cregan, 75
               Kate O'Donoghue, 75
               Horace Templeton, 75
               Davenport Dunn, 75
               Jack Adams' Adventures, 75
               Valentine Vox, 75
               Twin Lieutenants, 75
               Stories of Waterloo, 75
               The Soldier's Wife, 75
               Guorilla Chief, 75
               The Three Guardsmen, 75
               Twenty Years After, 75
               Bragelonne, Son of Athos, 75
               Tom Bowling's Adventures, 75
               Life of Robert Bruce, 75
               The Gipsy Chief, 75
               Massacre of Glencoe, 75
               Life of Guy Fawkes, 75
               Child of Waterloo, 75
               Adventures of Ben Brace, 75
               Life of Jack Ariel, 75
               Forty-five Guardsmen, 1 00
               Wallace, the Hero of Scotland, 1 00
               Following the Drum, 50
               The Conscript, a Tale of War. By Alexander Dumas, 1 50
            
            
               HARRY COCKTON'S WORKS.
               Valentine Vox, Ventriloquist, 75
               Valentine Vox, cloth, 2 00
               Sylvester Sound, 75
               The Love Match, 75
               The Fatal Marriage, 75
               The Steward, 75
               Percy Effingham, 75
               The Prince, 75
            
            
               GUSTAVE AIMARD'S WORKS.
               The Prairie Flower, 75
               The Indian Scout, 75
               The Trail Hunter, 75
               The Indian Chief, 75
               The Red Track, 75
               The White Scalper, 50
               The Freebooters, 50
               Trapper's Daughter, 75
               The Tiger Slayer, 75
               The Gold Seekers, 75
               The Rebel Chief, 75
               The Border Rifles, 75
               Pirates of the Prairies, 75
            
            
               HENRY MORFORD'S AMERICAN NOVELS.
               Shoulder-Straps, $1 50
               The Coward, 1 50
               The Days of Shoddy. A History of the late War, $1 50
               Above are each in paper cover, or each one is in cloth, price $1.75
                  each.
            
            
               LIVES OF NOTED HIGHWAYMEN, ETC.
               Life of John A. Murrel, 50
               Life of Joseph T. Hare, 50
               Life of Col. Monroe Edwards, 50
               Life of Jack Sheppard, 50
               Life of Jack Rann, 50
               Life of Dick Turpin, 50
               Life of Helen Jewett, 50
               Desperadoes of the New World, 50
               Mysteries of New Orleans, 50
               The Robber's Wife, 50
               Obi; or, Three Fingered Jack, 50
               Kit Clayton, 50
               Life of Tom Waters, 50
               Nat Blake, 50
               Bill Horton, 50
               Galloping Gus, 50
               Life & Trial of Antoine Probst, 50
               Ned Hastings, 50
               Eveleen Wilson, 50
               Diary of a Pawnbroker, 50
               Silver and Pewter, 50
               Sweeney Todd, 50
               Life of Grace O'Malley, 50
               Life of Davy Crockett, 50
               Life of Sybil Grey, 50
               Life of Jonathan Wild, 25
               Life of Henry Thomas, 25
               Life of Arthur Spring, 25
               Life of Jack Ketch, 25
               Life of Ninon De L'Enclos, 25
               Lives of the Felons, 25
               Life of Mrs. Whipple, 25
               Life of Biddy Woodhull, 25
               Life of Mother Brownrigg, 25
               Dick Parker, the Pirate, 25
               Life of Mary Bateman, 25
               Life of Captain Blood, 25
               Capt. Blood and the Beagles, 25
               Sixteen-Stringed Jack's Fight for Life, 25
               High wayman's Avenger, 25
               Life of Raoul De Surville, 25
               Life of Rody the Rover 25
               Life of Galloping Dick, 25
               Life of Guy Fawkes, 75
               Life and Adventures of Vidocq, 1 50
            
            
               LIEBIG'S WORKS ON CHEMISTRY.
               Agricultural Chemistry, 25
               Animal Chemistry, 25
               Liebig's celebrated Letters on the Potato Disease, 25
               Liebig's Complete Works on Chemistry, is also issued in one large octavo
                  volume, bound in cloth. Price Two Dollars.
            
            
               MILITARY AND ARMY BOOKS.
               Ellsworth's Zouave Drill, 25
               U. S. Government Infantry & Rifle Tactics, 25
               U. S. Light Infantry Drill, 25
               The Soldier's Companion, 25
               The Soldier's Guide, 25
            
            
            
               WORKS AT 75 CENTS. BY BEST AUTHORS
               The Brigand; or, the Demon of the North. By Victor Hugo, 75
               Cyrilla; or, The Mysterious Engagement. By the author of "The Initials." Cloth,
                  $1.75; or bound in paper cover, for 75
               The Red Indians of Newfoundland. Illustrated, 75
               Webster and Hayne's Speeches in Reply to Colonel Foote, 75
               Roanoke; or, Where is Utopia? By C. H. Wiley. Illustrated, 75
               The Banditti of the Prairie, 75
               Tom Racquet, 75
               Salathiel, by Croly, 75
               Corinne; or, Italy, 75
               Ned Musgrave 75
               Aristocracy, 75
               Popping the Question, 75
               Paul Periwinkle, 75
               The Inquisition in Spain, 75
               Elsie's Married Life, 75
               Leyton Hall. By Mark Lemon, 75
               Flirtations in America 75
               The Coquette, 75
               Thackeray's Irish Sketch Book, 75
               Whitehall, 75
               The Beautiful Nun, 75
               Mysteries of Three Cities, 75
               Genevra. By Miss Fairfield, 75
               Crock of Gold. By Tupper, 75
               Twins and Heart. By Tupper, 75
               New Hope; or, the Rescue, 75
               Nothing to Say, 75
               Hans Breitmann's Party. With other Ballads. By Charles G. Leland, 75
               Hans Breitmann In Church, with other Ballads. By C. G. Leland, 75
               Hans Breitmann about Town, with other Ballads. By C. G. Leland, 75
               Hans Breitmann as an Uhlan, and other New Ballads, 75
               Hans Breitmann In Europe with other New Ballads, 75
            
            
               WORKS AT 50 CENTS. BY BEST AUTHORS.
               Leah; or the Forsaken, 50
               The Greatest Plague of Life, 50
               Clifford and the Actress, 50
               The Two Lovers, 50
               The Orphans and Calob Field, 50
               Moreton Hall, 50
               Bell Brandon, 50
               Sybil Grey, 50
               Female Life in New York, 50
               Agnes Grey, 50
               Diary of a Physician, 50
               The Emigrant Squire, 50
               The Monk, by Lewis, 50
               The Beautiful French Girl, 50
               Father Clement, paper, 50
               Father Clement, cloth, 75
               Miser's Heir, paper, 50
               Miser's Heir, cloth, 75
               Kate Kennedy, 50
               The Admiral's Daughter, 50
               The American Joe Miller, 50
               Ella Stratford, 50
               Josephine, by Grace Aguilar, 50
               The Fortune Hunter, 50
               The Orphan Sisters, 50
               Abednogo, the Money Lender, 50
               Jenny Ambrose, 50
               Train's Union Speeches, 50
               The Romish Confessional 50
               Victims of Amusements, 50
               Ladies' Work Table Book, 50
               Life of Antoine Probst, 50
               Alieford, a Family History, 50
               General Scott's $5 Portrait, 1 00
               Henry Clay's $5 Portrait, 1 00
               Portrait of Schuyler Colfax, 50
               The Woman in Red. A Companion to the "Woman in Black," 50
               Twelve Months of Matrimony. By Emelie F. Carlen, 50
               Ryan's Mysteries of Love, Courtship, and Marriage, 50
               Robert Oaklands; or, the Outcast Orphan, 50
               Father Tom and the Pope, in cloth gilt, 75 cents, or paper, 50
            
            
               REV. CHARLES WADSWORTH'S SERMONS.
               America's Mission, 25
               Thankfulness and Character, 25
               A Thanksgiving Sermon, 15
               Politics in Religion, 12
               Henry Ward Beecher on War and Emancipation, 15
               Rev. William T. Brantley's Union Sermon, 15
            
            
               WORKS AT 25 CENTS. BY BEST AUTHORS.
               Aunt Margaret's Trouble, 25
               The Grey Woman, 25
               The Deformed, 25
               Two Prima Donnas, 25
               The Mysterious Marriage, 25
               Jack Downing's Letters, 25
               The Mysteries of a Convent, 25
               Rose Warrington, 25
               The Iron Cross, 25
               Charles Ransford, 25
               The Mysteries of Bedlam, 25
               The Nobleman's Daughter, 25
               Ghost Stories. Illustrated, 25
               Ladies' Science of Etiquette, 25
               The Abbey of Innismoyle, 25
               Gliddon's Ancient Egypt 25
               Philip in Search of a Wife, 25
               Rifle Shots, 25
               Rody the Rover, 25
               The Sower's Reward, 25
               The Courtier, 25
               G. F. Train and the Fenians, 25
               Madison's Exposition of Odd Fellowship. Illustrated, 25
               The Iniquities and Barbarities Practiced at Rome, 25
               Comic Life of Billy Vidkins, with 32 Illustrations, 25
            
            
               THE SHAKSPEARE NOVELS.
               Shakspeare and his Friends, $1 00
               The Youth of Shakspeare, 1 00
               The Secret Passion, $1 00
               Above three Books are also in one volume, cloth. Price Four Dollars.
            
            
               WAVERLEY NOVELS. BY SIR WALTER SCOTT.
               Ivanhoe, 20
               Rob Roy, 20
               Guy Mannering, 20
               The Antiquary 20
               Old Mortality 20
               Heart of Mid Lothian, 20
               Bride of Lammermoor, 20
               Waverley, 20
               St. Ronan's Well, 20
               Kenilworth, 20
               The Pirate, 20
               The Monastery, 20
               The Abbot, 20
               The Fortunes of Nigel, 20
               The Betrothed, 20
               Peveril of the Peak, 20
               Quentin Durward, 20
               Red Gauntlet, 20
               The Talisman, 20
               Woodstock, 20
               Highland Widow, etc., 20
               The Fair Maid of Perth, 20
               Anne of Geierstein, 20
               Count Robert of Paris, 20
               The Black Dwarf and Legend of Montrose, 20
               Castle Dangerous, and Surgeon's Daughter, 20
               Above edition is the cheapest in the world, and is complete in twenty-six
                  volumes, price Twenty cents each, or Five Dollars for the complete set.
               A finer edition is also published of each of the above, complete in twenty-six
                  volumes, price Fifty cents each, or Ten Dollars for the complete set.
               Moredun. A Tale of 1210, 50
               Tales of a Grandfather, 25
               Scott's Poetical Works, 5 00
               Life of Scott, cloth, 2 50
            
            
               "NEW NATIONAL EDITION" OF WAVERLEY NOVELS.
               This edition of the Waverley Novels is contained in five large octavo volumes,
                  with a portrait of Sir Walter Scott, making four thousand very large double
                  columned pages, in good type, and handsomely printed on the finest of white paper,
                  and bound in the strongest and most substantial manner.
               Price of a set, in Black cloth, in five volumes, $15 00
               Price of a set, in Full sheep, Library style, 17 50
               Price of a set, in Half calf, antique, or Half calf, gilt, 25 00
               The Complete Prose and Poetical Works of Sir Walter Scott, are also published
                  in ten volumes, bound in half calf, for $60 00
            
            
               SIR E. L. BULWER'S NOVELS.
               The Roue, 50
               The Oxonians, 50
               The Courtier, 25
               Falkland, 25
            
            
            
               LANGUAGES WITHOUT A MASTER.
               German without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons, by A. H. Monteith, 40
               French without a Master, 40
               Spanish without a Master, 40
               Italian without a Master, 40
               Latin without a Master, 40
               The above five works on the French, German, Spanish, Latin, and Italian
                  Languages, whereby any one or all of these Languages can be learned by any one
                  without a Teacher, with the aid of this book, by A. H. Monteith, is also published
                  in finer style, in one volume, bound, price $2.00.
            
            
               DR. HOLLICK'S WORKS.
               Dr. Hollick's great work on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Figure,
                  with colored dissected plates of the Human Figure, $2 00
               Dr. Hollick's Family Physician, a Pocket Guide for Everybody, 25
            
            
               USEFUL BOOKS FOR ALL.
               Lady's and Gentleman's Science of Etiquette. By Count D'Orsay and Countess de
                  Calabrella, with their portraits, 50
               Lardner's One Thousand and Ten Things Worth Knowing, 50
               Knowlson's Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, 25
               Knowlson's Complete Cow and Cattle Doctor, 25
               The Complete Kitchen and Fruit Gardener, 25
               The Complete Florist and Flower Gardener, 25
               Arthur's Receipts for Preserving Fruits, etc., 12
            
            
               LIVES OF GENERALS AND OTHER NOTED MEN.
               The Lives of U. S. Grant and Hon. Henry Wilson. This book is a complete History
                  of the Lives of General Ulysses S. Grant, and of the Hon. Henry Wilson, from their
                  Birth up to the present time. It contains life-like Portraits of General Ulysses
                  S. Grant, and of the Hon. Henry Wilson, and other Illustrative Engravings. Price
                  One Dollar in cloth, or in paper cover, 75
               Moore's Life of Hon. Schuyler Colfax. By Rev. A. Y. Moore, of South Bend. With
                  a Fine Steel Portrait. One vol. cloth. Price 1 50
               The Lives of Grant and Colfax. With life-like portraits of each, and other
                  engravings. Cloth, $1.00; or in paper cover, 75
               Illustrated Life, Speeches, Martyrdom and Funeral of President Abraham Lincoln.
                  Cloth, $1.75; or in paper cover, 1 50
               The Impeachment and Trial of Andrew Johnson, cheap paper cover edition, price
                  50 cents, or a finer edition, bound in cloth, price 1 50
               Trial of the Assassins and Conspirators for the murder of President Abraham
                  Lincoln. Cloth, $1.50; or cheap edition in paper cover, 50
               Life, Battles, Reports, and Public Services of General George B. McClellan.
                  Price in paper 50 cents, or in cloth 75
               Life and Services of General Sheridan. Cloth, $1.00; or in paper, 75
               Life and Services of General George G. Meade, Hero of Gettysburg, 25
               Life and Services of General B. F. Butler, Hero of New Orleans, 25
               The Life and Speeches of Andrew Johnson. Cloth, $1.00; or in paper 75
               Lives of Seymour and Blair. Price 50 cents in paper, or in cloth, 75
               Life of Archbishop Hughes, first Archbishop of New York, 25
            
            
               GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN'S SPEECHES.
               Train's Speeches. 2 vols., each 25
               Train's Speech to the Fenians, 25
               Downfall of England, 10
               Slavery and Emancipation, 10
            
         
         
            PETERSONS' 'STERLING SERIES' OF NEW & GOOD BOOKS
            THEY ARE THE CHEAPEST NOVELS IN THE WORLD.
            Price $1.00 each in morocco cloth; or 75 cents each in paper cover.
            "PETERSONS' STERLING SERIES" OF NEW AND GOOD BOOKS, are each issued in one large
               octavo volume, all of one size, and in uniform style, and are meeting with great
               success, as the series contain some of the best and most popular novels ever issued.
               The volumes are handy to hold, and are bound in handsome Morocco cloth, with new
               designs, in gold and black, on side and back, and each book is sold at the uniform
               and remarkably low price of ONE DOLLAR A COPY in this style, or in paper covers, with
               the edges cut open all round, at SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A COPY. Here is cheapness and a
               great deal of good reading matter combined, which is what all persons want these
               times, for each volume issued in "PETERSONS' STERLING SERIES" contains as much
               reading matter as is usually issued in a $1.50, $1.75, or $2.00 volume.
            PETERSONS' 'STERLING SERIES' OF GOOD NOVELS JUST READY.
            They are the Cheapest Novels in the World.
            Price $1.00 each in morocco cloth; or 75 cents each in paper cover.
            The following works have already been issued in this series, and a new one will
               follow every two weeks in the same style, same size, and at the same low price,
               making this series of novels the cheapest ever published. The following are their
               names:
            
               CHARLES O'MALLEY, The Irish Dragoon. By Charles Lever.
               CYRILLA. A Love Story. By author of "The Initials."
               THE FLIRT. By Mrs. Grey, author of "The Gambler's Wife."
               EDINA. A Love Story. By Mrs. Henry Wood.
               HARRY LORREQUER. With His Confessions. By Charles Lever.
               AURORA FLOYD. A Love Story. By Miss M. E. Braddon.
               CORINNE; or, ITALY. By Madame De Stael.
               POPPING THE QUESTION. By author of "The Jilt."
               FIRST AND TRUE LOVE. By George Sand.
               THE COQUETTE. A Charming Love Story. By author of "Misserimus."
               THE MYSTERY. A Love Story. By Mrs. Henry Wood.
               THE MAN WITH FIVE WIVES. By Alexander Dumas.
               THE JEALOUS WIFE. By Miss Julia Pardoe.
               THACKERAY'S IRISH SKETCH BOOK. Illustrated.
               THE WIFE'S TRIALS. A Love Story. By Miss Julia Pardoe.
               PICKWICK ABROAD. Illustrated. By George W. M. Reynolds.
               THE DEAD SECRET. By Wilkie Collins.
               CONFESSIONS OF A PRETTY WOMAN. By Miss Pardoe
               SYLVESTER SOUND. By author of "Valentine Vox."
               BASIL; or, The Crossed Path. By Wilkie Collins
               THE RIVAL BEAUTIES. By Miss Julia Pardoe.
               THE STEWARD. By author of "Valentine Vox."
               MARRYING FOR MONEY. By Mrs. Mackenzie Daniels.
               THE LOVE MATCH. A Love Story. By Henry Cockton
               FLIRTATIONS IN AMERICA; or, High Life in New York.
               WHITEFRIARS; or, The Days of Charles the Second.
               HIDE AND SEEK. A Novel. By Wilkie Collins.
            
            The above books are 75 cents each in paper cover, or $1.00 each in cloth.
            Above books are for sale by all Booksellers, or copies of any one, or more, or all of
               them, will be sent, post-paid, to any one, to any place, on remitting their price is
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
         
         
            
            PETERSONS' "DOLLAR SERIES" OF GOOD AND NEW NOVELS
            ARE THE BEST, THE LARGEST, THE HANDSOMEST, AND THE CHEAPEST BOOKS IN
               THE WORLD.
            Price ONE DOLLAR Each, in Morocco Cloth, Black and Gold.
            "PETERSONS' DOLLAR SERIES" OF GOOD AND NEW NOVELS are the Cheapest Books at One
               Dollar each ever published. They are all issued in uniform style, in duodecimo form,
               and are bound in red, tan or blue vellum, with gold and black sides and back, and are
               the best, the largest, the handsomest, and the cheapest books in the world, being
               sold at the low price of One Dollar each, while they are as large and as handsome as
               any books published at $1.75 or $2.00 each. The following popular books have been
               issued in "Petersons' Dollar Series," and a new one will be added every month, in the
               same style, same size, and at the same low price.
            
               A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN. By Miss Mulock.
               TWO WAYS TO MATRIMONY; or, Is It Love, or, False Pride?
               THE STORY OF "ELIZABETH." By Miss Thackeray.
               THE MATCHMAKER. A Society Novel. By Beatrice Reynolds.
               THE RIVAL BELLES; or, Life in Washington. By J. B. Jones.
               THE WOMAN IN BLACK. A Companion to 'The Woman in White.'
               FLIRTATIONS IN FASHIONABLE LIFE. By Catharine Sinclair.
               MY SON'S WIFE. By the Author of "Caste."
               THE DEVOTED BRIDE. By St. George Tucker, of Virginia.
               THE HEIRESS IN THE FAMILY. By Mrs. Daniels.
               SARATOGA! AND THE FAMOUS SPRINGS. A Love Story.
               COUNTRY QUARTERS. By the Countess of Blessington.
               LOVE AND DUTY. A Love Story. By Mrs. Hubback.
               SELF-LOVE. A Book for Young Ladies and for Women.
               THE MAN OF THE WORLD. By William North.
               THE QUEEN'S FAVORITE; or, The Price of a Crown.
               THE CAVALIER. A Novel. By G. P. R. James.
               OUT OF THE DEPTHS. The Story of a Woman's Life.
               COLLEY CIBBER'S LIFE OF EDWIN FORREST, with Portrait.
               HAREM LIFE IN EGYPT AND CONSTANTINOPLE.
               WOMAN'S WRONG. A Book for Women. By Mrs. Eiloart.
               THE COQUETTE; or, The Life and Letters of Eliza Wharton.
               THE OLD PATROON; or, The Great Van Broek Property.
               THE RECTOR'S WIFE; or, The Valley of a Hundred Fires.
               THE PRIDE OF LIFE. A Love Story. By Lady Jane Scott.
            
            "Petersons' Dollar Series" will be found for sale by all Booksellers, or copies of
               any one or all of them, will be sent, post-paid, to any one, to any place, on
               remitting One Dollar for each one wanted, to the Publishers, T. B. PETERSON &
               BROTHERS, 306 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.
         
      
   
