
    ----CITATION----
        Browne, J. Ross (1821-1875). Yusef, or, The Journey of the Frangi .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5928 wright2-0401
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               YUSEF;
               OR THE JOURNEY OF THE FRANGI.
               A CRUSADE IN THE EAST.
            
            BY J. ROSS BROWNE, AUTHOR OF "ETCHINGS OF A
               WHALING-CRUISE," "REPORT OF THE DEBATES IN THE CONVENTION OF CALIFORNIA," AND "CRUSOE
               LIFE: A NARRATIVE OF ADVENTURES IN JUAN FERNANDEZ."
            With Illustrations.
            
               NEW YORK:
               HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,
                  
                     329 & 331 PEARL STREET,
                     FRANKLIN SQUARE.
                  
               
            
            1853.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight
                  hundred and fifty-three, by HARPER & BROTHERS, in the Clerk's Office of the
                  District Court of the Southern District of New York.
            
         
         
            TO THE HON. ROBERT J. WALKER, AS A TOKEN OF ADMIRATION FOR HIS GENIUS AS A
               STATESMAN, ESTEEM FOR HIS VIRTUES IN PRIVATE LIFE, AND GRATITUDE FOR HIS
               MANY ACTS OF KINDNESS TO THE AUTHOR, THIS VOLUME Is respectfully
               Inscribed.
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            AN essayist in the Reflector tells us that "Columbus can not be more famous than a
               man who describes the Temple of Jerusalem." Now, although I have a great desire to be
               as famous as Columbus, it is due to the reader to state at the outset that he will
               find very little about temples in this volume. The only ground upon which I can
               aspire to such a distinction is, in having avoided, as far as practicable, every
               thing that has given fame to those who have preceded me. If there be any important
               fact, therefore, in scriptural or classical history, that the reader is disappointed
               in not finding in these pages, I beg that he will adopt the suggestion of my friend
               and fellow-traveler, Dr. Mendoza, and "remain tranquil for the present." There is no
               telling what the future may bring forth, or to what extremes of research a man may be
               driven by the force of circumstances.
            Part of this narrative was originally written in the form of letters to the "National
               Intelligencer," chiefly for the amusement of my friends in Washington. The style was
               rather more familiar than the usual contributions to that journal, and certainly more
               so than I would have chosen to adopt, had I thought seriously at the time of publishing the letters in book form. That
               I considered it probable I might make use of the material at some future period, I
               frankly admit; but in looking over my notes and the mass of sketches thus brought
               together, the task of re-writing, and making any thing of them in the way of a
               serious work on Palestine, seemed too formidable to be undertaken by one who has
               scarcely yet commenced his travels.
            Such as the sketches are, I have chosen to put them together in the form of a
               connected narrative; and they are now presented to the public, with such
               illustrations from my own portfolio, drawn on wood by competent artists, as I thought
               would give them any additional value.
            It will be seen that I have not felt it to be my duty to make a desponding pilgrimage
               through the Holy Land; for upon a careful perusal of the Scriptures, I can find
               nothing said against a cheerful frame of mind. If there be any person, however, who
               may think that a traveler has no right to be lively in that part of the world, I beg
               that he will suspend his judgment till I visit Jerusalem again; in which event he may
               depend upon it I shall use every exertion to be depressed in spirits, and produce
               something uncommonly heavy and substantial.
            In regard to the apparent egotism of writing so much about one's self, I can not do
               better than quote the words of Thomas de Quincey: "It is not offered as deriving any
               part of what interest it may have from myself as the person concerned in it. If the
               particular experience selected is really interesting, in virtue of its own
               circumstances, then it matters not to whom it happened. Let him [the
               reader] read the sketch as belonging to one who wishes to be profoundly anonymous."
               In this view, should there be any thing that strikes the reader as very good in the
               volume, he can not do better than to look at the title-page, and give credit
               accordingly; but where it appears to him that there is any thing very bad in it, he
               will greatly oblige me by regarding it as the production of the gentleman who figures
               in the conversations with Yusef.
            Written without any other purpose than that of describing faithfully what fell under
               my own observation, it may be that the design is not sufficiently apparent; yet if,
               on the whole, from the general tenor, a more liberal feeling should be encouraged
               respecting the customs and prejudices of the uncivilized world, and a clearer sense
               of our own weaknesses, the book will not have been written in vain. There may be a
               moral also in the circumstances under which the journey was performed.
            Ten years ago, after having rambled all over the United States—six hundred miles of
               the distance on foot, and sixteen hundred in a flat-boat—I set out from Washington
               with fifteen dollars, to make a tour of the East. I got as far east as New York,
               where the last dollar and the prospect of reaching Jerusalem came to a conclusion at
               the same time. Sooner than return home, after having made so good a beginning, I
               shipped before the mast in a whaler, and did some service, during a voyage to the
               Indian Ocean, in the way of scrubbing decks and catching whales. A mutiny occurred at
               the island of Zanzibar, where I sold myself out of the vessel for thirty dollars and
               a chest of old clothes; and spent three months very pleasantly at the consular
               residence, in the vicinity of his Highness
               the Imaum of Muscat. On my return to Washington, I labored hard for four years on
               Bank statistics and Treasury reports, by which time, in order to take the new
               administration by the fore-lock, I determined to start for the East again. The only
               chance I had of getting there was, to accept of an appointment as third lieutenant in
               the Revenue service, and go to California, and thence to Oregon, where I was to
               report for duty. On the voyage to Rio, a difficulty occurred between the captain and
               the passengers of the vessel, and we were detained there nearly a month. I took part
               with the rebels, because I believed them to be right. The captain was deposed by the
               American consul, and the command of the vessel was offered to me; but having taken an
               active part against the late captain, I could not with propriety accept the offer. A
               whaling captain, who had lost his vessel near Buenos Ayres, was placed in the
               command, and we proceeded on our voyage round Cape Horn. After a long and dreary
               passage we made the island of Juan Fernandez. In company with ten of the passengers,
               I left the ship seventy miles out at sea, and went ashore in a small boat, for the
               purpose of gathering up some tidings in regard to my old friend Robinson Crusoe. What
               befell us on that memorable expedition is fully set forth in a narrative recently
               published in "Harper's Magazine." Subsequently we spent some time in Lima, "the City
               of the Kings." It was my fortune to arrive penniless in California, and to find, by
               way of consolation, that a reduction had been made by Congress in the number of
               revenue vessels, and that my services in that branch of public business were no
               longer required. While thinking seriously of taking in washing at six dollars a
               dozen, or devoting the remainder of my days to mule-driving as a profession, I was
               unexpectedly elevated to the position of post-office agent; and went about the
               country for the purpose of making postmasters. I only made one—the post-master of San
               Jose. After that, the Convention called by General Riley met at Monterey, and I was
               appointed to report the debates on the formation of the State Constitution. For this
               I received a sum that enabled me to return to Washington, and start for the East
               again. There was luck in the third attempt, for, as may be seen, I got there at last,
               having thus visited the four continents, and traveled by sea and land a distance of a
               hundred thousand miles, or more than four times round the world, on the scanty
               earnings of my own head and hands.
            If there be any moral in the book, therefore, it is this: that there is no great
               difficulty in traveling all over the world, when one sets about it with a
               determination to do it, and keeps trying till he succeeds; that there is no position
               in life disreputable or degrading while self-respect remains; and nothing impossible
               that has ever been done by man. Let him who thirsts for knowledge go out upon the
               broad face of the earth, and he will find that it is not out of books alone that he
               can get it; let him make use of the eyes that God has given him, and he will see more
               in the world's unwritten revelations than the mind of man hath conceived. 
                  
                     "Our doubts are traitors,
                     And make us lose the good we oft might win
                     By fearing to attempt."
                  
               
            
            
               J. R. B.
               WASHINGTON, D.C., February, 1853.
            
         
         
            
            
               
                  EASTERN RUINS.
               
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
                CHAPTER I.-PALERMO. 13
               
                CHAPTER II.-CATACOMBS OF PALERMO. 20
               
                CHAPTER III.-JOURNEY TO CATANIA. 28
               
                CHAPTER IV.-ASCENT OF MOUNT ETNA. 35
               
                CHAPTER V.-THE CRATER. 41
               
                CHAPTER VI.-A QUARREL WITH THE ANCIENTS. 53
               
                CHAPTER VII.-ON THE ROAD TO SYRACUSE. 58
               
                CHAPTER VIII.-SYRACUSE. 66
               
                CHAPTER IX.-TAORMINA. 73
               
            
            
               A CRUSADE IN THE EAST.
                CHAPTER X.-THE BREACH. 80
               
                CHAPTER XI.-ATHENS. 85
               
                CHAPTER XII.-SYRA. 101
               
                CHAPTER XIII.-SMYRNA. 107
               
                CHAPTER XIV.-CONSTANTINOPLE. 114
               
                CHAPTER XV.-A VISIT TO THE BAZAARS. 129
               
                CHAPTER XVI.-TURKISH BEAUTIES. 141
               
                CHAPTER XVII.-MANNERS AND CUSTOMS. 149
               
                CHAPTER XVIII.-BABEL REVIVED. 164
               
                CHAPTER XIX.-THE ENGLISH TOURIST. 167
               
                CHAPTER XX.-THE SYRIAN DRAGOMAN. 174
               
                CHAPTER XXI.-MY HORSE SALADIN. 182
               
                CHAPTER XXII.-THE ARAB STORY TELLER. 192
               
                CHAPTER XXIII.-THE CEDARS OF LEBANON. 197
               
               
                CHAPTER XXIV.-BAALBEK. 206
               
                CHAPTER XXV.-YUSEF DANCES THE RAAS. 218
               
                CHAPTER XXVI.-A SOCIAL CHAT WITH YUSEF. 227
               
                CHAPTER XXVII.-THE GREEK BISHOP. 232
               
                CHAPTER XXVIII.-THE ARAB MULETEER. 240
               
                CHAPTER XXIX.-FROM BAALBEK TO DAMASCUS. 244
               
                CHAPTER XXX.-DAMASCUS. 254
               
                CHAPTER XXXI.-BATHS OF DAMASCUS. 263
               
                CHAPTER XXXII.-THE AMERICAN MISSIONARIES. 272
               
                CHAPTER XXXIII.-THE BATTLE OF THE MULETEERS. 276
               
                CHAPTER XXXIV.-GRAND SECRET OF HUMAN HAPPINESS. 285
               
                CHAPTER XXXV.-THE MILL OF MALAHA. 296
               
                CHAPTER XXXVI.-THE REBEL SHEIK. 306
               
                CHAPTER XXXVII.-THE SYRIAN HORSES. 310
               
                CHAPTER XXXVIII.-THE SEA OF GALILEE. 319
               
                CHAPTER XXXIX.-JOURNEY TO NAZARETH. 326
               
                CHAPTER XL.-NAZARETH. 330
               
                CHAPTER XLI.-A GAZELLE HUNT. 335
               
                CHAPTER XLII.-DJENIN. 343
               
                CHAPTER XLIII.-ADVENTURE WITH THE SAMARITANS. 348
               
                CHAPTER XLIV.-NABLOUS. 352
               
                CHAPTER XLV.-A STRIKING SCENE. 354
               
                CHAPTER XLVI.-JERUSALEM. 359
               
                CHAPTER XLVII.-ARAB GUARD TO THE DEAD SEA. 366
               
                CHAPTER XLVIII.-THE DEAD SEA AND THE JORDAN. 371
               
                CHAPTER XLIX.-THRILLING ALARM IN JERICHO. 378
               
                CHAPTER L.-CHRISTMAS NIGHT IN BETHLEHEM. 387
               
                CHAPTER LI.-CROSSING THE RIVERS. 391
               
                CHAPTER LII.-THE DESOLATE CITY. 394
               
                CHAPTER LIII.-A SERIOUS CHARGE. 398
               
                CHAPTER LIV.-AN EXTRAORDINARY AFFAIR. 404
               
                CHAPTER LV.-RISE, DECLINE, AND FALL OF YUSEF BADRA. 410
               
            
         
         
            LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
            [FROM SKETCHERS BY THE AUTHOR.]
            
               EASTERN RUINS. Frontispiece.
               THE MUMMIES. 21
               
               CATACOMBS OF PALERMO. 24
               
               SICILIAN MONK. 33
               
               CASA DEGL' INGLESA. 44
               
               DESCENT OF MOUNT ETNA. 51
               
               SICILIAN POSTILLION. 62
               
               SICILIAN GENDARMES. 64
               
               SICILIAN BEGGARS. 68
               
               COUNSEL FOR THE ACCUSED. 75
               
               AMPHITHEATRE OF TAORMINA. 78
               
               CONVENT NEAR ATHENS. 97
               
               SMYRNA FROM THE ANCHORAGE. 107
               
               PILGRIMS ON SHIPBOARD. 116
               
               A BUSINESS TRANSACTION. 127
               
               THE HAMIL. 131
               
               SHOPKEEPERS. 138
               
               TURKISH BEAUTY. 143
               
               GENERAL VIEW OF CONSTANTINOPLE. 152
               
               THE DANCING DERVISHES. 155
               
               THE HOWLING DERVISHES. 158
               
               ENGLISH TRAVELER RECOGNIZING A VENUS AND HERCULES. 168
               
               TOWN OF RHODES. 171
               
               VIEW IN LARNICA. 172
               
               YUSEF. 178
               
               SALADIN. 185
               
               SALADIN IN ACTION. 188
               
               BEN-HOZAIN. 192
               
               CASTLE OF DJBEL. 201
               
               COLUMN IN THE DESERT. 210
               
               YUSEF DANCING THE RAAS. 223
               
               
               THE ARAB MULETEER. 240
               
               A GENTLEMAN OF ELEGANT LEISURE. 243
               
               ANCIENT ARCH IN DAMASCUS. 260
               
               IBRAHIM. 261
               
               BATHS OF DAMASCUS. 268
               
               TAKING IT EASY. 285
               
               THE MILL OF MALAHA. 303
               
               TOKINA. 318
               
               BATHS OF TIBERIAS. 325
               
               JERUSALEM. 359
               
               MOHAMMEDAN SEPULCHRE. 363
               
               PILGRIMS TO JERUSALEM. 367
               
               THE ARAB GUARD. 370
               
               CROSSING A RIVER. 391
               
               GREEK BISHOP. 39
               
               VILLAGE OF EL MUKHALID. 394
               
               KAISARIYEH. 397
               
               RUINS NEAR TANTURA. 403
               
               THE END OF YUSEF. 421
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Yusef, or, The journey of the Frangi
            YUSEF.
            
               A GIRA THROUGH SICILY.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  PALERMO.
                  IT was rather early in the season to start for the East. September was not yet
                     over. I had thoroughly explored Naples and the neighborhood; and the only
                     question was, how to dispose of the fine weather. Lounging about the quay one
                     afternoon it occurred to me that a trip to Palermo would be just the thing.
                     There were signs pasted up every where of an immense steamer, of wonderful
                     horse-power, bound for that very port. I walked into the first Bureau (in
                     Naples, every office is a Bureau): the same large steamer was over the door
                     under full way, with a heavy head of steam, for Palermo. The name of the
                     steamer was printed on the paddle-box in big golden letters; it was the
                     Ercolano. When I told the gentleman, who was waxing the points of his mustache
                     behind the counter, that I wanted a passage in the Ercolano, he shook his head
                     despondingly, and applied some more wax to one of the points. This induced me
                     to go out again and look at the sign. There certainly was no mistake about the
                     name, and I endeavored to make him understand that it was a ticket I wanted for
                     a passage in the steamer represented upon that sign. He applied some additional
                     wax to the other point of his mustache, shook his head despondingly again, and,
                     as well as I could understand him, said he was very sorry; that he didn't know
                     any thing about such a steamer;
                     perhaps it was at number seventy-one, two doors above. I went into number
                     seventy-one, two doors above, and was told by a small but very imposing
                     gentleman, with a brass band on his cap, that seventy-one was the bureau of the
                     French steamer; it didn't go to Palermo; it went to Marseilles, and he would be
                     very happy to have me landed there; perhaps the Bureau of the Neapolitan
                     steamer was number seventy-six, which I would find somewhere on the same
                     street, about eight or ten doors above—or below. I walked up and down a long
                     time, till I was fortunate enough to find number seventy-six. The gentleman in
                     that Bureau was smoking a cigar, which he continued to smoke in silence for two
                     minutes; at the expiration of which time he calmly removed it, and said in
                     reply to my question concerning the Ercolano, that there was such
                     a steamer; it was called the Ercolano; it was a Neapolitan steamer; it was
                     bound for Palermo; the proper place to apply for passage was at the Neapolitan
                     Bureau. He was not exactly certain where the Neapolitan Bureau was, but thought
                     it was number sixty-nine; that was his impression—sixty-nine. I told him that I
                     had already applied at sixty-nine; to which he responded by a shrug of the
                     shoulders, a pinch of snuff, and some strange contortions of the face, as if he
                     had accidentally swallowed the snuff-box. It may have been that my manner of
                     speaking the Italian was not clear, or that my understanding of the Neapolitan
                     was less so; at all events I could make nothing of these signs, so I returned
                     to Bureau sixty-nine. There were some other officers in sixty-nine this time;
                     and, after some consultation, they arrived at the conclusion that it was the
                     Bureau of the Neapolitan steamer for Palermo. I offered money for my passage;
                     but they refused to take it, or to give me a ticket without it; they said
                     something else was necessary, my passport and certain visés and cartes. Next morning
                     I got my passport and the visés and cartes, and they still refused to give me a ticket.
                     Certain other visés and cartes from the Polizia were necessary. I went to
                     the Polizia and got certain other visés and
                        cartes, and they still refused to let me
                     have a ticket; a certain word was omitted in one of thevises. I went all over the city of Naples in search of all the
                     authorities that were concerned in the insertion of that word, and eventually
                     got it written down in black and white, with all the additional stamps that
                     were necessary to give it validity. This time they reluctantly conceded that
                     the passport was viséd in due form; that all
                     the documents were correct; that I could get a ticket by waiting a while until
                     the officers were served. The Bureau was quite filled with Neapolitan officers,
                     who were all very much covered up with red cloth epaulets, tin buttons, brass
                     sword-cases, and general embroidery. I waited at least an hour, and then, by
                     the sheer force of perseverance, prevailed upon the gentleman who was engaged
                     in making porcupine quills of his mustache, to cease his labors one moment, and
                     give me a ticket. All the harm I wish that man is, that these quills may be
                     broken off before his personal beauty produces such an effect as to cause any
                     unfortunate lady to marry him; for I am certain if ever he gets a wife, they
                     will run her through the eyes in less than a week.
                  On the 30th day of September, 1851, in virtue of all these proceedings, I left
                     Naples, in the Neapolitan steamer, for Palermo. The Ercolano was a good
                     specimen of the Italian steam service. It had nothing like the amount of
                     horsepower that I expected from the bills; nor was it in any respect a good
                     steamer; but it afforded an excellent example of what a nation already
                     distinguished in ancient art, may attain in the way of modern art by
                     intercourse with less classical countries. Without any exception it was the
                     smallest, and dirtiest, and worst-contrived craft, to be moved by steam and
                     paddles, that it was ever my fortune to behold. There were on board two hundred
                     and fifty Neapolitan soldiers and officers, on their way to Sicily, for the
                     better protection of that remote portion of the Neapolitan kingdom. After we
                     got well out to sea, there came on a gale, and every one of these soldiers, and
                     every officer who commanded them, fell dreadfully sea-sick; and thus two
                     hundred and fifty fighting characters, armed to the teeth, were in the brief
                     space of a few hours cast down and mixed together upon the decks, at the mercy
                     of any body who chose to attack them. I verily believe that had I been a person of blood-thirsty disposition I could
                     have slain them all with a bodkin. Such, however, was not my nature. The poor
                     little fellows looked so forlorn, so small and dirty, so sorry they were going
                     to an unknown country, twenty hours distant from their native land; so unlike
                     men who would ever kill any body, that I was exceedingly moved, and took
                     occasion, when the captain of the boat was not looking, to give one of them a
                     pinch of snuff. My natural impulse was to give them snuff all round, but they
                     were so piled up over the decks, the heads, and heels, and mustaches, and arms,
                     and legs in such a state of confusion that it was utterly impossible to move
                     without stumbling over a misplaced limb, and falling upon a sick man.
                  Thank heaven, the hills of Bagheria at last hove in sight. I was glad enough to
                     see land, as well on my own account as that of the soldiers, who certainly
                     could not have survived the horrors of the sea another night. The voyage from
                     Naples to Palermo is usually performed in twenty hours. Owing to the rough
                     weather, and the want of additional horse-power, it took us twenty-four. We
                     were six hours more getting ashore, which made it thirty. The reason of this
                     delay was, that the soldiers had to be landed first. Then the captain had to go
                     ashore and have a talk with the officers of the port; then he had to come on
                     board again and walk up and down the deck and smoke his cigar; then the
                     passengers had to get certain cartes, and
                     some of them, who were going beyond Palermo, their passports under certain
                     restrictions; then the officer of the customs had to come on board and have a
                     talk with the captain; then he had to go on shore again, and the health officer
                     had to come on board; then, after all the officers were done going on shore and
                     coming on board, the baggage had to be properly distributed; and, after the
                     baggage was distributed, and every thing apparently all right, there was an
                     additional delay of two hours for the purpose of showing the passengers that
                     they were in the hands of persons high in authority, who would permit them to
                     land, as a matter of favor, whenever it became apparent parent that the public
                     interests would allow such a course to be pursued.
                  Next to Naples, the harbor of Palermo is perhaps the most beautiful in the
                     Mediterranean. Indeed, many consider it quite equal in picturesque effect to
                     Naples; for, although it has not Mount Vesuvius, or the breadth and extent of
                     shore line, yet the eye comprehends more at a glance, and a nearer approach is
                     permitted without destroying the scenic beauty of the mountains and villas. At
                     a sufficient distance to embrace a complete view of Naples and its environs,
                     the city is almost lost; but the finest view of Palermo is just opposite the
                     town, within a mile or two. The harbor forms a beautiful crescent, surrounded
                     by hills covered with verdure throughout the greater part of the year; villas
                     and orange groves adorn every prominent point; rich gardens lie along the
                     shores; vessels of many nations float sleepily on the smooth waters of the bay;
                     fishing-boats, crowded with sunburnt crews, ply merrily through the flashing
                     brine; and along the wharves groups of swarthy sailors, quite like the
                     piratical-looking fellows you see in the French prints, are constantly
                     lounging, smoking, chatting in strange tongues, and casting sly glances at the
                     Sicilian belles, who look like operatic chorus-singers; and then there are pale
                     Italians without number, and occasional Greeks; with a sprinkling of American
                     and fresh-looking English captains, to give variety and animation to the scene.
                     There is an aspect of business activity about the streets and shops of Palermo,
                     not a little cheering after one has been mouldering for some time among old
                     ruins and cities of by-gone prosperity. Yet Palermo is not what it might be
                     under a judicious system of government. I hold myself in readiness to apologize
                     for the remark, when called upon, to his Majesty the King of the two Sicilies,
                     and to declare, if required, that the Neapolitan States are well governed; that
                     the people are well governed; that I never saw so many soldiers and so much
                     governing in all my life. Every man seems to be individually governed, and so
                     careful is his Majesty of the faithful administration of the laws and the
                     personal security of his subjects, that the ramifications of government extend into every
                     family circle, and wind every body up as in a cobweb. The stranger who lands at
                     Palermo, and succeeds in getting through the Polizia, will respect good
                     government all the rest of his life. I have a very pleasing impression of the
                     officer in attendance there. He opened my knapsack when he heard me speak
                     English, because he knew I must be an Englishman to address him in that
                     language; he opened my letters one by one and carefully read them, commencing
                     at the signatures and ending at the dates; and when he saw that I was not Mr.
                     Gladstone, and had no printed documents for private circulation among the
                     people of Sicily, he gave me a kindly nod and let me pass. Now, I depend upon
                     that officer, as a man of honor, never to divulge the contents of my
                     letters—especially one that was written in German and some private memoranda in
                     shorthand.
                  The streets of Palermo are wider than those of the principal cities in Italy,
                     and at night the shops present a very cheerful appearance. Cafés abound in all
                     the public places, but there are none equal to the cafés in Florence. I visited
                     during my stay the magnificent villa of the Marquis Fourche, which is
                     embellished in the style of a Pompeiian palace, with fountains and interior
                     decorations designed strictly according to the antique models found in the
                     ruins of Pompeii. The mosaic marble saloons, frescoes, and general arrangement
                     of the chambers, as also the style of the furniture, afford a very good idea of
                     Pompeii in its days of splendor. It was a festa day in Palermo, so I went to
                     all the churches worth seeing, and heard some good music at the Santa
                     Catherina. Coming from Italy, I was surfeited with sight-seeing of this kind,
                     but I still found much to interest me in Palermo, where something of a
                     different architectural order may be seen.
                  With respect to the fine arts in Palermo, of which the Marquis of Artala, in
                     his Guide to Sicily, speaks in enthusiastic terms, I must confess I saw nothing
                     of a high order of excellence. He dwells with particular admiration on the
                     magnificent statuary which he says adorns the public promenades. I believe I
                     thoroughly explored Palermo and its environs, but I saw no magnificent
                     statuary; and was at length obliged to come to the conclusion that great
                     allowance must be made for the florid imagination of gentlemen who write
                     guide-books. Often have I walked for miles through the dusty streets of an
                     Italian city, baking myself into an Egyptian mummy under a burning sun, to see
                     some exquisite gem of art, and when I reached the place found a stick or a
                     stone, or an old daub of a painting, that I am free to confess I would never
                     have recognized as the work of a master-hand had I not been told so. The
                     statuary in the churches of Palermo is generally exceedingly bad; the paintings
                     are of very little merit, most of them being disgusting illustrations of scenes
                     that never existed in the Scriptures or any where else, badly drawn, badly
                     painted, and in the worst possible taste. In one of the churches I was
                     introduced with great solemnity to a picture of the Madonna, which was
                     carefully covered to preserve it from the vulgar gaze. I paid two carlini for
                     the privilege of seeing it. Judge of my astonishment when the grave old sexton
                     drew back the curtain and revealed to my wondering eyes the dingy features of
                     an old black woman, with a silver crown on her forehead, that made her skin
                     look a good deal like darkness visible. The pupils of her eyes were gilt with
                     gold, and her eyebrows were radiant with precious stones. Her dress was of
                     tawdry lace, glowing with little patchwork of silver paper; and altogether she
                     was the most extraordinary object I ever saw; yet the old sexton bowed to her
                     reverentially and said she was a great work of art.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER II.
                  CATACOMBS OF PALERMO.
                  CHIEF among the wonders of Palermo are the Catacombs of the Capuchin Convent,
                     near the Porta d'Ossuna. It is said to be a place of great antiquity; many of
                     the bodies have been preserved in it for centuries, and still retain much of
                     their original freshness. Entering the ancient and ruinous court of the
                     convent, distant about a mile from the city, I was conducted by a
                     ghostly-looking monk through some dark passages to the subterranean apartments
                     of the dead. It was not my first visit to a place of this kind, but I must
                     confess the sight was rather startling. It was like a revel of the lead—a
                     horrible, grinning, ghastly exhibition of skeleton forms, sightless eyes, and
                     shining teeth, jaws distended, and bony hands outstretched; heads without
                     bodies, and bodies without heads—the young, the old, the brave, the once
                     beautiful and gay, all mingled in the ghastly throng. I walked through long
                     subterranean passages, lined with the dead on both sides; with a stealthy and
                     measured tread I stepped, for they seemed to stare at the intrusion, and their
                     skeleton fingers vibrated as if yearning to grasp the living in their embrace.
                     Long rows of upright niches are cut into the walls on each side; in every niche
                     a skeleton form stands erect as in life, habited in a robe of black; the face,
                     hands, and feet naked, withered, and of an ashy hue; the grizzled beards still
                     hanging in tufts from the jaws, and in the recent cases the hair still clinging
                     to the skull, but matted and dry. To each corpse is attached a label upon which
                     is written the name and the date of decease, and a cross or the image of the
                     Saviour.
                  Soon recovering from the shock of the first impression, I was struck
                     with the wonderful variety and marked expression of character in the faces and
                     forms around me. There were progressive dates of death, extending from remote
                     centuries up to the present period, the niches being so arranged as to admit of
                     a regular order of deposit. Many of the bodies stood erect, as if just lifted
                     from the death-bed; the faces colorless, and the horrible agonies of
                     dissolution stamped upon the features; the lower jaws hanging upon the breast;
                     the teeth grinning and glistening between the parched lips, and the black hue
                     of sickness about the mouth and around the sunken sockets of the eyes; and in
                     some the sightless orbs were open and staring with a wild glare of affright, as
                     if peering into the awful mysteries of the future; while others wore a
                     grotesque laugh of derision still more appalling, with the muscles of the mouth
                     drawn up, the eyebrows lifted, the head tilted knowingly on one side, the hair
                     matted in horny tufts, the bare spots on the skulls, like the piebald wig of a
                     harlequin; the skeleton arms outstretched, and the bony fingers spread as if to
                     clutch the relentless destroyer, and wrestle with him to the last. These I fancied were
                     lively fellows, who were carried off suddenly after a midnight carouse. I sat
                     down on a box containing a dead child, and looked up at a row of bodies
                     opposite that attracted my notice in a particular degree. In the middle stood a
                     rolicking fellow, about two years dead, whose sunken eyes appeared still to
                     burn with the fire of life and humor. His hands were lifted in a deprecating
                     manner over a congregation of corpses sitting on a shelf below. Some appeared
                     to be listening; some grinning at his humorous harangue; others, with their
                     heads together, seemed to question the propriety of his anecdotes; old
                     gentlemen, with knitted brows and lantern jaws; ranges of bodies stood on each
                     side of him as if laughing, talking, praying, dying, suffering, listening,
                     rejoicing, and feasting at the banquet of death. One little man, in a dingy
                     suit of black, sat in a corner; the end of his nose was eaten off by the worms;
                     his mouth was compressed, and had a pinched expression; his hands grasped
                     eagerly at something. I thought that little man was a miser, whose death was
                     caused by starvation. Another figure, a large portly body, stood in a
                     conspicuous part of the vault; it was the corpse of a fat old bishop, whose
                     jaws were still rotund and smooth with good living, and his sleek hair was
                     patted down to his head as with the oil of bygone roast beefs and macaroni
                     soups, and his jolly cast of countenance betokened a system liberally supplied
                     with the juices of life, and a conscience rendered easy by attention to the
                     creature comforts. That man lived an easy life, and died of good feeding. He
                     was carefully labeled, and carried on his wrists a jeweled cross. There stood
                     in another part of the vault a fiery orator, with open mouth and distended
                     arms. The head was thrown back, the breast partially bare, a few tufts of black
                     hair fell from his piebald skull; his round staring eyes were stretched wide
                     open, and his brows arched high on his wrinkled forehead; he looked toward
                     heaven for inspiration. I fancied I could hear the flaming torrent, as it
                     blazed and crackled and scintillated from his thin ashy lips. It was the
                     glowing eloquence of an ardent soul that left its parting impress upon the
                     clay; the form yet spoke, but the sound was not there. Passing on from vault to
                     vault, I saw here and there a dead baby thrown upon a shelf—its innocent little
                     face sleeping calmly among the mouldering skulls; a leg, or an arm, or an old
                     skull, from which the lower jaw had fallen; now a lively corpse, jumping with a
                     startling throe from its niche, or a grim skeleton in its dark corner chuckling
                     at the ravages of the destroyer. Who was the prince here? Who was the great
                     man, or the proud man, or the rich man? The musty, grinning, ghastly skeleton
                     in the corner seemed to chuckle at the thought, and say to himself, "Was it
                     you, there on the right, you ugly, noseless, sightless, disgusting thing? Was
                     it you that rode in your fine carriage, about a year ago, and thought yourself
                     so great when you ordered your coachman to drive over the beggar? Don't you see
                     he is as handsome as you are now, and as great a man; you can't cut him down
                     now, my fine fellow! And you, there on the left. What a nice figure you are,
                     with your fleshless shanks and your worm-eaten lips! It was you that betrayed
                     youth and beauty and innocence, and brought yourself here at last to keep
                     company with such wretches as I am. Why, there is not a living thing now, save
                     the maggots, that wouldn't turn away in disgust from you. And you, sir, on the
                     opposite side, how proud you were when I last saw you; an officer of state, a
                     great man in power, who could crush all below you, and make the happy wife a
                     widowed mourner, and bring her little babes to starvation; it was you that had
                     innocent men seized and cast into prison. What can you do now? The meanest
                     wretch that mocks you in this vault of death is as good as you, as strong, as
                     great, as tall, as broad, as pretty a piece of mortality, and a great deal
                     nearer to heaven. Oh, you are a nice set of fellows, all mixing together
                     without ceremony! Where are your rules of etiquette now; your fashionable
                     ranks, and your plebeian ranks; your thousands of admiring friends, your
                     throngs of jeweled visitors? Why, the lowliest of us has as many visitors here,
                     and as many honest tears shed as you. Ha! ha! This is a jolly place, after all;
                     we are all a jolly set of republicans, and old DEATH is our President!"
                  
                  
                     
                  
                  Turning away from this strange exhibition of death's doings, I followed the old
                     monk into the vaults allotted to the women. Here the spectacle was still more
                     shocking and impressive The bodies were not placed in an upright position like
                     those of the men, but were laid out at full length in glass cases; the walls on
                     both sides were covered.
                  The young, the gay, the beautiful, were all here, laid lowly in the relentless
                     embrace of death; decked out in silken dresses, laces, and jewelry, as in
                     mockery of the past. Each corpse had its sad history. I saw a young bride who
                     was stricken down in a few brief months after her marriage. She was dressed in
                     her bridal costume; the bonnet and vail still on, the white gloves drawn over
                     her skeleton fingers; a few withered flowers laid upon her breast by the
                     mourning one she had left behind. Through the thin vail could be seen a
                     blanched, grinning, bony face; the sunken sockets of the eyes marked around
                     with the dark lines of decay; the long hair drawn in luxuriant masses over her
                     withered bosom. Another held in her arms a skeleton babe. Some were habited in
                     walking dresses; others in all the finery of ball-room costume, with gay silks,
                     slippers, silk stockings, and tawdry lace. It was a ghastly sight to look under
                     the bonnets, and gaze upon the sunken ashy features, decked around with
                     artificial flowers; to trace in those withered lineaments no lingering line of
                     beauty, no flickering ray of the immortal spirit, but a dreary history of
                     mortal agony, decay, and corruption. Yet here the husband comes to hold
                     communion with the beloved soul that once dwelt in that mouldering corpse; to
                     look upon those blanched features, that were once animate with life and
                     affection; to kiss the cold lips, and feel no returning warmth. And here, too,
                     the father, brother, sister, and wife come to gaze upon the dead; and here the
                     mother comes to weep over the withered corpse of her babe. Once a year, as I
                     learnt from the old monk, the relatives of the deceased come to pray for the
                     salvation of their souls, and deck the bodies with flowers.
                  Many a night had that old monk spent down in these dark vaults, among the dead;
                     not as a penance for evil-doing, though he confessed that he was weak and
                     sinful, but to pray for the soul of some brother, who had been his companion in
                     years past. It was not gloomy to him, he said; it made him hopeful if not
                     happy; for he felt, when surrounded by these mortal remains, that he was nearer
                     to God. There were friends here, whom he had loved in youth and manhood; whose
                     hands he had grasped in fellowship, whose eyes had beamed kindly upon him when
                     his heart was sad: now grim and motionless in the dark recesses around him. He
                     liked to gaze upon them, and think of a re-union with the immortal spirits that
                     had left them tenantless.
                  Surely that old man was sincere. What more was the world to him than to the
                     dead with whom he mingled? What pleasures could life have to one whose capacity
                     for earthly happiness had long since been destroyed by continued self-denial,
                     by the tearing out from his heart of every unbidden hope, by fasting and
                     penance, and by all the sacrifices of light and sunshine that could turn inward
                     the tide of thought? What save the
                     contemplation of the future? Yet it seemed as if in his midnight watches he
                     must sometimes feel undefined terrors check the flow of his blood; that the
                     rustling of the night air among the folds of the shrouds, and the dropping
                     asunder of skeleton forms; the sudden grating of the doors, when moaning gusts
                     of wind swung them open upon their hinges; the dry rattling of fleshless jaws,
                     the gnawing of bones by the vermin, the sepulchral gloom, must sometimes
                     startle him from his reveries like a coming solution of the dread mystery. Who
                     can tell—not even himself—of all the strange thoughts that flit through his
                     brain in the dreary watches of the night;—what weird visions he sees of life
                     brought back again into those ghastly corpses; what faint moans rise from out
                     the darkness—moans for lives misspent, and never more to return upon earth;
                     wild bursts of anguish for errors that can never be retrieved, prayers for one
                     drop of mercy before the day of eternal doom! In these dread, dark hours, I
                     thought how the cold sweat must gather upon his brow, and the strength forsake
                     him, and the clammy grasp of the unseen hand—the skeleton hand that never
                     relents for youth or beauty, for fame or virtue—draw tight around his throat,
                     and make his breath come thick and short, and his eyes stare affrighted, like
                     the sightless orbs of the dead along the walls.
                  From the conversation of the monk, I learnt that these catacombs are supported
                     by contributions from the relatives of the deceased, who pay annually a certain
                     sum for the preservation of the bodies. Each new-comer is placed in a temporary
                     niche, and afterward removed to a permanent place, where he is permitted to
                     remain as long as the contributions continue; but when the customary fees are
                     not forthcoming the corpses are thrown aside on a shelf, where they lie till
                     the relatives think proper to have them set up again. Whole shelves are filled
                     with skulls and bodies of the dead, put out of the way to make room for others
                     of a more profitable character.
                  It might be supposed that the air of the catacombs is in some degree affected
                     by the fresh bodies; but this is not the case. There is no offensive odor, and
                     the visitor would scarcely know, if he did not see them, that he was surrounded
                     by the dead. I could perceive no difference in the atmosphere of these vaults
                     from that of any other subterranean places, except a slight smell of mould, not
                     altogether disagreeable. The fresh air is admitted from the top, and it is to
                     its extreme dryness that the preservation of the bodies may be attributed.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER III.
                  JOURNEY TO CATANIA.
                  AMONG the many curiosities of the city is an establishment for foundlings. The
                     institution is designed to prevent infanticide. It is a large gloomy old
                     building, in an obscure part of the town, and must be approached with
                     circumspection lest the inhabitants of the neighborhood should indulge in
                     erroneous suspicions. I threw all the responsibility on my guide, however, and
                     went to see it in open daylight. There is a hole in the wall large enough to
                     admit a good-sized bundle, inside of which is a revolving machine, such as they
                     use in post-offices for the delivery of letters, with four compartments, each
                     large enough to hold a bambino. The
                     unfortunate mother, who is either unable or unwilling to support her offspring,
                     rolls it up in a small package, which she carries to the pigeon-hole at night,
                     thrusts it in, gives the revolving baby-holder a turn, and departs with all
                     possible speed. A bell is so connected with the machine as to arouse the nurses
                     on the floor above. By pulling a string the whole establishment is whirled up
                     aloft, and the piccola bambina tumbled out of
                     the package into the arms of the matron, who duly inspects it, labels it
                     Angelo, or Francisco, or Antonio, as her taste may dictate, records the date of
                     its admission in a register, its sex, &c.; and so commences the foundling
                     life of the débûtante. The mother is
                     permitted to take it away whenever she chooses, but it is seldom the little
                     unfortunate is called for. What the moral effect of this institution is, it is
                     not for an inexperienced person like myself to determine.
                  During my sojourn in Palermo I visited Morreale, a village situated on a hill,
                     about three miles distant The chief object of attraction here is a very ancient
                     church, in which may be seen some of the finest mosaic in Sicily, and a court
                     containing two hundred double columns, each different from the other. Among the
                     pictures in mosaic is a representation of St. Paul in the act of pulling the
                     devil out of somebody's mouth; to which one of the reverend padres pointed with
                     a grim smile of triumph. I believe he suspected that I had something of the
                     kind in me that could be extracted by hard pulling; but I gave him a couple of
                     carlini, which seemed to afford him as much satisfaction as if he had extracted
                     an entire nest of devils.
                  After a stay of four days, I took my post in a rumbling old diligence for
                     Catania, on the southeastern side of the island. The distance is a hundred and
                     seventy Sicilian miles from Palermo. It was late at night when we started; for
                     you must know that diligences in Sicily always make it a point to start at the
                     most unseasonable hours. The pleasure of the trip was in no degree enhanced by
                     the information, confidentially conveyed to us by the conductor, when we asked
                     him why we had a guard, that on the trip from Catania, just three days before,
                     the diligence had been robbed; that the mountains were infested with banditti,
                     and we might consider ourselves fortunate if we reached Catania without broken
                     heads. I had heard so much of the robbers in Italy, who were always somewhere
                     else, that I had no great faith in those of Sicily; but, inasmuch as all
                     parties united in terrible stories of the bad character of the Sicilians, I
                     thought there might be sufficient truth in it to be a little cautious; so,
                     having a very slim purse, I put it in my boots, and slept comfortably for the
                     night—as much so at least as a person can when he has to hang on outside on the
                     driver's seat, for want of one in the interior. It was a bright moonlight
                     night, and we jogged on pleasantly enough, up hill and down hill, and over
                     rugged roads, and through dark, low, dirty-looking villages, till daylight
                     broke, and the sun rose over the barren mountains with a refreshing warmth.
                     That sun was welcomed most heartily by the whole company, for the mountain air
                     had chilled us throughout; and I am not sure but it would have found us frozen stiff, had it not been that at
                     each post we were roused into a fit of honest indignation at the inordinate
                     demands of the postillions, hostlers, and guards. The postillions charged us
                     half a carlin for driving us; the hostlers charged half a carlin for putting
                     the horses in; the guards robbed us of half a carlin for preventing us from
                     being robbed; and the beggars begged the loose change from us, because they
                     were in want of money, and thought they had a legitimate right to be paid for
                     wanting it. Little boys begged as a matter of amusement and education; old
                     women and old men begged, whether they were in need of funds or not, as a
                     matter of example to the rising generation; and after one party of beggars had
                     chased us from the bottom of a hill up to the top, and done their very best in
                     the way of hopping on crutches (which they only made use of for the occasion),
                     there was another party ready to begin the moment we stopped, without the
                     slightest reference to the labors of the first party, and when they were done
                     we were chased to the bottom of the hill by a third party, and so on to the end
                     of our journey.
                  But the real beggars are tame and reasonable in their demands compared with the
                     soldiers, postillions, and conductors who have charge of the diligence. With
                     them it is a matter of right to fleece every unfortunate gentleman who places
                     himself in their power. They live on him. He is meat and drink to them. His
                     pockets are their pockets. He is a sort of gold mine into which they are
                     continually digging. They explore him; they find out how many precious veins he
                     has; and they insert their picks and shovels wherever the dust glimmers, and
                     root it out with surprising perseverance. By the time he reaches the end of his
                     journey he is dug clean out, and they turn their attention to other mines.
                  Let me warn the traveler who thinks of making the tour of Sicily, not to delude
                     himself with the idea that when he pays for a seat in the diligence, or a seat
                     outside of it, that he is done paying—that the owners thereof consider
                     themselves under the slightest obligation to take him to his place of
                     destination. You simply pay for the use of a foot or a foot and a half of
                     cushion (according to your breadth of beam), and the contract is concluded. You
                     may be left, as I was on the road to Syracuse, in the middle of the public
                     highway, without horses or driver, an object of mingled wonder and derision to
                     the inhabitants of a populous village—stared at as the man who wouldn't pay;
                     ridiculed as the man who couldn't go without horses; abused in an unknown and
                     abominable tongue, for refusing to be legitimately swindled; and compelled, in
                     the end, to give an additional buono mano for
                     creating the difficulty and losing temper. Good humor and small change are the
                     only locomotive powers by which you can get on in Sicily. The one keeps you in
                     a state of self-satisfaction; the other greases the wheels, makes the whip
                     crack, and the horses go. Depend upon it, you will never gain an inch by a
                     rebellious spirit against customs which you can not change.
                  Of the character of the country in the interior of Sicily, I can only speak as
                     it appeared to me in the month of October, after the parching heats of summer.
                     The brilliancy of the skies and the salubrity of the climate at this season of
                     the year can not be surpassed in any part of the world; but I am not sure that
                     it is the best season to enjoy the scenery. Certainly the parched and barren
                     aspect of the whole country gave me a very unfavorable opinion of the fertility
                     of the soil, or the beauties of Sicilian scenery. Nearly the entire tract of a
                     hundred and fifty miles lying between Palermo and Catania is a perfect desert
                     of rocky mountains and barren valleys, without water or trees, and nothing to
                     indicate any means by which the inhabitants subsist, save here and there a
                     miserable-looking spot of terraced ground, scratched over, and dotted with the
                     stumps of grape-vines. Yet they do live, and apparently without labor; for,
                     during my whole journey to Catania, I do not think I saw a dozen men at work.
                     An intelligent Italian, however, informed me that the land, though apparently
                     so sterile, yields abundant crops when cultivated, and requires very little
                     plowing. The villages throughout the interior are the dirtiest and most
                     wretched-looking places imaginable; filled with beggars and ragged idlers, and
                     dilapidated to the last habitable degree. Syria, or the Holy Land, can scarcely furnish a more deplorable example
                     of the decay of civilization in the old world than one meets with at every turn
                     of the road throughout the interior of Sicily. It is almost impossible for the
                     American traveler, accustomed as he is to progress and enterprise, and all
                     their concomitant results, to comprehend the barbarous condition in which these
                     poor people live. Passing through the villages at night, I saw many of them
                     asleep on the road-side, without covering or shelter; and the squalor and
                     destitution of those who lived in houses surpass belief. Whole families are
                     huddled together in one wretched apartment, without beds or furniture, living
                     in common with mules, goats, and swine, and about as cultivated as the brutes
                     around them. Few that I conversed with had ever heard of America, and even
                     those who knew there was such a country, had no idea whether it was in China or
                     in England. That such a state of things should exist in the nineteenth century,
                     in a country once so highly civilized, and still boasting antiquities that
                     excite the admiration of the world, is almost incredible.
                  The implements of agriculture, the rude and half-savage appearance of the
                     people, the entire absence of the comforts of civilization, all bore evidence
                     of the depressing effects of military rule. "What object is there in these poor
                     wretches endeavoring to benefit their condition?" said my friend, the Italian,
                     to me. "What good will it do them to increase their crops, or build better
                     houses, or educate their children? The more they have, the heavier they are
                     taxed; they naturally think they might as well remain idle as labor for the
                     support of a horde of brutal soldiers to keep them in a state of slavery; and
                     there is no incitement to education, for it only makes them the more sensible
                     of their degraded condition. Yet it is not to be contended that they are fit
                     for self-government; all they need is a judicious and humane system of laws,
                     which will afford them adequate protection against the errors and follies of
                     despotic rulers. They are not deficient in capacity or industry, where they
                     have any object in making use of their natural gifts. You see them now in a
                     state of hopeless degradation and bondage."
                  While the Italian was talking, a Capuchin friar came to the door of the
                     diligence to beg for the church. I thought my friend might have added some
                     reflections on this branch of the subject, that would have  shown more
                     clearly the root of the evils under which the Sicilians labor; but being a good
                     Catholic he was silent. I contented myself by giving the poor friar a baiocco,
                     and making a sketch of his face as he stood waiting for the Italian to give him
                     another. There was plenty of time to get a good likeness.
                  I said we started from Palermo at night. It is a journey of thirty-six hours to
                     Catania, making just two nights and one day on the road. One would naturally
                     suppose it would be quite as well to set out in the morning, and make two days
                     and one night of it; but these are among the unaccountable peculiarities of
                     Sicilian travel.
                  Catania is a large town, containing a population of fifty thousand, many fine
                     buildings, many soldiers, many churches and some of the finest convents in
                     Sicily. The monastery of San Benedetto is the most extensive establishment of
                     the kind I have yet seen. Here the monks, who are chiefly of noble families,
                     live in royal style. If I had money enough, nothing would please me better than
                     to adopt the cowl and sack, and become a brother in the monastery of San
                     Benedetto. The building is a magnificent palace, ornamented with courts and
                     fountains, gardens, pleasure-grounds, bowers for devotional exercises, splendid
                     marble halls in the interior, suites of elegant apartments, pictures of all the
                     saints, organs that fill the spacious chapels with a flood of solemn music;
                     statuary, mosaic, and voluptuous frescoes—all that can charm the senses and
                     make glad the heart of monks. The wines are the choicest selections of the
                     Marsala and San Nicoloso brands; the macaroni is the purest and richest; the
                     fish are the best that can be fished
                     out of the bay of Catania; the chickens and capons, the salmis, the salads, the
                     roast-beef and mutton are unexceptionable. They have their separate apartments;
                     their servants, their private wines, their—but it won't do to be too
                     particular. You know the brotherhood do not use these things—they are for the
                     use of visitors. Perhaps with all their failings they are as good as most men;
                     and it must be admitted that no traveler can visit the convent of Monte Sanario
                     or Val Ombrosa, in Tuscany, or indeed any of the convents throughout Italy or
                     Sicily, without a grateful sense of their genuine good-nature and hospitality.
                     They are not soured by an ascetic mode of life, or misanthropic from their
                     seclusion; the world is open to them, and they enjoy it in a quiet way.
                  Close by the convent of San Benedetto is a female convent. I was not permitted
                     to enter, having no friends there.
                  Six miles from Catania, on the road along the coast to Messina, is the group of
                     rocks where it is said the Cyclopes were born. They are called the Cyclopean
                     Isles. I went up one forenoon to make a sketch of them. The weather was
                     unpropitious; and, after a glance at the rocks and a thorough drenching, I was
                     compelled to return without the usual boat excursion to the grotto.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  ASCENT OF MOUNT ETNA.
                  IT is a good forenoon's work to prepare for the ascent of Mount Etna. There are
                     horses to be hired, bargains to be made, warm clothing to be put in readiness,
                     provisions to be laid in, brandy and cigars to be stowed away for the night;
                     and sundry other little matters to be attended to, if the adventurer designs
                     spending the night on the mountain. My companion on the occasion was a young
                     Englishman attached to the army at Malta, a very pleasant and gentlemanly
                     traveling acquaintance; he was anxious to see the sun rise from the summit of
                     the mountain. To this arrangement I was opposed for several reasons: first, I
                     had often seen the sun rise from the top of a mountain; secondly, the season
                     was late, and it is no pleasant journey over the beds of lava to the crater of
                     Mount Etna in the middle of the night. But, inasmuch as my friend had no
                     recollection of ever having seen the sun rise from a mountain, I gave up, and
                     agreed to be victimized.
                  The distance from Catania to the crater of Mount Etna is twenty-three miles;
                     the area of the base covers an extent of more than a hundred miles; and the
                     height, according to the most authentic French measurement, is eleven thousand
                     four hundred feet above the level of the sea. It is generally covered with snow
                     from October to June; but, owing to an unusually fine autumn, we were fortunate
                     in finding it entirely free from snow on the 10th of October, and we afterward
                     learned that it remained so until the beginning of November. On the road from
                     Palermo we made repeated inquiries as to the practicability of the ascent at
                     this season; but it was not till we
                     came in sight of it at a distance of forty miles that we could ascertain any
                     thing satisfactory. In fact, nobody that we asked knew any thing about Mount
                     Etna, or had ever heard of such a mountain—at least under that name. Some
                     thought it must be in Italy, and others declared there was no such mountain.
                     Our conductor knew it when he saw it, but he could not tell us two hours before
                     when we would see it.
                  At two o'clock we sallied forth, duly mounted and caparisoned. The animal upon
                     which I rode was intended for a horse, I believe, but it bore very little
                     resemblance to that noble animal. Had any body offered to bet me ten dollars
                     that it wouldn't drop before I got half way to San Nicolosi, I would have taken
                     him up. Rosinante was nothing to compare with the bony, shaggy, sway-backed old
                     charger that bore me out of the gates of Catania.
                  Immediately after leaving the suburbs of the town, the ascent commences, and it
                     continues, more or less, the entire distance of twenty-three miles to the
                     summit of the mountain. The road as far as San Nicolosi is tolerably good—the
                     first part of it, to the fountain, being a public highway to the principal
                     villages back of Catania. The devastating effects of the volcanic eruptions are
                     visible every where on the roadside, and even below Catania the face of the
                     country is blackened with masses of the lava. The foundations of the villages
                     along the sea shore for miles, the walls around the fields, the lanes and
                     terraced grounds, are all formed of volcanic deposits, and give a dreary aspect
                     to the whole country; hundreds of villages lie buried beneath the desolating
                     streams that have poured from the crater in times past; vineyards and olive
                     groves, castles, villas, works of art, thousands of men, women, and children,
                     lie mouldering under those fierce floods of ashes and lava. Other towns and
                     villages have sprung up on the ruins; thousands of living beings dwell in the
                     same places, and look up every day with careless indifference at the smoking
                     crater; vineyards and olive groves are nourished from the bones of the dead.
                     What matters it? Nobody believes there will be another eruption in his
                     lifetime; and, if it comes, then it will be time enough to think of escape. So
                     they live on in a happy sense of security; and, if the climate permitted, no
                     doubt the crater itself would be inhabited. Does any body refrain from
                     traveling by railway because cars have run off the track? Do the people of the
                     West go in keel-boats because steamboats blow up? Does a man abstain from going
                     to the mines of California because his brother or friend has "shuffled off the
                     mortal coil" in a gold pit?
                  Vineyards thrive in the lava of Mount Etna. The whole district of San Nicolosi,
                     which has been covered a dozen times, and which will most likely be covered
                     again the very first time old Etna rouses from his long siesta, and belches forth his fiery floods, is thickly inhabited,
                     and doubtless would, if practicable, go on increasing and extending up toward
                     the summit till it got into the regions of fire and brimstone.
                  The village of San Nicolosi is about two hours from Catania. We reached the
                        locanda, or inn, an hour or so before
                     sunset; and having nothing there to interest us, we cast about us for some
                     means of passing the rest of the afternoon. The padrona, a good-natured,
                     talkative fellow, informed us that there lived not far off one Senor
                     Gemmellaro, who was a sort of conspicuous character in the neighborhood, and
                     who spoke good English, and was always glad to see Englishmen and Americans—in
                     short, that he could tell us a good deal about Mount Etna that would be of use
                     to us. Encouraged by this piece of information, we set out, under the padrona's
                     guidance, to pay a visit to Senor Gemmellaro, who was at his villa outside the
                     village.
                  A pleasant walk of half a mile through the narrow lanes that separate the
                     vineyards of Nicolosi brought us to the gate of Senor Gemmellaro's villa. Here
                     we found collected forty or fifty merry damsels, with baskets on their heads
                     filled with the grapes of the vineyard. It did our hearts good to see the merry
                     sunburnt faces of these damsels, and hear their jovial voices as they sang
                     their songs of gleesome labor. A happier looking set of beings I never saw, in
                     their ragged dresses and broad-brimmed hats; and I venture to say they were
                        as happy as they looked. These were
                     the peasant girls of the country.
                  Senor Gemmellaro met us at the gate in the true spirit of a fine old country
                     gentleman. "I am very glad to see you," said he, "though I have but little to
                     offer you here. You see my country house there—a mere straw cabin, but good
                     enough for an old bachelor." The cottage was indeed a curiosity. Robinson
                     Crusoe never designed or inhabited any thing more picturesque. Pleasantly
                     shaded by trees stood this rustic little wigwam, with its peaked straw roof and
                     single door, and the inviting aroma of grape vines and flowers around it, and
                     in front a laughing, dancing, buxom gang of country girls, full of life and
                     fun, and apparently not at all disposed to work. "They are a very troublesome
                     set," said Senor Gemmellaro; "I can't do any thing with them." Then the old
                     gentleman would laugh and shake his head at the girls: "Ah, you young imps; you
                     think because I am a bachelor you can do as you please with me. Never mind,
                     I'll pay you up; I'll get a wife to keep you all in order." Here the old
                     gentleman would laugh again, until his eyes seemed ready to pop out of his
                     head; and the girls would laugh, and we laughed as a matter of politeness.
                  We went into the cottage, where we found the roof ornamented with choice
                     selections of grapes and various productions of the villa. The old gentleman
                     prides himself on a particular wine, which he makes with his own hands, to
                     which he gallantly gives the name of "Vino del Donna." It is a wine peculiarly
                     for the ladies; and I must say it is the very best that could be devised for
                     the delicate palate of the fair sex. Any lady who could drink two glasses of
                     the Vino del Donna without experiencing an immediate inclination to accept of
                     the first offer, must be possessed of an adamantine heart. The grapes are
                     perfectly delicious—far superior to any we had tasted down in the lower
                     country.
                  We learned from Senor Gemmellaro that the climate and soil of San Nicolosi are
                     peculiarly adapted to the cultivation of the grape. Black and parched as the
                     whole face of the country appears, it produces most abundant crops, and the
                     quality of the wine very far surpasses that of the Marsala region in richness
                     and delicacy. Wealthy families often come up to spend the summer here, in order
                     to enjoy the pure air and the delicious grapes and wines of the
                     neighborhood.
                  The view from San Nicolosi over the valley of Catania is one of the finest in
                     Sicily. Vineyards, white shining villas, groves of olive and almond trees,
                     meadows, and ruins of half-buried villages are spread out below in all the
                     variegated hues of a living panorama, bounded by the glistening sea and the
                     far-off hills of Syracuse. From the rustic observatory of our host we had a
                     sunset view of this magnificent region that made an impression never to be
                     effaced. Senor Gemmellaro was delighted at the effect of his skill in rustic
                     architecture, and I have no doubt attributed the admirable manner in which the
                     sun went down to the remarkable construction of his observatory.
                  We walked back with him, after feasting ourselves on figs, grapes, wine, and
                     scenery, to the village, where he took us into his old palazzo and showed us all the curiosities of the establishment.
                     There were dogs innumerable in the yard, white rabbits and gray rabbits,
                     squirrels, and cats, and rats, pea-fowl, and guinea-fowl, and all manner of
                     fowl; strange-looking things creeping on the ground and up the grape-vines; old
                     guns, and horns, and shot-pouches hanging under the piazza; old vases to catch
                     the rain, and antique columns starting up out of the ground in all directions.
                     It was a strange, bachelor-like old place, with no sign of life about it save
                     that of the strange animals that kept company with their old master. Yet he
                     seemed to be happy, and to take a quiet pleasure in feeding his pets; perhaps
                     as much as most people do in feeding their wives.
                  The cabinet of Senor Gemmellaro contains a rich and wonderful collection of
                     volcanic specimens; lava in all possible forms; some in the shape of snakes,
                     lizards, and pigs; others not unlike old castles, statuary, columns, and
                     antique vases; also coins of rare value, relics of Sicilian history, old papers
                     and old books, and a thousand curious things impossible to describe.
                  
                  In his register of visitors were the names of some distinguished travelers. I
                     saw some few names of Americans of a recent date. Chief among those were Mr. E.
                     Joy Morris and family, and Mr. Alexander Clements, of Washington, who made the
                     ascent in company last spring a year ago; and of a later date, I believe in May
                     last, those of Professor Silliman and a party of friends, who had spent several
                     days in a scientific tour in the neighborhood of San Nicolosi. The ascent of
                     Mount Etna has been rendered much less difficult of late years than it formerly
                     was, by the laudable exertions of Senor Gemmellaro in opening better mule
                     paths, and removing many obstacles that formerly existed. All travelers unite
                     in speaking highly of his hospitality and intelligence, and none will be
                     disappointed in visiting his cabinet of volcanic curiosities.
                  Naturalists make four divisions of soil and production between the base of the
                     mountain, commencing at Catania, and the summit; the piedmonte, covering an extent of about eight miles, embracing
                     villages, country residences or villas, vineyards and meadows; the sebrosa, or nemorosa, five miles, producing pine trees and ilex, oaks, coarse
                     grass, and wild flowers, but destitute of springs; the scoperta, three miles in extent, mostly of sand and patches of
                     wild plants; and the deserta, three miles
                     farther, extending to the summit, consisting almost entirely of lava, scoria,
                     and ashes.
                  Down to the present period there have been seventy-five eruptions, twelve of
                     which were prior to the Christian era. That of 1669 destroyed a great number of
                     villages, and did great damage to Catania; but in 1693 occurred the great
                     eruption, accompanied by earthquakes, which destroyed sixty towns, including
                     Catania. The latest eruptions were those of 1831, '32, '38, and '42. It is not
                     my province, however, to go into a history of these convulsions of nature, and
                     their causes and effects. They have been described at great length in the works
                     of many learned travelers who have visited this region, though much yet remains
                     to be written.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  THE CRATER.
                  AT eight o'clock, after a good supper at the locanda, we set out for the crater of Mount Etna. It was a mild,
                     clear night; the moon was in her prime, and the stars shone out like gems of
                     crystallized light, without a single cloud to obscure their glorious radiance.
                     Our horses being no longer available, I was reluctantly compelled to leave my
                     favorite old charger and take a mule.
                  Oh, ye stars, which are the poetry of heaven, what omnipotent works ye revealed
                     to us that night! What still, shadowy forests of gnarled old oaks, and yawning
                     precipices of darkness unfathomable, opened to us as we toiled upward; what
                     ghostly mountains, and cities, and temples of blackened lava loomed through the
                     shadowy distance; what boundless valleys of mystic light lay outspread beneath
                     us; what a solemn stillness reigned over the slumbering earth! Up, high over
                     all, with its bare and grizzled cone, towered the smouldering crater, lonely
                     and desolate, but mighty in its desolation. Where are the castles and palaces
                     that once decorated the dim valleys in the depths below? where are the boasted
                     deeds of Roman and Saracen heroes? where are the victors and the vanquished
                     now? where is all that the vaunted ambition of man has accomplished? Not for
                     human ken is it to penetrate the dim vista of centuries, and tell of all that
                     lies buried beneath those dark floods; not for all the records of the past to
                     reveal the millionth part of their sad mysteries.
                  But I think I hear my friend, the Englishman, say, "Sad nonsense all this; Etna
                     is a stunning place, to be sure; devilish high, devilish cold, and all that;
                     throws out an amazing quantity of
                     smoke now and then—didn't do a bad job when it buried all those beggars of
                     Romans and Saracens, to say nothing of the number of rascally Sicilians it has
                     since covered up. Nonsense—all fudge!"
                  In about three hours and a half from San Nicolosi we reached an old tree lying
                     in a sheltered ravine, where the guides lit a fire and fed the mules. A very
                     marked difference was perceptible in the atmosphere at this elevation; the cold
                     was penetrating, though not apparently of great intensity. It was with
                     difficulty we could keep our feet and hands warm, and maintain a healthy
                     circulation of the blood; but, after resting an hour or two, we pushed on.
                  From the oak forest we emerged into a region of scoria and lava, abounding in
                     narrow and difficult passes, and of the wildest and most desolate aspect. The
                     moon, which had thus far befriended us, now disappeared, and left us in almost
                     utter darkness. It was surprising how the guides adhered to the path over the
                     rough beds of lava; often, as we thought, depending altogether upon instinct;
                     in many places there appeared to be not the slightest trace of a path. Huge
                     masses of lava, over which we stumbled, deep gulches, and yawning precipices,
                     all enveloped in gloom, threatened each moment to bring us up with a sudden
                     check; but we always contrived to keep on, winding round them, and into them,
                     and through them, after the stalwart figure of old Pedro, who took the lead and
                     never for an instant slackened his pace. How that man kept breath enough in his
                     body to sustain life during so many years of hard climbing, I could never
                     divine; for, accustomed as I was to exercise, I must say it made me puff not a
                     little to keep pace with him for one night. The highest bluffs, the roughest
                     passes, the deepest chasms were all the same to old Pedro; up he rose and down
                     he went, sometimes looming against the sky like a gigantic wizard of the
                     mountain in his shaggy capote, sometimes sinking with rapid and steady strides
                     into unfathomable depths; now grasping the scraggy points of lava and lifting
                     himself out of mysterious pits; now scrambling over precipices of scoria like a
                     monstrous bear; a moment after, astride of his mule, on some lonely ledge of
                     rock, ever toiling onward with the same noiseless, steady, unwearying tread. A
                     weather-beaten, grizzled, manly fellow was Pedro, the guide; rough as the
                     winds, and rains, and smoke of old Etna could make him; dirty and shaggy like
                     his tattered capote; but, with a strong pair of legs and an unflinching will
                     (in the way of climbing), he had a childlike nature and a heart that filled
                     well his capacious breast. As we neared the summit of the mountain the air
                     became so rarefied and the cold so piercing that I felt as if there was not an
                     ounce of blood in me, and it was only by hard walking I could keep up any thing
                     like a circulation. "Pedro," said I, "it's getting mighty cold; don't you think
                     so?" "Si, signore, un poco—ma pilliare
                        questa," pulling off his capote. "No, no, thank you, keep it on."
                     Pedro said nothing, but casting his capote around me, fastened it on in such
                     wise that it was no use to struggle against his kindness: a moment after he was
                     striding up on a ridge of lava, far above, looking like a great black giant
                     that had come suddenly out of the earth.
                  We reached the last station, or Casa degl'
                        Inglesa, about three o'clock in the morning. The cold was not so
                     intense as I had often experienced before, but much more penetrating from the
                     decreased power of resistance in the blood. My friend, the Englishman, who had
                     ridden nearly all the way, was as stiff as a piece of buckram when he
                     dismounted, though not disposed to admit that he felt at all "uncomfortable."
                     There was not much in the Casa Inglesa to
                     cheer us, save the shelter afforded by its dilapidated walls. Originally the
                     house consisted of three rooms, a kitchen, and stable, but now the stable is in
                     ruins, and we found but one of the rooms at all habitable. Into this we betook
                     ourselves, with a couple of the mules that were half famished by cold and
                     hunger; and, thus quartered, awaited the proper time to commence our ascent to
                     the crater. Pedro, taking pity upon us, broke off a piece of the door, which,
                     together with a small contribution from the window-frame, and the remains of an
                     old bench, made a very tolerable fire; and if there had been a chimney we might
                     have been rather comfortable. Wrapped
                     in the shaggy capote, I stretched myself on a piece of plank, and looking into
                     the crackling pile, around which sat the guides and muleteers, moralized on the
                     vaulting ambition of man which induces him to cross stormy seas and climb
                     volcanic mountains. Said I to myself (for the Englishman was lost in a cloud of
                     smoke on the other side), Here you are, at three o'clock in the morning, ten
                     thousand feet above the level of the sea, cold as a lump of ice, choking with
                     smoke, with scarce a shoe on your feet or a coat on your back; tossed and
                     tumbled about till you hardly know what language you talk or where you belong;
                     now up on the top of Mount Etna to see the sun rise, and next to take a peep
                     into the valley of Jehosaphat. And all for what? Quein
                        sabe, as the Spaniards say.
                  The Casa degl' Inglesa is a small stone
                     building, constructed in the rudest manner, for the temporary accommodation of
                     travelers on the way to the crater. It is ten thousand feet above the level of
                     the sea, and is of course uninhabited, being merely a place of shelter, without
                     water or other accommodations by which life could be sustained in that remote 
                        CASA DEGL' INGLESA.
                      region. According to Senor Gemmellaro, it was built by his father,
                     the distinguished naturalist, in 1810, when the English army occupied Sicily.
                     It was originally intended that it should have attached to it an observatory,
                     with all the instruments necessary for determining the temperature and
                     observing the volcanic phenomena of Mount Etna; but, owing to the want of
                     suitable encouragement, this design was abandoned. For many years past it has
                     been repaired from time to time by Senor Gemmellaro entirely at his own
                     expense.
                  The dawn of day began to lighten up the eastern horizon as we sallied forth,
                     with our staffs and guide, from the solitary walls of the old Casa. All was
                     black and craggy under foot, and the sharp gusts of wind moaned gloomily
                     against the rugged masses of lava as we wound our way among them. Neither path
                     nor trace was perceptible to us now, for the earth was covered with beds of
                     dark lava; yet onward strode Pedro, with the same sure and steady tread,
                     looking neither to the right nor the left, and never for a moment stopping to
                     search for the path. How many times he had gone up that mountain, by day and by
                     night, when it was covered with snow and when it was wrapt in darkness, in
                     sunshine and storm, from youth to the sere of manhood, not even himself could
                     tell. A hard life it was at best; up and down those dreary heights for more
                     than twenty years; a crust of bread or a bone now and then from some
                     tender-hearted tourist to keep his spirits up, and a good many sunrises and
                     sunsets to feed his imagination. That Pedro was a man of imagination was
                     attested by the number of charms he wore to keep away the evil spirits that
                     infest these lonely mountains, and if he had thoughts at all, what strange
                     thoughts they must have been! His whole world lay between San Nicolosi and the
                     crater—a very strange world in itself; a world of burnt earth, of ashes, and
                     lava, and sulphur, and smoke, of wondrous fires and earthquakes past, and
                     eternal ruin and desolation in the future. What to others was the great event
                     of a life was an every-day affair to Pedro; in his heels he carried more
                     practical knowledge of Etna than all the learned men of Europe carried in their
                     heads. God speed that grim and
                     stalwart mountaineer; may his last smell of brimstone be in this world, and his
                     last ascension be into that better one where there is everlasting rest for the
                     weary!
                  From the Casa Inglesa to the highest crater
                     occupies about an hour. The direct elevation is about fourteen hundred feet,
                     but the winding of the path more than doubles the distance.
                  As daylight broke clear and broad over the still earth, and the eastern sky
                     gleamed with the first rays of the rising sun, we reached the highest peak, and
                     turned to look down into the vast depths below. The whole island was wrapt in
                     an impenetrable mass of sleeping clouds; covering mountain, and valley, and
                     ocean as a mantle of mist, while not a shadow dimmed the bright sky above. It
                     was thus upon the solitary cone of Etna, with the broad lucid firmament arched
                     over us, and the vast sea of floating clouds outspread below, that there uprose
                     before us a sublime picture of the shattered ark, as it rested of old amid the
                     subsiding floods on the heights of Ararat, when the fountains of the deep and
                     the windows of heaven were stopped and the rain from heaven was restrained.
                  On the right and on the left yawned a vast crater, lined with banks of sulphur
                     and ashes; and from out the bowels of the earth came clouds of hot smoke,
                     rolling upward till they vanished in the thin air; and a thousand fissures
                     around sent out jets of scalding steam, and smouldering fires seemed ready to
                     burst forth and spread ruin and death under their seething floods of lava. And
                     now, from the bed of clouds that rested on the deep, up rose the sun,
                     scattering away the thin vapors that hung around his couch, and filling the air
                     with his glorious radiance; and the slumbering ocean of mist that lay upon the
                     valleys upheaved under his piercing rays of heat and light, and gathered in
                     around the mountain tops; and green valleys, and villages, and vineyards, and
                     gleams of bright waters lay outspread in the calm of the morning, as it opened
                     upon the shores and vales of Sicily. One gigantic shadow, the shadow of the
                     mighty Etna, stretched across the lesser mountains below as far as the eye
                     could reach; and the valleys beneath it were still covered with clouds and the
                     darkness within the shadow. Up rose the sun higher and still higher; and now
                     the floating vapors that rested upon the earth disappeared, and there was
                     nothing left but the bright glowing abyss of mountain and valley, bathed in his
                     effulgent rays; for "his going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his
                     circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof."
                     There was not a breath of air to disturb the glittering sea; ships lay
                     motionless on its unruffled surface; and on the shores glistened, like flakes
                     of snow, the villages that were washed by its waters. Far in the distance the
                     towering mountains of Calabria reared their rugged peaks, bounding the view
                     toward the east; to the north lay Messina and the rocks of Scylla and
                     Charybdis; and stretching southward the coast swept under the base of the
                     mountain; its shores lined with villas and towns, and indented by the bays of
                     Catania, Agosta, and Syracuse. Back toward the west lay the interior of Sicily,
                     a desert of parched and barren hills, with scarce a tree or spot of verdure to
                     relieve the sterility of the vast wilderness. And now, as we gazed entranced
                     upon this scene of awful sublimity, the smoke rose up in heavy masses from the
                     crater, and whirling around us with a sudden gust, shut out sea and earth, and
                     filled the air with noxious gases; and the sun had a lurid and ghastly glare
                     through the gloom, and we thought the earth trembled. But soon the gust passed
                     away, and left us unharmed amid the smouldering masses of ashes and
                     sulphur.
                  My friend, the Englishman, considered the whole thing "excessively fine;" in
                     which sentiment I heartily agreed with him, with the understanding, however,
                     that it would require the simultaneous rising of the sun, and moon, and all the
                     stars to get me up there again in the middle of the night; a sentiment in which
                     we both agreed, and thus compromising all previous diversity of tastes, we sat
                     down in a comfortable bed of sulphur, and, warming our hands in a jet of steam,
                     lit a couple of cigars, and smoked cosily with old Etna.
                  It is difficult, without any means of measurement, to give a correct idea of
                     the extent and depth of the craters; and, unfortunately, I have no books at
                     hand from which to derive the required
                     data. The extent of the rim of the upper crater must be about three miles and a
                     half; the depth, as far down as the neck or narrowest part, perhaps three or
                     four hundred yards. The nearest estimate we could make of the depth was by
                     rolling down large pieces of lava, and listening to the reverberation made as
                     they struck for the last time. We went down a short distance within the rim of
                     the great crater to collect some volcanic specimens, but were soon driven back
                     by the smoke. The sides are so precipitous that, to make any extended descent
                     with safety, it would be necessary to be provided with ropes; and then it could
                     only be done in very calm weather, when there is but little smoke. I am not
                     sure whether this feat has ever been accomplished; but, so far as I could
                     judge, there is no reason why it should not. The crater of Mount Vesuvius has
                     been explored by several daring adventurers, and there does not seem to be any
                     greater difficulty in effecting the descent into that of Mount Etna. For that
                     matter, indeed, it requires neither ropes nor ladders to get down; start at the
                     top and you are sure to get to the bottom; but it might be found agreeable,
                     after reaching the bottom, to have some means of getting up again.
                  Standing on the ridge between the two craters, where there is barely a
                     foothold, I could not help thinking how short a time it would take to reach an
                     entirely new and unexplored region. A little step, just a foot, would give a
                     sufficient start; and then what a sliding, and rolling, and skipping there
                     would be! what a whizzing through smoke and brimstone! what visions of devils
                     and fiery furnaces within the bowels of the earth! The whole scene was worthy
                     of Dante. It was terribly infernal; indeed I may say it was infernally so. Even
                     old Pedro, as he stood wrapt in his shaggy capote, looming through the smoke,
                     and peering over into the seething abyss, looked diabolical; black and grim of
                     visage he stood, as good a looking devil as ever walked upon brimstone. Now, I
                     do not mean to speak lightly of a serious subject; but I do think no person can
                     visit the crater of Mount Etna without entertaining a much more vivid idea of
                     the lower regions than he ever had before. For my own part, I dreamt of nothing
                     but flames of sulphur, huge figures with cloven feet, and little dancing blue
                     fellows with pitchforks all the next night, which I assure you, on my honor,
                     was not the effect of a bad conscience, but altogether the result of the vivid
                     impression created in viewing the crater.
                  We remained on the summit about two hours, enjoying all the changes of light
                     and shade produced by the rising of the sun and the dispersing of the light
                     clouds that rested in the lower strata of air. An entirely clear sunrise might
                     have afforded us a more extended prospect, but we were satisfied it could not
                     have presented such a magnificent combination of atmospheric phenomena. Some
                     traveler speaks of having seen the Island of Malta with the naked eye from this
                     point; but, although the weather was tolerably clear before we commenced our
                     descent, we saw nothing of it. It is quite possible, however, and not at all
                     improbable. The distance can not be more than a hundred and twenty miles—the
                     nearest point of Sicily from Malta being about eighty miles; and it is a common
                     thing in Malta on any clear day to have a distinct view of Mount Etna. I have
                     myself seen the Andes, in approaching Callao, at the distance of a hundred and
                     twenty miles. It is perhaps easier to see a great distance, looking upward
                     through an atmosphere decreasing in density, where there is a distinct outline,
                     than downward through a less transparent medium, where there may be no outline.
                     I have often seen land from the deck of a vessel when it could not be seen from
                     the masthead. The Peak of Pico has been seen at the distance of a hundred and
                     twenty miles, and the Peak of Teneriffe at a still greater distance.
                  Our descent to San Nicolosi was of course a good deal easier and rather more
                     pleasant than the night's journey up. With the mules it occupied very nearly
                     the same time; but I had become quite convinced that there was a prejudice
                     against me on the part of the whole mule species; I had turned involuntary
                     somersets from divers mules; I had been bitten at and kicked at by mules; I had
                     endeavored to befriend mules by leading them up steep hills instead of riding
                     them, and they were always sure to pull back and try to go down; I had attempted to lead them down hill, and they
                     invariably insisted upon going up; I had bought mules at three hundred dollars,
                     that looked well on the morning of the purchase, but found they could not go by
                     night, in consequence of being foundered; in sober truth, my talent did not lie
                     in the navigation or management of mules; so I walked. A walk down Mount Etna
                     includes a slide of about a mile from the edge of the crater, which I must tell
                     you about.
                  Commencing near the crater is a steep bank of ashes and cinders, extending
                     nearly to the Casa Inglesa, by which the trip is made with a locomotive speed
                     quite delightful. Peeping over the brink of the precipice, you enter into a
                     calculation as to the probability of having your limbs dislocated, in case you
                     should strike some unseen rock; and about the time you become satisfied that a
                     leg or an arm must be sacrificed, there rises a dust some hundred yards below,
                     and you see a large dark body bouncing down like a man of India rubber,
                     scattering cinders and ashes before it, and yelling like a demon. Away it goes,
                     rising and jumping and tossing, till it looks like a great black bird hopping
                     down into the gulf of lava below, dwindling as it goes, till you see nothing
                     but a dark speck. Then down dashes another and another, and you see that it
                     must be old Pedro leading the way, and the stragglers following. Committing
                     yourself to Providence, you draw a long breath and jump over too; and then,
                        Per Baccho, how you go; up to your ankles
                     in cinders, ten feet every jump! The wind whistles through your hair; you half
                     shut your eyes to keep out the dust that has been raised by the guides; you
                     shout like a drunken man, without knowing why, Hurra! glorious! splendid
                     traveling this! hold me somebody! stop me, Pedro! by Jupiter there goes my hat!
                     I knew it couldn't stay on! for heaven's sake belay me! It is no use, nobody
                     will belay you! There you go, faster and faster at every jump, till you don't
                     know which end will come out first. Now you bet ten to one that your feet will
                     win the race; now a hidden mass of lava brings them up with a sudden jerk, and
                     you'd lay heavy odds on the end of your nose—yes, the nose must win; you feel
                     the premonitory jar as it nears the end of the track; terror seizes your soul;
                     you jump desperately ten, twenty, thirty feet at every bound, twisting yourself
                     back in the air like a cat; you vow in your agony of mind that you will never
                     drop poor puss over the bannisters again in order to see her land on her feet:
                     another leap, another twist does it; your feet are in the air, and you go
                     sailing down gallantly on the seat of your breeches. Hurra! clear the track,
                     there! don't stop me! glorious! splendid! Here we are, Pedro, all right; keep a
                     look out for my hat, it'll be down here presently! Bless my soul, what a slide
                     that was!
                  
                     
                  
                  Emerging from the oak forest, three hours below, the view in the noon-day sun
                     is beautiful beyond description. The whole semi-circle of valleys and
                     mountains, villages and vineyards, as seen through the vistas of dark foliage,
                     seems hung in the golden atmosphere like some magnificent scenic illusion;
                     bright and glowing, and full of rich coloring. The tinkling of the goat-bells
                     from the rocks below, the songs of the shepherds, and the mellowed sounds of
                     life from the distant valleys, rise upon the still air like the murmuring of
                     dreamy music; and around about us the earth was fragrant with wild flowers; and
                     the gnarled old oaks made a pleasant shade.
                  
                  In due time we reached the locanda, at San
                     Nicolosi, where we enjoyed a good wash and a dinner that did great honor to the
                     padrone. We called again upon Senor Gemmellero, to give in our experience; and,
                     having satisfactorily acquitted ourselves in the way of buono manos to the guides and domestics, we set out toward
                     evening for Catania. This time my old charger acquitted himself to the
                     admiration of the entire community, local and migratory, between San Nicolosi
                     and Catania. Falling asleep at the very first step, he dropped his head between
                     his fore legs and his tail between his hind legs, and, thus comfortably
                     indifferent to public opinion, jogged on at so sleepy a pace that it was a
                     miracle how we ever reached Catania. Such indeed was the force of example, and
                     the striking pictorial effect of both horse and rider, that the venerable
                     muleteer—a fat old gentleman of fifty, who rode behind—fell into a fit of
                     musing, from which he gradually fell into a pleasant doze, and from the doze he
                     fell into a profound sleep; then he swayed from one side to the other, and
                     bobbed down in front and bobbed back again, and then started out of horrible
                     dreams; and nodded again, and fell asleep again as hard as ever; and at last,
                     as I had prophesied from the beginning, fell off his mule. Down in the dust he
                     lay for as much as two minutes in a state of mute astonishment. "Sacramento!" said he, getting up and shaking the
                     dust off, as soon as he found that no bones were broken; "Accidenta, Donna Maria, Santa Sophia!" And,
                     climbing up again on the mule, he belabored the unfortunate animal with such
                     vigor and good will that it danced Sicilian waltzes all the rest of the way
                     into Catania.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  A QUARREL WITH THE ANCIENTS.
                  THERE is not much to be said of Catania in addition to what is said in the
                     guide-books. It is a dirty, shambling old place, a good deal like all other
                     towns in Sicily, and owes any interest that it may now possess to its history.
                     Here it was that Polyphemus and his Cyclopes had their local habitation; here
                     was the port of Ulysses; and Thalia and her sons, the Palici, were of Catanian
                     memory; and here dwelt successively the Egyptian shepherds, the Sicanians, and
                     the Romans, and the Saracens, and the Normans, and heaven knows how many other
                     useless and quarrelsome people, who did nothing but build temples and churches
                     and kill each other. Mount Etna was not half so cruel as these cut-throat
                     races, whose deeds are blazoned forth in history for the admiration of mankind.
                     Not all the burning lava that ever desolated the plains of Sicily has done a
                     hundredth part of the killing so gloriously done by the blood-thirsty hordes
                     that slew their fellow-creatures on these very plains. Every ruin, every
                     column, every moss-covered stone is a history of ferocious wars. The cathedrals
                     and crucifixes are baptized in blood, and the tombs of the slayers of men are
                     worshiped.
                  The flames of Etna were not enough; famine and pestilence were too slow; so the
                     great warriors of old swept whole tribes from the face of the earth, and built
                     grand cathedrals, and temples, and amphitheatres, and aqueducts, and public
                     baths, and reigned in triumph till greater warriors slew them, and razed their
                     churches, and temples, and fine edifices; and history glorified them in turn,
                     and they did great deeds in turn, and were slain.
                  
                  It was civilization, all this. We know it, because we see the broken statuary
                     and the ruins of palaces and war-battered castles that tell us of their deeds;
                     and we are told that such things could not be done in the present benighted
                     state of art and architectural knowledge. There was Homer, and Virgil, too, to
                     sing the glories of war; and there was Thucydides and a thousand others to make
                     killing mighty in the world's history; and even the mist of centuries has not
                     obscured the deeds therein described. And those heroes are still worshiped. The
                     precious years of youth are spent in the study of these dark histories;
                     thousands who scarce can write their mother tongue are taught to chant the
                     glories of war in the dead languages, that they may be versed in the bloody
                     lore of classic times. Oh, wondrous people! Oh, mighty kings and chieftains!
                     Listen to a few plain facts. I am going to address you solemnly in your tombs,
                     and post you up concerning the nineteenth century. Tourists have so long sung
                     your praises that I mean to make a martyr of myself by telling you the
                     truth.
                  It is quite true, as enthusiastic travelers say, that your temples, and
                     castles, and palaces are splendid specimens of architecture; that your baths
                     are on the grandest scale; that your statuary is wonderfully beautiful; that
                     you lived in a style of magnificence unknown to the people of the present day,
                     except through your poets and historians; that all the relics of antiquity you
                     have left us bear evidence of great power and extraordinary skill. But you were
                     a barbarous people at best. The very splendor of your works is an evidence of
                     your barbarism. What oceans of money you spent on palaces, and tombs, and
                     mausoleums! What an amount of human labor you lavished in doing nothing! If the
                     Pyramids of Egypt were ten miles high instead of a few hundred feet, would the
                     world be any the better for it—would the mass of mankind be more enlightened,
                     or more virtuous, or more happy? If the Coliseum at Rome had accommodated fifty
                     millions of people instead of fifty thousand, would it have taught them the
                     blessings of peace and good government, or disseminated useful knowledge among
                     them? If all your palaces were built of pure gold instead of marble, would it
                     have caused the thousands of human beings that you were continually embroiling
                     in war to entertain a more fraternal spirit toward each other? True, we go to
                     war now and then ourselves in this the nineteenth century; but it is not the
                     chief business of our lives; we do something else that is better. We don't
                     build pyramids and coliseums, but we build railroads. The smallest steamboat
                     that paddles its way up the Hudson is greater than the greatest monument of
                     antiquity, and does more to promote the civilization and happiness of mankind;
                     the wires of our electric telegraphs carry more power in them than all the
                     armies you ever brought into battle. And, for the matter of magnificent
                     temples, if we had the time and money to waste, we could erect, for the
                     amusement of kings, and women, and children, toys a great deal bigger and quite
                     as useless. Your literature, your poetry and arts, only show how much the gifts
                     of God may be perverted to bad purposes. War, and murder, and rapine, lust and
                     bestiality, are the chief subjects of inspiration in what has been handed down
                     to us; yet we are asked to bow down to you with a blind adoration! You had your
                     merits and your weaknesses, just as we have; the greatest of you had as much
                     littleness as the greatest of us now; you were just as weak, just as mortal,
                     and a great deal more ignorant. Feasting, and fighting, and toy-making made you
                     distinguished. We will profit by your follies, and endeavor to earn a name in
                     ages to come by encompassing the earth with the blessings of freedom and
                     civilization.
                  It is very unkind, I admit, to talk to dead people in this way; but the fact
                     is, one must let off a little indignation now and then. Of late I have been
                     traveling with a friend so overcharged with admiration for the antique, and so
                     deeply imbued with classical literature, that it is quite a relief to be
                     revenged by an explosion. I have patiently endured broiling in the burning sun
                     that he might enjoy an old stone with an illegible inscription on it, and
                     walked for miles in search of tombs under which were buried men whose names I
                     had never heard before; I have listened for hours to learned discourses courses on the wars of the Greeks and
                     Romans, in which, to be candid, I felt no interest whatever; for what
                     consequence was it to a peaceful wayfarer like myself—simply an honorary
                     General in the Bobtail Militia—how many were killed on certain occasions, or
                     who were the best cut-throats of ancient times? All this I have done from the
                     purest good-nature. But now the remembrance of roasting suns, and long walks
                     for nothing, and longer discourses, and lost dinners, comes upon me with such
                     force that I must have some satisfaction. Yea, have I not seen men prate
                     learnedly about Titian, and Rubens, and Guercino, who scarce knew red from
                     blue; and young ladies go into ecstasies over a splendid Corinthian column,
                     which was Doric, or an antique fresco which was painted about a dozen years
                     ago?
                  We were overtaken at Catania by a Portuguese gentleman and his wife,
                     fellow-passengers in the Neapolitan steamer from Naples to Palermo. Doctor
                     Mendoza was a man of the world and a philosopher, and we were very glad to join
                     him in an extra diligence to Syracuse. He was rich in worldly possessions, and,
                     like a good many tourists whom we had met, traveled chiefly to kill time and
                     hunt up the best hotels. There was no good hotel on the top of Mount Etna, so
                     he staid at the "Corunna," in Catania; "because," said he, "I can see Mount
                     Etna from my window." Having ascertained that there was a good hotel at
                     Syracuse, he concluded to go; and he kindly entertained us on the road with a
                     detailed account of the hotels through Germany, Switzerland, Poland, and
                     Russia, dwelling with particular enthusiasm upon the style in which they get up
                     hotels in St. Petersburg. He had been traveling constantly for three years in
                     search of good hotels; if he had any guarantee that there were hotels in Athens
                     and Jerusalem he would go there, but had not yet made up his mind to run so
                     great a risk. The interest of a country depended altogether upon the excellence
                     of its hotels. It was a matter of surprise to me how a man should go to so much
                     expense to find comfortable accommodations in uncomfortable countries, when he
                     could have found them so much better and so much cheaper at home or in Paris.
                     Nor was my Portuguese friend alone in this mania for good hotels. I have seen
                     English tourists, and I am sorry to say some Americans, made perfectly
                     miserable by being compelled to pass the night in a respectable country inn,
                     where the accommodations were not so good as those of the Parisian hotels.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  ADVENTURES ON THE ROAD TO SYRACUSE.
                  THE morning was bright and bracing as our diligence rattled out of the streets
                     of Catania, our little postillion as sparky as a red-bird in his jacket and
                     feathers; our conductor as sleepy as conductors usually are, and our horses as
                     long and lean and full of latent fire as the diligence horses of Sicily are in
                     general. The road for seven or eight miles was along the shores of the bay over
                     a low plain, passing a few scattering farm-houses and some of the battle-fields
                     famous in the history of the early Sicilian wars. About seven miles from
                     Catania we crossed the river Simeto, the largest, I believe, in Sicily. The
                     plain through which the Simeto runs is of great extent, and abounds in fine
                     meadow lands. Numbers of thatched cottages, of conical shape like hay-stacks,
                     are scattered along the banks of the river, having a very peculiar and
                     picturesque effect. We all dismounted at the ferry, and were ferried across in
                     a dilapidated boat, which miraculously reached the opposite bank without
                     sinking. The road now turned slightly inland, over rough barren hills, passing
                     near Lake Beviero, or the Lake of Lentino, a pretty little fish-pond, till we
                     reached the town of Lentini, where the horses are changed. Lentini is the
                     modern name of Leontinum, once ranked among the most powerful cities of Sicily.
                     It possessed in olden times handsome temples, rich public edifices, a palestra,
                     and various works of art, but was laid waste during the wars; and now scarcely
                     a trace remains of its ancient grandeur. It is a wretched collection of dirty
                     dilapidated houses, with a population of filthy and half-barbarous
                     peasantry.
                  Here commenced that series of calamities to which I have already incidentally
                     referred. Eighteen miles in the bracing morning air had given us a ravenous
                     appetite. The Hôtel de Parigi was recommended
                     by our driver as the best in the place, and although it bore very little
                     resemblance to any thing we had ever seen in Paris, being about as black and
                     dirty a looking locanda as could well be
                     found in Sicily, we ascended through the hostlery to a large bare room, with a
                     table in the middle, and half a dozen wooden chairs ranged round the walls, and
                     called for qualche cosa mangera—in plain
                     English, something to eat. The padrona, a sour-looking woman, eyed us with a
                     speculative glance, having reference to the size of our purses, and said: "We
                     have nothing but eggs and bread, signores; the meat has been devoured by a
                     party that have just gone ahead." "Very well, then," said we, "let us have the
                     eggs and bread as soon as possible." In about half an hour we had a scanty
                        collazione of fried eggs, to which we did
                     as much justice as the subject permitted. "Now, padrona, what is to pay?" "What
                     you wish, signores." "No, no; you must fix your own price." "Then, as you have
                     had nothing but eggs and bread, we will only charge you two dollars." "Two
                     dollars! why that is impossible. We have only had a dozen eggs and a little
                     bread!" "Well then, say a dollar and a half; that is very little for four
                     persons, signores." We paid the dollar and a half, and considered ourselves
                     very cleverly done. As we were about to leave, our hostess reminded us of
                     another small charge—three carlins for the room. "What!" said we, in an honest
                     fit of indignation, "do you mean to say we are to pay for the privilege of
                     eating your miserable collazione in this barn
                     of a place?" "Of course, signores, you have had the use of the room." "Very
                     true, but did you think we were going to eat out of doors?" "By no means, and
                     that is the reason why I charge you for the accommodation of the room." It was
                     no use to argue against a system of reasoning so cogent as this; the postillion
                     was calling to us to come on; so we paid the three carlins for the use of the
                     room. Passing out, we were attacked by a dirty cuisine, who demanded a trifling remuneration ation for her services. "Please your
                     excellencies, I cooked breakfast for you!" "The deuce you did! how do you
                     suppose we could eat it unless it was cooked? Are people in the habit of eating
                     breakfast raw at the Hôtel de Parigi?" "No,
                     signores, I cook it for them, and they always give me something for my
                     trouble." It was no use to rebel; the cook hung to us like a leech, and it was
                     only by paying her three carlins that we could extricate ourselves from her
                     clutches. "Thank Heaven, we are done now!" was our involuntary exclamation, as
                     we made our exit. "Aspetto, signores," said a
                     voice behind, "you have forgotten the facchino." "The what?" "The porter, gentlemen." "And pray what
                     have you done for us?" "I attend to the baggage, signores." "But we have no
                     baggage here; it is all in the diligence." "Ah, that makes no difference; I
                     could have carried it for you: I must live, you know, and this is all the pay I
                     get to support a large family." The claim was irresistible; we rebelled at
                     first, but it was no use, the facchino
                     followed us till we had to give him a few baiocci to get rid of him. "Well,
                     this beats Italy all hollow," was our unanimous conclusion, as we took our
                     respective seats in the diligence, and began to enjoy the luxuries of sunshine
                     and cigars, after the storm through which we had passed. "Buono mano," said our small postillion. "For what,
                     you rascal?" "For driving you." "But you did not drive us; you were asleep all
                     the time; we won't pay you!" However, we did pay him, after a great deal of
                     talking. "Drive on now," shouted the Englishman. "Andate!" roared the Portuguese. "Go ahead," said I. "Aspetta, senores," cried the hostler; "buono mano for the hostler." We threw the hostler a
                     few carlins, and shouted, "Drive on, andate!
                     go ahead again!" "Aspetta!" cried the
                     hostler, "this is an extra diligence; extra diligences are always double price.
                     Besides, it is two posts from Catania, and you have only paid for one change of
                     horses." "Diabolo," roared the Portuguese,
                     "we have only had one change, and that has just been put in now." "Stunning
                     business this," said the Englishman. "Done brown!" said I. "True, senores, but
                     you must pay for the half-way post." "There is no post there, you scoundrel—no
                     horses—nothing at all!" "Da verro, signores,
                     but these horses have done double duty; so they must be paid for, or they can't
                     go on!" This was too bad. "Cospetto!"
                     shrieked the Portuguese. "Excessively annoying!" said the Englishman. "Great
                     country!" said I—"great country, gentlemen!" We unanimously determined that we
                     would not pay for changing horses, when no such change was made. "Go to the
                     devil with your horses, then; we won't pay a cent more." "Va bene, senores!" replied the hostler, very coolly
                     unhitching the horses, and leading them off to the stable. "I'll go to the
                     devil to oblige you, signores; but I can't go to Syracuse till the halfway post
                     is paid for. You will have to go on without horses, that's all."
                  Here was a predicament! The inhabitants of the classical city of Lentini were
                     pouring down from all the neighboring streets to see the diligence that was
                     bound to Syracuse without horses. Matrons with children in their arms held up
                     their precious babes to see the sight; piratical-looking fellows gathered
                     around and examined us with a deliberate and speculative stare; the little boys
                     shouted merrily, and called the attention of all straggling acquaintances to
                     the pole of the diligence that pointed toward Syracuse, but wouldn't pull for
                     want of horses! What was to be done? Go to the Mayor? Perhaps there was none,
                     and if there was, who knew the way? "Senores," said the hostler, in a soothing
                     tone, perceiving our distress of mind, "you had better pay me, and allow me the
                     pleasure of putting the horses in." We considered the advice, and took it. It
                     was rather humiliating to our feelings; but we were hemmed in with difficulties
                     on all sides; in vain we looked round upon the crowd; not a sympathizing face
                     was there; not a soul to pity us in our misfortunes. The pervading sentiment
                     seemed to be—"Hit 'em again! they've got no friends!" There was one universal
                     shout of laughter as the postillion cracked his whip, and drove us rattling out
                     of Lentini. I turned to look back as we ascended the hill, and caught a glimpse
                     of the hostler, who was still bowing to us with the utmost gravity and
                     politeness. If ever I meet that man on
                     Pennsylvania avenue, it is my settled intention to do him personal
                     violence.
                  As to the sparky little postillion who drove us so furiously out of Catania,
                     and who afterwards fell asleep when there was nobody on the roadside to admire
                     his driving, I have him safe enough. Here he is. Public indignation is
                     respectfully solicited:
                  
                     
                  
                  The individual mounted upon that horse, swindled us out of two carlins. What he
                     did with so much money it would be impossible to say; he may have put it in his
                     boots for safe keeping; but he certainly could not have deposited his
                     ill-gotten gains in his coat-pockets. I only know that we paid him the sum
                     above specified for doing certain duties that he never performed; and that
                     implicit confidence is not to be placed in a man simply because he wears a
                     feather in his hat, a jacket with red cloth embroidery and small tails, and a
                     pair of top-boots, big enough to bury him in when he dies.
                  From Lentini to Syracuse the distance by the public road is twenty-four miles,
                     making the entire distance from Catania forty-four miles. After leaving the
                     valley of the Simeto, the country becomes barren and rugged, and there is very
                     little to attract the attention of the traveler. What the appearance of the
                     country may be in spring I had no means of ascertaining; but certainly a more
                     desolate picture of poverty and barrenness I never saw than it presents in the
                     month of October. Naked hills of parched earth and bleak rocks; a few miserable
                     vineyards, either entirely without fencing, or surrounded by ragged hedges of
                     prickly pear; villages rudely built of stone, without shade or comfort, and in
                     a wretched state of ruin; an occasional mule with a load, driven by a man of
                     beard and rags; a gang of beggars, as voracious as a pack of wild beasts; here
                     and there a half-naked and withered woman, with the rough features of a man,
                     scratching the ground with a hoe, or tottering under a heavy burden, while her
                     husband lies basking in the sun; litters of dirty children rooting in the mud,
                     without covering of any kind—these are the sights that one sees on the road to
                     the ancient City of the Sun, the abode of gods whose shrines no longer
                     burn.
                  In a few hours from Lentini we had a good view of the Cape St. Croce and the
                     town of Agosta. Giovanni Power, whose "Guida di Sicilia" I have now before me,
                     says of Agosta that it is supposed to have risen out of the ruins of Megara,
                     and Megara from those of the little Keybla. It was there, according to
                     Herodotus, that the people were sold at auction, in the time of Gelon.
                  From an eminence, as we approached Syracuse, we had a very pretty view of
                     Ortigia, the only inhabited part of the ancient city. It is built on an island
                     connected to the main land by a long pier and a bridge, and strongly fortified
                     by high walls, forts, and castles.
                  The number of gates, bridges, fortified arches, and vaulted passages through
                     which one is driven before he can fairly consider himself within the walls of
                     Ortigia quite surpasses all powers of
                     computation. When the diligence stopped at one of the outer gates, we were
                     carefully inspected by a couple of officers, in flashy uniforms and feathers,
                     who politely requested us to allow them the pleasure of looking at our
                     passports. One stood a little in the background, with pens, ink, and paper in
                     his hand: he was evidently a subordinate character, notwithstanding the
                     brilliancy of his plumage, which, from a hasty estimate, I calculated to
                     consist of the tails of three game-cocks; the other was a portly man, of grave
                     and dignified demeanor, rich in tin buttons and red cloth epaulets, and with a
                     mustache that would have done credit to the Governor himself; in fact, I
                     thought at first that he was the Governor, so imposing was his personal
                     appearance. The  passports he opened slowly and cautiously, either
                     from habitual contempt of the value of time, or a latent suspicion that they
                     contained squibs of gunpowder; and at last, when he had fairly spread them out,
                     with the signatures inverted, he carefully scanned the contents for five
                     minutes, and then calmly addressed us, in bad Italian; "Your names, Signores,
                     if you please." Our friend the Portuguese, being the oldest, was accorded the
                     privilege of speaking first. "My name, Signor, is Mendoza, and this lady is my
                     wife." "Grazia, Signor." Then, turning to the subordinate. "Put that
                     down—Men-z-z-a. Va bene." After some other
                     questions as to profession, place of nativity, &c., he turned to the
                     Englishman, "Your name, Signor?" "Mine? My name is Norval: on the Grampian
                     hills my father feeds his flocks, a frugal swain"——"Excuse, Signor, what did
                     you say? "Smith, John Smith, if you like it better!" "Va bene, Signor; put that down: Giovanni Smiz; no,
                     Semmit—Giovanni Semmit." The man with the tails of the game-cocks in his hat
                     put it down. "And your name, Signor?" turning to your humble servant. "Sir,"
                     said I, with a dash of honest pride in the thought that I was giving a name
                     known in the remotest corners of the globe, "My name is Brown—John Brown,
                     Americano, General in the Bobtail Militia." "Grazia! Signor," said the officer,
                     bowing, as I flattered myself, even more profoundly than he had bowed to my
                     friend John Smith. "Put that down—Giovanni Brovvenni." "BROWN!" said I; for I
                     had no idea of having an honest name so barbarously Italianized. "Si, Signor,
                        Bruvven." "No!" said I, sternly, "not Bruvven—BROWN, Sir."
                     "Si, Signor—BRUIN." "No, Sir!" said I, indignantly, "do you take me for a bear,
                     Sir? My name's BROWN, Sir." "Certo, Signore, BRUIN!" And Bruin was written down
                     by the feathered man; and so stands my name to this day in the official
                     archives of Syracuse—GIOVANNI BRUIN, or JOHN BEAR.
                  After this pleasant little passage of official dignity and governmental wisdom,
                     we rattled on over a drawbridge, and under an arch, and through half a dozen
                     gates, and up a long pier, and through some more gates, and finally into
                     Ortigia, or modern Syracuse, where we rattled through an interminable labyrinth
                     of narrow and dirty streets, our postillion alternately cracking polkas with
                     his whip, and blowing his brains through his horn, scattering the astonished
                     inhabitants in all directions, and running over lazy dogs in his mad career. At
                     last we brought up near the Hotel del Sole,
                     where we were dragged out of the diligence by a whole regiment of ragged
                        facchini, and piloted into the dark
                     recesses of the Sole by the bald-headed Padrone.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  SYRACUSE.
                  AT this hotel (the Sole) we were so fortunate as to secure the
                     services of a guide, who was not only an accomplished cicerone, but an artist
                     of considerable merit, and the author of a work on the antiquities of Syracuse.
                     I have forgotten his name, but any body who visits Ortigia can not fail to
                     recognize him in the elegant person of a young man, a little blasé in his manners, who lounges gracefully about
                     the Sole, and does things up as valet de
                        place with the resigned air of a gentleman of broken fortune, who
                     has been reduced to the necessity of bartering his classical knowledge and
                     personal services for the contemptible sum of one dollar per diem. He will
                     converse with you on art and history, point out to you all the antiquities of
                     Syracuse, sell you his pictures, attend to your passport, carry your umbrella,
                     see that your boots are blacked, and go of messages—all for the miserable
                     pittance of a dollar a day; and if you like he will go with you to the opera,
                     and tell you the history of the prima donna and of each of the chorus-singers
                     individually. For my part, I took it as rather a compliment that so fashionable
                     a looking man should be seen in my company, and, notwithstanding the horror and
                     disgust of my young English friend, always invited him to join us in a cigar or
                     a glass of wine, and felt quite happy when he sate with us in a public café,
                     sipping the nero with a languid air, or
                     dallying elegantly over a glass of ice-cream at my expense.
                  In America one would be ashamed to exact menial services of so accomplished a
                     gentleman; but in the old world it is so common as not to attract attention,
                     except from strangers. Indeed, we republicans are much more stiff and haughty
                     toward ward our subordinates than the Germans or French, and quite as much so
                     as the English. Sometimes it is such a relief to be natural and kind that I try
                     it for variety. The other day, up in Austria, I was caught by a party of
                     friends in the act of drinking beer with our hack-driver, a very jolly,
                     respectable old Dutchman; but, from the disdainful manner in which they refused
                     to join us, I felt exceedingly mortified about it, and resolved never to be
                     good-natured again. The very same evening, walking in one of the public
                     gardens, I met a former guide, with whom I thoughtlessly sat down to have a cup
                     of coffee, and was in the act of being perfectly happy when my friends
                     discovered me again, and this time they showed such decided symptoms of
                     disapprobation that I vowed never to be sociable any more. Shortness of funds
                     compelled me soon after to take passage in the third-class cars, where I was
                     terribly afraid some one would see me—some American or Englishman, I mean,
                     because I knew nobody else would be distressed about it. There was a
                     respectable-looking man on the next seat who spoke English. He was very chatty
                     and agreeable, and it was quite a consolation to find so intelligent a man in
                     the same reduced circumstances. We talked very pleasantly for some time, when
                     he informed me that his master was in the first-class; that the said master was
                     a countryman of mine. I was terribly mortified, of course; there was that
                     lonely and high-minded man in the first-class, and I, with the most ambitious
                     aspirations, in the third-class with his courier. However, it was some comfort
                     to think that I had passed my time pleasantly so far, and had received all the
                     information for which the lonely man in the first-class was paying a dollar a
                     day, besides the courier's expenses.
                  But this is a sad habit I have fallen into of rambling off from the main
                     subject. I believe I was in Syracuse.
                  Now, if ever a man tried hard to get up some enthusiasm about a place that he
                     had read of with wonder and admiration in early youth, I tried it in Syracuse.
                     I went down into the ancient baths, and suffered damp and chilling airs without
                     seeing any thing but subterranean passages and uncomfortable holes; through
                     miles of ancient catacombs I roamed without one sentiment of admiration for the
                     mighty dead who were no longer there;
                     bones I picked up, but they looked so like common bones that I threw them down
                     again: it was no use; the enthusiasm wouldn't come. As for the amphitheatre at
                     Neapolis, it is just like any other amphitheatre, only less perfect than those
                     of Italy. The ancient aqueduct is in so dilapidated a state that scarcely a
                     vestige remains. The Ear of Dionysius is one of the few things worth seeing. It
                     is a large excavation in solid rock, where it is said Dionysius the Second
                     imprisoned his victims, and amused himself listening to their groans. The
                     reverberation in this cavern is so great, owing to some peculiarity in the
                     construction, that the tearing of a piece of paper produces a loud report.
                     There are other excavations in the vicinity, of great size and extent, formerly
                     used as prisons, but now occupied by rope-makers, which is much better. If
                     Dionysius himself had turned his attention to the manufacture of ropes, he
                     might have deserved hanging less, and have enjoyed a better reputation in
                     history. The museum in Ortigia contains a very scanty collection of
                     antiquities, dug out of the ruins of Syracuse. The chief attraction is the
                     broken statue of Venus, which is a very beautiful work of art, and justly
                     admired. Very little remains of ancient Syracuse except the excavations from
                     which the stone was taken to build the city. Some of these are occupied by a
                     miserable population of outcasts, who seem to have no  houses or means
                     of living, and prey upon travelers for the wretched pittance by which they
                     support life.
                  The whole region around Syracuse is rocky and desolate, and so little remains
                     of its ancient grandeur that it requires a warm imagination to invest it with
                     sufficient interest to repay a visit. It is difficult to conceive how a city
                     that once contained a population of two millions should be reduced to such
                     utter ruin: now a mere hill-side of quarries and a dirty little town with a
                     population of seventeen or eighteen thousand. Where the land was to support
                     such a population, or the port for such a commerce as they would have required,
                     is a mystery that can not be solved by any evidences now existing; and the
                     probability is that history in this instance, as in many others, has greatly
                     exaggerated the facts.
                  Some distance from the gates of Ortigia, on an eminence, is an old convent, and
                     near it the cemetery in which lie buried the remains of two Americans—one a
                     young midshipman, killed in a duel, and the other a gunner. We visited their
                     graves, and took copies of the inscriptions placed upon their tombs by some
                     kind shipmates. It was sad, in a foreign land, amid the vestiges of ruin and
                     decay, to stand by these lonely graves and think how died these two of kindred
                     blood and language, so far away from home. The young midshipman was cut short
                     in his bright career, not by wasting disease, but by the hand of a brother
                     officer. A brief notice in the guide-book was all that told the story. He fell
                     in a duel, near the place of his burial; and he sleeps his last sleep in a
                     far-off land, with none to mourn over his lonely grave, none to feel a pang of
                     pity, save the passing stranger. This was honor! Does the slayer of that youth,
                     if he still lives, feel that he has done an honorable deed when he thinks of
                     the lonely grave of his victim? Is there a charm in the thought to wash out the
                     stain of blood? Has the admiration of the world made him feel in his secret
                     heart that he is the braver for having risked his life and slain his
                     fellow-man? Was forgiveness of an injury so base an act that it would have
                     embittered his whole future? Oh, honor, honor! for what dark and bloody crimes
                     hast thou to answer!
                  
                  We paid a visit to the modern catacombs in the convent, but found them much
                     inferior to those in Palermo, of which I have given some account. While
                     strolling through among the bodies, accompanied by an old monk, one of the
                     heads rolled off and fell on the ground. The monk quietly picked it up, thanked
                     God for the accident, and placed it on the neck again, but in such an
                     extraordinary position as to produce a most ludicrous effect. "Non fa niente!" said he, "it makes no difference
                     now," and we walked on.
                  In the evening we went to an opera in Ortigia; rather an odd thing, you will
                     admit, among the ruins of Syracuse. The piece was quite new to me, and abounded
                     in terrible love scenes, murders, and thunderings of brass instruments. The
                     prima donna created a great furore by her violent manner of dying; she died
                     three times in succession by special request of the audience, and so great was
                     the enthusiasm on the subject that I could not help joining in an attempt to
                     get up a fourth death, in the faint hope that she might remain dead till the
                     conclusion of the opera.
                  Now this, to be sure, is rather a scanty description of Syracuse—a mere budget
                     of anecdotes, you will say. But what can I tell you without copying from the
                     guide-book, which you will find in any public library. To be candid, I think
                     there is more in the name of Syracuse than any thing else. The ruins are in
                     such a state of dilapidation that one can scarcely recognize any thing, even
                     with the assistance of a guide. Those of Agrigentum are considered much finer.
                     After Rome, and the ruins of Pestum, near Naples, there is little worth seeing
                     in Sicily in the way of ruins, except Sicily and its government, which may be
                     considered a ruin on a large scale; one of the grandest ruins, if we are to
                     believe its early history, in Southern Europe. War and rapine, and all the
                     evils of military despotism; pestilence and famine, earthquakes and volcanic
                     eruptions, have scourged that ill-fated island till its mountains are bare and
                     its valleys are waste; and the spirit of desolation broods over its ruins even
                     as the scourge of the Divine hand yet rests upon Jerusalem and the hills of
                     Judea.
                  We spent a day and a half in Syracuse, and would have continued on to Noto and
                     Girgenti but for the want of time. It was getting late in the season, and each
                     of us had plans of Oriental travel for the coming month of November. It must be
                     said in favor of Sicily, at this season of the year, that the climate is
                     perfectly delicious; and the skies unsurpassed in any part of the world. The
                     sunset scenes every evening were beautiful beyond description; and the soft
                     tints of the distant mountains of Calabria, and the interior of Sicily, were
                     such as Claude Lorraine delighted to paint, and which no other artist has ever
                     given in such perfection. It is pleasant, after all the annoyances of passports
                     and beggars, in a country like this, to get up in the morning at day-light,
                     drink your coffee, pay all your bills, thank Heaven when you are through; jump
                     into the open diligence; listen to the lively crack of the postillion's whip
                     and the rattling of the wheels as you are whirled off out of the narrow
                     streets; and then, when fairly beyond the gates, to snuff the fresh air as you
                     fly along the smooth roads by the sea-shore, and watch the first glimmer of the
                     sun as it lightens up the Eastern horizon, and trace out cities of gold among
                     the light clouds that float over the mountains of Calabria; to draw in the
                     fresh morning air again until you feel as if it would lift you up into the
                     realms of pure spirits. A wild joy thrills through your blood at such a time—a
                     gladness that you are born, and in the world, and capable of feeling its
                     beauties; and you inwardly thank God for all the blessings that life still
                     contains, even amid the ruin and desolation wrought by man's evil deeds. What
                     if that sun has risen for centuries over battle-fields, and scorched with
                     thirst the wounded and the dying; mingled its rays with the flames of Etna, and
                     shed its softest evening glories over scenes of terror and death: through the
                     unfathomable past, in the alternate phases of good and evil throughout all the
                     wicked deeds that man has wrought against man, and all the fierce convulsions
                     of nature, it has shed its healing glow upon the human heart; it has cheered
                     the houseless and the homeless with its warmth; it has nourished and ripened
                     the fruits of the earth for countless generations; it has filled millions of souls with adoration
                     of the Divine Creator; and in its light, and warmth, and sublime beauties, in
                     all the joy and gladness that it sheds upon earth, there is still enough of
                     heaven to make us feel that we are mortal here to be immortal hereafter.
                  Pardon these little bursts of enthusiasm, I pray you; the fact is, being unable
                     to get up any inspiration on the subject of antiquities, I have to let out now
                     and then on the sun, and moon, and stars by way of experiment; for when I see
                     my fellow-travelers go into raptures over an old stone wall, or a musty
                     picture, or broken column, which fails to produce the slightest effect upon me,
                     I begin to imagine that there must be something lacking in head or heart, and
                     it is only by soaring among the mountains and clouds that I can conjure up a
                     particle of enthusiasm.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  TAORMINA.
                  ON our arrival in Catania, we proceeded at once to demand satisfaction of the
                     proprietor of the diligence for the misconduct of the conductor in suffering us
                     to be stopped at Lentini and other postes on
                     the road to Syracuse. We had drawn up a bill against him for all the extra
                     charges for horses, postillions and hostlers, over and above what were
                     specified in the article of agreement. That article of agreement contained
                     every item that we felt legally bound to pay; and we had carefully preserved it
                     as a warning to the proprietor that we were not the kind of people to be
                     imposed upon.
                  Our first measure, therefore, upon arriving at the door of the Corunna, was to
                     send for the proprietor of the diligence. We had taken the names of all the
                     conspirators who had fleeced us on the road—such names, at least, as they gave
                     us; and thus prepared, we formed ourselves into a sort of tribunal on the
                     pavement, for the vindication of our rights and the infliction of a severe
                     reprimand upon all who dared to outrage the majesty of the law. Doctor Mendoza
                     was appointed prosecuting attorney, as he was much the largest man in the
                     party, and rather the most fluent in Italian. The proprietor, or padrone, as he
                     was called, when he approached and saw us formed into a high Court of Inquiry,
                     turned very pale, and bowed a great many times before our honors. All the
                     idlers about the Corunna began to gather round, and every body being an idler,
                     the audience was soon of very imposing dimensions. Doctor Mendoza opened the
                     case—rather violently as I thought—by thrusting the contract in the face of the
                     trembling padrone, and calling him a sporka, a robber, a miserable poltroon!
                     and a great many other names of the kind; which the padrone received with the most unbounded
                     resignation. Indeed, had he been used to such charges all his life he could not
                     have manifested a more forgiving spirit. His only answer was to demand meekly
                     the cause of all this violence. Had he pulled Doctor Mendoza by the nose, he
                     could not have offered him a greater insult than this question. For two minutes
                     that gentleman was perfectly breathless with rage; he stormed, he stamped upon
                     the pavement; he tore his hair; he spluttered and spat all about; and then,
                     after this explosion, he shrieked in English, in Portuguese, in French, and in
                     Italian; during which time the padrone took several pinches of snuff, and
                     awaited the conclusion. At the conclusion he demanded again the cause of this
                     extreme violence.
                  "Sacr-r-r-r! Diablo!" screamed the
                     Portuguese, rushing at him, with his fingers bent as if to claw the eyes out of
                        him—"Calaboca! Per-r-r Baccho! By dam! you
                     rob! you dam rascal! Perche questa? (shaking
                     the paper in his face) Due baiocco!—due, tre, quatro,
                        cinqua carlin! Sempra! Sempra! Per-r-r Deo! baiocci, carlini, scudi!
                        Sacr-r-r!"
                  The counsel for the accused, which consisted of the conductor, the driver, the
                     postillion, and several of the ragged facchini, belonging to the hotel, broke in and protested that it
                     was the custom of the country, that any other padrone would have charged double
                     the price; they all talked at once, and their appeals in behalf of the padrone
                     were so eloquent and moving that he evidently began to consider himself a much
                     injured man, and this sense of outraged honesty so inspired him with courage,
                     that he began to protest that he would have justice for such unmerited
                     accusations; he couldn't stand it; he'd go to the police office.
                  The upshot of the whole business was, that we had to pay the full amount on the
                     agreement, and suffer an additional loss of several carlins in fees to the
                     counsel of the accused, who never ceased to persecute us till we showed
                     symptoms of a disposition to pay the required amount. The ground upon which
                     they based their claim was that they had helped us out of the difficulty! Such
                     a course of conduct might well be considered as adding insult to injury; but
                     having no alternative we paid the fees in order to get rid of the counsel, who
                     were getting stronger every moment; and who had already enlisted the sympathies
                     of every straggler in the street.
                  
                     
                        COUNSEL FOR THE ACCUSED.
                     
                  
                  Leaving Catania as soon as we could get a change of horses, we passed in sight
                     of the Cyclopean isles, and about dark reached a town distant ten miles. Here
                     we stopped for the night, much to the disgust of our Portuguese friend, who was
                     rather sore in mind after the affair at Catania, and consequently could not
                     tolerate an indifferent hotel. He was always particular about hotels; but this
                     time he was uncommonly fastidious. The Posta, where we stopped, had rooms good
                     enough if they were only clean. Doctor Mendoza was incensed at the filth of
                     this establishment. He excited himself to such a degree on the subject of the
                     bed-linen, that he ended by tearing his hair and rushing out in search of
                     another hotel, and I was so fearful of some tragical act on his part, that I
                     ran after him, imploring him to return. There were only two other hotels in the
                     place, which he explored in the most violent manner; darting furiously into the
                     bedrooms, lifting up the bed-linen, making horrible faces of contempt and disgust, calling every body in the
                     town, sporka, and then darting out again. In the end he was forced to return to
                     the Posta, where we contrived to survive the tortures of the vermin, and get
                     something to eat.
                  The next day's travel along the sea-shore was the most pleasant we had enjoyed
                     in Sicily. Good-humor was restored after all these trials of temper, and we
                     laughed heartily at the incidents of our journey to Syracuse.
                  We now entered a fertile region along the base of Mount Etna, abounding in
                     green valleys and luxuriant vineyards, and dotted over with pretty little towns
                     and farms. The road on either side was lined with pleasant-looking and
                     picturesque villas, and the population had a much more thrifty appearance than
                     that of the southern portion of the island. At Aci
                        Reale, a handsomely situated town about half-way between Catania
                     and Messina, our party took mules to go up to the ruins of Taormina, about an
                     hour distant up the mountain. My experience in mules was not such as to
                     encourage another trial; so I walked. The town of Taormina is one of the most
                     picturesque old places in Sicily. For variety of outline and wild scenic
                     effect, I have seen nothing in Italy or any part of Europe to surpass the ruins
                     of the Teatro di Taormina and surrounding mountains. On three sides are
                     towering peaks of rock; Mount Etna is clear and blue in the distance; and the
                     Straits of Messina and the mountains of Calabria lie outspread in front with
                     all the rich coloring given by an autumnal sun. I stopped long enough to
                     explore the ruins and make some sketches, rather to the annoyance of my
                     traveling friends, who generally did their admiration up in broken
                     exclamations, and left me to do the artistical part, while they pushed on in
                     search of further antiquities.
                  Touching the history of Taormina, it belongs chiefly to classical times. Now,
                     to tell the honest truth, I have no predilection for the classics. In my
                     younger days that sort of reading was forced upon me as physic for the mind;
                     and having no taste for extravagant scenes of bloodshed and disgusting
                     exhibitions of sensuality and folly, the result was that I took to Don Quixote,
                     Gil Blas, Robinson Crusoe, and other authentic histories in which I could
                     believe, without doing violence to common sense. Fortunately, however, I have
                     friends who are of a different way of thinking, and who consider that the best
                     and most reliable sources of knowledge are to be found in classical history. I
                     am indebted to Mr. Alexander Clements, United States Consul at Messina, who is
                     a most esteemed fellow-townsman, for a sketch of Taormina, translated from the
                     Italian, which I have taken the liberty to condense. I have since had the
                     pleasure of seeing a fine view of the ruins, painted by Mr. Clements; and I am
                     glad to learn that he contemplates a work illustrating the beauties of Sicilian
                     scenery, with historical sketches from sources not usually accessible to
                     persons unacquainted with the language.
                  Taormina was once a very rich and notable city; and was called Taurominum, because it was built upon the summit of
                     Mount Taurus. It was founded by Andromaches, father of the historian Timeos, in
                     concert with the inhabitants of Naxos, after the tyrant Dionysius had destroyed
                     the latter city. Taormina has been so often exposed to the vicissitudes of war,
                     and especially in the times of the Saracens, who in the year 893 razed it to
                     the ground, that its population, once most numerous, is now reduced to about
                     3000 souls. Earthquakes, especially that of 1693, have likewise contributed to
                     the fall of the city; and it is probable that this state of ruin and
                     depopulation will continue in consequence of the town of Giardini being since
                     founded in a much more advantageous position for all the relations of commerce.
                     It is easy to comprehend why fugitives from slavery or death should found a
                     city upon a rock, almost inaccessible; but it seems a marvel that in times of
                     peace the inhabitants have not abandoned their aerial retreat, and descended to
                     a more convenient place. The suburbs of Taormina contain many interesting
                     antiquities, and the ruins of its theatre are in a position so picturesque that
                     they are incomparably more striking than any in Sicily. Of less importance
                     among the antiquities are the ruins of a cistern, of a gymnasium, a little
                     temple and some tombs. The most notable of all the ruins, however, is that of the theatre. It is regarded
                     by the best judges as one of the finest specimens of architecture for scenic
                     effect in existence. From the position of the seats the spectators enjoyed a
                     most imposing scene; such in fact that no description or painting can give a
                     just idea of it.
                  It is a remarkable peculiarity in all the ancient theatres of Sicily that they
                     conform entirely in their construction to the local circumstances by which they
                     are surrounded, as at Segesta, Syracuse, Taormina and other places. This was
                     done with a view to the sound of the voice, as well as to the scenic effect.
                     The theatre of Taormina it is said was capable of accommodating twenty-five
                     thousand persons. It was subjected to some changes after its primitive
                     construction, under the Greeks whose work it was, as also under the Romans who
                     repaired and embellished it. The entire edifice was surrounded by galleries of
                     brick, and niches are still seen  in which statues were placed. Many
                     columns of granite and marble, still remain upon the walls, but not in their
                     original places. Some of the finest of the architectural ornaments, have been
                     carried away in times of ignorance by the inhabitants, who used them as
                     material for building.
                  The sketch on the preceding page hastily taken on the spot, represents the
                     amphitheatre and a portion of the main edifice.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER X.
                  THE BREACH.
                  ON our arrival in Messina we lost no time in securing the best rooms at the
                     Vittoria for Doctor Mendoza and lady; and it was a source of great pleasure to
                     behold him when he came down to the dinner-table, with the Madam on his arm. He
                     was shaved and oiled to the extremest point of nicety; his brows were unclouded
                     for the first time within a week; he smiled pleasantly over his soup, and
                     discoursed eloquently of the hotels at St. Petersburg over his salad and
                     salmis. The Madam was charmed; she was radiant with smiles; she never stopped
                     looking with admiration at her husband, and evidently thought he was rather the
                     handsomest man in the world, when the dust of travel was rubbed off his
                     face.
                  Next morning we set out, all bright and smiling, accompanied by Mr. Clements,
                     to explore the city of Messina. There is not much in it to attract attention,
                     but what there is we ferreted out with uncommon ingenuity.
                  The foundation of Messina (according to a translation from the Italian) extends
                     to times so remote that the precise epoch is not known. It once boasted many
                     precious monuments, among which mention is made of a splendid temple of
                     Neptune, and another of Hercules. There was also the Palace of Cajo Ejo, from
                     which was taken the celebrated statue of Cupid made by Praxiteles; but the many
                     sieges sustained by this city and the frequent earthquakes by which it has been
                     desolated, have not left any vestiges of its ancient edifices. The population
                     of Messina was once very numerous; in 1575 the plague destroyed 65,000 persons,
                     and civil wars and other calamities have since reduced it to a mere remnant. At
                     present the entire population, including the suburbs, amounts to about 90,000
                     souls. The greater part of the town is new, having been entirely rebuilt since
                     the famous earthquake of 1783.
                  There is so little to be seen in Messina that we got through on the day after
                     our arrival. A few churches, convents, and old walls are about the only sights
                     in the way of antiquities that the traveler is called upon to endure; and,
                     after seeing these, he may pass the time pleasantly enough rambling about the
                     neighborhood, which is full of fine scenery, or lounging about the wharves,
                     where he will enjoy something in the way of maritime life on shore. The
                     position of the town is scarcely less picturesque than that of Palermo, and for
                     all the evidences of progress and civilization I greatly preferred this
                     neighborhood to any part of Sicily.
                  On the occasion of a second visit to Messina I was accompanied by an Irish
                     major from India and an old English gentleman returning from the East, both
                     fellow-passengers on the steamer from Malta, and very jovial and agreeable
                     traveling acquaintances. We had but three hours on shore, the steamer having
                     merely touched for passengers. It was, therefore, on landing, a matter of
                     consideration in what way we could spend our time most profitably. The
                     Englishman was in favor of seeing the breach at the risk of every thing else;
                     the major of that happy and accommodating temperament which renders a man
                     capable of enjoying all things equally; and I, having on a former occasion seen
                     every thing in Messina except the breach, yielded, against an internal
                     conviction that a hole in a wall is not an object of peculiar interest. But
                     habitual martyrdom makes a man magnanimous, and the old gentleman was bent upon
                     seeing the breach; he had set his heart upon it; he had enlightened us upon the
                     historical points, and the breach we must see. Nor would he have a guide, for
                     he spoke French, and could ask the way. The major, too, spoke a foreign
                     language; it was Guzerat or Hindoo, and not likely to be very useful in the
                     streets of Messina, but it might come in play; and I prided myself on speaking
                     Italian; that is to say (between you and myself), a species of Italian formed chiefly of Arabic, French, Tuscan,
                     Neapolitan, and English, but chiefly of English Italianized by copious
                     additions of vowels at the end of every word. Yielding, however, to the
                     superior zeal of our English friend, Mr. Pipkins, we kept modestly in the rear,
                     while he took the middle of the main street, and kept a sharp lookout for any
                     intelligent-looking man that had the appearance of understanding French.
                        "Parlez vous Français, monsieur," said
                     Pipkins to the very first man he met. "Nein!"
                     replied the man, "sprechen Sie Deutsch?"
                     "Talk to him in Hindoo," said Mr. Pipkins. The major addressed him accordingly
                     in Hindoo. "Nicht," said the man. "Maybe he
                     understands Italian," suggested the major. "Parle
                        Italiana?" said I, "Si, signor, un poco."
                        "Dove il breecha in the Muro,"
                     said I, going to the full extent of my Italian. The man looked puzzled, but,
                     not wishing to appear ignorant, addressed me in such a complicated mixture of
                     German and Sicilian that I had to stop him at length. "Si, si, grazia." "What does he say?" inquired Mr. Pipkins. "I
                     think he says the wall is somewhere outside the city; but he speaks abominable
                     Italian." "Humph! never mind; here's a gentleman that speaks French, I'm
                     certain. Monsieur! I say, monsieur!" (calling to a stiff-looking man just
                     passing), "Parlez vous Français, monsieur?"
                        "No, signor; Italiana." Upon this hint I
                     spake Italian, as before. The stiff man unbent himself, and politely conducted
                     us round the corner, where he showed us the ancient CHURCH; and bidding us
                     adieu, went his way with the same grave and studied aspect. I shall never
                     forget the look of mingled doubt and disappointment with which my venerable
                     English friend surveyed me. "Did you ask him for a church?" "No, I asked him
                     for the wall with the breach in it." From that moment, I believe Mr. Pipkins
                     suspected me of bad Italian. Disappointment, however, only added to his zeal.
                     Pushing on with a determined step, he led the way through innumerable streets,
                     till at length we reached an open piazza, where we halted close by a hack stand
                     to gain breath and take an observation Here we were soon surrounded by such an
                     eager gang of vetturini, in consequence of an indiscreet question in Hindoo by
                     the major, that we had to work ourselves out of the crowd by main force. "Leave
                     it all to me," said our English friend, "I'll find somebody presently who
                     speaks French. Ha! that man has a French look. I say, monsieur, monsieur!" The
                     man stopped. "Parlez vous Français, monsieur?" "Oui,
                        monsieur." "I told you so," said our friend, turning to us
                     triumphantly; "see what perseverance will do;" and then he propounded a series
                     of questions to the strange gentleman concerning the location of the wall,
                     interrupted at every pause by "Oui, monsieur, oui,
                        oui." "Now, sir, can you tell us where it is? (still in French).
                     What language the individual addressed spoke in reply it would be impossible to
                     say; but it was brief and to the point, for he immediately conducted us round
                     another corner and showed us the DILIGENCE OFFICE, after which he touched his
                     hat politely, and walked on. Mr. Pipkins regarded the sign upon the diligence
                     office with ineffable disgust, and then casting a ferocious look after the
                     stranger, struck his stick heavily upon the pavement, and said: "Damme, if
                     that's French! He doesn't understand the language!" For some time previously I
                     had observed a suspicious-looking fellow dodging from corner to corner in our
                     rear, who now came up touching his hat respectfully. "Gemmen," said he, "me
                     speakee Inglees. What you want?" Our friend explained in full, evidently much
                     relieved at this sudden accession to his cause. "Yes, yes, me know," replied
                     the man. "Come on." We followed with a good will, certain that our troubles
                     were at last at an end; and really I began to feel quite interested in the wall
                     from the sheer force of disappointment. We had proceeded some distance through
                     a labyrinth of streets, when Mr. Pipkins, who was engaged in a hopeless attempt
                     to extract additional information out of the guide concerning the wall, stopped
                     short, and indignantly uttered these words: "You infernal rascal, that's not
                     what we want!" Now, the full force of this violent language was of course lost
                     upon the major and myself. The only words we overheard were—"just
                     seventeen"—"arrived from Paris yesterday," which of course left us in a most
                     painful state of mystery; nor could we
                     prevail upon Mr. Pipkins to give us the least satisfaction on the subject. He
                     merely turned back, muttering something about a deplorable state of morals; and
                     upon consulting his watch found that it was about time to go on board the
                     steamer.
               
            
            
               A CRUSADE IN THE EAST.
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  ATHENS.
                  WE left Messina on the afternoon of the 15th of October, and on the following
                     morning were in sight of the Island of Malta. By noon we were at anchor in the
                     harbor of Valetta. It was really refreshing to see something like cleanliness
                     and civilization once more. The houses of Valetta, with their light cheerful
                     coloring, their varieties of elevation, their pleasant verandas and balconies,
                     are the neatest specimens imaginable of toy-work on a large scale; and the
                     streets are the very queerest streets conceivable, with their uprisings and
                     downfallings, their steps of stairs, their crowds of darkly hooded women and
                     noisy men, and the strange mixture of races and languages, Europeanism,
                     Orientalism, and Barbarism, scents and sounds, and all the varieties of life
                     that abound in them. But British ascendency is apparent at the first glance.
                     All one need do, after casting an eye upon the endless rows of cannon peeping
                     from the fortifications, is to look at the banded and gilded officers strutting
                     about every where, the red-coated guards armed to the teeth, and stationed at
                     every gateway and public building, the never-ending drill of companies in the
                     public squares, the bristling armories, the theatres, porter-houses, billiard
                     saloons, club-houses, and army-tailor shops; and above all, at the places of
                     worship, where the teachings of the Gospel are expounded, and peace and good
                     will enjoined toward all mankind—to be convinced that he is once more among a
                     progressive and enlightened people.
                  Doctor Mendoza and the Madam, who were on the same steamer from Messina, were
                     charmed with the hotels of Valetta. I
                     saw nothing of this party in my rambles about the streets; but afterward was
                     informed by the Doctor that they were fatigued by the voyage, and had spent the
                     time in their hotel, which was very comfortable; the wines were excellent; the
                     Madam was "indispose;" the mutton uncommonly fat and tender; and altogether
                     they were tres contents to repose awhile
                     after the perils and hardships of the voyage.
                  I took passage in the French steamer for the Piræus. The sea was rough and the
                     weather very unpleasant. Compelled as I was, in all my traveling, to take the
                     cheapest places, ranging from deck-passages up to the second cabin, I did not
                     discover until we were in sight of Greece that my friends Dr. Mendoza and the
                     Madam were on board the steamer with me again. They had eventually, upon
                     consultation with the Portuguese Consul, as to the hotels, concluded to pursue
                     their travels to the East. The purse of the Doctor was well lined, and of
                     course he spared no pains in making himself and the Madam comfortable. Unlike
                     most people with full purses, they were generous to a fault; indeed, I was
                     often forced to interfere between the Doctor and his guides in order to prevent
                     him from being cheated. If there was any one thing that troubled this amiable
                     couple, it was the dreadful and unheard-of hardships which they supposed I must
                     encounter in my second and third-class passages. Repeatedly melted by the
                     pictures of starvation and desolation which they conjured up in my behalf
                     (partly because I carried no baggage, and partly no doubt on account of my
                     being naturally of a meagre habit) the Doctor offered me the use of a hundred
                     pounds, payable at any convenient point in the world, or at any date however
                     remote; and I never could make him understand the philosophy of traveling on
                     the principle of Rough and Tumble; studying bodily deprivations, like Socrates
                     and other renowned characters, as a practical science; enjoying the luxuries of
                     hardship in European travel by comparison with past experience in flat-boats on
                     the Mississippi, whalers off Madagascar, and bushing it in California; nor
                     could he see how any reasonable man could take pride in such a way of
                     traveling, even when that pride was based upon necessity.
                  After a dreary passage of two days and a half from Malta we reached the Piræus,
                     or sea-port town of Athens. The first thing that struck me upon landing was the
                     absolute absurdity of being surrounded by a whole legion of boatmen, porters,
                     and hack-drivers in petticoats. Their very earnestness in gesticulating for
                     fees and baggage and a thousand other things, partly in Greek and partly broken
                     English, while they sauntered about in all the pomp of mustaches, whips, and
                     petticoats, was the most irresistibly ludicrous sight I had seen for many a
                     day.
                  We took a large hack-man, with a splendid mustache, and an uncommonly fine pair
                     of legs, petticoated in the most imposing style, who drove us through seas of
                     dust, till we reached the half-way house. There we had to stop for sweetmeats,
                     because it was the custom for all people of quality upon their first visit to
                     Athens to stop at that place for that purpose. Why, I don't know; unless that a
                     trifle of change might be divided between the hack-driver and his friend who
                     keeps the establishment.
                  The distance from the Piræus is about seven miles; but the road being covered
                     with a thick bed of dust which covered up the hack, we saw nothing of the
                     Acropolis or other ruins till we were within a mile or two of the place.
                  On our arrival in Athens, my Portuguese friends went to the "Orient." It was a
                     new hotel, and was recommended in the guide book as the best in the city. The
                     "Angleterre" was very good; perhaps a little larger than the Orient, but it was
                     not mentioned so favorably in Doctor Mendoza's book. Probably the author had
                     fallen out with the proprietor on account of an indifferent beef-steak; for I
                     rather incline to the opinion that the Angleterre is a better hotel than the
                     Orient. However, neither of them suited my limited means; and I was reluctantly
                     forced to leave my friends at the Orient, and go in search of the worst hotel
                     in the place. Having no baggage except what I carried on my back in the shape
                     of a knapsack principally filled with leaves and small pieces of various ruins
                     for my friends at home, I was not troubled about porters. I soon found a very
                     indifferent-looking hotel. It was the
                        Hôtel de Vienne. If there be any worse in
                     Athens, it must be very bad indeed. The price for a small room was three francs
                     a day, and no reduction made for vermin. I had limited myself to four, all
                     expenses of living included; and the consequence was that while I remained in
                     Athens, being obliged to pay five cents out of the franc for domestic service,
                     my means of support were reduced to fifteen cents a day. I breakfasted
                     generally on bread and grapes, dined on grapes and bread, and supped on bread
                     and grapes again. It agreed with me wonderfully. Never in my life did I feel
                     stronger, or more capable of enduring fatigue. I had some letters of
                     introduction to present on the day after our arrival; and it was not until the
                     following morning that I had the pleasure of meeting my friend Doctor Mendoza.
                     He shook hands with me very cordially, and said he liked Athens; he thought he
                     would stay some time; the Orient was a very good hotel; he was very comfortable
                     at the Orient; he had seen the Acropolis, the temple of Theseus, and some few
                     other ruins, but the Orient was the best thing he had found in Athens; the
                     dinners were excellent; he liked the way the dinners were cooked and served up;
                     the Madam was "indispose;" and altogether he thought he would repose for a week
                     or two at the Orient, as it was "imposs" to find such comfortable quarters on
                     board a steamer.
                  Having studiously avoided, up to the present writing, all flights of fancy on
                     the subject of the classics, I shall endeavor to suppress the inspiration
                     derived from a ramble on the Acropolis. It is not for an unpretending General
                     in the Bobtail Militia to attempt a description of the glorious old Parthenon,
                     the ruined temples, the columns and cornices that lie broken and scattered upon
                     that classic spot, the view of naked and desolate hills, with all their glowing
                     associations, wherever the eye is cast; or to indulge in poetic reflections
                     upon the fall of Greece from its Attic eminence to its present state of
                     barbarism. A few practical facts, however, from recollection, may be of
                     interest to the reader. The Acropolis is a rock or pile of rocks, some three or
                     four hundred feet in height, crowned with the ruins of the principal temples of
                     ancient Athens, which are encircled by a wall. It is situated at the edge of
                     the modern town, toward the interior; is ascended by a good pathway to the
                     principal entrance, where a guard receives tickets of admission, or pay, or
                     something, and takes down the name of the visitor, in order that he (the
                     visitor) may be found out in case he pockets a temple or a piece of one. On the
                     whole, the Acropolis is a very respectable mass of ruins, besides being
                     conveniently situated for a general view of the country. There are shops in
                     Athens where French lithographs of the principal ruins throughout Greece may be
                     had in every variety of size, so that the tourist, who has but little time to
                     spare in Athens, may carry them all home secretly, and describe the details in
                     full to his friends, as if he had carefully studied the original ruins. By a
                     little tact and a glance now and then at the guide-book, aided by a good
                     memory, the most ignorant person is enabled in that way to puzzle, confound,
                     and completely triumph over the most learned professor in the
                     universities—provided the professor has not acquired his fame in the same
                     manner. I should be sorry to have it supposed that this is intended as
                     irreverence toward the ancients, or contempt for the learning of the moderns;
                     but if it be taken in that light, I can only say that one who attempts to think
                     with his own brains and see with his own eyes (both of which may be defective)
                     is apt, unintentionally, to run against the prejudices of his fellow-creatures,
                     and should rather be pitied for his folly than censured for his presumption.
                     Besides, the classical tourist and learned professor, who have striven so hard
                     to enlighten the world in regard to ancient times, should console themselves
                     with the reflection that— 
                        
                           "When with much pains their boasted learning's got,
                           'Tis an affront to those who have it not."
                        
                     
                  
                  Modern Athens is a small town, composed chiefly of frame houses. The population
                     is about seventeen thousand, principally degenerate Greeks. A considerable
                     number of Italians, French, Germans, Russians, and some few English families,
                     are included in this estimate. The streets are rambling and irregular, narrow
                     and wide by turns, dusty or muddy
                     according to the season, abounding in streams of filth from the house-doors,
                     and over-run with miserable dogs, as in most of the cities of the East. In the
                     poorer parts of the town, the houses are mere hovels of mud; the filth is such
                     as to render it difficult even to pass through; and the inhabitants are in the
                     most wretched condition. The bazaar or market-place is perhaps the most
                     pleasant place of resort for the stranger who wishes to study the manners and
                     costumes. Here all the country people come with their mules and packs of
                     produce, and here are gayly-dressed idlers lounging about, in all the glory of
                     silks, and sashes, and swinging petticoats. The "shaggy capote," referred to by
                     Byron, is seen on all sides, and shaggy enough it is, being made of
                     sheep-skins, and dirty enough too, in all conscience; for the country Greeks
                     (town Greeks are above shaggy capotes) live in their sheep-skins as they do in
                     their own skins, neither of which they are in the habit of washing more than
                     once or twice in a life-time. In all their rags, however, and in all their
                     filthiness, these degenerate sons of glory are fine-looking fellows, with bold,
                     prominent features, eagle eyes, and commanding forms. Some of the handsomest
                     men I ever saw were Greeks, dressed in the Albanian costume. The free, graceful
                     bearing, the manly stride, the undaunted air of self-reliance, the expression
                     of energy and intelligence in every feature, struck me as something admirable.
                     It is a little remarkable that even the lowest classes of the men are handsome,
                     yet not one in a thousand of the women even comely in form or feature—at least
                     of such as are seen in ordinary places of public resort.
                  On a Sunday afternoon, during my stay in Athens, I went to see the king and
                     queen—not to call upon them personally at their palace, because I had heard of
                     a difficulty that had originated in a matter of etiquette between a party of
                     Americans and the royal party, not long before, and I was resolved to keep
                     clear of trouble by seeing them in public. There was an exhibition of
                     rope-dancers in the open space near the Hôtel d'Angleterre. At an early hour
                     the place was crowded with spectators—Greeks, Italians, French, Germans,
                     English, and Americans. The Greek women did not seem to me at all remarkable
                     for beauty. In the whole crowd of several hundreds, I saw but three or four
                     passably pretty faces: and they owed more, perhaps, to fine suits of hair, dark
                     eyes, and rich head-dresses, than to any thing really striking in their
                     features. The ordinary classes of Greek women to be seen about the streets are
                     about the most uncouth and miserable-looking beings one meets any where in this
                     part of the world. I looked in vain for the Maid of Athens. She lives at the
                     Piræus, and I thought it likely she might be in the crowd. Perhaps I saw her;
                     if so, however, I did not recognize her from Byron's description. There was no
                     Greek maiden present on that occasion, from whom any man of ordinary taste
                     might not part without an application for the return of his heart. The young
                     German girl who walked on the rope from the ground up to the fourth-story
                     window of a house, took a much stronger hold upon my affections than any of the
                     Maids of Athens. She was a beautiful little blonde, radiant with cheap jewelry
                     and gauze: she waved her wand majestically; smiled triumphantly; twirled her
                     pretty legs provokingly; and bowed to the unanimous applause of the spectators
                     bewitchingly. Then there were splendid-looking fellows in flesh-colored hose,
                     who came out and rode in a most extravagant manner upon the tight-rope; turning
                     heels over head, and head over heels again; and shaking their locks when they
                     bowed, in a way that must have won a great many hearts from the Greek maidens
                     before they parted.
                  But my business is not with rope-dancers. Hang the rope-dancers! What did I
                     care about such buffoonery! I could see rope-dancers enough at home; but it was
                     not every day I could see a live king and queen.
                  There was a buzz in the crowd; a suppressed hum of voices; a rattling of swords
                     and guns; a clattering of horses' hoofs; I knew by instinct that the king and
                     queen were coming. By Jove! there they came sure enough, prancing along
                     gallantly on a pair of spirited steeds, side-ways, and front-ways, and every
                     possible way, right up between the two files of soldiers, opposite to where I
                     stood, and there they halted, as if to
                     enjoy the general sensation. I was perhaps the most enthusiastic person in the
                     whole crowd. The probability is that I would have shouted, God save the
                     King!—God save the Queen! had I not been apprehensive that the soldiers might
                     mistake my meaning, and run me through the body for an attempt to create a
                     revolution. As it was, I pressed my way through the crowd to the very first
                     rank, and, in my zeal for royalty, displaced two officers who were standing
                     before me, and who, upon seeing that I was a foreigner, looked daggers at me,
                     in Greek.
                  King Otho was dressed in the Greek costume. The costume looked well enough, but
                     the king looked rather insignificant for a king. I expected to see a man seven
                     feet high at least, with a head as big as a five-gallon keg, crowned with
                     diamonds, and the nose and eyes like those of an eagle; but King Otho is rather
                     a small man, with a small head and face, and rather a small show of character
                     in the expression of his countenance. He is a pale, ugly little man, with dark
                     eyes, dark hair, a dark mustache, and a very meagre face. To me he looked
                     uncommonly unwholesome in mind and body. His dress was rich, but not more
                     striking than many of the Greek costumes in the crowd. I thought he wore it to
                     show his subjects that he was Greek to the back-bone—at least to the outside of
                     the back-bone. There is not much Greek inside of him, according to all I could
                     glean from the people of Athens, or much love for the Greek people; and for
                     this reason, perhaps, he puts on as much Greek outside as he conveniently
                     can.
                  The queen was dressed in a plain riding-habit, with a plain black riding-cap,
                     instead of a golden crown, as I expected to see. She is a buxom young woman, of
                     about thirty, of light complexion, blue eyes, full face, rather plain in
                     features, but lively and good-humored looking. In Washington City, which I have
                     the honor to represent, she might pass for the daughter of a neighboring
                     farmer, more accustomed to jumping fences and hunting up the cows than to the
                     atmosphere of royalty. However, I like Queen Otho, and for this reason I feel
                     disposed to compliment her by the comparison. God bless Queen Otho! She was
                     born for better things; she might have been the life and soul of some happy
                     family circle; she looks ready for a laugh or a romp even now, with all the
                     cares of royalty upon her mind. Besides, how could I help liking her when she
                     smiled at me? she, Queen Otho, of Greece, smiled at ME, reader; not that I hold
                     myself at all cheap, but it is no every-day matter to be smiled at by a queen.
                     I saw her do it; I smiled back again; she saw ME smile; then she stopped
                     smiling, and I stopped smiling. When I stopped smiling, Queen Otho smiled. I
                     liked that in her; it showed delicacy of feeling; it showed that she
                     appreciated delicacy of feeling on my part; it was intended as a reward for my
                     forbearance in not continuing to smile when she stopped smiling. Consequently,
                     when she smiled again, I smiled likewise, to show her that I understood it;
                     upon which she quickly stopped smiling again, and turned away her face; and I
                     also stopped at the same time, and turned away my face; I turned it toward the
                     king. The king frowned at me. Otho, King of Greece, had the audacity to frown
                     at ME, a General in the Bobtail Militia! My republican blood was up in a
                     moment. I frowned at Otho, King of Greece. He saw me frown; he saw the danger
                     that might result from it; he stopped frowning; and when I perceived that I had
                     frowned him down, I also stopped frowning. King Otho was so little pleased at
                     being frowned down in this way that as soon as I had stopped frowning, he
                     frowned again. Of course I returned the frown in the most emphatic manner. The
                     queen, perceiving that King Otho and myself were frowning at each other, began
                     to smile; in fact she fully smiled. I understood her; I returned her smile. We
                     both smiled together. King Otho saw that we understood one another; that we did
                     our smiling together; that consequences unpleasant to himself might ensue.
                     Therefore he frowned more darkly than ever; and I, knowing that jealousy was
                     the cause, was determined to show him that I was not the sort of person to be
                     intimidated by a frown. Hence I frowned back again. King Otho quickly stopped
                     frowning, the queen at the same time stopped smiling; and I, having no
                        further cause either to smile or
                     frown, turned away and looked at the rope-dancers.
                  Up to this date, I had always supposed that there was not in my nature the
                     slightest leaning toward royalty; that I was republican to the heart's core.
                     But I now began to doubt it. I felt a most unmistakable leaning toward royalty.
                     To be noticed in this manner by a real king and queen, was flattering to my
                     feelings. Had any President of the United States frowned at me, I should have
                     simply asked him what he meant; had the lady of any President of the United
                     States smiled at me, I should have thought nothing more of it than that she had
                     mistaken me for some acquaintance; but to be smiled and frowned at by royal
                     blood, was something calculated to produce novel and agreeable sensations.
                     There were thoughts within, which I hardly dared to own even to myself—thoughts
                     of high offices which might be had by proper influence, if we had a king and
                     queen in America. It was natural to suppose that it must be gratifying to the
                     ambition of any MAN to be made Prime Comptroller of the Kitchen; Chief Examiner
                     of the Bed-chambers, Lord High Admiral of the Duck-ponds; Commander-in-chief of
                     the Royal Nurses, or General Superintendent of the Cake Department, and
                     Feeder-in-chief of Sugar-candy to the Royal Babies; with a salary of forty or
                     fifty thousand dollars a year, and the privilege of occasionally beholding in
                     private life the royal couple. In this train of thought I called to mind a
                     great many of my lady-friends (some traveling on the Continent, and some at
                     home), whose chief ambition I strongly suspect is, to be associated in some way
                     with royalty. There might be some little difficulty at first in regard to
                     providing titles sufficiently long and high-sounding, but I am certain there
                     would be no difficulty in picking out of the first ranks in Boston, New York,
                     and elsewhere, Ladies of the Royal Bed-chamber, Train-bearers to her Majesty,
                     Holders of her Majesty's Combs and Brushes; High Powderers-in-chief of her
                     Majesty's Face and Elbows; and Lady High-washers of her Majesty's
                     Babies—especially when there would be brilliant prospects of matrimonial
                     alliances with the Grand Comptroller of the Kitchen, Lord High Admirals mirals
                     of the Duck ponds, Knights of the Bed-chamber, and other distinguished men of
                     rank.
                  Men did I say? MEN? Pardon the slander! It was unintentional. I mean no
                     disrespect to my fellow-creatures of the male sex; the word is used in a
                     conventional sense. There is, however, in certain countries where royalty
                     exists, a class of creatures who consider it no degradation to occupy positions
                     of this kind; and there is in our own country a class so slavish in their
                     devotion to rank and station, that they are ever ready to worship such
                     creatures—to bend the knee before the titled minions of royalty. It may be said
                     that these titles are nominal. Does that make them the less degrading? He who
                     would suffer himself to be called the Prince of Flunkeys, or the High-chief of
                     Sneaks, and deliberately accept the title as merely nominal, is a flunkey or a
                     sneak at heart, whether he be paid in money for the indignity, or rewarded with
                     imaginary honors; and he who would accept the title of a base-born menial, not
                     from necessity but from choice, is more despicable than the basest of menials;
                     he is one, who, in the language of Junius, could never aspire to hatred, never
                     rise above contempt: to claim for such a creature any attribute of manliness,
                     is to desecrate God's own image in which man is made.
                  But really, I had almost forgotten in the struggle between my growing passion
                     for royalty and the prejudices of education in favor of democracy, the high
                     hopes of preferment suggested by the attentions of King Otho and his amiable
                     spouse. The fact is, my zeal on both sides has been productive of some slight
                     discrepancy. I can only account for it in this way: that we tourists who visit
                     the old world, have our share of that natural weakness which causes the mass of
                     mankind to sacrifice principle where vanity and self-importance are concerned.
                     We like to astonish our untraveled brethren at home by boasting of our intimacy
                     with people of rank in Europe; we scorn titles as a matter of principle, and
                     worship them as a matter of personal ambition. We fashionable people who
                     travel, as well as some of us who don't travel, are just as prone to aspire to
                     what we condemn in others, as the
                     weakest; just as rabid in the improper use of power when we obtain it, as the
                     most despotic. The frailties of human nature abound under every form of
                     government; the principles of right exist every where, and are every where
                     sustained or abused, according to the interests which they involve; hence we
                     should be careful that the mote be not in our own eye, before we point to it in
                     the eyes of others. There are principles of liberty and of right implanted in
                     us by the Deity; the most enlightened of mankind have ever recognized them as
                     the only true basis of government, the only enduring foundation of human
                     happiness; let us, therefore, while we condemn the errors and follies of
                     others, profit by the condition to which we see them reduced, and aspire to be
                     the most consistent as well as the freest and most liberal of nations.
                  Doctor Mendoza and the Madam having seen all that was to be seen in Athens,
                     invited me to join them in an excursion down to Eleusis, which I very gladly
                     did, inasmuch as it enabled me to enjoy their society, and at the same time see
                     something of country life in Greece. We hired the only guide that happened to
                     be unemployed at the time—a lean ill-looking fellow, whose expression of
                     countenance gave us but little promise of being enlightened by his intellectual
                     researches. There was no help for it, however; and having employed the best
                     carriage the place afforded, and moreover provided ourselves with some cold
                     chicken and bread from the Orient, we set out at an early hour, and were soon
                     rolling along over the dusty road toward Eleusis. A short distance from Athens
                     we came to the Academical Groves, where we descended to see the sights. The
                     only sights we saw were an old villa, in a very dilapidated state; a few
                     dust-covered trees and grape-vines of modern growth, some fine bunches of
                     grapes; a ditch of water that one could jump over with ease, called the river
                     Ilissus, and some ragged and dirty Greeks lying on their backs in the
                     shade—descendants probably of the ancient philosophers.
                  Some miles farther on, we came to a sort of way-side inn, near the Convent of
                     Daphne, where the Doctor thought it expedient to stop for refreshments;
                     "because," said he, "de Madam is indispose: 'tis imposs to proceed without some
                     wine."
                  While my friends were sipping their wine and "reposing" after the fatigues of
                     the "voyage," I stepped into the adjoining yard and made a sketch of the old
                     Convent, which may 
                        CONVENT NEAR ATHENS
                      be seen here on a small scale, just as it appeared to me on a large
                     scale, except that it looks rather better in print, and leaves more room for
                     exercise of the imagination. It is built upon the ruins of the temple of
                     Apollo, which may account for the fact that it is really a very beautiful piece
                     of Byzantine architecture. The priests were all asleep or dead. I neither saw
                     nor heard any thing of them.
                  Not far beyond the old Convent we came to a pass with a rugged bluff on the
                     right, upon which were some ancient inscriptions. Our dragoman stopped the
                     carriage, and in a very imposing manner called our attention to the fact that
                     we were now at a most interesting point in our journey. Doctor Mendoza never
                     suffered any thing mentioned in the guidebook to escape his attention; but
                     unfortunately he had forgotten his book in Athens, and was reduced to the
                     necessity of depending solely upon the classical attainments of our
                     dragoman.
                  "Wat you call dis place?" said he; for the dragoman spoke nothing but English, in addition to his native
                     language, and Doctor Mendoza was not very proficient in either tongue; "Wat
                     hiss de name of dis place?"
                  "Um call um-er-r-a—e-r-r-a; wat you say, sare?"
                  "Wat hiss de name?"
                  "Oh, de name; me know de name; me tell you by'm by. Dis great place,
                     shentlemans; much great ting happen here in ancient time; grand ting happen
                     here. Dey stop here; much grand feast; plenty people; Oh, great ting happen
                     here."
                  "But wat hiss it? Wat gran ting—wat gran feast you call her?"
                  "She call 'um feast, wat de plenty people have wen dey come dis way; Oh, much
                     fine time! Dere's de mark, shentlemans; on de rock dere you see de mark."
                  Doctor Mendoza looked at the rock, but could make nothing of the mark.
                     Evidently it was all Greek to him, for it perplexed and irritated him
                     exceedingly.
                  "By dam! you no conosce nienta! Mal-a-detta! wat you call herself? heh? you
                     call herself dragoman? One multo buono dragoman she be! Sacr-r-r-r
                     diabolo!"
                  "Yes, shentlemans; me dragoman; me plenty recommendation; me know more all
                     dragomans in Atens! All American shentlemans say me good dragoman; all English
                     shentlemans say me good dragoman; every body say me good dragoman."
                  "Den wat for you no conosce de name of dis place?"
                  "De name? Oh de name sare? yes sare: me know de name well as any body. De
                     name's er-r-ra—er-r-ra; you know dis de place, shentlemans, were de plenty
                     peoples come for de gran ting; much grand feast. Dat's de name; same name wot
                     you find in de book, yes sare. Me best dragoman in Atens; all de shentlemans
                     say me de best. Me know de name all de place."
                  "Andate!" roared the Portuguese, turning furiously to the driver; "Tis imposs
                     to understan dat, she no speak Inglees!" and away we rolled over the road, as
                     fast as two skeletons of horses could drag us. Presently the carriage stopped
                     again, and the dragoman informed us that we had arrived at another important
                     point.
                  "Dere, shentlemans, you see de water; much sheep come dere in old time; two
                     tousan sheep?"
                  "Wat?" cried the Portuguese, "dat de bay of Salamis? Dat de place were Xerxes
                     come wid two million sheep."
                  "Yes sare; dat de same place, sare; de sheep all fight de Greek mans dere; de
                     Greek mans kill all the sheep and sink 'em in de water. Greek very brave mans;
                     kill two hundred sheep dere. Yes sare."
                  "Wat dey do wid all de dead mans?"
                  "Oh, dey bury all the dead mans down dere were you see de tombs. Yes sare. De
                     Greek mans dere, and de oder mans wot come in the sheep be dere in that oder
                     place wot you see. Yes sare. Oh, me know all de ting—me no tell lie; me good
                     dragoman."
                  "Poh! 'Tis imposs to comprehen. 'Twill be necess to to have de book," said the
                     Doctor in great disgust; "de sheep be buried in de tombs, and de Greek mans be
                     buried in de sheep—imposs! imposs! Andate, diabolo!"
                  So the carriage rolled on again, not exactly in the direction indicated by the
                     Doctor, but certainly to a place that appeared to have no great local
                     advantages over the residence of the dark gentleman referred to. It was the
                     far-famed city of Eleusis—a most abominable collection of pigsties, inhabited
                     by filthy Greeks. From the time of our departure from Athens, I had seen no
                     inhabitants on the roadside at all superior in point of civilization, either in
                     their way of living or general appearance, to the Indians of
                     California—certainly none that were not in an absolute state of barbarism.
                  We ascended the hill of Eleusis, and stood upon the Acropolis. The utter
                     desolation of the scene all around presented a striking and melancholy picture
                     of the fall of Greece. Nothing could exceed the weird and impressive grandeur
                     of the scenery. All was ruin, barrenness and decay, wherever we looked; not a
                     spot of verdure within the vast amphitheatre of mountains; the whole face of
                     the country arid and blasted; all still, dreary, and deathlike—all wrapt in
                     hopeless desolation.
                  
                  Our return to Athens was devoid of incident. Doctor Mendoza and the Madam were
                     delighted to get back to the Orient. The Madam was "indispose;" and the doctor
                     declared that without dinner it was "imposs to exiss."
                  I spent the evening at the residence of Mr. Hill the American Missionary. No
                     American who has visited Athens and enjoyed the acquaintance of this gentleman,
                     can feel other than the highest sentiments of esteem and admiration for his
                     character and talents, and a national pride in his successful dissemination of
                     knowledge and of the true principles of Christianity among the rising
                     generation of Greeks. His school is well attended by the most intelligent
                     classes of Greek children; who by the admirable manner in which it is conducted
                     soon become capable of teaching what they have learned themselves; and in this
                     way the cause of education and Christianity is making rapid progress. Some of
                     my most agreeable recollections of Athens are associated with the few brief
                     hours spent in the society of Mr. Hill and his accomplished family.
                  Bidding good-by to my Portuguese friends, who had made up their minds to
                     "repose" a while at the Orient after the fatigues of the "voyage" to Eleusis, I
                     looked for the last time at the glorious Acropolis, shook from my feet the dust
                     of Greece, which is living Greece no more, and departed on my journey
                     eastward.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  SYRA.
                  I TOOK passage in the Austrian steamer from the Piræus to Syra. The decks were
                     crowded with Greek, Italian, and French merchants, and a fair show of English
                     tourists, on their way to the various ports of the Levant. I was a good deal
                     surprised upon getting into conversation with a Greek to hear him quote the
                     "Isles of Greece" from beginning to end; and still more surprised to find that
                     he was the redoubtable Professor Castanis of rhetorical memory, whom I had
                     heard lecture fifteen years before in Louisville, Kentucky. He carried a book
                     in his hand, written by himself, containing his portrait in full Greek costume;
                     so being both in the scribbling line, and somewhat known to each other, and
                     moreover in the same reduced circumstances, we were very good friends and went
                     to a very bad hotel in Syra, kept by a Greek, where we got exceedingly small
                     and rather cheap accommodations. I did not remain long there, however; for
                     having a letter of introduction from Mr. Hill to Evangelides, the American Vice
                     Consul, he provided me with much better quarters in his own house, contrary to
                     every assurance on my part that I was very comfortable at the Greek hotel.
                     Evangelides is not only the most hospitable, enthusiastic, and obliging consul
                     imaginable, but the very perfection of a Greek gentleman; dashing, off-hand,
                     and intelligent, with a touch of wild romance in his character that renders it
                     a real pleasure to become acquainted with him. He speaks English uncommonly
                     well, and is thoroughly versed in all the Oriental languages. The history of
                     Evangelides is a romance. His father was a Klepht, or mountain robber, of which he is rather proud; for it
                     is considered no disgrace to be a
                     robber in Greece; indeed, it is looked upon as a token of a daring and
                     chivalrous spirit. The old gentleman carried on his operations by land and sea,
                     much after the fashion of Conrad. Falling in love with the daughter of a rich
                     Greek merchant in one of the neighboring islands, he contrived to get her on
                     board one of his feluccas, and carry her off to his own island, and secrete her
                     in his rendezvous in the mountains. Of course she was moved by this extreme
                     devotion and became his Medora; but unlike Medora she bore him a son, and that
                     son was Evangelides. During the massacre of the Greeks by the Turks in 1822,
                     they were both slain; and Evangelides was left an orphan. He was taken to the
                     United States in some American ship, where his history excited much interest,
                     and he was educated at one of the first colleges of Massachusetts. After
                     fifteen years of collegiate life, he returned to Syra, where he established a
                     school for the education of Greek children; and soon after, finding his
                     business prosperous, he got married to a lady of Syra. He now has a flourishing
                     institution, filled with pupils from nearly every port in the Levant, is well
                     off, and holds the position of Vice Consul of the United States.
                  Hermopolis, the sea-port town of Syra, is the principal commercial depot of
                     Greece. Within the past ten years it has acquired considerable importance as a
                     stopping-place for the various lines of steamers bound to and from the Levant;
                     and its trade and population have enjoyed a proportionate increase. The harbor
                     is safe and convenient; the situation of the island central, and the
                     inhabitants generally enterprising and intelligent, for this part of the world.
                     One of the first things that strikes the attention of the traveler is the
                     romantic position of the town, especially the Catholic portion of it back on
                     the hill, which rises in the form of an immense pyramid. All around the
                     environs, are seen innumerable windmills; the houses along the wharves are
                     remarkable for their fanciful shapes and gay coloring. The population of the
                     entire island is about twenty-five thousand.
                  To the classical tourist the fountain of the Nymphæ, back of the town, is the
                     most interesting relic of antiquity. I walked out there on the afternoon of my
                     arrival, in company with two English gentlemen. Nothing remains of the
                     fountain, except the water, which it is but reasonable to suppose is of modern
                     formation. The location perhaps is the same as it was in the time of the
                     Nymphæ, who, according to the Greek historians, were in the habit of bathing
                     there. It is more than the Greeks themselves, who live in the vicinity, are in
                     the habit of doing at the present date—if one may judge by their appearance.
                     While we were looking for some more portable relic of antiquity than the water,
                     and enjoying the pleasure of being stared at by some scores of ragged women and
                     children, who were waiting for their pitchers to get filled, a very little old
                     man, with a thin and withered face, and a very sharp pair of eyes, came out
                     through a doorway in the wall near the fountain; and making a profound bow to
                     us all, said in English, or something intended for English, that he was the
                     proprietor of that establishment; it was his own property, and he hoped we
                     would make ourselves at home, and look at it as long as we pleased. He was
                     always happy to meet the countrymen of Mélor Beeron, because Mélor Beeron and
                     himself were intimate friends. They had traveled together through Greece; had
                     fought together in the wars against the Turks; had sailed together among the
                     Greek islands; had lived and loved together in Athens; in short for many years
                     they were inseparable. He was Mélor Beeron's friend. Mélor Beeron was his
                     friend. He was Mélor Beeron's dragoman, guide, interpreter, courier, and valet,
                     as occasion required; and Mélor Beeron was his master—a very kind master too;
                     sat up rather late, but good pay. He remembered Mélor Beeron's personal
                     appearance as if he had only seen him yesterday; very tall, very large man; red
                     hair, blue eyes, raw-boned figure; great man to fight; very fine-looking man;
                     wrote poetry about Greece and was author of a book called the History of
                     England. He had read them in the Greek language, and considered them very fine.
                     Hoped our honors would excuse him, but thought we would like to see a friend of
                     Mélor Beeron, who was acquainted with him personally and could tell us all
                     about him. Was in very reduced duced
                     circumstances now; lived by means of the fountain; gentlemen who came to see it
                     always gave him a trifle of change.
                  Of course after receiving all this information we could not do less than give
                     the old man a trifle of change. He bowed very low again, expressed his devotion
                     to the English, his undying attachment to Mélor Beeron, and gradually
                     disappeared through the doorway in the wall.
                  Our walk back from the fountain was over rugged and precipitous rocks. The
                     distance to the town is about two miles.
                  I chanced next day to be passing the Hôtel de
                        Commerce, rather a dirty establishment kept by an Italian, but the
                     best in Hermopolis, when it occurred to me that it would be well to look in and
                     see if there were any late arrivals. I did so; I looked in, and saw some late
                     arrivals that astonished me not a little. Seated at a table, in all the glory
                     of omelette, coffee, bread, and wine, were my friends, Doctor Mendoza and the
                     Madam, who had arrived that morning in the French steamer. "Oh, mon Dieu!"
                     cried the Madam, "Voila le General!" "Very bad Hotel dis," said the Doctor;
                     "come sit down; no much for mange here. I no like Hermopolis. Sacr-r-r!
                     Diabolo! One miserable Sporkeria dis hotel! Eh, bien! I shall be tres contents
                     to leave Hermopolis! 'Tis imposs to remain here!"
                  The coffee was muddy to an excess; it choked the Doctor; and this excited him
                     to such a degree that the Madam was forced to interfere in order to prevent him
                     from chastising the waiter for not making better coffee. However, we made the
                     best of what there was, exclusive of the coffee, which indeed was no worse than
                     any I had tasted in Syra; and then the Doctor informed me that he had concluded
                     to go on as far as Constantinople, having heard that there was an excellent
                     hotel in Pera, kept by one Missêri, a celebrated oriental dragoman.
                  I was very glad to meet my friends again; and we spent the rest of the
                     afternoon rambling about the suburbs of the town in search of novelties, and
                     enjoying such conversation as we could carry on in a mixture of French,
                     English, and Italian. The Madam was quite enthusiastic on the Acropolis of
                     Athens; but the Doctor could not rid his mind of the vast difference that
                     existed between the Orient of Athens and the Commerce of Hermopolis—especially in the matter of coffee, which he declared
                     was one of the necessaries of life. He hoped, however, to get some clear coffee
                     on the French steamer to Constantinople, by means of which he anticipated being
                     enabled to wash the grounds of the Hermopolis coffee down his throat by the
                     time he arrived at the Hôtel de Missêri.
                  
                  The Island of Syra, described by Homer as one of the most beautiful and fertile
                     in the Grecian Archipelago, must have suffered a considerable change in its
                     aspect since the days of the great poet. Certainly there is no beauty about it
                     now, save that of a pleasant climate and richly-colored atmosphere; and its
                     fertility seemed to me to consist chiefly in rocks, which grow all over it with
                     wonderful luxuriance. The green spots, if there be any, are few and far
                     between. I saw nothing that looked at all green there except the green
                     spectacles of Doctor Mendoza, and an English tourist, with a red guide-book.
                     The fact is, I have always been of opinion that Homer drew largely upon his
                     imagination. His battles are rather tough, to say the least o them; his heroes
                     somewhat given to marvelous deeds of courage; and his poetry and facts a little
                     on the blood-and-thunder order. Besides what could he tell about the beauty or
                     fertility of Syra, except from hearsay? He was perfectly blind, according to
                     all historical accounts, and if he saw the island at all when he wrote about
                     it, he probably saw it in imagination, which every body knows is a very
                     delusive way of seeing. Now plain facts, upon being distilled through the brain
                     of a poet, often become highly charged with the colors of fancy. Homer
                     distilled largely; his brain was an extensive establishment; he worked up facts
                     and fictions with equal facility; a thirsty public swallowed with avidity; and
                     thirsty publics have swallowed ever since as a matter of fashion. The fashion
                     is kept up chiefly by other distillers of facts. Byron did a large business in
                     that way; he did it well; his brain was on a grand scale; nothing passed through it without
                     acquiring an intoxicating power. Who is there, with a soul in his body, that
                     has not been glorious on draughts of Byron? Lamartine distills also; I
                     recommend him as an antidote; he produces soda-water that allays the thirst; he
                     sobers people who have been made drunk by all the poets, from the days of Homer
                     down to the days of Lamartine. No man, however intoxicated by the powers of
                     genius, can read Lamartine's experience in Greece without becoming instantly
                     sobered. The dying request of this great poet, when attacked by a slight
                     indisposition, that he should be buried under a certain classical tree; that on
                     the bark of that tree but a single word should be inscribed to mark his
                     grave—no other word than the name of his Maker, so that the world might know
                     where Lamartine lay—is the most intensely affecting piece of bathos, to say
                     nothing of its blasphemy, in the whole range of sentimental literature. If that
                     fails to make the tourist weep who follows, he should be condemned to read
                     Raffaelle the remainder of his days.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  SMYRNA.
                  OUR passage from Syra to Smyrna was very pleasant, notwithstanding a stiff
                     breeze which compelled us to lie close in under the lee of Chio. The weather
                     was clear and bracing; and upon entering the Gulf of Smyrna nothing could
                     surpass the rich glow of the atmosphere, and the variety and beauty of the
                     scenery. By the time we reached the anchorage, every passenger was ready to go
                     on shore and enjoy a day's ramble on terra firma. While we were waiting for the
                     officers of the port to come alongside, and give the required permission, I
                     made a hasty sketch of the town including the neighboring hills and the old
                     Genoese castle, which I have since filled up 
                        SMYRNA FROM THE ANCHORAGE.
                     
                      more in detail from a drawing
                     kindly presented to me in Florence by my esteemed friend Kellogg, the artist.
                     It will give a better idea of Smyrna, perhaps, than pages of description.
                  In the course of two hours, during which we were forced to restrain our
                     impatience and listen to the most barbarous jargon of tongues on board and all
                     around the steamer, it was formally announced to us by the Captain that Smyrna
                     was in quarantine, and that any body who went ashore would have to remain there
                     until the quarantine had expired. We were at liberty to go ashore if we
                     pleased, because the steamer was not in quarantine, but we were not at liberty
                     to come on board again because Smyrna was in quarantine, and the steamer
                     required pratique for the next port. Smyrna
                     and every body in it had been laboring under the influence of quarantine for
                     the past five days, and would continue to labor under it for three days to
                     come, by which period he (the Captain) hoped to be safely at anchor in
                     Constantinople.
                  This piece of information enabled me to comprehend certain proceedings which
                     had occasioned me much anxiety of mind for some time previous. I saw now that
                     the dark-looking men in the boats, with flashy uniforms, who were taking little
                     slips of paper from the officers and passengers of the steamer, in wire tongs
                     and strange-looking boxes with long handles; and shouting fiercely to all the
                     boatmen who dared to approach us—sometimes giving them a thrust with the
                     boat-hooks—were not really convinced that we had the plague on
                     board; but that they were simply doing their duty in the usual form. It was my
                     first experience in the mysteries of quarantine; and I was much interested in
                     all the forms and ceremonies. The wrath of the chief officer in the boat, when
                     there was any danger of contact; the excessive caution of the men with the
                     little tongs; the intense fear under which all parties seemed to labor, that
                     the smallest scrap of paper, or the slightest touch of human flesh, even in its
                     most healthy condition, would carry death and destruction somewhere, either
                     into Smyrna or out of it, was a very curious and striking exhibition of the
                     power of fancy. It was enough to fill the soul of any timid man with such
                     dreadful visions of cholera, plague, fevers and other diseases, as could
                     scarcely fail in the end to result in a serious fit of illness, if not in
                     plague itself. The cause of the present quarantine was equally as absurd as the
                     ceremonies. It appeared that some vessel under quarantine, was taking in a
                     supply of water, which is permitted under certain rigid rules, in regard to the
                     handling of the hose. One of the men in the water-boat lost his balance and
                     touched the hose with his hand, by which means he brought himself and Smyrna
                     with its hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, under the restrictions of
                     quarantine for eight days.
                  I had no great desire to go ashore, previous to this unpleasant piece of
                     intelligence, simply because there appeared to be no difficulty in the way; but
                     I now became inspired with an irresistible desire to take a ramble through
                     Smyrna; and although it was my intention to stop here on my return from
                     Constantinople, it was impossible to wait that length of time under existing
                     circumstances. Such a taboo as this, in a
                     country professing to have some intercourse with civilized nations, was not to
                     be borne; it was an outrage upon the rights of man. My ticket was for
                     Constantinople; it was good for the next steamer—if the next steamer should not
                     be laid up in quarantine by a similar misfortune to its hose-pipe. But I was
                     not going to sacrifice the rights of man for a miserable piece of leather. The
                     water-boat was going ashore, and so was one individual from the steamer, if he
                     was destined never again to leave the precincts of Smyrna. Taking my knapsack
                     upon my shoulder, I bade an affectionate farewell to Doctor Mendoza and the
                     Madam, who looked exceedingly concerned for my future fate; and jumping into
                     the boat was soon under way for the wharf. It was quite probable, from the
                     uncertain contingencies upon which the liberty of locomotion depends in this
                     part of the world, that I should never see my worthy friends again; so I turned
                     to take a last look at them before the boat reached the landing. The Doctor was
                     shaking his head gravely, as if he thought it "imposs" that all could be right
                     in a certain quarter; and the Madam was talking with rapid gestures as if she
                        fully concurred in that opinion,
                     and was enabled from observation on various occasions to confirm it by the most
                     ample testimony.
                  One Salvo, the son of a ship-chandler, took possession of me, and led me off
                     victoriously to a small hotel, kept near the wharf by his father, Salvo the
                     elder. There I was fed on ham and eggs, in the most sumptuous manner by the
                     whole Salvo family, who were not only proud, but extremely happy in being
                     enabled to claim acquaintance with so distinguished a guest. Salvo Junior had
                     spent three years in America, where he was certain he had seen me hundreds of
                     times; and Salvo Senior was the father of Salvo Junior, and had furnished
                     American ships with articles of chandlery for thirty years past, and,
                     consequently, on both grounds had a perfect right to know me; and Mrs. Salvo,
                     although she spoke nothing but Greek and Italian, and had never seen me either
                     in America or elsewhere, up to the date of my arrival at the Salvo Hotel, yet
                     being the wife of Salvo Senior, and the mother of Salvo Junior, and, moreover,
                     a very fat and good-natured old lady, I was forced to acknowledge that I had
                     seen either herself, or somebody a good deal like her, before. It was really a
                     luxury to receive so much kindness in a strange land, accompanied as it was by
                     ham and eggs and several cups of excellent black tea; and I was altogether too
                     happy to analyze the motives. That it was all genuine kindness, I found to my
                     great satisfaction before leaving Smyrna, for the bill was unusually moderate,
                     and it required some persuasion to induce that worthy family to accept any
                     thing for service, which is rather a rare occurrence at the best establishment
                     in Europe or Asia Minor.
                  Salvo Junior gave himself up wholly to my pleasure during my sojourn in Smyrna.
                     We rambled about the bazaars, explored the ruins of the old Genoese fort, rode
                     out to all the neighboring villages, and smoked the chibouck and sipped caffé
                     in every respectable establishment throughout the city.
                  A few days may be spent very pleasantly in Smyrna. The costumes of the
                     inhabitants are remarkable for richness and variety; and the bazaars and
                     different places of public resort sort, both for business and pleasure, afford
                     an excellent idea of Oriental life. The beauty of the Smyrniote women (some
                     travelers call them ladies) is proverbial; nor has it, like most accounts of
                     the refined state of society in Smyrna, been exaggerated. They certainly
                     deserve their reputation for dark flashing eyes and classical features; and
                     that being the only flattering reputation they do deserve, from all I could
                     learn on reliable authority, as well as from my own limited observation, it
                     affords me great pleasure to accord it to them.
                  Lounging about the bazaars a day or two after my arrival in Smyrna, I thought I
                     recognized a familiar voice. A fashionable-looking tourist was making a bargain
                     for a fez. His dress was new to me; but there could be no mistake in the voice.
                     I went up cautiously and looked at his face. It was the face of an American
                     gentleman whom I had met in various parts of Europe. Bimby was his name. He was
                     in the most exquisite distress in regard to the texture of the fez. The fact
                     is, poor Bimby was the victim of want; not that he was in want of money; he had
                     plenty of that—too much for his own happiness; but he always wanted something
                     that it was very difficult, if not quite impossible, to find in this world.
                     Every morning he got up oppressed with wants; every night he went to bed
                     overwhelmed and broken down with wants. I never saw a man in comfortable
                     circumstances in such a dreadful state of destitution in all my life. When I
                     first saw him, he was on the way from Florence to Milan, in quest of a pair of
                     pantaloons of a particular style. No man in Europe understood cutting except
                     Pantaletti. There was a sit in Pantaletti that made him indispensable. He
                     (Bimby) had tried the Parisian tailors, but they were deficient in the knees.
                     It was his intention to proceed at once from Milan to Leipsic for boots; the
                     Germans were the only people who brought boots to perfection, and decidedly the
                     best were to be had at Leipsic. He expected to be obliged to return to Paris
                     for shirts; there was a sit in the collar of the Parisian shirt that suited
                     him. His medicines he always purchased in London; his cigars he was forced to
                     import from Havana; his Latakia tobacco he was compelled to purchase himself in
                        Smyrna, and this was partly the
                     occasion of his present visit. As to wines, it was nonsense to undertake to
                     drink any but the pure Johannisberg; which he generally saw bottled on the
                     Rhine every summer, in order to avoid imposition. His winters he spent chiefly
                     in Spain; it was the only country where good cream was to be had; but the
                     coffee was inferior, and he sometimes had to cross the Pyrenees for want of a
                     good cup of coffee. No mode of traveling suited him exactly—in fact, he
                     disliked traveling. Riding he hated, because it jolted him; walking, because it
                     tired him; the snow, because it was cold; the sun, because it was warm; Rome,
                     because it was damp; Nice, because it was dry; Athens, because it was dusty.
                     (By the way, I disliked Athens myself, chiefly on that account; Bimby was right
                     there.) But it was impossible for him to live in America again. What could any
                     man of taste do there? No pictures, no ruins, no society, no opera, no
                     classical associations—nothing at all, except business; and all sorts of
                     business he despised. It was a ridiculous as well as a vulgar way of spending
                     life. In fact, the only decent people he had met with were the French; a man
                     might contrive to exist a while in Paris. Not that he approved altogether of
                     the French language; it wanted depth and richness; the only language worthy a
                     man of sense was the Sanscrit. As soon as he had suited himself in boots at
                     Leipsic, he was going to perfect himself in Sanscrit at the University of
                     Berlin; after which he hoped to recover the effects of hard study by a tour
                     through Bavaria, which was the only country on the face of the earth where the
                     beer was fit to drink.
                  Unhappy Bimby! miserable Bimby! Man wants but little here below, as a general
                     rule; but there are exceptions. Bimby will be the victim of want to the last
                     day of his life. If not born in him, it was bred in him by bad training, or no
                     training at all.
                  But enough of human frailties. Bimby has a kind heart, and really wants nothing
                     to make him a very good fellow, except ten hours a day of useful
                     employment.
                  The next steamer for Constantinople was fortunate enough to escape the
                     vexations of quarantine. I got my ticket dulyviséd at the Bureau; and, having taken leave of my unhappy
                     friend, who was bound to Athens in search of a Greek capote, and of Salvo
                     Senior, and Mrs. Salvo, and Salvo Junior, I bade good-by to Smyrna, and
                     departed for the City of the Sultan.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  CONSTANTINOPLE.
                  THERE is no longer the charm of romance in Mediterranean travel; steam has
                     swallowed up every thing—even in great part the beautiful turbans and flowing
                     robes of the Turks, which are fast disappearing in all the traveled routes, and
                     it seems likely to swallow up their prejudices and beards at last. Now one is
                     whirled along at such a rate that he has to keep a book in one hand and a map
                     in the other to know where he is. Tourists are even known and cheated according
                     to the color of their books; red indicating Anglo-Saxon origin, full purses,
                     and abundant credulity; black denoting cunning, and all other colors the
                     poverty and insignificance of mongrel nations. It is a mere summer excursion
                     all over the Mediterranean. Starting from Marseilles, you are steamed all round
                     Spain in a few days; or if you like you take a glance at Africa from Algiers to
                     Tunis, or a peep at Italy, commencing at Nice and ending at Naples; and then
                     you have Neapolitan lines all around Sicily, and the French lines again to
                     Malta; and from Malta English and French lines to Alexandria, or to
                     Constantinople, touching at Athens and the Greek islands, and Austrian lines
                     all over the Levant, and Russian and Austrian lines throughout the Black Sea
                     and up through Eastern Europe. It is nothing now to be steamed from New York to
                     Vienna, all the way by water, or from California into the interior of Russia.
                     Even the Nile is done by steam from Alexandria to Thebes, and the old temples
                     of Egypt reverberate with the thunders of the escape-pipe, while the Arabs of
                     the Libyan Desert look down in wonder from their camels on the thing of life
                     that plows its way against the rushing waters. And as for railways, I will not
                     undertake to say with what facility one can become a traveled gentleman in
                     Europe, lest you should deem me guilty of raillery, or at how cheap a rate a
                     man may become classical, with the aid of Murray and steam, lest I should be
                     suspected of puffing.
                  Near the Dardanelles we had a fine view of the plains of Troy, upon which stood
                     in ancient times the famous city of that name, now the site of a small town
                     called Taos. There stands in bold relief to this day the tomb of Achilles at
                     Sigæum, where Homer says the hero was buried. It was here that most of the
                     battles between the Greeks and Trojans were fought; and on this tomb Polyxena
                     was sacrificed, and Alexander, in after ages, paid tribute to the "bravest of
                     all the Greeks"—for which see Homer, Lempriere, and Murray, especially the
                     latter, who gives the particulars neatly done up in a hand-book.
                  On entering the Dardanelles, we looked out for the place where Leander was
                     drowned in swimming to his lady-love, and where the beautiful Hero threw
                     herself from the tower in despair; also the precise spot where Byron caught a
                     cold in swimming for fame, and where Xerxes built his bridge of boats, and made
                     a fool of himself a long time before by beating the sea because it swamped his
                     ships and destroyed his labors—all of which we probably saw, but I can not
                     assert it as a positive fact.
                  We entered the Sea of Marmora by sundown, and became poetical over its sleeping
                     isles. It was a night for romantic thoughts; the moon was so minutely visible
                     through the clear atmosphere that its seas and mountains lay outspread upon it
                     like a chart of silver, the sky glittered with stars, the waters of Marmora
                     were as smooth as glass, and the isles softly steeped in a mellow light, and
                     the dim outlines of the mountains of Europe and of Asia loomed up like sleeping
                     giants in the mystic background.
                  About the decks lie bearded Turks, smoking their chiboucks, and Greeks in
                     petticoats, and pale Armenians in tall turbans and long robes, sipping their
                     coffee and talking of the money-market market; and dirty Arabs, in their brown capotes, doing nothing at all, and
                     not likely to do any thing for some time; and Jewish peddlers and pilgrims,
                     nodding and reading aloud from the Talmud, or praying in dark corners; and
                     Mohammedans of all castes, spreading their mats in the most inconvenient
                     places, and bowing down toward Mecca, regardless of the world and all its
                     prejudices. Some hundreds of stupid  Turkish soldiers, with heavy
                     faces, half sea-sick, are gathered in huge piles on the forecastle deck, or
                     gamble in groups about the gangways; and abaft the break of the quarter-deck is
                     a large cross-barred cage, covered over like a tent, filled with masked, and
                     black-eyed, laughing, romping Turkish women and squalling babies, belonging to
                     the Harems of those old gray-bearded Mussulmans close by smoking their
                     chiboucks or bobbing at Mecca; and now and then there emerges from the cage an
                     ugly African, who draws her mask over her thick lips if you look toward her,
                     with as much coquetry as if she thought it would not do to let too much beauty
                     be seen at once. Officers without number, mustached, gilded, brass-banded, and
                     buttoned to excess, go up stairs and down stairs, and smoke cigars about the
                     decks, and never seem to be doing any thing but passing the time as pleasantly
                     as possible: sometimes you see a gold-banded cap, with a gentleman in uniform
                     under it, parading itself on a high plank amidships, and if you watch him
                     carefully you will see him raise his right hand or his left, point mysteriously
                     to either side, keep it so a few moments, and then drop it with graceful air,
                     greatly exhausted by the effort. That man has done his duty; he has indicated
                     to the helmsman that it would be advisable to port or starboard a little; and
                     then he comes down, with a proud consciousness of knowledge which the
                     generality of mankind does not share, and resigns himself to cigars and
                     conversation. Stewards and waiters are continually going forward to and
                     returning from the headquarters of the cuisinier, where important consultations are held on diet, and
                     matters prepared for the table, as in the German Diets. Grim, black-looking
                     firemen, besmeared with coal and soot, come up so unexpectedly out of little
                     round holes in the deck that the passengers standing near are startled out of a
                     week's growth—if passengers in this part of the world can be startled. And we
                     who walk the quarter-deck, speculating upon all these things, and the rise and
                     probable destiny of Mohammedanism; priding ourselves upon our superiority over
                     all other nations in piety, morals, and railroads; discoursing on the progress
                     of civilization under the mighty influence of steam; damning Turks, Arabs, and
                     Greeks when they get in our way; and apostrophizing the heavenly bodies, the
                     scenery, and Latakia tobacco; we are gentlemen of elegant leisure, traveling
                     for our own amusement and the benefit of mankind. We carry red books in our
                     hands, and astonish our friends at home with our proficiency in the classics;
                     we are the men who have seen the world, and are just popping in on
                     Constantinople for pastime.
                  A wonderful sight is this city of the Sultan, after all; one of the few things
                     the traveler enjoys on this side of the world that approach the enthusiastic
                     anticipations formed by reading works of imagination. I know of nothing to
                     compare with the first view of Constantinople. Any thing like description seems
                     tame and out of place in attempting to give an idea of such a scene. It is
                     purely a matter of feeling; there is
                     no analyzing the sensations experienced by the beholder; he may be perfectly
                     conscious of the nature of his own impressions, yet entirely unable to convey
                     any adequate idea of them to others. To me it seems a renewal of the unalloyed
                     pleasures of youth; a return after mingling with the world and its realities,
                     to the first pure, joyous sense of the beautiful. All that I had ever read of
                     the East and its romance was here a gorgeous dream realized; yet not all a
                     reality, for there was no dividing mark between the strictly real and what so
                     imperceptibly merged into realms of fancy.
                  We reached the anchorage on the outside a few hours before daylight. The
                     grating jar of the chain as it ran out aroused us from our pleasant dreams of
                     home; and soon we heard the Arabs and Turks on deck echo in guttural tones the
                     words Stamboul! Stamboul! There was a charm in the name that drove away from me
                     every vestige of sleep. I was wide awake in a moment. My more experienced
                     fellow-travelers, however, turned over to enjoy another nap, with the
                     philosophical remark that "it's a great bore to be waked up when one can't see
                     any thing in the dark." There was truth as well as philosophy in this, but all
                     my efforts to sleep again were in vain. From the open sky-light came down now
                     and then the magic words Stamboul! Stamboul! bringing before me, as I strove to
                     keep down my eyelids, visions of gilded palaces and seraglios, and Sultans in
                     turbans and flowing robes, and the spray of fountains, and caiques sweeping
                     over the flashing waters, and the countless things of beauty that are
                     involuntarily associated with the first thoughts of Constantinople. It was
                     useless to try any longer—an invisible something lifted me up bodily and
                     tumbled me out on the cabin floor, where I contrived, after slipping on two or
                     three pairs of boots that were much too short or too long, and some trowsers
                     that bagged in the legs with a very Turkish effect, to grope out what belonged
                     to me, and rushing up on deck I just succeeded in not carrying away the roof of
                     the companion-way.
                  The gleam of approaching day was spread over the eastern sky; low on the water
                     were a few pale lights flickering with a faint glimmer, while overhead all was
                     deep in night, but clear and soft, and spangled with countless brilliant stars.
                     There was a loom of darkness visible in the distance, shapeless and shadowy as
                     a cloud resting on the horizon; all eyes were turned toward it; that is to say,
                     all eyes that were open, for the mass of the deck passengers were snoring away
                     in perfect indifference to the Sublime Sultan and all his dominions. The women
                     in the cage, however, were chattering like so many magpies, as usual whether by
                     day or night; and about the bulwarks were lounging some of the more
                     enthusiastic Turks and Arabs, who were awakened probably by the chattering, or
                     unable to sleep, like myself, from a fevered state of the imagination; the very
                     men whose conversation about Stamboul had so charmed me.
                  "Where is it?" said I to an old Turk, who reminded me of the pictures of
                     Mahomet, "is that it where the lights are?" "Stamboul!" replied the old man,
                     nodding. "There is nothing in sight but that dark hill, is there?" "Stamboul!"
                     rejoined the Turk. "I can't see it," said I. "Stamboul!" cried the old man
                     pettishly. "You don't speak English, do you, sir?" "Stamboul!" he bawled at the
                     top of his voice, "Stamboul! Stamboul!" It was quite evident that the old
                     gentleman was touched on the subject of Stamboul, so I said no more. To the
                     best of my knowledge he never uttered a word but Stamboul while he remained on
                     the steamer; and even long after sunrise, when every body with eyes could see
                     the well-known mosques and minarets within gunshot, he continued to point at
                     them and repeat to every passenger, "Stamboul! Stamboul!"
                  As the day opened fair and clear, the outlines of the higher points broke out
                     through the morning atmosphere and stood in bold relief against the sky, and
                     soon the whole magnificent view was revealed with the startling effect of an
                     optical illusion. Mosques and minarets there were in profusion, palaces with
                     all the architectural ornament of oriental taste, rising from within the walls
                     of the city, hemmed around with green shrubbery; round white domes, glittering
                     like globes of snow; strangely-colored houses, with projecting roofs and grated
                     windows; the Turkish flags waving on the towers; sails gliding noiselessly out from under the shadow of
                     the ramparts; vistas of valleys and hills steeped in a soft glow of purple,
                     through which gleamed villages and pointed minarets, and the moist foliage of
                     groves, the heights beyond tipped with golden rays of sunshine, and the
                     sleeping waters of the Bosphorus, lost in the glitter of palaces and the
                     shadows of mountains. With such a sky, such glowing lights and mystic shades,
                     such soft distances, such strange and fanciful fabrics, looming up in a perfect
                     maze of beauty, it is difficult to reconcile any idea of reality. It is an
                     enchantment beyond all the dreams of fancy; the very soul is rapt in an ideal
                     world, and for a moment reality itself becomes a dream too bright and beautiful
                     for comprehension.
                  But the anchor is up; the hissing steam sends us dashingly into the Golden
                     Horn, where, amid all the strange sights and confusing sounds possible to be
                     conscious of in so short a time, the chain runs crashing out again, and we are
                     permitted to land wherever the prophet wills, which is any where at all. Here
                     let me solemnly pause, while six hotel commissioners from Pera are endeavoring
                     to tear me to pieces, and relieve my mind of this moral truth; it has troubled
                     me for three weeks, night and day; it has twisted itself into every imaginable
                     shape for the sake of originality, but the truth remains the same—a truth
                     involuntarily spoken by every traveler who has put foot ashore here. He who
                     would fill his soul with a thing of beauty, that he would cherish as a joy
                     forever, let him never go beyond the first full view of Constantinople. To see,
                     is bliss; to smell, is reality; to touch, is misery in the last degree.
                  A very stylish gentleman in petticoats carried my knapsack, and conducted me to
                     the Hotel de Byzant, a clean airy establishment, in view of Stamboul and the
                     Bosphorus. The proprietor is a Hungarian, his wife an Italian, and his daughter
                     a full-blown beauty of sixteen.
                  I took advantage of my first leisure hour to call at the Misseri for the
                     purpose of seeing my Portuguese friends, Doctor Mendoza and the Madam; having
                     learned from Carlo the guide that they had arrived several days before. The
                     Misseri is a very handsome and fashionable hotel, situated in one of the
                     principal streets of Pera. I recommend it at a glance to all traveling
                     gentlemen who desire to get rid of their money in the most expeditious manner.
                     The ante-rooms and passages are crowded from morning till night with stylish
                     dragomans, guides, domestics and lackeys, who seem always ready and willing to
                     show inexperienced tourists how such a thing can be accomplished without loss
                     of time.
                  I was ushered up a flight of stairs into a grand saloon, and from the grand
                     saloon out again and up several more flights of stairs, till a door was knocked
                     at, and my name was announced. "Ah, mon Dieu!" cried the Madam, "encore
                     Monsieur Général!"—"Very good hotel dis!" said the Doctor, coming forward to
                     meet me, "walk in; sit down; take some wine! very good wine dis! De Madam is a
                     little indispose, but to-morrow he shall be better."
                  We had a very pleasant time of it, in relating our adventures from the day of
                     parting at Smyrna; and having made an engagement to visit the Giant's Mountain
                     on the following day, we shook hands again and parted with a profusion of
                     friendly bows on both sides.
                  After all the romance of oriental life, as described in books, and the charm of
                     laziness so beautifully depicted by poetical writers, there is a want of real
                     comfort and enjoyment painfully apparent throughout Constantinople. A person of
                     energetic temperament would soon desire a change. The novelty of picturesque
                     costumes and strange languages and customs soon wears away, and one begins to
                     feel the want of more exciting scenes to keep up the interest. During the day
                     it is pleasant enough to ramble about the bazaars, or take a stroll over the
                     hills; but when night comes there is a dreary void, which nothing but the
                     remembrance of more exciting scenes can fill. A miserable opera or a tawdry
                     theatre in Pera may serve to kill time for one or two evenings, but after that
                     you might as well be in the midst of a desert—better, in fact, for then you
                     would not be disturbed by howling dogs or the everlasting cries of "Yang
                        far! Yang far!"—the fire in Stamboul that can never be seen. The
                     streets are of inky darkness ness;
                     not a step can you venture out without a guide and a lantern; and even then it
                     is problematical whether you will return without broken ankles in crossing the
                     grave-yards, or the loss of a coat-tail in a battle with the dogs. In the
                     register of the Hotel de Byzant there is a melancholy statement of an English
                     traveler who complains of having been seized by some Turkish soldiers for
                     throwing stones at what he supposed, in the darkness of night, to be dogs, but
                     which turned out to be the soldiers themselves, who immediately seized him and
                     put him in prison; and it was not until next day that he was liberated. The
                     insecurity of life in the suburbs, and the total absence of every thing like
                     law, are sufficient in themselves to keep the stranger within narrow limits;
                     and, although there is more security now than there was some years past, it is
                     still quite bad enough. Cases of assassination are frequent, and robbery is so
                     common an occurrence as to excite but little attention. The police regulations
                     are so inefficient, if any exist at all, that they have no influence whatever
                     in the prevention of crime. There is no public press, except one or two small
                     papers published in the Frank quarter, and of course very little is known of
                     these occurrences, except what finds its way into other countries through
                     private correspondence. It is but just, however, to state that most of these
                     crimes are committed by persons residing in the Frank quarters—either Greeks,
                     Italians, or the refuse population of other countries. The Turks themselves are
                     too indolent to engage in any thing requiring energy and personal activity, and
                     would sooner smoke the pipe of content on five piasters a day, than run any
                     great risk to gain money or expend their time in useless exertion. They find it
                     much easier to cheat in a quiet way, and enjoy the profits of others, than to
                     incur the labor and inconvenience of open robbery; and for the shedding of
                     blood in a small way they have no taste. It is only when thoroughly aroused by
                     some great cause, as in the war with the Greeks, that they cast off their
                     habitual lethargy, and go earnestly into the business of general massacre, and
                     then there are few nations that can surpass them in deeds of cruelty and
                     wholesale bloodshed.
                  The Turks are in many respects a most singular and incomprehensible people.
                     Effeminate in their habits; dallying half their lives in the harem, or frittering away their time in trifling
                     conversation; sipping their coffee from morning till night, and never without
                     the chibouck, which must have a stupefying and enervating effect; yet they seem
                     to be capable of enduring extraordinary fatigue; and when once roused into
                     action no race of people exhibit greater physical courage or more ferocious
                     determination. The toils of travel; the torments of hunger and thirst; the
                     extremes of heat and cold; all the privations of military life, and all the
                     terrors of death, fail to swerve them from their bloody career of revenge or
                     rapine. This wonderful power of endurance may be attributed, in some measure,
                     to their simple mode of living, and the frequent use of cold water in their
                     daily ablutions. What would be considered extreme privation in America, in the
                     matter of food and clothing, is habitual with the Turk. A crust of dry bread,
                     with a bunch of grapes, or a dish of soup, is his ordinary meal; and his
                     clothing, in winter or summer, consists of a few simple robes thrown loosely
                     around him. Flesh of all kinds is sparingly used, and strong liquors are almost
                     unknown in Oriental climates; and even here in Constantinople, where the
                     winters are often as severe as in New York, the native population sit whole
                     days in their shops without fire, and never think of destroying themselves by
                     the use of hot-air stoves or the death-dealing salamander. It is a matter of
                     surprise how they exist through the inclemency of the season, without those
                     ordinary comforts which we are apt to regard as essential to life. Their houses
                     are built without fire-places or chimneys, and no provision is made for heating
                     them; so that all who are accustomed to these luxuries find it almost
                     impossible to endure, even for a few weeks, what the Turks endure all their
                     lives. For this reason, perhaps, they know little of those fireside enjoyments
                     which tend so much in other countries to refine and socialize the human family,
                     and cultivate the better feelings of our nature; for, whatever may be the
                     sanitary evils of an atmosphere vitiated by an excessive use of fire, it may be
                     set down as an axiom that in no
                     country where the thermometer ranges for three months near the freezing point
                     can a community of people enjoy the pleasures of domestic life, or the refining
                     influence of social intercourse, without creating a comfortable temperature in
                     their houses. A man must have more than Turkish stoicism, or Turkish
                     philosophy, to retain for any length of time a kindly feeling toward his
                     fellow-man, or a love of the genial pleasures of life, where he is subject to
                     continual physical discomfort, or, what is equally as bad, reduced to a state
                     of torpor, like a caterpillar, or compelled to make a smoking chimney of his
                     mouth and nostrils, like a Turk. This custom, however, of living without fires,
                     whether from taste or necessity, sometimes has an effect similar to that of the
                     five straws a day upon which the horse was fed till he died—it kills a good
                     many every winter. The sufferings of the poorer classes in Constantinople are
                     very great when the winter is unusually severe or protracted; for, unlike the
                     wealthier classes, who can cover themselves up in a cloak, and sit the season
                     through in a state of lethargy, they are exposed to all the inclemencies of the
                     weather, and almost without food or raiment. These facts I state to show that,
                     although people may exist for months without fire, and sustain life on bread
                     and cheese and an occasional scrap of meat, and become hardy animals, yet to be
                     frozen or starved are extremes not calculated to prolong life.
                  The tearing down of a portion of the bridge extending from Galata to the
                     opposite side of the Golden Horn, and certain repairs thereto, which have been
                     in progress for some days past, have given me some idea of the manner in which
                     work is done in this country. I expected to see laziness in its perfection, and
                     am not disappointed. Several hundred workmen are engaged upon this
                     extraordinary job. The bridge is constructed of wood, and a very creditable
                     piece of work it is—quite as good as most bridges of the kind—built, I believe,
                     under the auspices of the present Sultan, Abd-ul-Mejid, by native workmen; but
                     I have forgotten my information on that point. It is a remarkable sight, this
                     tearing down and putting up of the bridge by men in turbans and loose
                     breeches—worth sitting down on the pile of lumber near the toll-house to enjoy
                     for an hour or so. There is a gang not far off engaged in pulling some large
                     beams out of the water. A small windlass would pull the whole raft up in ten
                     minutes; but they work by hand in preference, or because their ancestors did
                     it. Twenty able-bodied men are doing the labor which could be done in half the
                     time by two, with proper machinery. See them tug at that beam! Not one putting
                     a fourth of his weight on the rope. It moves two inches, after a tremendous
                     amount of yelling and tugging, and an incessant confusion of tongues. There
                     seems to be no master, unless the sleepy fellow sitting on the bridge, with a
                     chibouck in his mouth, be the master, of which there is no evidence. Another
                     fit of tugging and yelling ensues; all hands now give up work, and betake
                     themselves to their respective pipes—the chattering of voices never flagging
                     for a single moment, except when momentarily arrested by the chibouck. The
                     smoking lasts a good deal longer than the other part of the work; but it is
                     over at length, and they go at the beam again with renewed energy. Each man
                     tugs on his own responsibility, without reference to the exertions of the
                     others, and only at such long intervals as suit his peculiar views of the
                     subject. By accident a general pull takes place, in the course of time; and the
                     beam comes up two inches further. All hands are again exhausted, and find, by
                     reference to the sun, that it is the hour of prayer; so to prayer they
                     go—first, however, carefully making their ablutions. It is a picturesque and
                     impressive sight, after all, to see these rude barbarians, in the midst of the
                     busy turmoil of life, cast off all thought of worldly affairs, and bow down
                     their heads toward Mecca, the sacred city of their Prophet. Absorbed in
                     devotion, they seem unconscious of all the petty cares of humanity, and, for
                     the time at least, are elevated above the mere animal man. Even Christians
                     might profit by their earnest sincerity. Unmoved by the prejudices of other
                     races; regardless of the busy world around them; forgetting that there is aught
                     upon earth to claim a moment's time, save the salvation of the soul, they give
                     their whole being up to the worship of God and the Prophet. Is it for vain and self-constituted judges to
                     say that these people, taught from infancy to regard their peculiar belief as
                     the only true means of salvation, shall be rewarded for their sincerity by
                     everlasting torture? Oh, ye who are wrapt in the selfishness of a single idea!
                     ye who bode destruction to others! look out upon the broad universe, and learn
                     that there are millions of human hearts as sincere and devoted as yours, and
                     that there is a Divine power, great and good and merciful enough to save all,
                     even to the weakest and the most benighted.
                  At last the prayers are ended, and now the toils of the world commence again.
                     But first, a general smoke is necessary to refresh the system for another tug.
                     The chiboucks being emptied in due time, a few skirmishing attempts are made at
                     the log again—mere individual trials of strength. The whole gang finally
                     prepare to begin work in earnest; but just as you imagine they are going to run
                     the log out of the water with a general rush, a casual remark, dropped in
                     conversation, arouses the attention of the whole party. This has to be
                     discussed in all its bearings, controverted, illustrated by anecdotes,
                     sustained and repeated, till the subject is sufficiently exhausted for the
                     present; and then the ropes are stretched, the shouting commences, and the
                     beam, after many back-slides, is fairly landed on terra firma. You feel a sense
                     of relief, an inward thankfulness, when this victory of human force over inert
                     matter has been achieved; and, leaving the turbaned gang to smoke the pipe of
                     triumph, and talk over the struggle past and prepare for the struggle to come,
                     walk on in search of further novelties. All the workmen, those who wield the
                     adze, the hatchet, and the saw, the master mechanics, as well as the common
                     laborers, are so much like our friends of the beam, in their various branches
                     of industry, that it is unnecessary to call your attention to them; and we
                     leave them now, chatting, smoking, and praying, in the hope that, by the
                     threats and promises of his Highness Abd-ul-Mejid, and the spiritual aid of the
                     Prophet, the bridge will be completed some time during the present month—or
                     century.
                  The difficulty of introducing any thing having a tendency
                        A BUSINESS TRANSACTION.
                      to improve the condition of the Turks, except where the effect is
                     immediate and palpable, as in the use of steamers, is exemplified in all their
                     implements of husbandry, which are of the rudest and most primitive kind. An
                     effort was made some years ago, under the auspices of the Sultan, who seems to
                     have been persuaded into the experiment rather by a paltry ambition to be
                     considered a patron of public improvement, than by any real desire on his own
                     part that it should succeed, to get up a model farm, so that all who had eyes
                     to see might witness the superiority of a judicious system of agriculture. An
                     American gentleman, from one of the Southern States, of known capacity and
                     intelligence, was placed at the head of it, and great promises were made,
                     should the result prove satisfactory. Plows of the most approved pattern, and
                     all the best implements of husbandry, were brought over from the United States
                     and put in operation; but, notwithstanding the most flattering progress, it failed from
                     want of encouragement. The result was not sufficiently magical to arouse the
                     Turks from their habitual lethargy; the productions of the earth did not spring
                     up in a single night, like some of their fabled temples; and money began to
                     grow scarce, or, at least, was found to be more satisfactorily invested in
                     purchasing good faith from bad ministers, or replenishing the harem with fresh supplies of fat cattle from the
                     mountains of Caucasus. The director and his family, after undergoing all the
                     toils and privations of a long sojourn among a besotted and barbarous people,
                     and suffering in health and purse, were finally compelled to give up all hope
                     of success, and return to their native land; where, it is to be hoped, they are
                     by this time surrounded by the comforts of home and the blessings of
                     civilization.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  A VISIT TO THE BAZAARS.
                  IT is a strange life here—half-civilized, half-savage. One lives in such an
                     atmosphere of Orientalism that he unconsciously becomes Oriental in his habits,
                     and smokes chiboucks and drinks muddy coffee as a matter of course. If it were
                     not for the civilizing influence of hotels, I believe we Frangi should soon be
                     Turks, even in our dress and the luxury of laziness. No traveler considers
                     himself completely initiated into the mysteries of Oriental life till he has
                     suffered scalding and strangulation in a Turkish bath, purchased a fez, and
                     smoked himself sick at a narguilla. When he has done all this, and learned to
                     go about the bazaars alone, and say Kats
                        grosh? or, What does it cost? he may congratulate himself upon
                     having mastered the rudiments of Turkism. If he can double up his legs and
                     squat like a tailor, it will be all the better, as he will be invited to sit on
                     the floor whenever he visits a native house. Some of the pashaws, indeed, are
                     getting Frankified in their notions, and keep two or three chairs for their
                     guests; but this is an exception to the general rule. For three weeks I have
                     labored hard to surmount these difficulties, and now I pride myself on being a
                     very respectable Turk—in outward show at least, for I should be sorry to say
                     any thing about morals. I have been thoroughly boiled out of my skin in a
                     public bath; have suffered my beard to grow till I can swear by it; smoked
                     narguillas till I came within an ace of getting the delirium tremens; and
                     purchased a fez, which I wear two hours every night before going to bed, in the
                     hope of conquering a certain bashfulness which yet prevents me from appearing
                     with it in public. Sitting cross-legged on the floor was the great trouble at first; but that difficulty
                     I have also surmounted by hard practice and some risk of dislocating my limbs,
                     which required an immense deal of twisting and stretching before they would
                     come into the proper position; and now I would defy any Turk in Stamboul to
                     squat more gracefully. In the matter of chiboucks, great caution and judgment
                     are necessary. No person pretending to have the slightest claims to Orientalism
                     will disgrace himself by smoking with a glass mouthpiece. Amber is the only
                     true indication of quality. None but the hamil, or burden-carriers, smoke glass. This fact I state for the
                     benefit of all travelers who have an ambition to be truly Turkish—the glass
                     mouthpieces being so dextrously colored that it requires an adept to
                     distinguish them from amber. When a person pays three dollars for a very pretty
                     one, which he supposes to be the purest amber, and, after discoursing to all
                     his friends upon its superior softness and delicacy of temperature, is quietly
                     told by some kind resident, whose opinion he can not dispute, that it is common
                     glass, worth about twenty-five cents, he has a right to speak feelingly on the
                     subject. The stems must be six feet long, and of the best cherry. Jasmine, for
                     short smoking, makes an admirable stem, and rosewood is not bad. All these can
                     be had and bored to order in the pipe bazaars.
                  The perpetual risk of life and limb to which the unwary traveler is subjected
                     in rambling about the streets of Constantinople may be regarded as another test
                     of Orientalism. I consider that any man who spends three weeks here and employs
                     his time usefully in lounging about the bazaars and streets of Stamboul, and
                     hanging around the quays and public bridges of the Golden Horn, without losing
                     an eye, suffering dislocation of an ankle, or complete bodily crushing under a
                     bale of merchandise, deserves ever after to be regarded as a shrewd and
                     accomplished traveler. Running a muck among
                     the Malays is agreeable pastime compared with the running of gauntlets through
                     the streets of Galata or Stamboul. Take as an example a morning walk from the
                     Hotel de Byzant to the bazaars on the other side of the bridge.
                  Confident in your ability to find the way without Carlo,
                        THE HAMIL.
                      who has already made a small fortune out of you; rather hoping at the
                     same time to meet with an adventure which you can relate on your return without
                     a witness, you sally forth, stick in hand, and steer your way through the
                     graveyard to a tower on the left with a green top. This you fix upon as a sort
                     of landmark. So far, very well. Now you enter a gateway near the tower, where
                     you are beset by a whole legion of beggars. There is a general clamor for
                     alms—a whining and beseeching that Italian begging in all its variety never
                     attained. Effendi! Effendi! is all you can
                     understand; it means gentleman; most noble, exalted, and honorable sir, in the
                     present case. Of course you must pay a few piasters for the pleasure of hearing
                     yourself called Effendi; it sounds so Oriental, and makes one feel so Turkish.
                     But this is only the first gang; you have only fought your way through it with small change to start up a
                     still more determined gang a little below. Whole platoons of old women and
                     young, ragged boys and decrepit men, on either side of the narrow street,
                     attack you with Effendi! Effendi! and sublimest Effendi, ranging from the most
                     dulcet soprano to the most importunate falsetto. You walk on, under the
                     conviction that it would be impossible to relieve all this misery. Suddenly a
                     voice of thrilling remonstrance reaches your ear; it is so desperate in its
                     appeals, so irresistibly imploring, and seems to say so plainly, For God's
                     sake, Effendi, don't see a fellow-creature starve; do save a human life by
                     dropping half a piaster here—just what would buy you one cigar; give it and
                     make a poor wretch happy for a day—that your conscience smites you, and you
                     feel that it would be a sin to purchase a momentary pleasure with what would
                     give a day's relief to a fellow-creature—so down goes the half piaster. Alas,
                     this is only a drop in the ocean; you are instantly beset by the whole legion;
                     the purse of Fortunatus would be ineffectual in appeasing the voracity of these
                     poor wretches; arms are outstretched toward you, and hands thrown up in all the
                     agonies of hunger; and the gaunt, leaden faces of the aged as they sit mute and
                     motionless against the wall haunt you, and appeal to you with the terrible
                     eloquence of despair. What can you do? It is impossible to give aid to all. In
                     the utter hopelessness of the case, you rush on, thanking God that such misery
                     does not exist at home. Supposing you now to have reached the vicinity of the
                     wharves in Galata without spraining an ankle over the huge round stones that
                     are designated paving-stones, it is here that the difficulties of locomotion
                     begin in earnest. The streets are not more than eight or ten feet wide, and
                     every possible means of obstruction seems to be resorted to in order to make
                     the inconvenience still greater. Shop stands and tables that work on hinges;
                     sharp pieces of wood upon which are hung all sorts of dangerous wares; boxes,
                     and benches, and heaps of rubbish threaten instant destruction. Huge
                     paving-stones, with conical tops, smooth and slippery with the slime of fish
                     and other slimes, compose the groundwork of these thoroughfares, upon which
                     people are expected to walk; and not only people, but horses, mules, asses, and
                     sometimes camels. Now, walking is a simple operation in itself, and requires no
                     great skill, but, coupled with these slippery stones and unexpected holes,
                     these long wooden spikes, shop-stands, and bales of merchandise, it becomes an
                     operation of great intricacy, and requires much study; it is, in fact, an art;
                     one of the fine arts of Constantinople. Many an unlucky wight has been
                     sacrificed in the pursuit, under the vain impression that ordinary proficiency
                     would answer. You are now supposed to be looking up at a Greek capote, quite
                     unconscious of harm. Guarda! guarda! yells a
                     hoarse voice; it is the voice of a hamil.
                     These lusty fellows, that you see trotting along through the crowd, four at
                     each end of a long pole, with a hogshead slung in the middle, are the
                     burden-carriers, the draymen of Stamboul and Galata, who carry hogsheads,
                     boxes, stones, and burdens of all kinds on their poles; each pole acting as a
                     powerful battering-ram on the human head. Guarda!
                        guarda! roars the hamil,
                     dexterously aiming the pole at the corner of your eye. By a lucky instinct you
                     start and dodge it; that time he has missed his aim. Scarcely have you escaped
                     this danger when a clattering of hoofs startles you again. It is a fine horse,
                     mounted by a Turkish officer. You admire the embroidery on the officer's
                     uniform, while he coolly endeavors to ride over you—it would be so amusing to
                     see a Christian under the horse's feet! You jump across the street at a single
                     bound, flushed with indignation, but before you can say Bosh! a
                     man with a heavy burden on his back, and his head bowed down so low that he can
                     only see six inches before him, runs into you, depriving you effectually of all
                     powers of articulation; without breath a man can not even swear by the beard of
                     the Prophet. About the time you recover from the effects of this attack, a mule
                     laden with kegs of water, which operate as outriggers on each side, bears down
                     upon you so unexpectedly that you are scraped up and turned around by the main
                     force of headway, and precipitated backward over a door-sill into the lap of an
                     industrious artisan, who is at that moment refreshing himself self with a narguilla and a cup of coffee—both
                     of which as a matter of course, are sacrificed. Starting out anew, as soon as
                     you have made suitable reparation for the damage, you work your way through the
                     crowd very much as an eel might be supposed to wind through a stubble-field;
                     and, by dint of perseverance and renewed caution, you eventually reach the
                     bridge. Here you stop to draw a long breath, wipe the perspiration off your
                     forehead, and enjoy the view. It is refreshing and Oriental, the whole
                     thing—just like the beautiful engravings in the annuals, only a good deal
                     larger and better done. There are the same Turks with turbans on, the flowing
                     robes and long beards, and peaked slippers; the Persians with their tall shaggy
                     hats, the Greeks and Albanians in petticoats, the palefaced Armenians, the
                     bearded and turbaned Jews, the dusky Egyptian slaves—just as you have seen them
                     in prints of the bridge a thousand times, all walking about like any other live
                     people. But, on second thought, the whole scene is a good deal better than any
                     thing in the line of art. It is absolutely splendid, you exclaim unconsciously;
                     by Jove, sir, it is gorgeous! What a magnificent effect these mosques and
                     minarets of Stamboul have—the domes looming up in the golden haze of the
                     morning, high above the house-tops; the minarets piercing the heavens, clear
                     and white, like gigantic ornamented needles wrought out of pure ivory; the
                     quays lined with strangely-shaped houses, and forests of masts rising from the
                     flashing waters of the harbor, with bright colors flaunting in the air; the
                     steamers from Therapia and Bayukdere sweeping in gallantly, leaving long trails
                     of smoke behind them; innumerable craft with flowing canvas, from the tiny
                     felucca to the towering merchantman of the Black Sea, gliding about over the
                     glorious Bosphorus; and far and near the very waters are alive with caiques,
                     the most graceful and Oriental of little boats, with their smooth sides and
                     pointed bows, darting hither and thither with the velocity of birds, skimming
                     over the lucid deep as lightly as the swallows that sport around them—a picture
                     of Oriental life that art has never attained. Half the population of Stamboul
                     seem to be afloat; turbans of every color, brilliant iant robes, sashes, and
                     uniforms glitter in the sunbeams; the oars of the caiques flashing as if tipped
                     with silver, and the busy hum of life rising over all with a mellow
                     cheerfulness. Along over the bridge, from end to end, flows another tide of
                     life—the everlasting throng that crowd it from the dawn of morning to the
                     darkness of night, and seem never to be done; the Frank merchants from Pera and
                     Galata, the Armenians from the bazaars of Stamboul, the Turks, Jews, and Copts,
                     the Greeks, the Italians, the French, the English—all the nations of the globe
                     appear to be passing over the bridge, speaking all the languages that can
                     distort the tongue of man, wearing all the varieties of costume that can
                     disfigure or give dignity to the form, and engaged in all the different
                     pursuits that occupy the human brain; the very vision, brought into glorious
                     reality, that has haunted you from early youth in your dreams of the East. A
                     voluptuous softness, an odor of strange incenses fills the glowing atmosphere,
                     a harmony of lights and shadows and vistas of golden haze and soft purple
                     distances, that never so charmed the senses before, save in the earliest
                     glimpses of the beautiful, when the heart was warm with youth and the spirit
                     looked up in its freshness through the realms of fancy. Now turn inward the
                     stream of thought, and upon its surface arise a thousand happy memories of the
                     past, gliding back with it as it flows, till the soul wanders again in mystic
                     worlds, where dwell inhabitants with crowns of diamonds and robes of precious
                     fabrics worked in gold, and white wands; and fairy castles are seen, and
                     mountains of amber and pearl rise up and change into strange forms and vanish,
                     as the clouds of a summer's eve. But this is all romance, aroused by outward
                     show. There is as much sad reality in the City of the Sultan as any where
                     else—a good deal more than you are prepared for after reading Miss Pardoe or
                     Lady Montague. Don't give way to any weakness of this kind any more if you can
                     help it. It makes one feel miserable when he wakes up—just like a nice
                     mint-julep about bed-time and a bad headache the next morning.
                  Close by the bridge is a boat station, where some hundreds of caiques are always in readiness to take
                     passengers. For a quarter of a cent you can walk over on the bridge; but let us
                     suppose that you have never been in a caique, and are tempted by its
                     swallow-like bows, as also by the solicitations of a sturdy fellow, turbaned
                     and breeched in genuine Oriental style, who beckons you to jump in. A very
                     pretty one is that, of which he appears to be the chief ornament. It is a
                     perfect little fairy boat, trim and elegant in form, with a very sharp bow, low
                     in the water, and raking up at the stern, which is also sharp; smooth as glass
                     outside, and decorated inside with carving in the true Turkish style; a
                     beautiful model for swiftness and the very perfection of gracefulness. You jump
                     in. Mashalla! what a dainty little duck of a
                     thing it is! An inch more of headway would have tilted you overboard. Down you
                     plump yourself on the carpet that covers the bottom and hold on nervously to
                     the gunwales, your head peeping up and your eyes agog at all the strange faces
                     around you, and the violent motions of the boatmen. Caiques are shearing in and
                     skimming out all around. Guarda! guarda! is
                     bawled in your ears, till, like the cry of wolf, it ceases to attract notice;
                     and just then the long sharp bow of a rival caique, coming suddenly up, grazes
                     your hand and bears off triumphantly with the skin of your knuckles. Guarda! guarda! again. This time you dodge; no
                     damage is done. Soon you are fairly out of the thickest part of the crowd. Away
                     darts the caique, scarcely throwing a ripple from her bows; turbans, fezzes,
                     white robes, red cloaks and blue, flit by in other caiques; away you go!
                     sweeping with a snake-like trail through a mist of confusing sights and din of
                     sounds, darting in and out under the dark arches of the bridge, wheeled
                     miraculously under chain cables and outstretched ropes, under the sterns of
                     huge ships, across the bows of foaming barges, through whole fleets of racing
                     small craft, till you are suddenly whirled around as upon a pivot and backed
                     dexterously into the wharf at Stamboul, where the sum of two cents, deposited
                     upon the bottom of the caique, affords the boatman an idea of your exalted rank
                     in society. From this point of debarkation it is a perfect Babel till you can
                     extricate yourself from the crowd. Boatmen men are bawling madly for
                     passengers, the hamil are running to and fro
                     with heavy burdens, shouting guarda! as a
                     matter of habit; crowds of bare-legged laborers are tugging at big timbers, and
                     deafening one another with loud conversation; Greek sailors, piratical-looking
                     Italians, Russian, French, and English men-of-war crews are lounging about the
                        cafés, smoking, drinking, and quarreling;
                     Turks and Arabs are bowing down to Mecca in the midst of the confusion; Jewish
                     merchants are bartering their wares; native peddlers are crying the merits of
                     their glittering trinkets; bakers are shouting from their bread stands;
                     hucksters from their tables of figs, cheese, and sausages; fruiterers from out
                     of baskets of grapes; coffee-carriers running about madly with large tin urns,
                     heated by red-hot coals, shrieking the charms of muddy coffee; grave Persians
                     and pale Armenians gliding silently and with ghostly solemnity through the
                     crowd—all touched, you would say, on some point—a little cracked about the
                     affairs of life, just like the rest of us.
                  At last, after getting lost a dozen times in the narrow streets, you enter a
                     dark arched way, much as you would enter a cavern, with a lurking suspicion of
                     an attack from a horde of banditti. This is the beginning of the famous bazaars
                     of Stamboul. What a strange place it is, and how utterly impossible to give any
                     adequate description of it on paper! All the pages that have ever been written
                     on the subject fail to give a correct notion of these bazaars; either too much
                     is expected or too little—any thing but the strange reality. A single glance at
                     such a scene is worth all the pictures that pen or pencil has ever drawn; it
                     dwells forever in the memory, with the vividness of a first impression; it is
                     beyond the ornament of language or the glowing colors of art; it is fixed
                     indelibly upon the brain, and rises unbidden before the eye throughout the
                     future, in all its wondrous variety of lights, shadows, costumes, and
                     glittering wares; in every thought of the glorious East it is the embodiment of
                     the East itself. It must not be supposed, however, that there is any thing very
                     magnificent about these bazaars—any thing to compete in splendor with the shops
                     of the Palais Royal or the Arcades
                     of Paris—it is their peculiar novelty, the semi-barbarous profusion of rich
                     colors displayed at every point; the theatrical effect of the costumes and
                     manners; the confusion of strange languages; the scents of musk and attar of
                     roses that flit through the air, mingled with odd currents of smoke from the
                     chiboucks and narguillas; the streams of light pouring down through holes in
                     the roof relieving the darkness; the endless variety of Oriental curiosities;
                     these it is that render the bazaars unique and wonderful, not to be compared to
                     any thing except other bazaars, of which there are few in the East so
                     interesting as those of Stamboul.
                  We must come over again and look more into the details. At present we have only
                     time to make a small purchase, as a sort of evidence to our friends at the
                     Byzant that this tour has really been achieved before breakfast. It is a pretty
                     trifle, an embroidered something manufactured of silk, which will be very
                     acceptable to a certain fair person—a nice little present from the bazaars of
                     Stamboul.
                  
                     
                        SHOP KEEPERS.
                     
                  
                  A grave old man, with a tremendous turban on his head, and a long chibouk in
                     his mouth, sits bundled up among his precious fabrics, totally indifferent to
                     the matter of customers; in fact rather averse to any interruption, for he
                     happens to be listening to a story about some ghouls and genii, which a
                     neighbor is relating at the time. In the next bazaar every body seems to be
                     asleep; though they are all bright enough when they hear the voice of a
                     traveling gentleman; so bright indeed, that in a few moments half a dozen
                     sharp-witted youths are after you from the immediate vicinity, telling you to
                     "Come dis way; no good bazaar dat; bess bazaar dis way; plenty nice ting
                     sheep." This eventually arouses the old gentleman, and he looks up, with a
                     patronizing air; perhaps he might be prevailed upon to sell you something. You
                     are determined not to trust yourself to the sharp-witted fellows who are
                     pulling at your elbow. The indifference of the venerable gentleman piques you;
                     besides you know he must be honest.—"Kats
                        grosh?" you ask, taking up the article carelessly. Something in
                     the shape of an answer is grunted by the old man; of course you can't have the
                     faintest idea of the meaning, the language being Turkish, or Arabic, or some
                     other barbarous compound of guttural sounds. "Kats
                        grosh?" you say again, a little louder. The old man takes a puff
                     of his chibouck, and raises up ten fingers, and shakes them at you four times.
                     It must be forty piasters, or forty dollars. You draw out a piaster, and demand
                     in plain English if he means to say that it requires forty of these to purchase
                     the article? The old gentleman nods assent. Two dollars seems high for such a
                     trifle. You shake your ten fingers at him three times, which means thirty
                     piasters. "Bosh!" says the merchant, with a contemptuous toss of
                     the head, and he coolly resumes his chibouck. As you turn to walk off he
                     beckons you back, takes up the silk, points out all its beauties, grows
                     eloquent upon its peculiar merits, enlarges in the most barbarous tissue of
                     exclamations upon its cost, all of which you have to suppose, not understanding
                     a single word he says. Eventually he concludes by shaking his ten fingers at
                     you three times and five fingers once, signifying thirty-five. You shake back
                     at him three fingers less, upon which you are determined to stand. No, it will
                     not do; the old Turk stands on two,
                     and the purchase can't be made for the sixteenth part of a little finger less.
                     Off you start again, and this time you don't turn to look back. "Hallo!
                        come back here!" shouts the old man, as plainly as possible in
                     Turkish; and now he goes through an imaginary process of cutting his
                     fore-finger in two. No, sir, you exclaim; not the first knuckle of a
                     fore-finger more! The half of the fore-finger is resigned at last! the article
                     is yours; and with a proud consciousness of shrewdness and self-dependence, you
                     pocket it, and set out for Pera. Experience aids you greatly this time in
                     wending your way through the narrow streets; a few knocks on the head and the
                     loss of a little bark from the knee are trifles not to be thought of. By
                     patience, perseverance, and the sweet oil of a good temper, you at length reach
                     the Hotel de Byzant. Breakfast has just commenced, the purchase is duly
                     exhibited, and extravagantly admired by the ladies; the price is miraculously
                     low; it must have required extraordinary jewing to get it so cheap. It is
                     passed round for the final judgment of a grave gentleman who understands these
                     things thoroughly. Heavens! what a grim smile of pity and contempt; your
                     beautiful specimen of Turkish skill is worth just ten piasters, and has been
                     manufactured in Paris, where such things can be bought for little or
                     nothing!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  TURKISH BEAUTIES.
                  THERE has been such a halo of romance thrown around the whole East by a certain
                     class of writers who see every thing through highly-colored spectacles, with
                     bubbles in the centre, that the idea of a Harem is enough to set one off in
                     ecstasies. Who is there with a spark of enthusiasm that can approach
                     Constantinople for the first time without a palpitating heart and a thrilling
                     anticipation of something extraordinary, something to lift up the soul above
                     this earth to a realm of houris? The essence of all that one has ever read on
                     the subject comes bubbling up through the memory, and gives rise to the most
                     visionary aspirations for the beautiful. All the fervid imagery of Lalla Rookh;
                     the fascinating splendor of Anastasius; the glowing eloquence of Eōthen, fill
                     the mind somehow or other with extraordinary anticipations; a glimmering of
                     something unearthly; a foreshadowing of Paradise. The Harem becomes a chief
                     ornament in this Paradise, and the perfumes of flowers, and the cooling spray
                     of fountains, and all the witchery of beauty and innocence reclining on soft
                     Persian rugs, involuntary crowd upon the senses. Every yashmack is supposed to cover the features of a Gulbeyez or a
                     Dudu; every grated window to shed light upon an inner world of beauty, the
                     living and breathing realization of that voluptuous picture in Don Juan, of the
                     sleeping beauties of the Harem, where innocent maidens dream of apples, and
                     bees, and butterflies, and such things. Never was an unfortunate admirer of the
                     sex worked up to such a pitch of enthusiastic expectation as your friend of the
                     present writing. It was a purely Platonic devotion to beauty, of course. The
                     first thought upon touching the
                     romantic soil of Stamboul was of yashmacks,
                     and dark flashing eyes, and forms of angelic contour. For a while I thought
                     seriously of shutting my eyes the very first petticoat I should descry
                     fluttering in the breeze; but eyes are indispensable where the hamil are continually bringing their battering rams
                     to bear on one's head. At last a bevy of chattering damsels loomed up in the
                     distance bearing down toward me. Good gracious, what voices! The croaking of
                     ravens would have been music to the coarse masculine sounds that distracted my
                     ear. It was the most barbarous gobbling of gutturals I have ever heard. Black
                     eyes there were, to be sure, black enough all round, even underneath; which was
                     rather a dirty sort of blackness. The yashmacks dropped accidentally, as they generally do when the
                     observer is a Frank, and there are no Turks near. Every vestige of enchantment
                     vanished in a moment. There was not a single passable face in the crowd. The
                     features were coarse and sensual; the teeth disgustingly dark; the costume
                     slovenly and unbecoming. As if conscience-smitten, after having exposed so much
                     beauty to infidel eyes, they hastily drew the covering over their mouths,
                     leaving the upper part of the face partially visible, and altogether denuding
                     the breast. After they had passed I turned to enjoy a different view, in the
                     faint hope of discovering some compensating attraction. The case was now still
                     worse. As they drew up their loose cloaks, and gathered around them sundry
                     highly-colored and tawdry rags of drapery, the names of which it is impossible
                     to remember, their bare legs glistened underneath, buried over the ankle in
                     yellow slip-shod boots and slippers; and they waddled over the rough stones
                     very much like a parcel of ducks, making such awkward attempts at progress that
                     it was quite distressing to see them. Surely the Turkish boots for females must
                     have been devised by some clever fellow, who had in view the impossibility of
                     their running away in them.
                  It would be unfair, perhaps, to judge of the whole sex from these specimens; so
                     I reserved my final judgment until I should see something more of Turkish
                     beauty. Since then I have seen every variety that can be seen beyond the sacred
                     precincts of the Harem, from the highest to the lowest, and I must confess that
                     I have seen very little to change my original impression. What there may be
                     concealed in cages and fed on cakes and rose water, and never suffered to be
                     rudely kissed by the air that common mortals breathe, I do not know from
                     personal experience, having never been in the domestic circle of a Turk in my
                     life, when the ladies were present; nor do I anticipate that pleasure soon,
                     unless my friend, Abd-ul-Mejid, should take it into his head to invite me to a
                     family tea-party, which is not likely. Let it not be supposed, however, that I
                     entertain any hostile feeling toward the ladies of Constantinople. There is
                     occasionally a pretty face to be seen, a young, round, doll-baby thing, that is
                     very much admired by the Turks; nice plump little toys, with black eyebrows and
                     thick lashes, soft peachy cheeks, and the softest possible expression. I saw
                     one on the bridge near 
                        TURKISH BEAUTY.
                      Galata that quite struck a tenderness through me. She was about
                     fifteen, and as prettily costumed as a Turkish lady can be without a change of
                     fashion. Dropping the white vail that covered her mouth as I passed, she gave
                     me a good opportunity of admiring her bewitching features, and to be candid,
                     they were very bewitching. The form of her face was round, like a full moon;
                     her complexion of the purest transparency, just tinged with the roseate hue of
                     health; her nose small and round, making a very beautiful natural division
                     between her cheeks; her eyes—but here was the killing attraction—they were so
                     large and wide open, so deeply, beautifully black, so gazelle-like in their
                     innocence of expression, or lack of expression; so indicative of a repose of
                     soul, or unconsciousness of soul; so hedged around with black lashes and eyebrows, or black paint, that
                     made the very darkness there more beautiful than light elsewhere; so liquid
                     with natural tear-drops, or the glare of the sun; these, these it was that
                     brought on the tenderness; these, and the lips which were parted with a smile
                     of triumph, and looked as if they had just been kissed by the breath of a
                     frosty morning, or bathed in twilight dews, or sweetened with a stick of candy,
                     which she happened to be sucking at the moment; and her form! it was so round
                     and soft, and shook so like jelly at every step! But it is entirely useless to
                     undertake a description of her undulating walk: it was the very poetry of
                     motion; rolling in her yellow boots as gracefully as ever rolled a Dutch
                     galliot in the trades. Mashalla! I saw no more that day.
                  The Armenian women are very much superior in personal beauty to any I have seen
                     in Constantinople; indeed, to any of the Oriental castes, not excepting the
                     far-famed Circassians. The best specimens of the latter that I had the fortune
                     to see were gross and expressionless in feature, and without that compactness
                     and elasticity of form which the more civilized world has assumed to be
                     essential in female beauty. A certain obesity, very attractive to
                     semi-barbarous people, is cultivated to perfection in the Circassians, and the
                     most highly admired seemed to be those who bear the greatest resemblance to a
                     balloon, and who are least capable of exercising the powers of locomotion. The
                     Armenians, however, are tall and graceful, and of much greater delicacy of
                     feature, and in form they approximate more nearly than any I have seen to what
                     has been assumed by common consent as the standard of perfection. I saw many in
                     my rambles about the heights of Chamlula who were really fine looking women;
                     their dark hair twisted loosely under their head-dress; their complexion of the
                     most delicate texture; their eyes bright and not altogether expressionless,
                     fringed with long black lashes; and their forms showing to advantage in a
                     costume resembling what certain of the fair sex at home have attempted to force
                     into fashion in our matter-of-fact part of the world. And here, by way of
                     parenthesis, let me hope that, should that costume prevail, it will never be
                     followed by any attempt to introduce other Oriental fashions, such as smoking
                     the chibouck and sharing in domestic circles the same husband.
                  The life of these inmates of the Harem has been delineated by writers who have
                     had access to their society; but it has been done in such a way as to throw a
                     halo of romance around them which has no foundation in reality. I have
                     conversed with many intelligent Frank residents of Constantinople on the
                     subject, and have been assured that these accounts of the innocent and
                     luxurious seclusion in which they spend their lives are in the main a tissue of
                     absurdities, gotten up by enthusiastic authors for the purpose of making
                     readable books. Such books are sought with avidity, where the plain truth would
                     make no impression. People are determined to feed the imagination upon
                     something, and those who furnish them with the material are naturally disposed
                     to make it as palatable as possible. The fact is, life in the Harem is one of
                     absolute servitude and disgusting sensuality. Few, even in the highest ranks,
                     understand how to read and write, and their conversation is only trifling
                     inanity. They are purchased as slaves, treated as slaves, and valued according
                     to their capacity to reach the most approved standard of degradation.
                     Encouraged in all that is revolting to the better feeling of man's nature, is
                     it to be wondered that they do not occupy the position of companions. It may be
                     set down as an axiom, demonstrated by all past experience, that in no country
                     where the position of woman is so utterly degraded can a people ever attain to
                     a more exalted rank than that of a slavish and semi-barbarous nation.
                     Abd-ul-Mejid may build frigates, encourage steam navigation and cotton
                     factories, patronize model farms, surround his court with all the enlightening
                     influences of foreign diplomacy; listen to disinterested plans for increasing
                     the power and prosperity of the Turkish people; but until he learns the great
                     secret that women must be companions, and not mere toys, his efforts, or the
                     efforts of others, will be in vain; and the mass of the Turks will remain as
                     they have ever been, an ignorant and slavish people.
                  It has been my fortune to travel in many foreign lands, and to mingle with many
                     strange people as a spectator of
                     passing events; and now, after years of wandering in almost every clime, I turn
                     from the sad contemplation of their social condition with a grateful heart to
                     our own free and happy country; where, amid all the turmoils of political
                     strife, all the asperities of opinion upon matters of local import, all the
                     differences of position that arise from the natural differences of our
                     organization, there is a purity of sentiment in social life that has never
                     obtained in any other country. It is refreshing, after inhaling the polluted
                     atmosphere of the principal cities of Europe, to look back upon our own happy
                     homes and firesides, and draw health, and vigor, and inspiration from a
                     contemplation of the exalted condition of woman in America—subject to no
                     restraints but the dictates of virtue, free in the exercise of all the rights
                     that are claimed by the best and purest of the sex; respected because they
                     command respect; beloved because they are womanly; admired because they are too
                     modest to demand admiration. It is not of the giddy and the thoughtless, who
                     parade their jeweled charms in the arena of fashion; not of the brawlers in
                     public, who seek to overturn the whole fabric of society; not of them that are
                     given to unseemly display, either of thought or person, that I would speak; but
                     of the chaste keepers of home; of the gentle and the sympathizing, who rejoice
                     with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep; these are the women of
                     America, who, unknown to fame, are esteemed the highest; who, unadorned, are
                     adorned the most.
                  During my rambles about Constantinople and the suburbs, my attention was
                     frequently attracted by the strange and dilapidated appearance of the
                     Mohammedan burial-grounds. Much of the beautiful effect of the view from the
                     Bosphorus arises from the groves of tall green cypress that mingle their
                     foliage with the mosques and minarets, and stand out in bold relief on every
                     hill-side. Wherever they cover any considerable extent of ground, it is to
                     afford shade and protection to a public cemetery. The largest, perhaps, of all
                     the Mohammedan burial-grounds is that near Scutari, on the Asiatic side, which
                     extends over a distance of three miles along the road. It is beautifully shaded
                     by a thick forest of cypress, and forms, in the summer time, a favorite retreat
                     for the idle and gossiping, who go over in great numbers from the city every
                     afternoon. Here may be seen, in fine weather, groups of women of various castes
                     sitting on the graves, smoking their chiboucks, and sipping their coffee;
                     others, half-naked, chattering and lively, endeavoring to kill time; all
                     unattended, except by female servants, for it is beneath the dignity of the
                     male population ever to associate in public with women. It is a curious picture
                     of gay, fluttering life, mingled with the mouldering tombs of the silent and
                     ghastly dead. Often, when disposed to indulge in reflection, I come over here
                     to read the history of Time's doings, past, present, and to come; Time, who has
                     brought low alike the great and the little, the Pasha and the slave; who makes
                     republics beneath the ground that factions can not destroy; Time, who opens the
                     mysteries of the future, and "feeds oblivion with decay of things."
                  The Mohammedan tombstones are distinguished, for the most part, by a head or
                     representation of the turban carved in stone. Many of these have been broken
                     off or greatly defaced during the wars which have raged from time to time
                     between the tribes of the East. The inscriptions are in the Arabic or Turkish
                     characters, and in the more modern tombs are often covered with gilding. Of
                     course, I could read none of these histories of human virtues and human
                     sorrows, but it is not likely that I lost a great deal of reliable information.
                     The whole aspect of these cemeteries is desolate and ruinous in the extreme.
                     There is no order or arrangement, except in the direction of the heads, which
                     are all toward Mecca; the head-stones seem to be scattered over the ground at
                     random, pointed up in all directions, or lying prostrate in confusion. The
                     earth is perfectly barren, and abounds in all sorts of abominations, too
                     disgusting even for the gangs of voracious dogs that prowl among the abodes of
                     the dead. It is a strange place, in every respect, to choose as a fashionable
                     resort for pleasure and gossip; but, as the Turks say, in the name of the
                     Prophet, may they enjoy themselves.
                  There are other places of amusement, chiefly resorted to in the summer by the wealthier classes. Among these
                     are the Sweet Waters of Europe, and the Sweet Waters of Asia, the villages of
                     the Bosphorus, the Isles of the Princes, and various places in the country,
                     within a few miles of the city. Steamers now ply all along the shores of the
                     Bosphorus, to the Prince's Isles, to the seaport town nearest to Brusa, and
                     other ports along the Sea of Marmora. There are also, for the poorer classes,
                     large omnibus caiques, in which, for a few paras, they can be landed at any village on the Bosphorus, from
                     the Golden Horn to Bayukdere.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
                  BEING depressed in spirits to-day, in consequence of a bad opera last night, I
                     am going to be serious and give you a chapter on dogs. Doubtless you will
                     think, after the essay I intend to give you on Parisian and Italian lap-dogs,
                     that I am predisposed to hydrophobia, and labor under a prejudice against the
                     canine species; but this is not so. The fact is, I was bitten in my younger
                     days by a perfectly sane dog, without the slightest provocation; and ever
                     since, I have taken a personal interest in the study of the entire race.
                     Besides, the dogs of Constantinople are a legitimate part of the population.
                     Without them it would be no longer Constantinople. They are as much a part of
                     it as the mosques, or the Turks, the Armenians, or the bazaars. Dogs are here
                     protected by public sentiment, or some superstition, or by law; so they swarm
                     in immense numbers: they do not belong to any body, but roam in freedom,
                     enjoying the fullest immunity from molestation. Travelers generally set them
                     down as the great nuisances of the East, and heap unmeasured abuse upon every
                     cur that dares to bark his sentiments. This is unjust; they might as well abuse
                     the Turks for wearing beards and worshiping Mohammed, as denounce the poor dogs
                     for showing hostility toward Christians. Now, for my part, I consider them an
                     extraordinary race of animals, in spite of the prejudices of education, and
                     especially those of Constantinople, and I intend to do them justice. Throughout
                     the streets, and in all the grave-yards and public places, the attention of the
                     stranger is attracted by the extraordinary number of wolfish-looking dogs that
                     he sees prowling about or basking in
                     the sun, and in some of the narrow passages he is often compelled to step over
                     whole families of them. These animals abound in every quarter, Frank, Jewish,
                     Armenian, and Turkish, and are formed into communities like their two-legged
                     neighbors. Certain invisible lines determine the extent of territory belonging
                     to each community, and so distinctly defined are these boundaries, that every
                     member, down to the most illiterate cur, knows precisely how far he can
                     venture, and what his inherent rights are. But let it not be supposed that dogs
                     are more sensible than men; they have their territorial disputes as well as
                     human beings, and very much on the same general principle. A strong community
                     crowds over into the possessions of a weaker one; a quarrel ensues, and
                     whichever cur can maintain the disputed territory by force of teeth and paws,
                     holds it till some stronger one interferes and settles the difficulty by
                     dispossessing both the others. There are various minor grades of difficulty
                     between these canine communities, petty infringements upon the rights of
                     others, such as cases of trespass, prowling beyond the lines in search of food,
                     snatching up bones and the like, just as with us; but these infractions of the
                     law are settled at once, which makes justice more terrible to evil-doers, and
                     costs less in the way of fees to sheriffs, courts, and lawyers. The community
                     fights its battles and defends its rights, punishes offenders within its own
                     limits, and commits depredations upon others, very much after the fashion of
                     the most respectable human communities; but I never knew an instance of one dog
                     giving a bone to another for arguing a case, or of two dogs involved in a
                     private quarrel drawing upon the resources of the community to compensate them,
                     or pay the expenses of an appeal to a higher tribunal. I am not prepared to say
                     what religious doctrines these dogs of Constantinople entertain, but they have
                     a very pious hostility to all Franks, and bark or growl at Christians just as
                     we do at the Mohammedans and other Oriental sects; and I have no doubt they are
                     quite as firmly convinced that not one of us will reach heaven, as we are that
                     the gates will be closed against all who disbelieve in our doctrines. We are
                     good haters of other sects, and why should the dogs be condemned demned for
                     trying to be human? If they hate with a bigoted cordiality, yet they love with
                     a barbarous sincerity.
                  Opposite to the Hotel de Byzant is an open space, inhabited by one of these
                     canine communities, whose operations of domestic and municipal economy afford
                     me constant food for study. Near by is a Mohammedan grave-yard, inhabited by
                     another tribe; and it is my chief employment, every afternoon, to sit on the
                     portico, smoking a chibouck, and watching the movements of my four-legged
                     neighbors. I have formed quite an attachment for the Byzantines, and a bitter
                     prejudice against those sneaking fellows beyond, who skulk behind the
                     tomb-stones. We of the Byzant region—for I have fought for them, and am now
                     treated as a member of the community, and always received with a general
                     wagging of tails—we, Byzantines, depend chiefly for our living upon the offal
                     cast out from a range of houses just beyond the boundary. True, this is not
                     strictly our property, but we consider that it ought to be; and so whenever a
                     bone, or a mutilated cat, or defunct chicken, is thrown out, we are startled
                     from our sunny corners and daily slumbers by the little curs that we keep to
                     wake us; and, headed by the shaggy old veterans, who have fought their way to
                     eminence, we sally forth in a body to seize our prey. Domestic difficulties
                     ensue; hungry drones, who are the first to run, want more than their share, and
                     scuffles take place, which arouse the scouts of the enemy Now from every
                     tomb-stone there springs a barking foe; the grave-yard re-echoes with the call
                     to arms; big dogs and little dogs rush furiously into battle array; and down
                     they thunder in terrible force upon the fighting Byzantines, in an avalanche of
                     dust. One universal yell of rage and defiance rends the welkin; the smoke of
                     battle rises on high, and for a while nothing is seen but a cloud of dust, and
                     nothing heard but the gritting of teeth and the tug of strife at close
                     quarters. It is a moment of awful suspense. Shall it be victory and chicken, or
                     defeat without chicken? The noble Byzantines or the skulking Tombers? Now there
                     is a swaying to and fro of the struggling mass—tails begin to appear through
                     the dust; the wounded rush out and skulk off, panting, to places of temporary safety. Individual foes,
                     twisted up in motral strife, tumble out and roll together on the blood-stained
                     field; cowards hover round in the outer circle, snapping at unguarded legs; and
                     thieves sneak off with portions of the prey, and eat them behind the
                     tomb-stones while the battle is raging. At last superior numbers prevail
                     against desperate courage. Alas for the Byzantines! The Tombers drive them
                     yelling beyond the lines. They rally and re-rally their exhausted forces, but
                     it won't do; they are morally and physically vanquished—the chicken is gone,
                     and the maimed and the dying skulk off, licking their wounds. Flushed with
                     victory, the Tombers follow up to the very door-steps of the Byzant, and defile
                     the sacred temple of the Byzantines. Do you suppose I can sit quietly, with a
                     stick in my hand, and witness this crowning insult? Not I—to the rescue! to the
                     rescue! On, Byzantines, on! Away we go! Down go the Tombers before a volley of
                     sticks and stones, and we chase the flying foe into the very secret recesses of
                     the grave-yard. Hurra for the Byzantines! Victory is ours at last; and for the
                     rest of that day the Tombers are a crest-fallen set. Many a human battle has
                     been decided in the same way, and why shouldn't we feel proud of our victories
                     as well as others?
                  
                     
                        GENERAL VIEW OF CONSTANTINOPLE.
                     
                  
                  But enough of dogs. I am going to be terribly in earnest now, like Mr. Macready
                     in Othello, and tell you about the dancing dervishes. Of the religious belief
                     entertained by this singular sect I can give you no account. It is to their
                     strange ceremonies that I wish to introduce you at present. Not far from the
                     Hotel de Byzant is one of the temples or churches of the dancing dervishes; a
                     low building without much ornament, situated back from the street in a court;
                     and here once or twice a week strangers are permitted to witness the
                     ceremonies. No entrance fee is required, and all sects are admitted without
                     distinction of costume or nation; subject only to rules of good order and the
                     customary prohibition of boots and shoes beyond the door. It was on a day of
                     more than ordinary importance that I had the fortune to witness this curious
                     exhibition. We had formed a large party of Frank travelers at the hotel, and
                     all went together. At the door we took off our shoes, and those who had
                     slippers were allowed to wear them, and those who had none were permitted to
                     stand in their stockings. A servant in attendance showed us into the quarter
                     allotted to the Franks: there were other quarters occupied by a miscellaneous
                     crowd of natives. The hall, or place of worship is a large circular room, with
                     an arched roof hung around with lamps, and the galleries for the spectators
                     extend all around on the same floor, with a railing in front and a foot-board,
                     as in a circus. All the decorations were of the plainest and cheapest kind, and
                     the hall itself was entirely without furniture, the floor being of polished
                     wood, quite bare of carpets. When we entered, a din of wild barbarous music,
                     from some invisible place, reached us, and soon the priests of the order
                     entered, walking slowly two by two, preceded by the patriarch, an old man with
                     a long white beard. They were enveloped in plain brown cloaks, leaving nothing
                     visible but their tall drab-colored hats without brims, and a small portion of
                     the face and beard; their heads were bowed down, and they walked with a solemn
                     and impressive air several times round the hall—the music waxing wilder and
                     fiercer all the time.
                  At length the patriarch stopped; the priests or worshipers branched off, and, ranging themselves round the
                     room, sat down and covered up their heads, leaving nothing but their hats
                     visible, and, doubling themselves up into as small a space as possible,
                     remained so for some time quite motionless. After this, at a signal from the
                     patriarch, who was bowing down and praying all the time, they slowly arose, and
                     while he stood at the head of the hall with folded hands and downcast head,
                     each worshiper as he passed turned and bowed to the one in the rear, who bowed
                     at the same time, bringing their heads almost to meet in front of the
                     patriarch; and so they continued, each one bowing as he passed, till the whole
                     party had bowed themselves through, three or four times in succession. They
                     then ranged themselves round the hall again in their respective places, and,
                     slowly casting off their cloaks, appeared in the dancing costume—a plain suit
                     of white cotton, consisting of petticoats and a kind of roundabout, fastened at
                     one side by the sash. No shoes were worn, and the tall strange hat still
                     remained on the head; and now the music blew louder and wilder, and the dance
                     commenced. Slowly and gracefully they merge into it, twirling around like the
                     wooden figures on a hand-organ. The arms are extended, the hands thrown out,
                     the feet together as if on a pivot, and round and round they go, with their
                     long beards, and pale faces, and downcast eyes, whirling on their feet like men
                     worked by machinery—all but the old patriarch, who stands at the head with
                     folded hands, and prays during the ceremony of the waltz with his accustomed
                     gravity. From the outer circle they whirl mysteriously into the centre, and
                     from the centre back again; and soon the entire hall seems to be alive with the
                     solemn waltzers. There is no noise but the blowing of the music and the low
                     grinding of the feet. One almost wonders what powers of locomotion keep these
                     men whirling around so long. They seem never to be tired; the spectator grows
                     dizzy in following them. Round they go, with distended arms and sweeping
                     petticoats, till you begin to think it must be all a strange vision, the
                     grotesque dream of a distempered fancy. You rub your eyes and look again. Sure
                     enough there they are, turning like tops—the very dancing dervishes that you
                     have read about in books; and this is their temple—a wild, half-savage,
                     Oriental place, full of novel sights and sounds. At last the waltz is
                     concluded; the priests retire to their places, put on their cloaks, and double
                     themselves up in little knots again; and, after another parade and the same
                     profound ceremony of bowing before the patriarch they slowly retire; the
                     audience follows their example; and thus ends the devout exhibition of the
                     dancing dervishes.
                  
                     
                  
                  There is another sect, called the howling dervishes, who hold their exhibitions
                     over at Scutari, on the Asiatic side. On my return from the Mount of Chamlula
                     one day, I stepped in to see them, in company with my Portuguese friends Dr.
                     Mendoza and the Madam. The temple or house of worship is much the same as that
                     of the dancing dervishes. Here we had to pay a small fee of a few piasters for
                     admission, the ceremony being considered more attractive than that of the
                     dancers. Nothing was said about our shoes, and we were ushered at once into the
                     gallery allotted to Christian spectators. The exhibition had just commenced.
                     Thirty or forty young howlers, from six years of age up to twenty-five were
                     ranged around the outer circle. At the head stood the chief priest, and in
                     different parts of the hall the elders and common priests. The old patriarchs,
                     who were unable to join in the
                     violent exercises of the church, were seated in retired places, where they
                     bowed their heads with a slow and clock-like motion, and chanted a kind of
                     hum-drum song like the bass notes of an organ. In front of the chief priest
                     stood a row of lusty fellows, with shaven heads and nearly naked, who bore the
                     heaviest part in the performance. Commencing at a high key, rendered more
                     piercing by the shrill voices of the little children, they screamed a sort of
                     chant, so wild and unearthly that it was difficult to recognize them as human
                     beings; and the whole fraternity started into motion as if struck with a palsy.
                     Gracious heavens, what a sight! A menagerie of wild animals let loose would be
                     tame to it. I can compare it to nothing but a bedlam of hopping and howling
                     lunatics. First on one foot, then on the other, the shaven heads bobbing as a
                     schoolboy bobs his head after a dive when he gets a bubble in his ear; all
                     bobbing together, and nodding and jerking and jumping and hopping like gigantic
                     puppets worked by secret wires; the high scream gradually lowering to a groan,
                     and the groan jogging down by degrees into a grunt, and the grunt into a
                     general howl, so deep and savage that the snarling of hyenas or the roaring of
                     lions would be music to it. The lusty gang in front, work themselves into a
                     phrensy; their shaven crowns jerk about at such a rate that one expects to see
                     a head roll down on the floor every moment; their voices lose all semblance of
                     human voices, and now it becomes a hoarse panting grunt from the pits of their
                     stomachs, and streams of sweat roll down from their faces, and their scanty
                     cotton robes hang dripping on their bodies. Through the wriggling, jerking mass
                     you see a little howler who has hopped and howled himself out of breath; his
                     head hangs on his shoulder, his eyes rolling, and his tongue hanging out while
                     he gasps for breath; an old priest gives him a smart crack on the pate with his
                     knuckles, and he starts into motion again as if suddenly galvanized, and the
                     whole fraternity of little howlers are frightened into a fresh fit of hopping
                     and bobbing and yelling. Now you detect a sly fellow in the crowd trying to
                     cheat people with the idea that he is as zealous a worshiper as any of them;
                     but you can plainly see that he is an impostor or a backslider; he only hops
                     once in a while, when he thinks he is noticed, and howls so faintly that nobody
                     can hear him, and, as to the jerking of his head, it is the mere nodding of a
                     head in the act of taking a private nap, and requires no exertion except to
                     keep up a show of wakefulness. Old men with long grizzled beards sway to and
                     fro, unable to hop, and too short of breath to howl; but they keep up a bass
                     growl, and with their deep blood-shot eyes and the restless swaying of the
                     head, look not unlike polar bears standing upright. Still older men, unable to
                     stand at all, sit upon their mats and sway and growl in concert. At last the
                     voices have been jogged out of the sturdiest worshipers; nothing is heard but
                     the husky grating of the breath in the throat, and the hurried panting for air;
                     and finally their chins fall loosely on their breasts, their tongues loll out,
                     and all become motionless as statues. The chief priest thereupon makes a
                     prayer, to which the most devout attention is paid. Not a whisper is heard till
                     the prayer is concluded. For a moment a dead silence prevails. The whole
                     congregation and all the worshipers are mute and motionless. It is a most
                     impressive picture of rapt devotion. Barbarous the scene may be, but not devoid
                     of solemnity. And now a low sobbing is heard around the hall of worship—so low
                     at first that it seems to come from spirits in the air; gradually it swells and
                     spreads around till the whole crowd of dervishes are sobbing, and the sobs
                     deepen into a low crying, and the low crying into a wild burst of grief,
                     swelling and winding around the hall like a funeral wail. From every eye the
                     big tears roll down, and the faces and breasts of the sobbing crowd are wet
                     with weeping. So strong, indeed, is the influence of the melting mood, that the
                     wife of my Portuguese friend, who stood near me, covered her face with her
                     handkerchief, and I verily believe cried as hard as any of them. It was the
                     most earnest crying I ever witnessed—so like natural weeping that I began at
                     length to feel moist about the eyes myself, and never in my life did I come so
                     near bursting out into a regular cry. Five minutes more would have done it;
                     for, however ridiculous
                     
                        THE HOWLING DERVISHES.
                      lous such exhibitions may appear, there is always something in
                     believing people to be in earnest when they pray, and especially when they cry,
                     that touches one in a tender part. I am certain Alphonse de Lamartine would
                     have opened the flood-gates of his tender heart, under a similar appeal to his
                     sympathies, and deluged the whole place with tears.
                  "Come," said the Doctor, taking the weeping Madam by the arm, "de Madam is a
                     little indispose; he are necess to proceed to de hotel. Dinner
                        shall be ready. 'Tis imposs to remain longer."
                  Thus closed the ceremony of the howling dervishes—a strange Oriental sight,
                     strikingly picturesque and impressive, from which some idea may be formed of
                     the state of civilization in the East, and some reflections suggested upon the
                     state of civilization in certain parts of our own country.
                  Learning that the Sultan was in the habit of making his exit once a week from
                     some one of his palaces, and affording the public an opportunity of seeing his
                     sublime person on horseback or in the royal caique, while escorted by the
                     officers of his court to some mosque selected for the occasion, I walked down
                     to Tophana yesterday to witness this grand ceremony. There was quite a
                     respectable array of republicans in our party to enjoy the novelty of this
                     Sultanic display of grandeur and condescension. On reaching the broad avenue
                     between the palace and the gardens of the royal Harem we found it lined on both
                     sides with officers and soldiers in all the pomp of court uniform, fezzed and
                     brass-buttoned, sworded, tasseled, embroidered, and gilt, to the very climax of
                     civilized Orientalism. The military uniform of the present day in
                     Constantinople is a sad falling off from the magnificence of the native costume
                     under the earlier Sultans. Copying the Frank nations of Europe in all the
                     inconveniences and absurdities of dress, the Turks are quite as awkward, and as
                     much out of their element in tight-laced coats, stiff collars, and scanty
                     trowsers, as the stiffest Englishman or most vivacious Frenchman would be in
                     their loose flowing robes and dignified turbans; and they have neither the
                     smart elegance which results from good taste, even in what is objectionable, or
                        the judgment to adopt only what
                     is useful or convenient. The turban, which has been cast aside for the fez, had
                     the double advantage of protecting the head and eyes from the glare of the sun,
                     as also of forming a becoming termination to the figure; but nothing can be
                     more ridiculous than the skimpy red night-cap, called a fez, which now supplies
                     its place. What can be expected of a people who wear such things on their
                     heads? How can they entertain any but mongrel notions, when their brains are
                     subjected to the daily process of broiling? If they were semi-barbarous under
                     the turban, they are more than semi-imbecile under the fez. It must be
                     admitted, however that the present display of military costume and discipline
                     was very much superior to what one ordinarily sees about the military stations
                     of Stamboul. The guards and officers seem to be carefully chosen, and in
                     general appearance are not inferior to those of more civilized nations.
                  Passing under the grated bridge which extends over the avenue connecting the
                     gardens of the Harem with the palace, we entered a large open square in front
                     of the mosque. The entire space was encircled by lines of soldiers, standing in
                     readiness to receive the royal pageant. To the left, at a respectable distance,
                     stood some few hundred native spectators, but owing to our dress, and perhaps a
                     certain respect inspired for us by the daring manner in which our dragoman,
                     Carlo, made room for us, we were permitted to stand behind a line of soldiers
                     directly in front of the mosque. It wanted a quarter of twelve: the Sultan was
                     to appear precisely at noon. During the interval four or five servants were
                     busily engaged in sweeping down the steps upon which his Highness was to
                     ascend, and spreading thereupon rich cloths to be pressed by his royal feet.
                     These were also carefully swept down two or three times in succession, so that
                     not a speck should be left. By the time all this was accomplished there was a
                     general stir, a low murmur of awe and expectation. Nobody appeared to say any
                     thing, or do any thing, or see any thing, but it was perfectly apparent that
                     the great Abd-ul-Mejid was coming. There was an instinctive holding of breaths,
                     and an anxious looking up the avenue toward the gates of the palace. And now
                     the murmur of awe rises higher, the clatter of horses' feet is distinctly
                     heard, the music strikes up, and out comes the sovereign Potentate of Turkey,
                     mounted on a prancing steed, and surrounded by a legion of magnificent Pashas,
                     likewise mounted on prancing steeds. Onward he comes, slowly and with solemn
                     majesty. But his thoughts are on holy subjects, he looks neither to the right
                     nor to the left, but straight toward the door of the mosque. A Sultan may
                     condescend to bow before Allah and the Prophet, but he is too high a personage
                     to bow to man; hats are pulled off and heads nodded in vain. He pays no
                     attention to the homage; not even to us sovereigns, who have done him the honor
                     to stand bare-headed before him these ten minutes for the sake of enjoying the
                     show unmolested by his minions! The royal dress worn on this occasion was quite
                     simple, consisting of ordinary European trowsers, an embroidered Turkish coat,
                     and a fez, with a cloak thrown loosely over the shoulders. His face is pale and
                     careworn, his person emaciated, and his appearance altogether blasé. People say that he is drugged and stupefied,
                     for certain political purposes; and certainly, if ever a poor fellow bore the
                     marks of premature decay and imbecility of mind resulting from excess, it is
                        Abd-ul-Mejid.
                  
                  Now, all hail to Allah and the Prophet! the Sultan has
                     reached the door of the mosque. Bearded Pashas, glittering
                     with buttons and gold lace, catch his bridle; and bearded Pashas again catch
                     him as he painfully dismounts. Slowly he ascends the steps upon the well-swept
                     cloths—that aged young man of twenty-eight—supported on each side by a Pasha. A
                     shout of joy and devotion rises on high! Pashas, officers, soldiers and all
                     shout glory and honor to the Sultan! Long life and happiness to Abd-ul-Mejid!
                     All hail to Allah and the Prophet, the sovereign Potentate of the East has gone
                     to prayers! Up goes the crier of the mosque on the highest minaret, and
                     proclaims the important tidings to the world, "Allah akbar! the sublimest of
                     Sultans is at his devotions! God is great, and Mohammed is his Prophet!"
                  
                  For the space of half an hour there is silence in the outer world; then comes
                     forth the Sultan again, purified in body and soul. Again the bearded Pashas
                     catch him in their arms, and help him on his horse. He is seated once more on
                     the favored steed, still regardless of the crowd, a melancholy picture of
                     resigned misery. The music strikes up, the royal pageant moves on, and
                     Abd-ul-Mejid is borne back to his palace to receive the congratulations of his
                     devoted followers and the caresses of his loving wives.
                  Poor Abd-ul-Mejid! Miserable Abd-ul-Mejid! thou art an unhappy mouse,
                     surrounded by cats! Sir Catford Scranning is an experienced old mouser; his eye
                     is on you; his claws are sharp; his cunning surpasses your simple
                     understanding. Don't believe in him because he purrs in the presence of the
                     other cats. This very moment he would swallow you bodily if he dared; but Sir
                     Catford knows very well that the great Russian Tom Cat has bigger claws and
                     sharper teeth than himself; that when the swallowing commences he won't stand
                     much chance in the scramble with Russian Tom. Sir Catford makes a great noise;
                     threatens you very often; talks loudly about the prowess of British Cats: don't
                     mind him Abdul; he won't do you much harm; he's getting old and likes to see
                     himself in a rage; depend upon it "there's nothing in't." The Austrian and
                     Russian party have you safe enough whenever they think proper to devour you;
                     therefore take Sir Catford easy, and look well to the bigger cats.
                  I went away from this exhibition a thoughtful man. That very morning I had been
                     reading in an American paper a tirade in favor of disunion, a series of
                     resolutions passed at some sectional convention. Never before had the complete
                     madness of the proposition occurred to me. What was it proposed to do? To annul
                     the Confederacy of free States; to abandon all the blessings of liberty because
                     of a single evil; to rush headlong from the highest eminence of prosperity and
                     happiness that any nation upon earth has yet attained, into the dark abyss of
                     anarchy and final despotism; to crush with sacrilegious hands the Constitution
                     that has been bequeathed to us by the truest, and purest, and wisest of
                     patriots that ever struggled for human rights and the perpetuity of human
                     freedom and bury the glorious galaxy of stars too deep in degradation to excite
                     the contempt of the pettiest despot that grovels beneath the ban of human
                     hatred. It is not at home, surrounded by local influences, and blinded by the
                     zeal of party, that we can appreciate the terrible immensity, the utter madness
                     of this proposition. Go abroad, ye who would lightly cast away the priceless
                     heritage of liberty, and study well the operation of other governments; feel
                     but for a single day the crushing effects of religious intolerance and military
                     despotism; mingle with the suffering masses that no longer breathe their woes,
                     but hope against hope in the very darkness of despair; behold the misery that
                     you would bring upon the heads of a happy and prosperous people, and ask
                     yourselves, Is it well to talk of disunion? Roam from the North to the South;
                     linger among the mouldering monuments of the past; ponder over the power and
                     the weakness of man, what he has been, what he might be, and what he is; behold
                     the fairest lands that ever breathed the charm of romance over the pages of
                     history now waste and desolate; look back from out the gloom of human depravity
                     upon your own free and happy country, rising to the zenith of its prosperity,
                     spreading its genial influences over the whole face of the earth; and say,
                     would you be no longer a nation of freemen? Would you aspire to a page in
                     future history as that people who have fallen lower than ever yet man has
                     fallen?
                  Whatever may be the evils under which we labor at home, let us hope that they
                     are but temporary; they are dust in the balance compared with the evils that
                     afflict the nations of Europe. Let us bear them patiently, and look to the
                     healing influences of time for the remedy. Above all, let us never cease to
                     cherish, in the deepest recesses of our hearts, the memory of those immortal
                     men who have bequeathed to us the blessings of an enlightened and liberal
                     system of government.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  BABEL REVIVED.
                  THE great variety of languages spoken throughout the East, but especially in
                     Smyrna and Constantinople, is one of the first things that excites the
                     astonishment of the stranger. Pera is a perfect Babel for languages. It is not
                     uncommon to hear the same person speak in six different tongues; and I am told
                     that there are some who speak as many as twelve. Our dragoman (Carlo, whose
                     information, however, must be received with a grain of allowance) tells me that
                     there are some sixty or seventy different castes in Constantinople and the
                     suburbs. I have myself seen about the wharves of Galata, Turks, Persians,
                     Armenians, Georgians, Circassians, Arabs, Egyptians, Algerines, Greeks,
                     Italians, French, Germans, Poles, Austrians, Russians, Cossacks, English, and
                     Americans, and I can not remember how many others. It is evident that the
                     number of Oriental castes, leaving out the Franks of Eastern Europe, who can
                     not properly be classed with them, must be very great. No person of any
                     distinction in society here is considered ordinarily accomplished who does not
                     speak at least four languages in addition to his own. A knowledge of the
                     Turkish, Greek, Italian, and French is almost indispensable in all business
                     transactions; and there are few merchants who do not speak in addition to
                     these, tolerably good English. The business men of Pera and Galata display this
                     extraordinary talent in the highest degree—the Greeks, perhaps, more than any.
                     Of the relative facility with which the various languages of Southern Europe
                     and the East are acquired, say by an American or Englishman, I am inclined,
                     from all I could ascertain, to put them down as follows: French first; every
                     body learns French, as a matter of course. The Italian is more difficult,
                     because of the great variety of terminations to the same word, and the
                     extraordinary number of conventional phrases; it is one of the easiest to
                     acquire to a certain extent, so far as to answer the ordinary purposes of
                     traveling; the pronunciation is simple; but it is one of the most difficult to
                     become master of, so as to read Dante, Petrarch, and all the great poets. Many
                     who speak it fluently in ordinary conversation, can not even translate a
                     paragraph from a newspaper. The Spanish is of more difficult pronunciation, but
                     less arbitrary in its construction. In two years, any person of ordinary
                     capacity can, by study and constant practice in the society of the native
                     population, speak these three languages fluently. The modern Greek is more
                     difficult, and requires a much longer time to be acquired. The Turkish is not
                     considered difficult, compared with other Oriental languages. To carry on an
                     ordinary conversation requires no great study; but to speak and write it
                     grammatically, and especially on any but common colloquial topics, is
                     altogether another matter; it is then one of the most difficult. The Persian is
                     considered the richest and most beautiful, and at the same time one of the most
                     difficult. The Arabic is the study of a life-time. So many new sounds are
                     necessary to be mastered, such a complexity of grammatical rules overcome, that
                     none need hope to acquire even such proficiency as to read and speak it at all
                     in less than five or six years; and it is seldom or never spoken by a foreigner
                     with the fluency of the native Arabs, even the lowest castes, who roll it out
                     with a rapidity and volume, and a violence of gesticulation and utterance quite
                     astonishing to a civilized ear.
                  Among the most pleasant recollections of my three weeks' sojourn in
                     Constantinople, is a ride from Therapia, on the Bosphorus, to the waterworks of
                     Belgrade, in company with Mr. Marsh, our Minister. During my stay in Therapia,
                     I had the pleasure also of forming the acquaintance and enjoying the kind
                     hospitality of Mr. Brown, Secretary of the American legation. To both of these
                     gentlemen I am indebted for many
                     kind attentions; and the remembrance of the delightful hours spent in their
                     society and that of their accomplished families, forms the most agreeable
                     episode in my pilgrimage through the East.
                  Before my departure from Constantinople I was enabled, by joining a large party
                     of tourists, who obtained a firman from the Sultan, to visit the Seraglio and
                     all the mosques of Stamboul, including the far-famed Mosque of Santa Sophia.
                     Lamartine calls this "a grand Caravanseri of God!" I looked in vain for
                     something about it in the shape of camels or mules; but saw nothing of the kind
                     to justify such a figure of speech. Probably when the great poet was there, he
                     saw imaginary camels and mules; certainly there must have been an animal with
                     very long ears about the premises.
                  Doctor Mendoza and the Madam having ascertained from the Portuguese Minister,
                     that there was a good hotel in Jerusalem, and that it was quite practicable to
                     make the tour of the Holy Land without starvation, made up their minds to
                     encounter the risk. They departed in the first French steamer, intending to
                     stop a few days in Smyrna. The doctor said it was not "imposs" that we should
                     meet again in Beirut.
                  I was so fortunate during my stay at the Byzant, as to form the acquaintance of
                     a most intelligent and agreeable young gentleman from North Carolina, who was
                     traveling for pleasure and information. He readily joined me in my contemplated
                     tour through Syria. On the 15th of November, having, through the kindness of
                     Mr. Brown, Secretary of Legation, obtained a firman, signed by Abd-ul-Mejid,
                     recommending us to all Pashas, Reis, and Sheiks throughout his dominions, as
                     "prince-born gentlemen," we looked our last look at the glorious City of the
                     Sultan, and departed for Beirut.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  THE ENGLISH TOURIST.
                  ON our passage through the Sea of Marmora we were beset by a furious Levanter.
                     The waters were lashed into a white foam, and floods of spray covered the decks
                     fore and aft. The motion of the steamer in the short chopping seas produced the
                     most unpleasant effects. Crowded as we were with deck-passengers, chiefly
                     pilgrims on the way to Jerusalem, it was pitiable to behold their terror and
                     the miserable condition to which they were reduced by sea-sickness and exposure
                     to the weather. Some lay covered up in their dripping blankets, groaning
                     piteously; others staggered about the decks, clinging to the rails, and looking
                     vacantly toward the land; some prayed, some wept, some smoked, some did nothing
                     at all, but it was evident there were not many aboard who would have objected
                     to being put ashore again. In the midst of all the confusion, I noticed an
                     English tourist on the quarter-deck, leaning against the companion-way, and
                     contemplating the scene with a calmness that was really provoking. Hang it,
                     man! I thought, have you no soul—no bowels of compassion? Why don't you look
                     amused, or sorry, or interested, or sick, or miserable, or something? I went a
                     little closer, to try if I could discover some trace of feeling in his stolid
                     features. Surely I had seen that face before; that clean-shaved face; those
                     well-trimmed, reddish whiskers; that starched shirt-collar of snowy whiteness;
                     that portly figure. Certainly I had seen him. Every body has seen him. Bromley
                     is his name—Mr. Bromley, an English gentleman of fortune, who travels to kill
                     time. He is the Mephistophiles of Englishmen. I saw him every where—in Paris
                        reading ing the newspapers in a
                        café, on the top of the Righi criticising
                     the rising of the sun, in Vienna wandering through the Paradei's Garten, in
                     Berlin gazing calmly at the statue of Frederick the Great, on the Acropolis of
                     Athens examining the Parthenon, in Constantinople lounging about the Bazaars,
                     in Smyrna eating beefsteak at the Hotel of the Two Augustas—always reserved,
                     serious, dogmatical, and English. When there were only Americans in the party
                     he was a vast improvement upon Bromley. As a matter of principle and habit, he
                     never makes acquaintances that may be troublesome hereafter. He is the
                     embodiment of the non-committal. He never takes any thing on hearsay; he looks
                     at nothing that is not designated in the guide-book; patronizes no hotel that
                     is not favorably mentioned by Murray; admires no picture except by number and
                     corresponding reference to the name of the artist; is only moved to enthusiasm
                     when the thing is pronounced a chef d'œuvre
                     by the standard authorities. He  shuts himself up in his shell of ice
                     wherever he goes, and only suffers himself to be thawed out when he thinks,
                     upon mature consideration, that there is no danger of coming in contact with
                     somebody that may take advantage of the acquaintance. To his fellow-countrymen
                     he is stiff and haughty; they may claim to know him on his return to England;
                     to Americans he is generally polite and affable, and returns any advance with
                     great courtesy, but seldom makes an advance himself. Bromley is a perfect
                     gentleman in the negative sense. He does nothing that is ungentlemanly. He is
                     too non-committal for that. Possibly he has a heart, and a soul, and just as
                     much of the little weaknesses that spring from the heart and soul as any man—if
                     you can only find it out. Touch his national pride, and you touch his weakest
                     point. He is British from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet—looks
                     British, feels British, talks British, carries with him the very atmosphere of
                     Great Britain. In the course of five minutes' conversation he refers to our
                     free institutions, and asks how can they be free when we tolerate slavery. One
                     would think the question had never been discussed before. He starts it as a
                     telling point, and refers to the glorious freedom of glorious old England! Can
                     we, Brother Jonathan, stand that? Of course not; we are excited; we refer him
                     for an answer to the coal-mines of Cornwall—to the report on that subject made
                     by a Committee of Parliament. Ha! that makes him wince!—that hits him where he
                     has no friends! He staggers—pauses—fires up again, and gives us a severe thrust
                     back on repudiation! repudiation in Pennsylvania and Mississippi! disgraceful
                     act! a stain upon the nation! That touches us; we writhe; we wince; we groan
                     inwardly; we would give a quarter of a dollar at that very moment out of our
                     own pocket toward paying the debts of the delinquent States; but we rally
                     again; we put it to Bromley on the unholy wars with India; the tithe system in
                     Ireland; the public debt of England, a most unrighteous institution for the
                     purpose of sustaining a titled aristocracy—volley after volley we pour into
                     him; till quite breathless we pause for a reply. Bromley is puzzled; the
                     argument has assumed a variety of
                     forms; it has become a seven headed dragon; he doesn't know which head to
                     attack; he retorts on the use of bowie-knives in America—the lawless state of
                     things, where a man cuts another down for looking at him. True; we admit that;
                     it's a habit we have—a short way of doing justice; but that's not the point—the
                     point is this; has England ever produced any thing like the gold mines of
                     California? Bromley smiles contemptuously, points his finger toward Australia,
                     and says: "You only beat us in a yacht race—that's all." "Yes, sir, we beat
                     you, sir, in steamers; in all sorts of sailing vessels; in machinery; in
                     enterprise; in—by Jupiter, sir, what haven't we beaten you in? eh, sir, what?"
                     The Englishman asks: "Where's your Shakspeare, your Milton, your Byron,
                     your—dooce take it, where's your literature?" And so the battle rages, till
                     both parties having exhausted all their ammunition, Bromley admits that America
                     is a rising country; a great country; a country destined to be the most
                     powerful in the world. Brother Jonathan is moved, and in the fullness of his
                     heart protests that Great Britain is the only free government in the world
                     besides the Republic of the United States. Bromley yields us the palm in the
                     construction of steamers and sailing vessels; Jonathan cheerfully admits that
                     England is ahead in literature; Bromley confesses that he always likes to meet
                     Americans; Jonathan swears that he is devoted to Englishmen; finally both
                     parties conclude that it is useless for people of the same race to quarrel;
                     that all the difference between the two countries is merely the difference of
                     latitude and longitude. So we journey on, as far as our roads lie together,
                     very amicably, and find that with a little mutual concession to each other's
                     vanity we can be very good friends. True, Bromley reminds us, now and then,
                     that we chew tobacco; which we repel by an allusion to wine-bibbling; this
                     reminds Bromley that we have a nasal accent, and use slang terms; that we say
                     "I guess," when we mean "I fancy" or "I imagine;" but we make ourselves even
                     with him on that score by telling him that John Bull speaks the worst English
                     we ever heard; that he does it from pure affectation, which makes the case
                     unpardonable; that for our life we can't understand an Englishman two steps
                     off, his language is so minced and disguised by ridiculous effeminacy of
                     pronunciation, by hemming and hawing, and all sorts of mannerisms—so shorn of
                     its wholesome strength by the utter absence of simplicity and directness; to
                     which he responds by asking us where we got our English from; which we answer
                     by saying we got it from the people who first settled in America, but improved
                     upon it a good deal after the Declaration of Independence. In this way we never
                     want for subjects of conversation, and we find upon the whole that the English
                     tourist is a very good sort of fellow at heart, with just about the same amount
                     of folly that is incident to human nature generally, and not more than we might
                     find in ourselves by looking inward. Bromley is but a single specimen—a man of
                     many fine qualities, pleasant and companionable, when one becomes accustomed to
                     his affection. I have met others of a different stamp—but here we are in the
                     Dardanelles; the chain runs out; the gale whistles madly against 
                        TOWN OF RHODES.
                     
                      the rigging and iron rods; the
                     thing is fixed; we must stop for twelve hours.
                  A sorry twelve hours it was for second-class passengers. Time, however, stops
                     for no class; it passed eventually; and we once more went foaming along on our
                     way. At Mitylene we touched to land some passengers, and next morning we were
                     in sight of Smyrna. From day to day, after our departure from Smyrna, we
                     enjoyed a continual feast of scenery along the shores of Asia Minor; sweeping
                     past islands, and towns, and towering mountains, in an atmosphere of Oriental
                     richness, and out again upon a slumbering sea.
                  At Rhodes we spent a day not soon to be forgotten in our pilgrimage. The
                     picturesque beauty of the island; the deserted and time-worn aspect of the
                     town; the old houses ornamented with the armorial bearings of the Knights of
                     Jerusalem; the strange, piratical appearance of the Greek population, afforded
                     us ample material for enjoyment and observation during our brief stay.
                  On the following day we cast anchor opposite the town of Larneca in the Island
                     of Cyprus. What time we had here 
                        VIEW IN LARNECA.
                      was very pleasantly disposed of in rambling about the ruined old
                     town, making sketches, wondering how such a beggarly and degenerate population
                     could exist on the face of the earth, and musing upon the many changes in the
                     condition of the Island since the birth-day of the Cyprian goddess who came out
                     of the surf at Paphos.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  THE SYRIAN DRAGOMAN.
                  ANY body stationed on the roof of Demetrie's hotel, near Beirut, might have
                     seen, with a good spy-glass, early in the morning on the 23d of November, a
                     steamer bearing the Austrian flag, paddling its way into the harbor. The decks
                     of that steamer were crowded with pilgrims of all nations—Turks, Arabs, Russian
                     and Polish Jews, and Greeks; but conspicuous on the quarter-deck were two
                     Americans, who might also have been seen with the spy-glass above mentioned—one
                     a tall slender gentleman, with a red book in his hand; and the other rather
                     shorter, but not too short, habited in the unpretending garb of a backwoodsman.
                     Any body might know in a moment that the first was a Southerner, and the last
                     no other than your friend of the present writing.
                  The weather for nearly two months previously, during our wanderings in the
                     Levant, had been unusually fine; and for the past month, in Constantinople and
                     Smyrna, we had enjoyed cloudless skies and a climate of delightful temperature.
                     Ah! if I could only give you a description of all the fine views of bare
                     mountains, palm trees, and mosques that we saw along the shores of Asia Minor,
                     or the glorious sunsets among the Greek Islands! Such scenes, however, are for
                     artists and poets, not for practical men like us, who go about the world to
                     study the realities of life, and dissipate the mists of fancy.
                  Scarcely had we cast anchor in the harbor of Beirut (which, by the way, like
                     all the harbors on the coast of Syria, is a very bad one), when we were boarded
                     by a whole legion of hotel-keepers and guides. Books of recommendation were
                     thrust at us by lusty fellows in petticoats, who talked English, French,
                     Italian, and Arabic all in one breath; cards with views of splendid hotels that
                     never have existed in Beirut and probably never will; private hints whispered
                     in our ears by disinterested persons, and all sorts of strange things yelled at
                     us by the boatmen, who crowded round the steamer. In five minutes I verily
                     believe there was more talking done on that occasion, without a single movement
                     being made toward disembarking the passengers, than one would hear during the
                     whole process of clearing a California steamer. It is one of the peculiarities
                     of Oriental travel that the moment a steamer drops her anchor the officers
                     labor under the idea that the contract of transportation has been fulfilled;
                     that there is nothing more to be done but obstruct as far as practicable all
                     attempts at getting ashore. Even where there is no quarantine to perform, and
                     no police or passport nuisance, they are so loth to part company with their
                     passengers, that I have seen them turn in and go to sleep for the purpose of
                     passing the time agreeably, leaving a man stationed at the gangway, who always
                     says, "Excuse, senor, you can't go ashore yet." Can a person of nervous
                     temperament, who has suffered all the horrors of confinement for two or three
                     days, and who feels certain that the authorities on shore, who are expected
                     every moment, will never come, in consequence of smoking the chibouck till they
                     fall asleep, and sleeping till they are ready to smoke the chibouck again—can
                     one, I say, be tried at the bar of public opinion and justly censured, under
                     such circumstances, for saying dammit?
                  
                  The season was late for a tour through Syria and Palestine. Already the rain
                     was a month behind the time; it might come to-morrow or it might not; but that
                     it would come before very long was regarded as a certainty. Travelers returning
                     from the Nile usually cross the little desert to Gaza early in March, so as to
                     take Palestine in the spring, or somewhat sooner, by Mount Sinai and Arabia
                     Petræa. The season is then delightful; the country covered with verdure; and of
                     course Palestine is seen in its most favorable aspect, before the earth has
                     become parched by the scorching heat of summer. With us it was not a matter of
                     choice. We had spent the time in
                     rambling about the Levant, and had just a month or six weeks to spare, and it
                     was Palestine now or never.
                  Demetrie, a fine looking Greek, who carried every thing before him by his
                     splendid Albanian costume, pushed the babbling crowd aside, and took possession
                     of us without opposition. His mustache was the blackest and thickest and most
                     conspicuous I ever saw: it had killed half the Arab girls in Beirut, and well
                     entitled the bearer to his distinguished reputation as Demetrie, the conqueror
                     of the female sex. But Demetrie is also distinguished as a dragoman. He has
                     been the guide of English lords and Russian counts without number; has made
                     fortunes and spent them with a facility unknown to the cool-headed inhabitants
                     of more temperate climes. He has gone through all the varieties of life; and is
                     now proprietor of the principal hotel beyond the walls of Beirut; and I can
                     conscientiously say to all travelers that he is a prince of a fellow, and that
                     his hotel is the cleanest and most commodious in Syria.
                  Long before our arrival at the hotel we were beset by guides, all eagerly
                     thrusting at us their certificates of character. Brief as our experience had
                     been in Oriental life, we were discreet enough not to compromise ourselves by
                     accepting the services of any of these ragamuffins, who, to say the least of
                     them, were a very shabby-looking set. Besides, we were cautioned against them
                     by a very distinguished personage who accompanied Demetrie to the steamer, and
                     who seemed to be the bosom friend and confidant of Demetrie. That personage
                     inspired me with profound sentiments of admiration for his character and genius
                     from the moment I first saw him. There was a cool air of self-reliance about
                     him; an off-hand, dashing style of address in the man; a contempt for all
                     rivalry and opposition; an unmistakable superiority over all the other Arabs,
                     that took both myself and friend captive at once. We belonged to him; we were
                     his subjects from the very beginning. Demetrie held us by force of a fine
                     mustache; but the great unknown held us by force of character. We were at once
                     under mesmeric influence; he could have taken us to the public bazaars and sold
                     us without the least opposition on our part, at almost any sacrifice, such was
                     the mysterious nature of his power. What he was, or where he lived, or what he
                     intended doing with us, it was impossible to say; all he did, so far, was to
                     push aside the babbling crowd of guides, and utter contemptuous exclamations
                     when they provoked him, such as, "Dirty blackguards! Poor devils! Never mind
                     them, gentlemen; they don't know any better! Miserable dogs! Come on,
                     gentlemen; come on; this is the way!"
                  On our arrival at Demetrie's, our friend and protector took us to the best room
                     in the establishment, where he arranged us comfortably; told us we might rely
                     upon Demetrie for good feeding; and then, drawing forth from his sash a small
                     black book, addressed us substantially as follows:
                  "Gentlemen, I am YUSEF SIMON BADRA, the dragoman for Syria. This is my book of
                     recommendations. I have taken a thousand American gentlemen through Syria. Yes,
                     sir; the Americans like me; I like the Americans! I hate Englishmen; I won't
                     take an Englishman; they don't suit me; can't get along together; I know too
                     much for 'em. But the Americans suit me; always ready; up to every thing—fun,
                     fight, or frolic. There are other dragomans here, gentlemen. Emanuel Balthos is
                     my friend; I won't interfere, if you wish to take him. I don't say he's afraid
                     of robbers; I don't say he hires guards in all the bad places on that account.
                     I don't speak only of myself. The robbers know me. The name of Yusef Badra is
                     guard enough in any part of Syria. Courage is a great thing in this country;
                     courage will carry a man through where a thousand guards daren't show their
                     faces. The last time I was out I killed six Bedouins. I sometimes kill such
                     fellows for fun. They know me; they know it's a habit I have, and they always
                     keep clear when they can. But you can choose for yourselves, gentlemen; there's
                     my book; look over it. Of course you'll smoke some chiboucks. Ho!
                     there—Hassin—chiboucks!"
                  The chiboucks were brought; and while we smoked, and looked over Yusef's book
                     of recommendations, that renowned personage took our spare clothes, created a
                     tremendous sensation tion down below
                     by the manner in which he caused all the domestics to brush them, and made
                     every Arab about the premises tremble by the ferocity of his looks.
                  Such an idea as that of entertaining any proposition from another dragoman
                     never entered our heads. We felt that we belonged to Yusef from the beginning;
                     that he had a right to us, which we could not resist; that he was just the man
                     to take us through a dangerous country. Every recommendation in the book
                     complimented him upon his indomitable perseverance and courage. It was enough;
                     the thing was fixed. 
                        YUSEF.
                      Yusef was already our dragoman. Here you have his portrait:
                  Face open and intelligent, eyes round and full of fire, mustache fierce,
                     temperament nervous-sanguine, age twenty-eight, costume rich, careless, and
                     dashing; figure well-knit and of medium height; manner frank, self-relying, and
                     chivalrous; whole tone of character imposing, captivating, and Oriental.
                  Now I profess to be a judge of mankind. I claim some merit in knowing Yusef at
                     a glance. I felt that we were perfectly safe in his hands; that he would fight
                     for us; nay, wallow in blood for us, if necessary; that it would do us credit
                     to travel with a dragoman so renowned and feared throughout Syria; that his
                     lively energy would carry us through all difficulties; that there was nothing
                     narrow or contracted in such a man, and he would feed us well, and provide us
                     with good horses.
                  The duties of the Syrian dragoman are rather onerous, and require, perhaps,
                     some explanation. He is interpreter of the party; he usually provides the
                     provisions, horses, mules, tents, &c., and charges so much a day for the
                     whole; he speaks various languages, seldom less than five or six; is expected
                     to know all about the country, and something more. He is responsible for the
                     name of every village and town on the route; he is responsible for every
                     assertion made by Robinson and other authorities, and if there be any
                     incongruity in the name or location, it is the dragoman who is compelled to
                     answer for it; he is responsible for every moral and physical defect in the
                     horses and mules; for every shower of rain that interrupts the journey; for
                     every headache and fit of indigestion suffered by any member of the party; for
                     the amount of fleas that infest every stopping-place; for the sterile and
                     unsatisfactory character of the scenery in certain stages of the journey; for
                     the roughness of the roads; for the uncivilized appearance of the Arabs
                     throughout Syria; for the bad state of repair in which the bridges are kept;
                     for every extreme of heat and cold; and all the discomforts of the climate and
                     country; in short the dragoman is responsible for every thing. He must be a man
                     of courage, of energy, of patience, of good temper, of intelligence, of
                     learning, of every thing under the sun, moon, and stars. He must know all that
                     the Howadji doesn't know, and all that the Howadji ought to know; his brains
                     must act for himself and the Howadji, and for the muleteers, and for the
                     horses, mules donkeys, and every living thing in the company; if they don't
                     they are very poor brains indeed. He must be dragoman, tutor, lexicon, valet,
                     cook, caterer, comforter, warrior—all in one; always ready for duty, night and
                     day, never tired, never at fault in any emergency. In effect, the dragoman has
                     a pretty busy life of it, and Yusuf is a good specimen of the best class. If he
                     didn't know and do all these things, he was never at a loss to know and do
                     something else equally satisfactory; and in the end we were forced to admit
                     that his resources were unlimited. When he forgot the name of a village or
                     important ruin, he invented a name that fully answered our purpose; when it
                     rained he proved to us that rain was necessary in order to clear the atmosphere
                     and make it healthy; when there were no robbers, he showed us what he would do
                     if there were robbers; when we were dissatisfied in any way, he was more
                     dissatisfied with the cause of our
                     dissatisfaction than we were ourselves, which made us perfectly satisfied; he
                     was, in all respects, a sagacious, ready-witted and obliging dragoman, highly
                     qualified by nature for his arduous and responsible profession.
                  If he had any fault at all, it was an incorrigible hatred of the female sex. He
                     never could refer to the subject, without strong expressions of contempt and
                     disdain. He considered that all the misfortunes of life could be traced to
                     woman; that the whole female sex consisted of devils in the disguise of angels.
                     As this singular prejudice concerned himself and not us, we paid but little
                     attention to it in the beginning of our journey; though as we advanced we
                     noticed some slight discrepancy between his practice and his preaching that
                     struck us as somewhat remarkable. He had nieces at every stopping-place, and he
                     never passed without calling to see them. Perhaps the relationship overcame his
                     scruples—or it might be the pride of popularity.
                  In making a bargain with a dragoman it is considered safest to have a written
                     contract, signed before the consul, specifying every thing to be furnished by
                     the dragoman, the number of horses, mules, &c., and the compensation. The
                     usual price, including tents, provisions, horses, and every thing necessary, is
                     one pound sterling a day for each person; but, as the season was late, we
                     agreed with Yusuf for ninety-six piastres, or about four dollars each. Having
                     now made the tour and acquired some experience in bargain-making, I am very
                     sure I could travel through Syria and Palestine for about half that; not of
                     course in the luxurious style of fashionable tourists, who go merely for
                     pleasure, but in quite good enough style for any person who wishes to acquire
                     knowledge of the country on the most economical terms.
                  I was rejoiced, soon after we were installed at Demetrie's, to hear the
                     well-known voice of Doctor Mendoza. He was making arrangements with Emanuel
                     Balthos to take himself and the Madam through Syria. He said it would be necess
                     to have a fine tent, to have chairs, tables, bedsteads and other conveniences,
                     as the Madam was indispose; that without these it would be imposs to
                     voyage.
                  My excellent friends were delighted to see me, and it was a mutual
                     gratification to find that we would in all probability often meet during our
                     tour; in fact that we would perform the greater part of it in company. They had
                     stopped several days in Smyrna, and were much pleased with the Hôtel des deux Augustes; the Doctor had ascertained
                     that there was an excellent hotel in Damask, and had caused Demetrie to write
                     on to the proprietor and engage rooms, without which he said, it would be
                     imposs to hazard the voyage. To-morrow morning they intended, if poss, to
                     depart.
                  The same afternoon, it was an interesting and instructive spectacle to see the
                     Doctor and the Madam in the front yard of Demetrie's hotel. Their tent was
                     erected for inspection; it was of the most fanciful shape and coloring; there
                     was a private chamber in it; and there was no end to the knick-knacks for
                     comfort and convenience. The horses were brought up; the Doctor examined the
                     saddles and the saddle-girths; mounted and got down again, and re-mounted and
                     got down again a dozen times, before he was satisfied that the caparisons were
                     safe. The Madam screamed, and endeavored to faint, when she saw the beautiful
                     little mare upon which she was to ride cut a pigeon-wing by order of Emanuel
                     Balthos; and it was only by great persuasion that she would consent to remain
                     tranquil, in accordance with the advice of the Doctor, who said that the Madam
                     was a little indispose; that he (the Madam) would be better after he had
                     voyaged a few days on horseback.
                  On the following day we bade this excellent couple adieu and saw them proceed
                     on their winding way toward Baalbek. Here I may as well mention that we met
                     them frequently during our tour, and sometimes traveled for days together; the
                     greatest cordiality and friendship always existed on both sides; and it was
                     only owing to the difference in our mode of traveling that we did not
                     permanently join the two parties.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  THE HISTORY OF MY HORSE SALADIN.
                  IF there was any one thing in which I was resolved to be particular it was in
                     the matter of horses. Our journey was to be a long one, and experience had
                     taught me that much of the pleasure of traveling on horseback depends upon the
                     qualities of the horse. For some reason unknown to me, and which I have never
                     been able to discover even to this day, a sort of fatality has always attended
                     my dealings in horseflesh. I had bought, hired, and borrowed the very
                     finest-looking animals that could be found any where, and never failed to find
                     out before long that they were blind, spavined, foundered, or troubled with
                     some defect which invariably caused them to stumble and throw me over their
                     heads. Not content with the entertaining spectacle thus afforded to public
                     eyes, the very friends of my heart turned against me in the hour of misfortune,
                     and said it was all my own fault; that any body of common sense could have
                     foreseen the result; that the most honest men in the world, whose word would
                     pass in bank for any amount, could not help lying when it came to horses; that
                     a man's own father was not to be trusted in a transaction of this kind, or even
                     a man's own mother, without looking into the horse's mouth and examining his
                     hoofs. On this account I was resolved to study well the points of the animal
                     that was to bear me through Syria.
                  Yusef had already given me some slight idea of the kind of horse I was to have.
                     It was an animal of the purest Arabian blood, descended in a direct line from
                     the famous steed of the desert Ashrik; its great-grand-dam was the beautiful
                     Boo-boo-la, for whose death the renowned Arab chieftain Ballala, then a boy,
                     grieved constantly until he was eighty-nine years of age, when, no longer able
                     to endure life under so melancholy an affliction, he got married to a woman of
                     bad temper, and was tormented to death in his hundred and twentieth year, and
                     the last words he uttered were, doghera!
                        doghera!
                     straight ahead! All of Yusef Badra's horses were his own, bought
                     with his own money, not broken down hacks like what other dragomans hired for
                     their Howadji; though, praised be Allah, he (Yusef) was above professional
                     jealousy. There was only one horse in Syria that could at all compare with this
                     animal, and that was his own, Syed Sulemin; a horse that must be known even in
                     America, for Syed had leaped a wall twenty feet high, and was trained to walk a
                     hundred and fifty miles a day, and kill the most desperate robbers by catching
                     them up in his teeth and tossing them over his head. I had not heard of this
                     horse, but thought it best, by a slight nod, to let Yusef suppose that his
                     story was not altogether unfamiliar to me. Being determined to examine in
                     detail all the points of the animal destined for myself, I directed Yusef to
                     bring them both up saddled and bridled, so that we might ride out and try their
                     respective qualities before starting on our journey. This proposition seemed to
                     confuse him a little, but he brightened up in a moment and went off, promising
                     to have them at the door in half an hour.
                  Two hours elapsed; during which time I waited with great impatience to see the
                     famous descendant of the beautiful Boo-boo-la. I looked up toward the road, and
                     at length saw a dust, and then saw a perfect rabble of Arabs, and then Yusef,
                     mounted on a tall, slabsided, crooked old horse, and then—could it be?—yes!—a
                     living animal, lean and hollow, very old, saddled with an ancient saddle,
                     bridled with the remnants of an ancient bridle, and led by a dozen ragged
                     Arabs. At a distance it looked a little like a horse; when it came closer it
                     looked more like the ghost of a mule; and closer still, it bore some
                     resemblance to the skeleton of a small camel; and when I descended to the yard,
                     it looked a little like a horse again.
                  
                  "Tell me," said I, the indignant blood mounting to my cheeks, "tell me, Yusef,
                        is that a horse?"
                  "A horse!" retorted he, smiling, as I took it, at the untutored simplicity of
                     an American; "a horse, O General! it is nothing else but a horse; and such an
                     animal, too, as, I'll venture to say, the richest pasha in Beirut can't match
                     this very moment."
                  "Tahib!" Good—said one of the Arabs, patting
                     him on the neck, and looking sideways at me in a confidential way.
                  "Tahib!" said another, and "tahib!" another, and "tahib" every Arab in the crowd, as if each one of them had ridden
                     the horse five hundred miles, and knew all his merits by personal
                     experience.
                  That there were points of some kind about him was not to be disputed. His back
                     must have been broken at different periods of his life, in at least three
                     places; for there were three distinct pyramids on it, like miniature pyramids
                     of Gizeh; one just in front of the saddle, where his shoulder-blade ran up to a
                     cone; another just back of the saddle; and the third, a kind of spur of the
                     range, over his hips, where there was a sudden breaking off from the original
                     line of the backbone, and a precipitous descent to his tail. The joints of his
                     hips and the joints of his legs were also prominent, especially those of his
                     forelegs, which he seemed to be always trying to straighten out, but never
                     could, in consequence of the sinews being too short by several inches. His skin
                     hung upon this remarkable piece of frame-work as if it had been purposely put
                     there to dry in the sun, so as to be ready for leather at any moment after the
                     extinction of the vital functions within. But, to judge from the eye (there was
                     only one), there seemed to be no prospect of a suspension of vitality, for it
                     burned with great brilliancy, showing that a horse, like a singed cat, may be a
                     good deal better than he looks.
                  "A great horse that," said Yusef, patting him on the neck kindly; "no humbug
                     about him, General. Fifty miles a day he'll travel fast asleep. He's a genuine
                     Syrian."
                  "And do you tell me," said I sternly, "that this is the great-grandson of the
                     beautiful Boo-boo-la? That I, a General in
                        SALADIN.
                      the Bob-tail Militia and representative in foreign parts of the
                     glorious City of Magnificent Distances, am to make a public exhibition of
                     myself throughout Syria mounted upon that miserable beast?"
                  "Nay, as for that," replied the fellow, rather crestfallen, "far be it from me,
                     the faithfullest of dragomans, to palm off a bad horse on a Howadji of rank.
                     The very best in Beirut are at my command. Only say the word, and you shall
                     have black, white, or gray, heavy or light, tall or short; but this much I
                     know, you'll not find such an animal as that any where in Syria. Ho, Saladin!
                     (slapping him on the neck,) who's this, old boy? Yusef, eh? Ha, ha! see how he
                     knows me! Who killed the six Bedouins single-handed, when we were out last, eh,
                     Saladin? Ha, ha! you know it was Yusef, you cunning rascal, only you don't like
                     to tell. A remarkable animal, you perceive; but, as I said before, perhaps your
                     Excellency had better try another.
                  
                  "No," said I, "no, Yusef; this horse will do very well. He's a little ugly, to
                     be sure; a little broken-backed, and perhaps a little blind, lame, and
                     spavined, but he has some extraordinary points of character. At
                     all events, it will do no harm to try him. Come, away we go!" Saying which I
                     undertook to vault into the saddle, but the girth being loose, it turned over
                     and let me down on the other side. This little mishap was soon remedied, and we
                     went off in a smart walk up the lane leading from Demetrie's toward the
                     sand-hills. In a short time we were well out of the labyrinth of hedges formed
                     by the prickly-pears, and were going along very quietly and pleasantly, when
                     all of a sudden, without the slightest warning, Yusef, who had a heavy stick in
                     his hand, held it up in the air like a lance, and darted off furiously,
                     shouting as he went, "Badra, Badra!" Had an entire nest of hornets
                     simultaneously lit upon my horse Saladin, and stung him to the quick, he could
                     not have shown more decided symptoms of sudden and violent insanity. His tail
                     stood straight up, each particular hair of his mane started into life, his very
                     ears seemed to be torturing themselves out of his head, while he snorted and
                     pawed the earth as if perfectly convulsed with fury. The next instant he made a
                     bound, which brought my weight upon the bridle; and this brought Saladin upon
                     his hind legs, and upon his hind legs he began to dance about in a circle; and
                     then plunged forward again in the most extraordinary manner. The whole
                     proceeding was so very unexpected that I would willingly have been sitting a
                     short distance off, a mere spectator; it would have been so funny to see
                     somebody else mounted upon Saladin. Both my feet came out of the stirrups in
                     spite of every effort to keep them there; and the bit, being contrived in some
                     ingenious manner, tortured the horse's mouth to such a degree every time I
                     pulled the bridle, that he became perfectly frantic, and I had to let go at
                     last and seize hold of his mane with both hands. This seemed to afford him
                     immediate relief, for he bounded off at an amazing rate. My hat flew off at the
                     same time, and the wind fairly whistled through my hair. I was so busy trying
                     to hold on that I had no time to think how very singular the whole thing was;
                     if there was any thought at all it was only as to the probable issue of the
                     adventure. Away we dashed, through chapperals of prickly-pear, over ditches and
                     dikes, out upon the rolling sand plain! I looked, and beheld a cloud of dust
                     approaching. The next moment a voice shouted "Badra, Badra!" the battle-cry of
                     our dragoman, and then Yusef himself, whirling his stick over his head, passed
                     like a shot. "Badra, Badra!" sounded again in the distance. Saladin wheeled and
                     darted madly after him; while I, clutching the saddle with one hand, just saved
                     my balance in time, "Badra, Badra!" shrieked Yusef, whirling again, and blinded
                     by the fury of battle. "Come on, come on! A thousand of you at a time! Die,
                     villains, die!" Again he dashed furiously by, covered in a cloud of dust, and
                     again he returned to the charge; and again, driven to the last extremity by the
                     terrific manner in which Saladin wheeled around and followed every charge, I
                     seized hold of the bridle and tried all my might to stop him, but this time he
                     not only danced about on his hind legs, but made broadside charges to the left
                     for a hundred yards on a stretch, and then turned to the right and made
                     broadside charges again for another hundred yards, and then reared up and
                     attempted to turn a back somerset. All this time there was not the slightest
                     doubt in my mind that sooner or later I should be thrown violently on the
                     ground and have my neck and several of my limbs broken. In vain I called to
                     Yusef; in vain I threatened to discharge him on the spot; sometimes he was half
                     a mile off, and sometimes he passed in a cloud of dust like a whirlwind, but I
                     might just as well have shouted to the great King of Day to stand still as to
                     Badra, the Destroyer of Robbers. By this time, finding it impossible to hold
                     Saladin by the bridle, I seized him by the tail with one hand, and by the mane
                     with the other, and away he darted faster than ever. "Badra, Badra!" screamed a
                     voice behind; it was Yusef in full chase! Away we flew, up hill and down hill,
                     over banks of sand, down into fearful hollows, and up again on the other side;
                     and still the battle-cry of Yusef resounded behind, "Badra, Badra forever!"
                  
                  
                     
                        SALADIN IN ACTION.
                     
                  
                  On we dashed till the pine grove loomed up ahead; on, and still on, till we
                     were close up and the grove stood like a wall of trees before us. "Thank
                     Heaven," said I, "we'll stop now! Hold, Yusef, hold!" "Badra, Badra!" cried the
                     frantic horseman, dashing by and plunging in among the trees: "Badra, forever!"
                     Saladin plunged after him, flying around the trees and through the narrow
                     passes in such a manner that, if I feared before that my neck would be broken,
                     I felt an absolute certainty now that my brains would be knocked out and both
                     my eyes run through by some projecting limb. In the horror of the thought, I
                     yelled to Yusef for God's sake to stop, that it was perfect folly to be running
                     about in this way like a pair of madmen; but by this time he had scoured out on
                     the plain again, and was now engaged in going through the exercise of the
                     Djereed with a party of country Arabs, scattering their horses hither and
                     thither, and flourishing his stick at their heads every time he came within
                     reach. They seemed to regard it as an excellent joke, and took it in very good
                     part; but for me there was no joke about the business, and I resolved as soon
                     as a chance occurred to discharge Yusef on the spot. Saladin, becoming now a
                     little tamed by his frolic, slackened his pace, so that I got my feet back into
                     the stirrups, and obtained some control over him There was a Syrian café and
                     smoke-house not far off, and thither I directed my course. A dozen boys ran out
                     from the grove, and seized him by the bridle, and at the same time Yusef coming
                     up, both horses were resigned to their charge, and we dismounted. "Hallo, sir!"
                     said I "come this way!" for to tell the truth I was exceedingly enraged and
                     meant to discharge him on the spot.
                  "Bless me! what's become of your hat?" cried Yusef, greatly surprised; "I
                     thought your excellency had put it in your pocket, to keep it from blowing
                     away!"
                  "The devil you did! Send after it, if you please; it must be a mile back on
                     that sand hill."
                  A boy was immediately dispatched in search of the hat. Meantime, while I was
                     preparing words sufficiently strong to express my displeasure, Yusef declared
                     that he had never seen an American
                     ride better than I did, only the horse was not used to being managed in the
                     American fashion.
                  "Eh! Perhaps you allude to the way I let go the reins, and seized him by the
                     mane?"
                  "To that most certainly I do refer," replied Yusef; "he doesn't understand it;
                     none of the horses in Syria understand it."
                  "No," said I, "very few horses do. None but the best riders in America dare to
                     undertake such a thing as that. Did you see how I let my feet come out of the
                     stirrups, and rode without depending at all upon the saddle?"
                  "Most truly I did; and exceedingly marvelous it was to me that you were not
                     thrown. Any but a very practiced rider would have been flung upon the ground in
                     an instant. But wherefore, O General, do you ride in that dangerous way?"
                  "Because it lifts the horse from the ground and makes him go faster. Besides,
                     when you don't pull the bridle, of course you don't hurt his mouth or stop his
                     headway."
                  Yusef assented to this, with many exclamations of surprise at the various
                     customs that prevail in different parts of the world; maintaining, however,
                     that the Syrian horses not being used to it, perhaps it would be better for me
                     in view of our journey to learn the Syrian way of guiding and controlling
                     horses; which I agreed to do forthwith. We then sat down and had some coffee
                     and chiboucks; and while I smoked Yusef enlightened me on all the points of
                     Syrian horsemanship: how I was to raise my arms when I wanted the horse to go
                     on, and hold them up when I wanted him to run, and let them down when I wanted
                     him to stop; how I was to lean a little to the right or the left, and by the
                     slightest motion of the bridle guide him either way; how I was to lean back or
                     forward in certain cases, and never to trot at all, as that was a most
                     unnatural and barbarous gait, unbecoming both to horse and rider. Upon these
                     and a great many other points he descanted learnedly, till the boy arrived with
                     my hat; when, paying all actual expenses for coffee and chiboucks, we
                     distributed a small amount of backshish among the boys who had attended our
                     horses, and mounted once more. This time under the instruction of Yusef, I soon
                     learned how to manage Saladin, and the ride back to Beirut was both pleasant
                     and entertaining.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  THE ARAB STORY-TELLER.
                  THIS is, among his countrymen, a most important character. Every body who has
                     traveled through Egypt or Syria, will bear witness that the accompanying
                     pencil-sketch is a faithful representation 
                        
                           
                        
                      of the class. The old gentleman whose name is attached to it lives in
                     the neighborhood of Beirut. He is called Ben-Hozain, the King of Talkers. The
                     handwriting is his own; and you will admit that the name looks as much like
                     Ben-Hozain as it does like Benjamin Huggins, of which I think it must be a
                     corruption. Ben is conspicuous chiefly for the length of his mustache. His
                     tongue is long, but his mustache is a good deal longer; in fact, it is such a
                     mustache as any Arab in Syria, however distinguished, might be proud to swear
                     by. It is to be regretted that people should swear at all; but if they will
                     swear, it is better they should be profane on the subject of beards or
                     mustaches, than on matters of higher import. By profession and inclination
                     Ben-Hozain is a story-teller. I do not mean to say that he is given to willful
                     lying, or to any malicious misrepresentation of facts; but the business of his
                     life is to entertain the public of Beirut with traditional romances of the
                     country. Where people read but little, they make up in some measure for the
                     deficiency by talking and listening a good deal. This is especially the case
                     with the Orientals. In the absence of a general circulation of newspapers, of
                     printed histories of wars, philosophical essays on man, and books of travel,
                     they must have professional story-tellers, or romancers; that is to say, men
                     whose regular business it is to deal in tradition or fiction. Throughout the
                     whole East there is not a more important personage than the story-teller, or
                     one who wields a greater influence upon the public mind. He is a walking
                     newspaper, a living history, a breathing essay, a personified book of travels,
                     which evolves its stores of knowledge on self-acting principles. As such, being
                     considered a responsible agent, he is entitled to the confidence of the
                     community, and generally enjoys it to the fullest extent. The more marvelous
                     his stories are, the greater credit they obtain; the more rabid his political
                     satires, the greater his circulation; the more incomprehensible his theories
                     and illustrations of human life, the profounder his philosophy. He is always a
                     popular character, and is indispensable at every smoking-house. The grandest
                     Pashas listen to him with profound attention; the morals which he points and
                     the tales which he adorns find their way even into the sacred precincts of the
                     Harem. In the highest circles and in the lowest his traditions and anecdotes
                     are swallowed with avidity. Men who have listened for years to the same stories
                     and the same jokes, continue to listen for years again with undiminished
                     delight, and always applaud at the same points and laugh at the same strokes of
                     wit. No child of ten years, in our cold clime of common sense, could devour his
                     first fairy-tale or ghost-story with half the delight that an Arab grandfather
                     devours the oft-told romances of the old story-teller.
                  The way I happened to take Ben-Hozain's portrait was this: One afternoon I rode
                     out with our dragoman to the pine grove, where the towns-people go to smoke the
                     narguilla and display their feats of horsemanship, and where I had already
                     displayed some feats of horsemanship myself. It was shady and pleasant under
                     the trees, and I dismounted and amused myself taking a view of a Syrian
                     coffee-house, near which were seated
                     a number of Turks, Greeks, and Arabs, in all their picturesque varieties of
                     costume. An old man sat in the midst of the group, chanting at the highest
                     pitch of his voice the famous romance of the White Princess and the Grand
                     Vizier. Sometimes in the excitement of the love parts he screamed, and
                     sometimes pretended to faint; and when he was depicting the more tragic parts,
                     where there was murder and suicide, he howled like a hyena, and counterfeited
                     all the agonies of death in a most thrilling manner. When he got over the
                     principal difficulties, he moderated down into a species of billing and cooing,
                     winking and ogling, that reminded me forcibly of representations that I had
                     seen of the passions in the Astor Place Opera House. I could not but think that
                     nature had intended Ben-Hozain to grace the boards of that establishment, and
                     delight an appreciating audience of the Upper Ten, his delineation of the
                     passions was so exquisitely extravagant. Struck with the picturesque raggedness
                     of his costume, and the length of his grizzled mustache, I began to sketch him.
                     Gradually the listeners dropped off one by one, and gathered around me to look
                     into the mysteries of the art. All kinds of queer remarks were made, of which
                     Yusef gave me a running interpretation. "That's Ben-Hozain," said one; "don't
                     you see how the Howadji puts down his nose?" "And his eyes!" adds another. "And
                     his mustache!" cries a third. "Tahib!" Good. "Adjaib!" Wonderful. "What a
                     sublime genius the Howadji has!" "Tell Ben-Hozain," said I, "to come a little
                     closer, and you shall see him on this paper just as he lives and breathes!"
                     "Adjaib!" Wonderful. "This way, Hozain; the Howadji wants you!" But Hozain had
                     no notion of being interrupted in his story. He went on even louder than before
                     on the subject of the White Princess. "By Allah!" cried the Arabs, "he shall
                     come! Hozain must be done on paper!" With which two stout fellows ran over to
                     where he sat, seized him on each side by the mustache, and hauled him up before
                     me. He was the most comical and good-humored old gentleman imaginable; his face
                     was covered with wrinkles and the stubbles of a white beard, and he seemed
                     quite delighted at affording merriment to the crowd. Here you have him just as
                     he sat, with his mustache in full; his eyes twinkling with fun, and a tradition
                     in every wrinkle of his mouth. So pleased was he with his appearance on paper
                     that he put his name to the sketch. The Arabs were all in ecstasies, and begged
                     me to take them one and all; but, there being about thirty of them, I had to
                     decline, on the plea of having important business to attend to that
                     evening.
                  As I was going away, the old story-teller looked wistfully at me. "Well," said
                     I, "what do you want now, my friend?"
                  "Backshish," said he.
                  "For what? I'm going to put you in a book. Isn't that backshish enough?"
                  "But I'll never see the book. I'd rather have the backshish now."
                  "That's strange, Hozain. Have you no pride in the honor of the thing? Think of
                     the fame it will give you! Ben-Hozain will be known in the remotest corners of
                     America."
                  "Ah, Grand Seignor, Sultan of the United States, Ben-Hozain is already the
                     victim of fame. For more than forty years have I told stories for the public
                     good; Sultans have praised me, Pashas have applauded my romances, beautiful
                     ladies have wept over my love passages, yet here I am, as you see, with scarce
                     a rag on my back. When I'm dead, I don't know that they'll take the trouble to
                     bury me."
                  "Well, Hozain, I'm sorry to hear so bad an account of your people. In America
                     we take a great deal of trouble about our benefactors after they die. We often
                     spend more money in feasting over their graves and celebrating their virtues
                     than would have made them comfortable during life. Your patrons must be very
                     ungrateful, and as a mark of my contempt for such ingratitude, I shall give you
                     the backshish you require. How much will it take to make you happy?"
                  "Only two piasters, O sublime Howadji! On that amount of money, Ben-Hozain can
                     be the happiest man upon earth, for he can drink the Coffee of Delight and
                     smoke the Pipe of Content for a week!"
                  "Very well, take this piece of silver, five piasters (twenty-two two cents). And remember (said I, proudly,) that
                     in America we never neglect men who live by their talents. We subscribe to
                     their newspapers, read their books, profit by their labors, and when they are
                     dead pay them—a great deal of respect."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  THE CEDARS OF LEBANON.
                  IT was our good fortune to become acquainted during our brief sojourn in
                     Beirut, with a young English gentleman, chief officer of an Oriental Steamer,
                     who having a couple of months to spare, agreed to join us in our tour through
                     Syria. His good-humor and intelligence rendered him an invaluable acquisition
                     to our party.
                  Leaving Beirut in the latter part of November, we passed, not far beyond the
                     suburbs, the spot pointed out as the scene of the remarkable battle between St.
                     George and the dragon, and soon after crossed the pass of Xerxes. The road lay
                     along the sea beach, which extends to the rocky point, five or six miles from
                     the town, called the Roman Pass. On the rocks to the right of the road are some
                     Latin inscriptions carved in tablets, and in some places the remains of
                     basso-relievos. Farther on a few miles we descended into the beautiful little
                     valley of El Kelb, or Dog River, where stand the remains of a bridge built by
                     the Romans. Silk is manufactured to some extent in this country, and our road
                     frequently lay through flourishing plantations of mulberry. The ground is
                     cultivated in a rude manner most of the way along the shores of Syria, and we
                     passed through many small fields of sugar-cane, irrigated by water from the
                     mountain streams, which is conducted in narrow walled ditches through the
                     fields. Covered as the whole face of the country is with stones, yet the tilled
                     parts are apparently fertile and yield abundant crops. On the slopes of Mount
                     Lebanon are many small villages, similar to those met with throughout Syria.
                     The houses are but one story high, built of stone, with flat mud roofs, and at
                     a distance tance have the appearance
                     of mud boxes put out on the hills to dry. The village of Zuk, which we passed
                     at a distance, is prettily situated, but is like all other Syrian villages, a
                     wretched abode of men, women, and vermin. We met on the road several of those
                     strange beings the Druses, a religious sect wearing a costume peculiar to
                     themselves. The headdress of the women points upward like an immense horn,
                     about two feet long; the men wore an indescribable dress of ragged robes,
                     picturesque at first sight, but not to be too closely scrutinized. The Druses
                     inhabit the country chiefly around Mount Lebanon and the neighborhood, and
                     sprung originally from the Kamiathians, one of the Mohammedan sects. We met
                     also during the afternoon several Pashas and their retinues of servants, coming
                     from Damascus and Tripoli, and occasionally traveling merchants with their
                     caravans of merchandise, bound to Beirut from Aleppo and other interior towns.
                     About four miles beyond the valley of El Kelb, we came to another beautiful
                     little valley, sheltered by high mountains, running down to the sea-shore,
                     where there is a small harbor, which our guide informed us was occupied by the
                     British forces after the storming of Beirut in 1841. Here is situated the
                     village of Juna; and the mountain sides are dotted with small houses and
                     terraced with stone walls to a considerable height, the most unpromising
                     patches of tillable ground being thus made available. Yusef soon had our tent
                     up in the midst of a young orchard of mulberry trees; and it was not long
                     before we had on our table a good supper of chicken, rice, preserves, and
                     coffee; for, in justice to our dragoman, I must not omit to mention that he fed
                     us in excellent style, and gave us so many luxuries in the way of tables,
                     bedsteads, chairs, napkins, and different courses of plate, that the poor mules
                     were quite laden down, and we were obliged to protest against this effeminate
                     style of living, especially as we soon found it to be at the expense of time,
                     an important object with us at this season. Contrasted with the sort of
                     traveling to which I had been accustomed in California, it was ridiculously
                     civilized, and made me feel much less independent than when I coursed through
                     the plains of the Ojitas and San José with nothing but my mule and saddle-bags,
                     and slept under the trees. Coffee and chiboucks finished the evening. The
                     clouds had been threatening for some time, and, before we were comfortably in
                     bed, they began to pour down upon us such a torrent of rain that we soon found
                     the tent but a poor protection, and the wind blew in gusts so sudden and
                     violent that we momentarily expected to be covered up in a ruin of canvas. At
                     last we had to make a retreat to a khan down on the beach, where we were
                     fortunate enough to get a tolerable room. The khans, or houses for the
                     accommodation of travelers throughout Syria, are usually large stone buildings,
                     without furniture, and filthy to an extreme. Of course Frank travelers only
                     resort to them when the weather does not permit of living in tents; and many
                     prefer suffering from cold and rain to encountering the vermin with which the
                     khans are infested. It is always best, however, when the season is at all
                     unfavorable, to sleep in houses; for whatever may be the inconveniences of
                     living among mules, asses, fleas, and smoking Arabs, they are not so great as
                     those of sickness in a foreign land, where no assistance can be had. Many a
                     traveler has laid his bones in Syria in consequence of wet nights and sunshiny
                     days. We here took the precaution, as in all future cases, to have the first
                     layer of fleas swept out, leaving the partially dormant layer below; and thus
                     we commenced our first night of Syrian travel. For hours I lay musing over the
                     many scenes I had passed through during the last few years, but the fitful
                     moaning of the wind, mingled with the measured break of the surf upon the
                     beach, at length lulled me to sleep, and I slept well by their familiar music.
                     It rained hard most of the night. Toward morning the wind had moderated, yet
                     several small vessels in the port hove up their anchors and stood out to sea as
                     if they expected worse weather. This was not a cheering prospect for our
                     contemplated tour. We had, in starting from the khan, the first trial of
                     patience to which, in common with all who travel in the East, we were doomed to
                     be frequently subjected—I mean the loss of time. The Arabs, Turks, and indeed
                     all the Oriental races, are singularly independent of time; in fact, with the exception of its use in
                     estimating distances, they appear to have no knowledge of its value whatever.
                     We were to have started at six, but it was nine before we got rightly under
                     way.
                  Our Arab muleteers were slow, and although Yusef swore himself completely out
                     of breath, and to the best of my knowledge entirely exhausted the vocabulary of
                     strong expressions in Arabic, they made no effort to hurry the matter in the
                     least. On the contrary, I was rather struck with the resigned manner in which
                     they bore his violent reproaches and ferocious denunciations, and the cool air
                     with which they puffed their chiboucks after the slightest exertion. On the
                     beach, as we passed along through the village of Juna, we observed the wreck of
                     a vessel—one of the many driven ashore on this coast every winter. In Beirut we
                     were told that not less than eight or ten were lost in this way every winter;
                     the coast of Syria from Tripoli to Damietta affording no secure harbor for
                     shipping. The road beyond Juna to the next point or pass we found rocky and
                     precipitous, much like what we had passed, only still more tiresome. It should
                     be borne in mind that roads in Syria are not like the roads we are accustomed
                     to at home, which, bad as they are compared with the roads through Italy, have
                     yet some pretensions to the name; but here to dignify them by such a name is a
                     complete perversion of the word. The bridle paths of Switzerland are
                     magnificent highways compared with them, and in thus speaking of them I merely
                     adopt the ordinary language of travelers. I have seen nothing like them except
                     in crossing the Isthmus of Panama; imagine that Isthmus extended an indefinite
                     number of miles, and you have some idea of Syrian roads. Fortunately, the
                     horses of this country are remarkable for their sureness of foot and powers of
                     endurance.
                  Not far beyond Juna is the bed of a river called El Mahmilton, over which is
                     the arch of an old Roman bridge, conspicuous for its massive proportions and
                     fine architectural style. Nothing remained of the river but its bed, most of
                     the streams throughout the country having been dried by the long and
                     uninterrupted drought for the last eight months. In the winter, this stream is
                     no doubt swollen to something like a river by the mountain torrents, although
                     in speaking of rivers here, as indeed throughout Europe and the East, it is not
                     to be supposed that what we call rivers in America are meant Every little creek
                     in the Old World is dignified by the name of river, and every duck-pond is
                     called a lake.
                  It would be necessary to go beyond the limits of a mere journal of incidents to
                     give an account of the country for the next three days. We stopped at Djbel,
                     Batroum, and Tripoli, long enough to see each town pretty thoroughly, and make
                     some sketches, and on the third day commenced our ascent of Mount Lebanon.
                  
                     
                        CASTLE OF DJBEL.
                     
                  
                  At Aheden, claimed by some authorities as the Garden of Eden, we were obliged
                     to take a guide, the path being altogether obliterated in some of the
                     table-grounds by recent floods of rain. As we approached the cedars we went
                     down into a ravine, and soon after passed along the ledge of a profound gorge,
                     extending to the depth of several hundred feet. A village lage, distant by Syrian measurement two hours
                     from Aheden, lies on the left of the gorge, not far from which is a celebrated
                     grotto, visited by many of the pilgrims as a place of peculiar interest. Our
                     time, however, being limited, we pushed on, and in another hour entered the
                     celebrated grove of cedars—a mere patch of green in the bare and desert hollow
                     of the mountains. It was cold and gloomy within the shadowy inclosure, and
                     quite deserted. Not a living thing was to be seen, and all was silent as death,
                     save an occasional plaintive note from some lonesome bird among the branches.
                     Entering by a ravine below, we ascended some distance among the younger growth
                     of trees till we reached an elevation a few hundred yards higher up, upon which
                     stands a rude stone chapel, built by some of the Frank monks, in the midst of
                     the ancient grove, and still used by Christian pilgrims in their annual visits
                     of devotion. There are twelve veteran and storm-beaten trees pointed out as the
                     original cedars of Lebanon; and the best authorities, I believe, concur in
                     admitting these to be the veritable cedars referred to in the Scriptures.
                     Certainly they bear every indication of extraordinary antiquity; and there is
                     no reason to doubt that they existed in very remote ages. From these have
                     sprung, during the lapse of centuries, the surrounding grove, consisting of
                     nearly four hundred trees of various degrees of antiquity, but all of the same
                     species. The chapel was quite deserted, the priests having left some days
                     before for the more genial climate of Tripoli. It is the custom for all the
                     inhabitants of the vicinity to depart for the valleys below on the approach of
                     winter, which is very severe and protracted at this elevation. Our guide
                     pointed out the height to which the snow reached during the previous winter on
                     some of the trees, and we judged it to be not less than twenty feet. It often
                     covers the walls of the chapel entirely up to the roof, completely blocking up
                     all means of ingress and exit. At such a time, of course, it would be very
                     difficult, if not altogether impracticable, to exist in this region; but, if we
                     are to credit the strange histories related to us by our Arabs, it has been
                     done by the aid of miracles, and may be done again. Eleas, one of our
                     interpreters, assured us that there was once a dark man who came over from a
                     distant country, and who, in consequence of having committed a great sin, was
                     resolved to expiate his offense by starving himself to death in the hollow of
                     one of the old cedars. There he fixed his abode, and prayed in secret, and such
                     was the efficacy of his prayers, that he subsisted for two years on nourishing
                     waters that were sent down to him from the branches of the tree by miraculous
                     power; and he suffered neither from heat nor from cold, but at the expiration
                     of his voluntary penance took his departure, and returned a happy man to his
                     own country. To render the story strictly credible, the hollow was pointed out
                     to us, and Eleas, who was a Christian of the Greek Church, said his prayers
                     under the shadow of the old cedar. With other strange narratives of a similar
                     kind the simple natives entertained us, while we sat down under the
                     wide-branching trees, spread our cloth upon the ground, and refreshed ourselves
                     after the ride from Aheden.
                  As soon as we had finished our repast, we set out to make a more thorough
                     examination of the ancient cedars, or the original twelve, in which the chief
                     interest is centred. It required no great research to convince us of their
                     great age, which is strikingly apparent in their gnarled and time-worn trunks.
                     Many of the branches have become sapless, and are fast rotting away; others are
                     broken off by the force of many tempests, or have fallen of their own accord
                     from sheer old age; new ones have sprung out, and young shoots continue to
                     supply the ravages worked by time; the trunks are of vast circumference, and
                     are composed of divers parts consolidated, some of them perhaps the growth of
                     different ages: All the old trees and many of the younger ones have large
                     pieces cut out of their trunks, upon which are carved the names of visitors who
                     from time to time have been attracted to this remote region. Among these I
                     noticed the name of Lamartine, said to have been carved by an Arab while the
                     great sentimentalist was going into ecstasies in his comfortable quarters
                     below. There were several American names, but none of very recent date—only two
                     within two years. In the register which is kept on the altar of the chapel I
                     saw several English, French, and
                     Oriental names. Some of the remarks were curious enough. One gentleman, who
                     probably imagined the cedars to be yellow or pink, with crimson tops, like
                     those in the panoramas, says he visited the Cedars of Lebanon, and was greatly
                     disappointed. Another traveler states that he could see much larger und finer
                     trees at home without trouble or expense. What any body expects to see except
                     the Cedars of Lebanon, I am at a loss to conceive. One does not travel three
                     days over bad roads to witness a raree-show, or see simply a few cedar-trees
                     because they are cedars; but, if I understand it, the object is to see the
                     Cedars of Lebanon mentioned in the Scriptures; and there they are without
                     doubt. They can be seen by any body who has eyes to see. It is true they are
                     only cedars, but they are very wonderful, as well from their great antiquity as
                     from the Scriptural interest attached to them.
                  Messrs. Lansing and Burnett, American missionaries at Damascus, visited this
                     region last summer, and carefully counted the cedars, both old and young. They
                     also made some measurements of a very interesting character. The entire grove,
                     according to their estimate, consists of four hundred trees; the average
                     circumference of the original twelve is about twenty-five feet, and one was
                     found to measure upward of thirty. The trunks of the more ancient cedars do not
                     rise to any great height before they branch out into enormous limbs, commencing
                     ten or fifteen feet from the ground, some perhaps twenty feet. The branches are
                     very crooked and tortuous, partly decayed, as before stated, and gnarled with
                     the frosts and tempests of ages. It is said that no other specimens of the kind
                     are found in any part of the world, except such as have been transplanted from
                     this grove; but Messrs. Lansing and Burnett ascertained to their entire
                     satisfaction that other cedars of the same species do exist in the mountains of
                     Syria. The wood is white, and has a pleasant perfume; and to this odor
                     reference is made in the Scriptures. It is not stronger, however, than the
                     scent of the ordinary red cedar, perhaps less apparent.
                  From the front of the chapel there is a very fine view of the valley below,
                     extending entirely to the sea. The reefs opposite Ras Tripoli are distinctly
                     visible on a clear day. Computed by the time required for the ascent, the
                     distance must be about thirty miles from the town of Tripoli. From Beirut it
                     requires three days, at the usual rate of travel, to reach the cedars, but it
                     is not difficult to accomplish the task in less. To Baalbek, across the valley
                     of Bukaa, on the other side of Mount Lebanon, is another good day's ride.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  BAALBEK.
                  BEFORE we left that celebrated grove, we provided ourselves with a good supply
                     of relics. At first we were loth to touch a single twig of those sacred old
                     trees, which had braved the tempests for centuries; but our guides told us that
                     thousands of native pilgrims come from all parts of the country every year, and
                     carry away whole loads of seeds and branches, without the least compunctions of
                     conscience; in fact, that the pruning did them good. With such a precedent,
                     made more certain by the aid of a little backshish, we followed the example of other, pilgrims, and got
                     the Arabs to cut us some walking-sticks and knock down some burrs, both of
                     which I hope to see flourishing in Washington one of these days.
                  From the Cedars up to the summit of Mount Lebanon, by the way of the pass that
                     leads into the valley of Bukaa, is nearly two hours of very laborious climbing.
                     It was not long before sunset when we reached the highest part of the ridge.
                     Our horses were pretty well tired down, and ourselves rather the worse of the
                     wear, having walked most of the way from Aheden. The altitude of this part of
                     the mountain we supposed to be about six thousand feet. As yet there was no
                     snow visible on any part of it. The air was sharp and clear, but not
                     unpleasantly cold. Tired as we were, after our hard day's journey, we could not
                     but stop a while to enjoy the view. It was really one of those splendid sights
                     which even a traveler, whose life is spent among the beauties of nature, is
                     privileged to enjoy but once or twice in the course of existence. On the one
                     hand the valley of Aheden, through which we had been ascending for nearly two
                     days, stretched down till it appeared to mingle with the mists of the ocean at
                     the shores of Tripoli; on the other the magnificent plain of Bukaa, bounded in
                     the distance by the mountains of Anti-Lebanon, at the base of which, sparkling
                     in the rays of the setting sun, were distinctly visible the minaret of the
                     mosque and the ruins of Baalbek; while far down in the valley of Bukaa, to the
                     right as we faced the plain, gleamed the bright waters of the Litany, and
                     across the deep gorges at our feet were cast the shadows of the lofty peaks of
                     Lebanon—a vast and impressive scene, within a single sweep of the eye, sterile,
                     waste, and desolate, but sublime in its weird simplicity. It brought to mind,
                     with the vividness of reality, those grand pictures of primeval scenery drawn
                     in the sacred writings; and the lapse of ages seemed now but the lapse of
                     years, passed in a dream. It was like returning after an absence to some long
                     known haunt of youth; for the words of the sacred book, the first impressed
                     upon the memory, were here a sublime reality.
                  As we descended toward the plain of Bukaa, driving our horses before us, my
                     self-willed old charger, Saladin, took a notion not to be driven down, so lie
                     walked up on all possible occasions. In vain I hurled missiles at his head; in
                     vain I begged him not to be foolish; in vain I tried to make him understand
                     that he was only doubling the distance, as he would eventually be compelled to
                     turn back again; it was all to no purpose. Up again to the top of Mount Lebanon
                     he would go, after the most persevering resistance, half way down; and at last
                     he ran away full speed over rocks that seemed quite inaccessible. I had long
                     suspected Saladin of a sentimental turn of mind, and was now convinced that he
                     only wanted to enjoy another view of the sunset; but it was too late, the sun
                     had disappeared and it was fast getting dark. So I darted after him, and the
                     chase became quite exciting. Never skipped a goat with more agility than that
                     slab-sided old horse. It was fully half an hour before I could catch him, and
                     it was then so dark that I found myself lost. Neither muleteers nor guides were
                     to be seen. I shouted till I could
                     shout no longer, but there was no answer. At last, after tumbling, sliding, and
                     jumping down precipices, till it seemed as if I had reached the sloping-off
                     place of the world, I heard the voices of my friends below. It was evident we
                     must spend the night here, for Baalbek was still six hours distant. The guides
                     and muleteers were nowhere to be seen, and we consoled ourselves with the
                     notion that they had run off with our baggage. After wandering about in the
                     dark for some time we came to the ruins of a village, without a living soul
                     about it. In the hollow a little below the ruins we encamped for the night, our
                     missing Arabs having at length made their appearance. There is a cave here,
                     said to have been not more than a few years since the abode of a large band of
                     those mountain robbers who infest the country. Of late, however, they have not
                     found their business profitable, and they only commit occasional depredations.
                     Our dragoman said he could put to flight any gang of robbers in Syria
                     single-handed, such was the terror in which he was held. He certainly carried
                     pistols and knives enough about his person to kill a good many; but it was not
                     at all dangerous to be shot at by Yusef, for I saw him shoot a good many times
                     and never knew him to hit any thing. The cave was a very nice place for
                     robbers, pleasantly situated, with large trees in front, and a fine spring of
                     water within a hundred yards. At present it is a place of resort for goats and
                     benighted travelers. We lit a fire near the entrance, erected our tent under
                     some fine old chestnut trees, and slept soundly all night in spite of the cold,
                     which was very keen. Next morning there was snow visible on the tops of the
                     mountains.
                  Yusef having threatened to whip all the Arabs again (for he had already whipped
                     them two or three times), got them to work at an early hour, and, by the force
                     of much talk and desperate flourishing of the stick, they were all ready with
                     their mules as soon as we had finished breakfast. Pushing on rapidly for
                     Baalbek, we were soon made sensible of the deceptive nature of distances from a
                     very high point of view On the preceding evening, from the summit of Mount
                     Lebanon, the plain of Bukaa, reaching to the ruins of Baalbek, appeared to
                     commence at the place of our encampment, and to continue with an almost
                     unbroken surface to the base of the Anti-Lebanon range; but now it seemed as if
                     we were scarcely more than half way down. The road from the ruined village is
                     through a very rocky and broken region, studded over with patches of scrub-oak
                     bushes, and altogether uncultivated. The only signs of habitation we saw were a
                     few miserable huts rudely built of loose stones, the back part being against a
                     hill or mound of earth, and the front barely high enough to admit of a doorway.
                     These wretched hovels are inhabited by a swarthy and half-savage race of Arabs,
                     who live on the flesh and milk of goats, many flocks of which we saw browsing
                     among the rocks. In fact, goats, sheep, dogs, men, women, and children seem to
                     live together upon terms of perfect equality. They were the most uncivilized
                     people we had yet seen, and we had seen a good many on the road from
                     Tripoli.
                  It was evident that but few travelers in our style of costume had been in the
                     habit of passing, from the apparent astonishment which our appearance created.
                     Some women at one of the huts laughed so immoderately that we were induced to
                     ask them, through our dragoman, what was the occasion of their mirth. Why, said
                     they, we never saw people before with saucepans on their heads for turbans. Do
                     the Christians all wear saucepans? The shape of our trowsers also afforded much
                     merriment. "Don't you burst when you sit down?" they asked, and this sally of
                     wit was so irresistible that we could hear their shouts of laughter long after
                     we had passed. Following for several hours down the course of a small stream,
                     we at length reach in good earnest the plain of Bukaa. This magnificent valley
                     stretches on the left, as we faced Baalbek, as far as we could see; on the
                     right it seemed to merge into a sea of bright water studded with islands, the
                     reflection of which appeared in its surface as distinctly as if it was in
                     reality a sea or lake, reminding me forcibly of the Salinas plains in
                     California. In fact there was much in the general character of this part of
                     Syria to bring up reminiscences of California. The two great ranges of
                        mountains, Lebanon and
                     Anti-Lebanon, skirting the plain; the vast extent of the view on all sides; the
                     genial sky and bracing atmosphere; the long lines of mules, with their packs,
                     winding over the distant hill-sides; the trails diverging in all directions;
                     the parched and stern character of the scenery, were not unlike an autumn view
                     in the Valley of San José or San Juan, and still more like the Valley of
                     Salinas. But here the resemblance ceases. There is nothing in Syria to remind
                     one of the indomitable energy, the life, vigor, and spirit of progress so
                     strikingly apparent in California. Whatever the plain of Bukaa may have been in
                     the days of the splendor of Heliopolis, it is now a barren waste, dotted over
                     with ruined villages, and of a most melancholy aspect. Portions of it are still
                     cultivated in a rude manner; and we were told it was susceptible of being made
                     to produce good wheat. It is almost entirely destitute of wood and water, and
                     the villages stand out nakedly in the full blaze of an eastern sun. Far in the
                     distance we saw a single column, a tall solitary object on the broad waste,
                     standing like some lonely sentinel to remind the traveler that this land was
                     not always thus desolate. There is a tradition among the Arabs that this column
                     was carried thither after the destruction of Baalbek, on the shoulders of a
                      woman, who placed it where it now stands to commemorate the death of
                     her lover, who was slain on the spot. Her back must have been strong, as well
                     as her love, for on a nearer inspection we found the column to be nearly if not
                     quite as high as Pompey's Pillar. Though of ancient material, so far as we
                     could judge, the blocks of stone had evidently been put together in their
                     present position at a more recent date. It stands on an immense pedestal,
                     loosely built, and many of the stoned appear to have been thrown out of place
                     by some convulsion of nature. The lower block forming the base is broken nearly
                     to the middle, the gap having the appearance of being purposely made to destroy
                     the column by a fall. It is miraculous how it has so long resisted the force of
                     the winds, which sometimes blow with great violence on this plain.
                  In about an hour more we reached a miserable village, in sight of the ruins of
                     Baalbek, where we stopped to lunch. This was the worst specimen of a Syrian
                     village we had yet seen. There was a pond of green water close by from which
                     the stench was insufferable; and as to the huts, they were literally
                     goat-houses, filthy and poverty-stricken to a degree that can not be conceived;
                     many of them being mere holes cut in the mud-banks partially walled up. The
                     inhabitants corresponded well with the village, being a ragged, unwashed,
                     squalid set of vagabonds, as lazy as Arabs can be, but, like all the Orientals,
                     of handsome features and picturesque, and dignified in their rags. Every man,
                     with his turban and chibouck and fine beard, was a living picture. Of the women
                     I can not say so much. They were coarse and ugly enough, and so covered up in
                     dirty rags that the effect was more in distance than proximity. The Sheik was a
                     dignified old man, who sat in front of his hovel smoking with the quiet air of
                     a Pasha or Sultan. And here, let me observe, that I have seldom seen an Arab or
                     Turk of any rank above the mere dregs of society who was not a model of good
                     manners; never evincing any thing like awkwardness in the presence of his
                     superiors, or self-sufficiency over his inferiors. The Sheiks of the villages
                     dress quite as plainly as the best of the ordinary classes and can only be
                     distinguished by the deference shown them by the people generally. In their
                     administration of justice they seem to be actuated by a desire to economize
                     their power by settling all difficulties amicably, and on the principles of
                     common sense. Law is here divested of its tautology, for it is merely an
                     accepted standard of right and wrong recognized by the mass of the community
                     traditionally; and the Sheik who acts with undue severity, or who is governed
                     by inequitable or selfish motives, soon loses all power, and his mandates are disregarded. These
                     village governments are in fact petty republics, though nominally founded and
                     conducted on the principle of hereditary despotisms. This has reference,
                     however, only to their municipal economy; they are all under the sway of the
                     Pashas who govern the large cities in virtue of the powers given them from the
                     Sublime Porte. Strictly as the women were watched, they could not restrain
                     their curiosity, but crowded around us the moment we entered the village. Their
                     sovereign lords now and then sharply reproved them, and added force to the
                     reproof, when it was too often disregarded, by a sharp slap on the side of the
                     head. As usual our dragoman went to the best looking hut, where he procured us
                     a tolerably clean mat, and spread it near the door on a sort of mud seat. Here
                     we were surrounded by all the idlers in the village. Our manner of eating
                     excited the most undisguised astonishment, especially the use of knives and
                     forks, which from the chatter of tongues we imagined to be the subject of much
                     interesting speculation. Every mouthful was watched from its incipient carving
                     to the cutting upon the plate, the trip on the fork to the mouth, its
                     disappearance and mastication there, and final passage down the throat, and
                     presumed lodgment in the stomach. The salting and peppering, the nice turning
                     over with the fork, seemed to be regarded as a miracle of dexterity. Ill
                     suppressed Mashallas were heard whenever two
                     pieces could be pinned together and made to disappear at the same time. Yusef
                     was greatly mortified at this annoyance, and told us it was not the Arab
                     fashion, but that these poor devils were no better than Kelb, or dogs, and had never seen Christians eat before. He took
                     particular pains to assure us that respectable Arabs, whom he claimed as his
                     countrymen, had as much delicacy about looking at people while eating as any
                     Europeans.
                  Before reaching the village, we had an indistinct view of the columns of the
                     grand Temple of the Sun; but it was not until we had approached to within a few
                     miles that the whole magnificent pile of ruins and columns loomed up in
                     distinct outline against the slopes of Anti-Lebanon.
                  It was a soft pleasant evening as we entered the outer walls, and drew up our
                     horses before the castle. Like the Acropolis at Athens, all else seemed nothing
                     compared with the glorious Temple of the Sun. How grandly it towers amid the
                     desolation of ruins! rising in all its majesty from the mighty monuments that
                     lie mouldering around it, with its yet magnificent columns standing out in bold
                     relief against the mountains; its massive walls unshaken by the tempests of
                     ages, its magic ornaments still the perfection of beauty. Looking upward
                     through the mass of ruins, the rugged outline of the mountains was bathed in
                     the rays of the setting sun, and the whole heavens glowed with soft colors. Far
                     across the broad wastes of the valley of Bukaa were miniature islands and
                     solitary trees, reflected in its surface, and long trains of camels passing on
                     their weary way, and the hoary peaks of Mount Lebanon towering high above
                     all.
                  While Yusef went into the village to search for quarters, we rode around the
                     ruins, more and more confounded with the vast extent and elaborate
                     architectural finish of this magnificent pile. All the associations of the
                     place contribute to inspire the mind with glowing conceptions of the ancient
                     splendor of Baalbek; when those walls of massive stone were perfect; when those
                     broken columns, prostrate now—save a few that stand to show how great the wreck
                     has been—had each a place; when those massive cornices, so exquisite in their
                     finish, those friezes and capitals, wrought with such masterly skill, formed a
                     perfect whole; when the glorious Temple of the Sun stood untouched by the
                     scathing hand of time or the ravages of war, and Baalbek was the glory and the
                     pride of Assyria—such were the associations that filled the mind as we gazed
                     upon this mighty wreck of matter.
                  Of the origin of Baalbek I believe very little is known. It has been the
                     current belief among the Arabs for many generations that the Temple of the Sun
                     and all the surrounding edifices were built by genii; and in proof of this they
                     point to the immense stones high up in the walls, and ask what human power
                     could have placed them there? The Jews say it was built by Solomon; and it is
                     thought by some that the castle was
                     an impregnable fortress, which Solomon called the Tower of Lebanon. The Greeks
                     believe it to be Nicomedia, where Santa Barbara suffered martyrdom. Pierre
                     Belon, a French traveler, who visited Baalbek in 1548, considered it to be the
                     ancient Cesarea Philippi, where St. Paul makes mention of having been. Some
                     believe it to be the ancient Palmyra; which, however, is now well known to be
                     four days distant. The most reliable authorities agree in the opinion that
                     Baalbek is the ancient Heliopolis.
                  I was not disappointed in the ruins of Baalbek, and this is saying a good deal.
                     There is very little to be seen in the old world that does not produce
                     disappointment; for I believe any traveler who is willing to confess the truth
                     will admit that reading about places of this kind at home and seeing them with
                     the naked eye are altogether different things. The ruins of Baalbek are among
                     the few sights one sees in the East that will bear the test of scrutiny; the
                     more they are studied the greater is the admiration they excite; and if one can
                     not go into the sentimentalities of Lamartine, he will see enough at least to
                     afford both pleasure and wonder.
                  Modern Baalbek is totally unworthy the name it bears. I had imagined it to be
                     something like Beirut, or in any event not inferior to Tripoli; but the fact
                     is, it is a miserable village, not much better than the meanest collection of
                     hovels we had seen on the road. A few scattered and ruinous stone huts, with
                     flat mud roofs, the walls broken, and the stones scattered in piles through the
                     narrow and filthy lanes, two or three dilapidated mosques, and a Greek convent,
                     constitute nearly all that exists of Baalbek, exclusive of the ancient temples.
                     Travelers, in consequence of the difficulty of procuring accommodation in any
                     of the Mohammedan houses, are generally compelled to camp outside, or seek for
                     quarters in the Greek convent, which is about as tempting as a comfortable
                     pig-sty. The hill-sides are covered with the ruins of the ancient walls, and
                     the whole town is so dilapidated that it is difficult to distinguish the houses
                     from the general wreck. Many portions of the ancient ruins are built in among
                     the hovels, forming a curious melange of the sublime and the ridiculous culous.
                     In the midst of mud-roofed huts may be seen standing out in solitary relief the
                     remains of a beautiful Corinthian column; and over some miserable doorway the
                     choicest specimen of a cornice, supported by blocks of rough stone. Some of the
                     inhabitants, loth to destroy the work of the genii, have built their huts
                     around the standing columns, scattered here and there, so that in projecting
                     through the roof they form a very pretty ornament. Old arches and gateways are
                     so patched up and remodeled that little else save the material remains to show
                     their origin. The principal mosque is evidently all, or nearly all, rebuilt
                     from the ruins of some ancient edifice, portions of it being so put together as
                     to destroy all the harmony of the different parts. I believe this is the work
                     of the Turks; it looks very much as if it was done by people who were ignorant
                     of the difference between a column and a cornice.
                  From an elevation a little beyond the chief ruins there is a fine view of the
                     Castle of Baalbek and the Temple of the Sun. These are the principal objects of
                     interest. I made a sketch of them, which is now before me; but I can not
                     undertake to describe them. It is a mighty mass of ruins of walls, of columns,
                     and towers—a picture of desolation made more desolate by all that survives the
                     ravages of time. The castle, or palace, is a long rambling edifice, composed of
                     immense walls and mouldering towers; parts of it have probably been rebuilt by
                     the Saracens, and some recent patching in white seems to have been done by the
                     Turks, who evidently have a great taste for putting columns where cornices
                     belong, and patching up dark old walls composed of immense blocks with little
                     pieces of white stone about a foot square. The enormous size of some of the
                     blocks of stone in the main walls of the palace is one of the chief objects of
                     interest. Three of these, in the wall at the rear of the grand temple, measure
                     sixty feet each, and form together a surface of a hundred and eighty feet in
                     length and fifty-four in width, all of solid stone. Considering the distance
                     these have been carried from the quarry, and the height to which they have been
                     elevated in the wall, it would seem that the people of those days must have had
                     some very powerful mechanical means of overcoming the difficulty.
                  
                  We took an Arab boy of the village with us as a guide, and made a thorough
                     exploration of the ruins. I have an imperfect recollection of long subterranean
                     passages, arched over with tremendous stones, very dark, and full of niches and
                     queer places at the sides, with broken busts of old kings, and ruined
                     ornaments, and dim flashes of light through the openings, and a very strong
                     smell of goats; and this is all that I can tell you of the palace. It was, no
                     doubt, a wonderful place once, and is yet; but it is hard to get all the
                     bearings of it in a day or two. There are hundreds of intricate passages to
                     explore above and below, grand old chambers to see, stairs of solid marble,
                     inscriptions in Roman, marble tombs of old kings or emperors, grand old
                     columns, cornices, and friezes; and I don't know how many other things, to
                     crowd the brain with and confuse the memory.
                  The broken columns on the outside are scattered about in melancholy profusion.
                     Some of the best have been taken away to ornament the mosque of Sultan Soliman
                     in Constantinople; but there is still enough to astonish the beholder. The
                     Doric and the Corinthian orders of architecture are apparent throughout the
                     ruins; the pure and elegant taste of the Greeks prevailing in some parts, and
                     the profuse magnificence of the Romans in others; but always with such an
                     admirable disposition of the parts as to preserve the tone of harmony, and
                     still afford a pleasing variety.
                  The entrance into the Temple of the Sun is one of the grandest things
                     imaginable. It is almost incredible the amount of labor bestowed upon this
                     single part; the curious carving, the basso-relievos, the intricacy and
                     ingenuity of design, and the wonderful delicacy of finish. Over head is an
                     immense block of stone displaced by some convulsion of nature, and it hangs by
                     a few inches on each side, forming a remarkable feature in the ruin. The
                     carving is minute and beautiful; the eagle and the Cupids are universally
                     admired. Chief of all, however, is the frontispiece, consisting of an immense
                     number of figures in basso-relievo, representing the mysteries and sacrifices
                     of Paganism. There is a mass of men and animals, in most Paganistic confusion,
                     very well executed cuted and very strangely designed. Within the walls of the
                     sacred temple are niches where stood in former times statuary, and some
                     beautiful specimens of friezes and other decorations. In order to get on top we
                     were obliged to creep into a little hole near the grand entrance, and ascend by
                     a circular stairway. From the top of the Temple of the Sun we had an imposing
                     view of the ruins that lie in confused masses around. It is in every respect a
                     scene of utter and hopeless desolation. I could not but think with a melancholy
                     interest of the difference between what I now saw, and what stood there in
                     centuries past, when those ruined walls encircled the pride of Assyria; when
                     those parched and arid plains were covered with gardens, and irrigated by
                     fountains and flowing streams; and the heroes, whose deeds have given a romance
                     to Oriental history, moved in triumph there, amid the swell of music and the
                     homage of the multitude. Now what was it? a desert wilderness—a city of
                     crumbling walls, of battered and, time-worn castles, and broken columns—a ruin
                     amid ruins. Camels were browsing lazily on the stunted bushes near the ruins,
                     and groups of Arabs sat smoking on the broken columns; goats ran bleating in
                     and out of the palace-chambers, and the startled crows flew from their nests as
                     we approached. It was ruin every where; the spirit of desolation hung over all,
                     and the proud City of the Sun lay dead in the 
                        "Wide waste of all-devouring years."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXV.
                  YUSEF DANCES THE RAAS.
                  WHILE we were looking at the ruins, Yusef came back from the village, which is
                     a little way off on the slope of the hill, with news that he had found a
                     lodging place for us at the house of his niece. By this time we began to have a
                     suspicion of Yusef's nieces, he had so many all over Syria. At Batroun he had
                     nieces, at Tripoli and Aheden he had nieces, and now here was another at
                     Baalbek, and the strangest part of it was that they were all very pretty.
                     However, as we had no prejudice against beauty, we followed our dragoman up
                     into the village, where we found his niece and her husband living in a stone
                     hut, rather a more decent sort of hovel than most of those in the neighborhood.
                     It was, in truth, a very respectable little stone box covered over with mud,
                     with a place for fire in one corner, and a great many little pockets in the
                     walls all round, where there were stowed onions, tobacco, and sundry small
                     notions for pleasure and sustenance. The host was an Arab of the country, a
                     very good sort of fellow, who seemed to have but two objects in life to
                     accomplish—one to see that his wife kept her face covered, and the other to
                     keep the roof of his house from leaking; I hardly know which troubled him the
                     most. The wife was a pretty buxom young woman, with fine black eyes and a
                     beautiful mouth, which she took every opportunity to display, in spite of the
                     vigilance of our host, who was constantly on the watch, when he was not on the
                     top of the house. He kept a round stone—a piece of an old pillar found among
                     the ruins—which he was almost continually rolling over the top of the house;
                     sometimes he would roll it for an hour, and then come down and look after his
                     wife and smoke his chibouck; but the presentiment was evidently uppermost in
                     his mind that it would rain some time or other, and to work he would go again,
                     hopping all over the roof with one foot while he kept the stone in motion with
                     the other. The poor fellow was actually a victim of conjugal felicity.
                  In traveling through Syria, as in other parts of the world, I always carried my
                     flute with me to relieve the lonely hours at night and excite a social feeling
                     among the natives. I had fluted my way, after the fashion of Goldsmith, through
                     many a difficulty; and now I was resolved to see what the magic of music would
                     do in removing the prejudices of the Arabs. As soon as it was dark we had a
                     good fire lit in the corner, and, pulling off our shoes, as custom required, we
                     spread our mats close by, and sat down cosily to enjoy the cheerful blaze, my
                     friends (the Southerner and the English Captain) smoking their chiboucks, while
                     I brought forth my knapsack and commenced putting the pieces of my flute
                     together. The Arabs, who had begun to crowd in, were greatly interested in the
                     strange instrument that I was getting under way; and Yusef, who was rather
                     proud of his superior civilization, sat by enjoying their remarks and giving us
                     a running interpretation. Some thought it was a sort of pistol, with a large
                     touch hole; but this notion was ridiculed by the more knowing ones, who said it
                     was plain enough to see that it was a new-fashioned pipe, and that they would
                     soon see me put the bowl to it, and begin to smoke. At last I got all the
                     pieces adjusted, and, commanding silence by a mysterious motion of the hand,
                     commenced playing that classical air of "Old Zip Coon," which I
                     dare say never was heard before among the ruins of Baalbek. There was the most
                     breathless attention on all sides, interrupted only by suppressed exclamations
                     of tahib! tahib! (good! good!) whenever I
                     blew a very shrill or false note; and soon the women and children from the
                     neighboring houses began to crowd in, and there was gradually a large circle
                     formed around the room, the audience squatting down in rows, till there was
                     scarcely space enough left to breathe. I blew away with all my might, for not
                     only was I excited by the success of
                     my experiment, but rather inspired by the music I was making, which I assure
                     you was not bad. The familiar airs of home made me sentimental, and I merged
                     into the doleful air of "Give me back my heart again; oh! give it back again!"
                     which was a miserable failure; not a damsel seemed disposed to listen to it.
                     They commenced, in the very middle of the most pathetic strain, to call for the
                     first tune; so I had to return to "Old Zip Coon." When I had concluded, there
                     was no end to the tahibs: Mr. Coon was a
                     decided hit. In order to vary the entertainment, silence was commanded again,
                     and Yusef was desired to explain that there would be a song; that it was a song
                     of an old black gentleman who lived in America, who was a Pasha among the
                     blacks; that he was called Uncle Ned because he was so venerable, and, being
                     very old, the hair all fell out of his head, and there was no hair at all in
                     the place where the hair ought to grow; that he hadn't any eyes to see with,
                     and, consequently, was as blind as a post, or a stone wall, or any thing else
                     that is supposed to be deficient in eyes; that neither had he teeth to eat
                     bread with, and he had to let the bread alone and eat something else; that his
                     fingers were as long as canes in the brake, which was about an average of
                     sixteen feet; and, eventually, that one day when he was out in the field, a
                     horrible monster called Grim Death came along and caught him by the heel and
                     carried him away, and he was never heard of any more except in this song, which
                     was written in commemoration of all these facts. Thereupon, having excited the
                     most profound interest in the history of Uncle Ned, I launched forth into the
                     song, keeping as near the tune as possible, and going through all the motions
                     descriptive of the baldness of his head, the absence of his teeth and the
                     length of his fingers. At length, when I arrived at the final catastrophe,
                     where Grim Death seizes the old gentleman by the heel, I made a sudden motion
                     at the heel of our worthy host, who was sitting near by, completely upsetting
                     him with fright, and causing a laugh from the audience that seemed as if it
                     would never come to an end. It was the best hit of the evening, and completely
                     removed all constraint.
                  The women had gradually uncovered their faces, and the men were in such a good
                     humor that they paid no attention to it; and we were all as jovial as
                     possible—showing that people all over the world are pretty much the same by
                     nature, and that there are few races so barbarous as not to be moved by music
                     and a spirit of sociability. I never found it to fail any where; and never knew
                     an instance of any advance being made in a hearty, off-hand way, where it was
                     not returned even more cordially—from the fact, perhaps, that it is so rarely
                     done by travelers. But my triumph was of short duration. Yusef became inspired
                     by the bright eyes of the Arab damsels, and soon carried away all my laurels.
                     Standing forth in the centre of the room, he addressed the audience in the most
                     impressive manner—stating that with their permission he would perform the
                     celebrated dance of his country, called the Raas, for which it was necessary that he should have a space
                     cleared in the middle of the floor. This proposition was greeted by a general
                     murmur of approbation. A space was soon cleared, the audience crowding back on
                     top of each other against the walls, but all in the most perfect good-humor.
                     Yusef now began to unwind himself. He was in his choicest Arab costume, and
                     fairly dazzled with armor. His sash was almost interminable. Francesco, the
                     boy, pulled for five minutes, unwinding him all the time, as a spool of cotton
                     on end might be unwound; and when the armor was all taken off and the sash at
                     an end, Yusef called for his sword, and stood forth ready for the dance. Never
                     was there such a sensation among the damsels of Baalbek. He was the very cut of
                     an Arab beau, whose attractions and accomplishments were not to be resisted by
                     vain and foolish woman. Poising his sword in the air, he called for music, and
                     the music struck up—your humble servant being the musician. Whiz! went the
                     sword through the air, cutting and slashing in all directions; up cuts and down
                     thrusts within an inch of the retreating noses of the audience, who were now
                     tumbled over in regular heaps. The women could scarce suppress their screams;
                     the men cried Tahib! Tahib! and Yusef cut away in a perfect frenzy, till the first part of the
                     performance, commencing with the sword exercise, was concluded. He then began
                     in good earnest the dance of the Raas; gradually at first, with a tremulous
                     motion of one side and a convulsive quivering of the other that seemed quite
                     miraculous. I really began to think the fellow would go to pieces. His right
                     leg kept running all round in a circle, while his right shoulder and arm danced
                     a jig; the whole of his left side kept rising and falling convulsively, and his
                     back worked as if every joint had a distinct and independent movement. Tahib!
                     Tahib! shouted the audience, and round and round ran the independent leg faster
                     than ever; and the left side worked, and the right side danced, and the back
                     wriggled into the most convulsive motions, and Yusef looked just as much like
                     one of the figures in a show, worked by wires, as any thing I ever saw, only a
                     good deal more wiry. Some of the motions in this part of the dance were so
                     ludicrous that the music had to stop suddenly for want of breath; but the dance
                     went on to the clapping of hands kept up by the Arabs. The concluding part of
                     the performance consisted of dancing, fighting, and love-making all together.
                     The djeered is thrown, the sword whirled over
                     the head, hundreds of foes slain, skulls split open, and terrible wounds
                     received in the heroic attempt to carry away the daughter of a Grand Sultan,
                     who seems to be surrounded by difficulties. At last Yusef is mortally wounded,
                     and he begins to die by throwing his head back and getting very weak in the
                     knees. Every bit of his body is convulsed with dying tortures; shoulders,
                     breast, elbows, legs, and all are writhing horribly; by degrees he drops on one
                     knee, and then on the other; and his arms fall loosely, and his head tumbles
                     over on his breast, and he is about to roll over perfectly dead, when he
                     catches a glimpse of his lady-love. With a wild yell he springs to his feet
                     again, seizes his sword, and lays about him so desperately that the audience
                     begins to think it is no joke at all. It really seemed as if Yusef had entirely
                     lost his senses; the perspiration streamed down his face; he snorted like a
                     horse, and his eyes had something horribly wild and insane about them. I
                     expected each moment to see him cut somebody through the skull—knowing it to be
                     a common piece of entertainment in these outlandish countries. But it was only
                     a dying effort, this fit of desperation; down he fell on his knees before his
                     lady-love, gasped out the madness of his love with his last breath, and died
                     like a true lover with his head in her lap. The sensation was tremendous. Hands
                     were clapped, tahibs shouted from all
                     quarters, and the clatter of astonishment, admiration, and sympathy from the
                     Arab damsels was perfectly overwhelming. Never did I feel so cut down in all my
                     life; old Zip Coon was completely forgotten in the torrent of admiration drawn
                     forth by the performances of Yusef. I quietly put the flute in my knapsack, and
                     came to the conclusion that all triumphs are fleeting, and that the Raas dance is the greatest dance that ever was
                     invented.
                  
                     
                        YUSEF DANCING THE RAAS.
                     
                  
                  Such were the demonstrations of satisfaction on the part of every female in the
                     room, and the undisguised delight with which they returned Yusef's sidelong smiles, that there was not a male
                     member of the audience who was not fired with jealousy and mistrust. Low
                     murmurs began to arise between man and wife; smothered rebukes were given by
                     friends and relatives; and fair faces began reluctantly to disappear, but not
                     without parting glances at the Adonis of Arabs. That there was not a female
                     heart in the crowd unscathed by his graces of person and flashing silks, as
                     well as by the heroic courage which he had displayed in the affair of the
                     Princess, was perfectly apparent. Even the husband of Yusef's niece, who was
                     well acquainted with the relationship existing between his wife and that
                     distinguished adventurer, did not seem altogether satisfied that their
                     consanguinity would prove a barrier to all danger; indeed, he looked at both
                     parties with extreme suspicion; but perceiving that there was no indication of
                     any immediate danger (for they were discreet enough not to notice each other)
                     he hastily left the house, climbed up on the roof, and relieved his mind in
                     some degree by rolling the broken pillar over it furiously for the space of
                     half an hour.
                  Alas, I wish I could conscientiously say that there was no danger; I wish Yusef
                     had never stopped there; I would blot out that night in tears more copious than
                     were shed by the great poet who wept when he found Baalbek in ruins; but a
                     stern sense of duty compels me to proceed; it shall never be said that I have
                     smiled at human weakness, or attempted to shield the culpable from just and
                     merited reproach.
                  The guests having at a late hour retired to their respective homes, Yusef
                     spread our mattresses on the floor, and fixed us comfortably for the night. His
                     own mattress he left for future consideration. The husband of Yusef's niece
                     carefully noted the manner in which we were arranged, and apparently satisfied
                     that all was right so far, he looked into every little pigeon-hole in the walls
                     to make assurance doubly sure, and then looked at the door between our room and
                     that in which himself and wife slept. There was a large wooden bolt attached to
                     it, which he carefully fastened, and then pulled back and fastened again, so
                     that he might be sure there was no deception about its being fast; and then
                     bidding us all good-night, he reluctantly departed through the front door—came
                     back again in five minutes for a drink of water, looked at the door that was
                     bolted, at the tall Southerner, the English Captain and myself, then at
                     Yusef—departed once more, and before we were asleep, slyly peeped in again to
                     be quite certain that there was nothing wrong, closed the front door softly,
                     and retired to the adjoining room, where he talked seriously to his
                     wife—probably about the leak in his house—for more than an hour. By the time he
                     had concluded, every body was apparently asleep. There were two, however, who
                     were very far from being asleep. One was myself; I could not help thinking that
                     the inner door, although bolted on the right side for us, in case of an
                     invasion from that quarter, was bolted on the wrong side for the husband of
                     Yusef's niece, in case of an invasion from our side, which I regarded as much
                     more to be apprehended. The other member of our party referred to as not being
                     asleep, was Yusef himself. He had pulled his mattress up within a few feet of
                     the bolted door, after every body was quiet, covered himself up carefully in
                     the blankets, and commenced snoring immediately; which was precisely what kept
                     me awake—not the snoring but the suspicions aroused by it. Yusef never snored
                     when he was asleep. I knew him too well for that; he was always as wide awake
                     when he snored as he ever was in his life. Consequently I kept a very small
                     corner of my weather-eye open; it was impossible to close it while the snoring
                     continued. A dim light from the dying embers in the fire, enabled me to
                     perceive, in the course of time, that Yusef was getting restless; the snoring
                     gradually stopped; the blankets began to drop off, and he sat up on his
                     mattress and looked cautiously around. Satisfied that all was right, he crept
                     to the door, fumbled at the bolt for some minutes, and eventually drew it back,
                     without making any more noise than a mouse would have made under the same
                     circumstances. The difficulty was to get the door open; it was hung on wooden
                     hinges, which, perhaps, had not been greased for some time. Yusef breathed hard
                     a few moments, gathered fresh
                     courage, and commenced pulling cautiously at the door. It opened a little way;
                     another pull; it opened a little more; another yet—it creaked—it creaked
                     dreadfully! Quick as lightning Yusef pushed it back, bolted it, covered himself
                     up in his blankets, and commenced snoring again; but there was evidently a
                     commotion in the other room. The voice of a man shouted something fiercely—it
                     was in Arabic—but doubtless it was—Who's there! Under some circumstances it is
                     difficult to answer such a question; under the present circumstances Yusef
                     considered it impossible; he only snored the louder, and heard the less. There
                     is no doubt that the owner of the voice labored under the impression that some
                     of us intended to rob him, for I heard him, both in my sleep and in my waking
                     hours throughout the remainder of the night stumbling uneasily about the room.
                     In the morning, Yusef, who had snored to the best of my belief without stopping
                     from the moment he had so suddenly covered himself up in the blankets, set to
                     work and beat the muleteers; but not with his accustomed alacrity. His mind was
                     depressed, and he looked so little refreshed by balmy slumber that I was
                     induced to ask him what was the matter. He evinced some little confusion at
                     first; but quickly rallying, stated that he had suffered from a bad dream; that
                     he dreamt he saw a lion; and the lion was going to attack us; that he was
                     unarmed at the time, but inspired by his courage, which never forsook him in
                     any emergency, he crept toward the lion in the hope of getting him by the mane
                     and choking him; that just as he was about to put the lion to death, some
                     invisible spirits pulled him back, and so they tormented him every time he got
                     near to his foe, throughout the entire night.
                  It was certainly an extraordinary dream. Possibly Yusef really dreamt it. I
                     hope so; many stranger dreams than that have been dreamt; but I have never been
                     able to rid my mind of the impression that the lion was very pretty, and not at
                     all ferocious.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVI.
                  A SOCIAL CHAT WITH YUSEF.
                  WITHOUT exactly claiming to have control over the morals of our dragoman, I
                     nevertheless considered it my duty to point out to Yusef the evils of those
                     stringent measures adopted by the Arabs in their matrimonial relations, and to
                     show him how much better it would be to abandon those absurd customs at once.
                     When the conversation ran on congenial subjects, such as love and war, his
                     sagacity and enthusiasm were very remarkable; and I was often surprised at the
                     quickness of his perception, and the readiness with which he met all my
                     arguments.
                  "It seems to me, Yusef," said I, after we had finished breakfast, "that you
                     Arabs are the most barbarous people on the face of the earth. Why, even the
                     Hottentots give their women some liberty. You, however, not only cover their
                     faces, but keep them in a state of abject slavery. How can you ever expect to
                     be a virtuous people when your wives are nothing but slaves!"
                  
                     YUSEF. (with spirit)
                     —"They are not such slaves as your excellency thinks. We shut them up and
                        keep them at home when strangers are about—especially gentlemen like your
                        excellency, who perform on the flute, and sing songs of an inspiring and
                        captivating nature; but, as a general thing, we treat them kindly. They
                        exercise power enough over us now, and if they had greater liberty they
                        would exercise a good deal more."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Of course they would, and why not? It is the very perfection of
                        civilization when unlimited power is given to woman. In America we never
                        think of shutting our women up
                        and keeping guard over them. They would soon mutiny against that. Though
                        they are free as air, many of them consider that they are barbarously
                        limited in power, even now. It is nothing uncommon for them to hold
                        conventions, for the purpose of denouncing the male sex, and asserting their
                        right to seats in our National Legislature. Some of them even aspire to the
                        Presidency. For all I know, there may be a female candidate nominated for
                        that high office at this very moment."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —" Don't you whip 'em, sir? Don't you lock 'em up, and give 'em the
                        bastinado?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (indignantly).
                     —" The bastinado, forsooth! I'd like to see such a thing as that tried in
                        our country. Why, we have ladies who would cowhide a man if they knew he
                        entertained such a thought; and we have newspaper editors who compliment
                        ladies for distinguishing themselves in that way. No, Yusef; we never use
                        the bastinado. On the contrary, there are persons of the male sex, or who
                        assume to be of that sex, ever ready to join these spunky ladies in their
                        conventions, and act entirely under their dictation. That such men will
                        eventually aspire to petticoats is not at all improbable."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (highly excited).
                     —"I'd shoot 'em; by Allah, sir, I'd gut 'em! Miserable dogs! I'd—no
                        matter!—proceed, sir—proceed!"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —" Tell me, Yusef, in the name of common sense, which you know is the grand
                        object of my crusade in this benighted region, what do the Arab women cover
                        their faces for? Fain would I probe to the bottom all these strange customs,
                        and learn the reason thereof."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Now, verily, O General, hast thou asked me a question that it is difficult
                        to answer. It is the custom of the country, and, to the best of my belief,
                        has been the custom for many centuries past."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —" But the custom is absurd, and ought to be abandoned at once. Don't you
                        think so?"
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Again, that question is a poser. I have never considered it in the light
                        of an absurd custom, having been used to these things from infancy. To me,
                        it seems exceedingly strange that the women of America don't cover their
                        faces."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (somewhat nettled).
                     —"Why so, pray? They're not ashamed of their faces: why should they cover
                        them?"
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Pardon me! I only meant that to my uneducated and untraveled eyes, it
                        looks a little indiscreet. Beauty, O General, is a rare and precious jewel:
                        it doesn't do to show it too often."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —" But what use is it if it be hidden under a mask, and never seen at all
                        except by the lady's husband? Every husband admires the beauty of his wife
                        when other people admire it. If other people don't admire it, what
                        incitement is there for admiration on his part? He must get accustomed to it
                        in a month or two, just as the shepherd who lives on the mountain-top gets
                        accustomed to the beauty of the scenery. To cover a woman's face up, is what
                        we call hiding a light under a bushel."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"This we regard as the philosophy of the thing: Every pretty woman is vain
                        of her charms. It is the weakness of the sex. If we don't keep a sharp
                        look-out, she'll cast them forth as snares to entrap mankind. That's woman's
                        nature, when she's admired. Now, we hold that a wife has no right to cast
                        snares upon any body but her husband." (I quite agreed with Yusef in this,
                        and involuntarily thought of his strange dream concerning the lion.) "Hence,
                        not being restrained by reason, because of her vanity, she must be
                        restrained by masks, and sometimes by bolts and bars."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"True, very true, Yusef. I must confess that there is some foundation for
                        your argument. There are extreme cases when bolts may be necessary."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"It stands to reason, sir; it arises from the love of flattery, which is
                        the great weakness of woman. Have you no customs in your country, sir,
                        equally strange and incomprehensible at first sight?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"No, Yusef; thank heaven, we are clear of all such absurdities as this. Our
                        most fashionable ladies not only keep their faces uncovered in public, but
                        frequently appear pear in
                        ball-rooms and opera-houses, with scarcely more than a piece of gauze above
                        the waist."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"And don't they feel ashamed at all?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"By no means. Those who desire to be distinguished in the world of fashion,
                        never feel ashamed of any thing that is fashionable. They take great pride
                        and pleasure in making the exhibition. It shows a consciousness of purity;
                        because, if they were not certain that they could resist the effects of this
                        display, of course they would not make it on any account."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (with flashing eyes).
                     —"I'd like to live there! Above all things, I'd like that—in another people.
                        Most wonderful are the diversities of custom. An Arab woman would be
                        disgraced were she to adopt such a fashion."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Of course; that results from the benighted condition of the female sex in
                        your country. Your people are behind the times, Yusef. As civilization
                        progresses, we cast aside all these barbarous prejudices. We approximate
                        toward first principles. There was a time, even in our country, when a lady
                        could not display her charms in public; but of late years we have become
                        fashionable tourists. We go to Europe every summer, and import the latest
                        improvements in fashion and morals. No female now is considered worthy to
                        mingle in the most stylish society, until she is up to the Parisian
                        standard. We dance by Paris—dress by Paris—eat by Paris—drink by Paris—and I
                        rather think the most fashionable of us will soon sleep by Paris."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Inshalla! where is all this to
                        stop—especially in the matter of dress?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (a little confused).
                     —"Where is it to stop? Oh, that I can't tell you. Perhaps it won't stop at
                        all till we reach that primitive state of simplicity from which we
                        originally fell; The Parisians are an extremely natural people, in some
                        respects—not at all restrained in social life."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (with a sigh).
                     —"It must be a Paradise upon earth. But, then, I am told, that no man is
                        entitled to more than one wife, by law. Can he send her home, or sell her,
                        as we do, when he sees another more beautiful?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (smiling).
                     —"No, Yusef; he can't sell her, but he can get a divorce. If he be rich, he
                        can buy it without much trouble; and if he be poor, he can get drunk and
                        maltreat her, and then swear she is not a good and true wife; so that the
                        law, which is very sagacious in these matters, perceiving that there are
                        faults on both sides, and that the parties can never live happily together,
                        grants a divorce."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"A most admirable law! But, yet, it seems to me, it would be better to have
                        several wives. Woman is an evil at best—indeed, I may say, the root of all
                        evil. Now, your excellency knows that by mixing two or more poisons
                        together, a very harmless beverage may be produced. We consider that if a
                        man be afflicted with a quarrelsome wife, who poisons his happiness, the
                        best thing he can do is to get some more poison, and mix the two together;
                        if two poisons won't answer, he should mix an additional number in the same
                        way. The remedy is certain to effect a cure. When a woman has two or three
                        fellow-wives to quarrel with, she can't spare much time to quarrel with her
                        husband. Let a man act discreetly, and profess to love one a little better
                        than another whom he originally professed to love best, and there will soon
                        be a very lively state of hostility between the ladies of his household.
                        While they are fighting, he can take it easy, and smoke the pipe of peace.
                        That, sir, is the philosophy of combining evils: curing a wound by making
                        another; the true principle of counter-irritation."
                  
                  Somehow, it was useless to argue with Yusef. He always got the better of me;
                     and this naturally excited my indignation. I, therefore, decided the matter by
                     telling him it was useless to talk such nonsense to me; that the Arabs were a
                     very wicked and ignorant race at best, and he was the more to blame for
                     entertaining such monstrous doctrines, as he had enjoyed the advantages of
                     intercourse with a more enlightened people.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXVII.
                  THE GREEK BISHOP.
                  BEFORE leaving Baalbek I went to the Greek convent to have a social chat with
                     the patriarch, who was represented to be a very hospitable and intelligent man.
                     It is situated down toward the lower part of the town, not far from the Temple
                     of Santa Barbara. The entrance is through a dilapidated court-yard, which
                     serves as a sort of caravanserai for camels and mules; and the convent is
                     little better than the rest of the hovels around it, except that it is larger
                     and higher. There is a church attached to it of ancient and ruinous appearance,
                     with a few tawdry ornaments and miserable pictures in the interior. A Greek
                     monk, who acted as our cicerone, told us that this church contained the most
                     valuable relic of any church in Syria; that it was not commonly exhibited to
                     strangers, but he would take the liberty of showing it to our excellencies.
                     Having thus excited our curiosity, he proceeded, with great caution and
                     solemnity, to draw back some small black curtains that covered a hole in the
                     wall, and by degrees revealed to us the hole, which was cased around with a
                     black frame and covered with a pane of glass; but I candidly confess I could
                     see nothing in it, nor could I, after the most persevering inquiries all round,
                     ascertain that any body else had seen any thing, or that there was any thing
                     there to be seen. It was a good deal like some of the wonderful things one is
                     called upon to admire now and then in Italy—you go a great way to see them, and
                     are expected to be in raptures, but for your life you can't find out what all
                     the talk is about; there is nothing to be seen. We paid a piastre, however, for
                     the information, and I would recommend mend all travelers who go to Baalbek to
                     do likewise; they may see something, probably a bone of the ass that Baalam
                     rode, or a reflected image of the face, with its full complement of ears.
                  The reception room of the convent was furnished in the Turkish fashion, with a
                     low platform extending round the walls on three sides, upon which were spread
                     rugs of every variety of color. There were no chairs, nor any other furniture
                     except a few bad prints, and a good supply of chiboucks hung up around the
                     walls. It was a great nuisance to be obliged to take off our shoes, as on all
                     occasions, no matter how many houses we went into, how dirty they were, or how
                     cold it was: whether there were rugs on the ground, or mats, or, what was most
                     common, puddles of mud, our dragoman protested that if we kept on our shoes it
                     would be a mortal offense to the inmates of the house. I was often disposed to
                     rebel against this insane practice; but you know when one is in Rome he must be
                     romantic; when one is in Syria he must bear with serious inconveniences, not
                     the least of which is keeping up a good understanding with the natives by
                     keeping the feet bare.
                  The bishop, a venerable man, with a beard of patriarchal length, received us
                     with great kindness and cordiality. He said it was seldom he had the pleasure
                     of meeting American travelers there, and regretted that we had not taken up our
                     quarters in the convent. While we were talking, coffee and chiboucks were
                     brought in by a domestic, and gracefully presented to us in the Oriental style.
                     As it is characteristic of the East, I may as well tell you the manner in which
                     one is honored on paying a visit. You enter the room, furnished, as above
                     stated, with rugs all round, make your bow, and are politely motioned to a
                     seat; that is, to a seat on the floor. If you can do it, you squat down as much
                     like a tailor as possible; if you can't, you stretch out both legs and get your
                     back against the wall. Do let me persuade you to try it, if you want to know
                     how odd it feels. The form of salutation depends pretty much on the relative
                     rank of each party. Where there is not much ceremony it is merely a bow and the
                        hand is placed over the breast;
                     where the civility is intended to be very marked, as in the native form, the
                     visitor makes a dive at the hem of the host's garment as if he would catch it
                     up and kiss it; but the host, perceiving the intended honor, dives down at the
                     same moment to prevent it, and, as if by accident catches the hand of his guest
                     and helps him up with it part of the way; when each touches his breast, mouth,
                     and forehead with his own hand; sometimes repeating the dive, but this is only
                     when a man is electioneering for some office, or calls to borrow a few hundred
                     piasters, in which case he dives down a great many times.
                  Supposing you to be seated now, a servant enters, bearing a tray, upon which
                     are several cups of coffee about the size of egg-cups, and these are handed
                     round and presented with a graceful bow to each visitor. The coffee is as thick
                     as chocolate, and at first it may lodge in your throat, but after a while one
                     learns to like it. Chiboucks are then brought. The stems are about six feet in
                     length, and the bowl being placed on the ground in a little brass pan at the
                     proper distance, the mouthpiece is whirled around dextrously by the domestic,
                     who calculates the distance so nicely that he brings it within the sixteenth of
                     an inch of its destination. The smoking begins, and if you have good Djebel or
                     Latakia tobacco, it is, as my friend the English captain says, quite stunning.
                     Conversation goes on between the whiffs, and is as lively as such conversation
                     can be where one naturally thinks in English, communicates his ideas to his
                     dragoman in Italian or French, has them translated into Turkish, Arabic, or
                     Greek, and learns the result in about ten minutes from the time of starting. I
                     often, after a good deal of difficulty, got out a joke and made my interpreter
                     understand the full bearings of it; when he would set to work, jabbering in
                     some horrible unknown tongue, taking so long to tell it that the whole thing
                     would quite escape my memory, and it was only in about a quarter of an hour
                     after, that an explosion of laughter would startle me out of my cloud of smoke;
                     for a joke is never so stale or so trifling as not to cause a laugh in the
                     East. As I made it a point, however, never to talk French or Italian to Yusef
                     where there was a probability of these languages being understood (by which
                     means I passed for rather a learned man), he translated from English in the
                     present case. The worthy patriarch felt a good deal interested in the fact,
                     usually announced by Yusef in terms of great pomposity, that I had traveled a
                     long way, and had been in California. The old gentleman had heard some fabulous
                     accounts of California, and, after some exclamations of wonder at seeing before
                     him a live person from that strange land, he delivered himself as follows: "It
                     is a wonderful country, I know; thousands of miles off; away at the other side
                     of London. They dig up whole mountains of gold there, and catch fish without
                     eyes. God Almighty kills them because they are wicked; also food is scarce. The
                     sun is very hot; there is great thirst; likewise men burrow holes in the ground
                     the same as rats. Oh, I don't want to go to California. It is a bad country.
                     Better stay here in Baalbek and praise God." I thought so too, and desired
                     Yusef to tell his Reverence that it would be better for him not to go to
                     California, if he had any notion that way; in fact, that he would do much
                     better reclaiming benighted Arabs in Baalbek than digging for gold on the banks
                     of the Sacramento, and would find a more fertile harvest in his own
                     professional line.
                  We had further conversation on various topics, after which, with many kind
                     wishes, the patriarch bid us good-by, and wished us a pleasant tour through
                     Syria; expressing at the same time his regret that we had not found it
                     convenient to come at once to the convent instead of going to a native
                     house.
                  I went down again during the forenoon to the ruins, and made a sketch of the
                     Temple of the Sun and a general view of the whole of Baalbek. Near the main
                     ruin is a very beautiful little Temple, which I omitted to mention before,
                     built chiefly of marble, and very highly decorated. It reminded me a good deal
                     of the Temple of the Winds at Athens. The form is octagonal, and there is a
                     portico all round, supported by eight Corinthian columns, between which in the
                     niches are the remains of pedestals upon which formerly stood statues. The Greek priests suppose this to be
                     the tower of Santa Barbara. By some travelers it is compared to the Temple of
                     Janus at Rome. Two little streams of water run through the town, one of which
                     passes under this temple.
                  One of the most remarkable ruins in Baalbek is that of the ancient mosque, in
                     which is seen the tomb of Saladin. I had some doubts as to this being the ruin
                     of a mosque; but, in the absence of any better information than that of our
                     dragoman, had to take it as such. There is a high wall, inclosing a space of
                     some hundreds of yards square, in which are rows of vast arches, sustained by
                     pillars, covering the entire interior. Looking through underneath it has the
                     appearance of a perfect forest of pillars. Near the entrance is a little tomb,
                     built of rough stone, apparently of Saracenic construction, upon one end of
                     which is an inscription in Arabic. This is said to be the tomb of the famous
                     Saladin, the conqueror of the Christian hosts on the fields of Hatin and of
                     Esdraelon. I did not read the inscription; so I am unable to tell you what it
                     means.
                  There are some few objects of interest in the way of ruined walls and arches,
                     containing patches of the antique, scattered about through the town and the
                     neighborhood, all of which we thoroughly examined; but they are so much like
                     any other ruins that the interest depends mainly upon their being in Baalbek,
                     where every body can not go to see them, as in Rome or Athens.
                  Tired of rambling about, I sat down on an eminence overlooking the ruins, and
                     began to think seriously and soberly of all that I had seen, and to divest
                     myself of the first enthusiastic impressions, so as to arrive at some
                     reasonable idea of what Baalbek must have been in the days of its glory. Sober
                     second thought is a good deal like a written contract; it brings both parties
                     (the imagination and the judgment) to a proper understanding, and leaves no
                     room for visionary speculation or loose interpretation.
                  That Baalbek was a city abounding in fine edifices is sufficiently apparent
                     from the magnificence of its ruins. One can not but deplore the desolation of
                     those splendid temples, and the loss of the many works of art buried there,
                     among which must have been some of the choicest of ancient times; and while
                     there is so much left to admire it is not improbable that, in the lapse of
                     centuries, there may have been much destroyed equally worthy of admiration. But
                     that Baalbek ever was a very extensive or very important city is not, I think,
                     rendered probable by any evidence now existing. The foundations of the ancient
                     walls, which can be clearly traced, embrace but a small area of ground,
                     certainly not sufficient for a very large city; and its position, shut in among
                     the mountains of Lebanon, two days distant from any seaport, and not on the
                     usually traveled route from the interior cities of Asia Minor, indicates that
                     it was not supported by commerce. It is also probable that the Temple of the
                     Sun and the Palace were the most important of all the public edifices; and that
                     the streets were narrow and badly paved, without side walks, as in all the
                     cities of the East, and the residences of ordinary construction; because even a
                     small city could not be embraced in so limited a space with any thing like fine
                     streets or large houses. If the implements of agriculture were not a good deal
                     better than any that exist in Syria at the present day (and it is said they are
                     about the same as were used in scriptural times), the plain of Bukaa must have
                     been more indebted to Nature than to the cultivation of man for its reputed
                     fertility. Probably there were more trees on it, and some gardens and vineyards
                     for the supply of the town. The inhabitants must have lived on something, and
                     it is not likely they had much else to eat except what they produced on this
                     plain. But there is no evidence of a luxurious style of living. If ever there
                     were carriages, they must have traveled in the air, with mules or horses at
                     each end, as they do now; for there is nothing to show that there were roads
                     fit for wheeled vehicles to run on. Sometimes a piece of an old Roman road is
                     seen along the coast, and poor enough it must have been in its best days; but I
                     could discover nothing of the kind about Baalbek. I think the inhabitants of
                     the glorious City of the Sun rode on donkeys. At all events, donkeys must have
                     been convenient in climbing through the streets, unless the style of paving was a good deal
                     better than any thing done throughout the East in modern times, of which there
                     is no evidence in the specimens that remain.
                  In sober truth, the more I thought about Baalbek as it was, the more I became
                     impressed with the idea that we are apt to magnify the grandeur of every thing
                     ancient, and encourage false impressions by feeding the mind with the poetry of
                     the past. There was as much reality then as there is at present; men were human
                     and all their works were human; and the ruins of those works derive much of
                     their effect from the lapse of time. To an imaginative mind a broken column is
                     more beautiful covered with the mould of ages, than one of precisely the same
                     form, new and complete. There must have been a time when those works were new,
                     and when contemporary architects and critics held the same opinion of them,
                     compared with something more antique, as we do now of what is done in our day,
                     compared with what was done then. The enchantment that distance lends is lent
                     to all these temples and relics of ancient grandeur with a most liberal hand. I
                     saw in Jerusalem a picture of Baalbek rebuilt as it originally stood,
                     beautifully drawn by a competent artist; and, comparing it with drawings of the
                     ruins, I must say that Baalbek in ruins, with a little room for the
                     imagination, is much grander and more imposing than Baalbek, complete as it
                     existed in ages past, with nothing beyond mere reality to look to.
                  But it will not do to indulge in this train of thought. Strip the past of all
                     its romance, and there is little left to write about. What reader will be
                     satisfied with plain facts? what reader will be satisfied with the simple
                     unadorned truth—except the few that I hope to honor me with a perusal of these
                     pages? and it is only to that rare but enlightened class that I dare to address
                     such unpopular views.
                  In my rambles about the village of Baalbek I was struck with the beauty of the
                     children, and the extreme youthfulness of some of the Arab mothers. I saw
                     several young females, not more than twelve or fourteen years of age, with
                     babies in their arms, evidently their own; and I was told that this is quite
                     common throughout Syria. Many of the women are very beautiful—much more so, I
                     think, than either the Circassian or the Turkish women. It was quite
                     enchanting, their fine complexions, dark eyebrows, and flashing eyes; and for
                     regularity and delicacy of features I have seldom seen them equaled, except in
                     other parts of Syria. In Nazareth I saw some of the best formed and most
                     beautiful women I had ever seen in any country; I believe it is noted as much
                     for the beauty of its female population among tourists as for its historical
                     interest; but at no place did I see what I really thought approached the
                     perfection of beauty in so high a degree as in Bethlehem. The women of
                     Bethlehem are absolutely bewitching. I never saw such perfect profiles, such
                     eyes and eyebrows, and such delicate little hands and feet. Not that I mean to
                     say that they are at all to be compared in all the higher attributes of beauty
                     to our own fair countrywomen, for that would be sacrilege. There is nothing in
                     the East, or in Europe either, or any where else that I have ever visited, to
                     compare with the ladies of Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington. Talk of
                     Parisian beauties! Lively and vivacious they are, to be sure; but not
                     dignified, not queenly, not gentle and modest. Talk of English beauties! Grand
                     enough and fair, but not graceful. Italian beauties; dark, dull, and greasy.
                     German, fat and florid; Turkish, tallowy and buttery; all well enough in their
                     way; but, Mashalla! it won't do to mention them in the same breath with
                     American beauties.
                  And now good-by to Baalbek. We are off for Damascus, galloping out through the
                     ruins and over the prostrate relics of the past as merrily as if they were only
                     so much rubbish.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXVIII.
                  THE ARAB MULETEER.
                  A MOST indispensable and striking character in Syrian travel is the Arab
                     muleteer. Every party of Frangi has its baggage train of mules; and generally
                     every mule has its 
                        MUSTAFA, THE ARAB MULETEER.
                      separate owner, who does the driving, feeding, loading, and smoking.
                     These mules are hired at Beirut, or wherever the starting point may be, by the
                     dragoman, who makes his own bargain with the muleteers. For a mule and driver
                     the usual price is ten to fifteen piasters a day. On this sum the muleteer must
                     feed himself and mule, and pay all his ordinary expenses throughout the
                     journey. It is not much to be sure; only forty or fifty cents a day for
                     personal attendance, expenses on the road, and risk and interest on capital;
                     but it seems to be enough, for at the end of the journey our men appeared to
                     have sufficient left to keep them till the next trip.
                  The Arab muleteer is a practical philosopher and man of the world. There is
                     nothing to trouble him but his mule, and that only troubles him when it wakes
                     him up by running off the road or throwing him into a ditch. He wants but
                     little here below, and has a happy knack of getting that little almost free of
                     expense. His mule must be fed or it will die in the course of time, but that
                     want he supplies by taking the oats and barley out of the trough where the
                     horses of the Howadji feed at night, and putting them in the place where his
                     mule ought to be feeding. He does this when the dragoman is not present,
                     because if the dragoman saw it, there would certainly be an unpleasant state of
                     feeling between the parties. The muleteer is a man of peace; he wishes to get
                     along in the world as quietly as possible; hence he feeds his mules as far as
                     practicable at the expense of others, and says nothing about it, from a natural
                     repugnance to disturbances of the peace. To be sure the horses of the Howadji
                     sometimes look unaccountably lank and dispirited; and the mules unaccountably
                     thriving and frisky, but what difference does that make to the muleteer? If it
                     makes any difference at all it is in his favor; it prolongs the journey, adds
                     so much to his pay, and affords him in some degree an equivalent for the
                     beatings which he daily receives from the dragoman. Besides what the horses
                     lose in flesh the mules gain. Sometimes the dragoman swears that he gives the
                     horses a bushel of barley apiece at night, and they don't seem to be a bit the
                     better for it next morning; there must be thieves about; he determines to watch
                     them, and to shoot the first man whose hand he sees in the horse-trough. At
                     last the horses grow so lank and dejected that he does watch; he sees a hand in
                     the barley; it is the hand of the
                     muleteer. The shooting is postponed till next morning on account of the danger
                     of wounding the horses; but the muleteer is whipped with a cane till he swears
                     by the beard of the Prophet he will never do so again. For a few days the
                     horses look better; but this doesn't alter the general principle, because the
                     mules begin to look just as lean and spiritless as the horses did before. The
                     muleteer is willing to be honest; he would like to be on good terms with the
                     world generally; but it is not in his nature, or any other man's nature to
                     stand such treatment as this. Hence he resumes his previous policy as soon as
                     he can safely do so, and continues to be whipped occasionally when caught with
                     his hand in the wrong place. Whipping, however, is one of the ills that the
                     flesh of the muleteer is heir to. He takes it hard apparently, but it goes easy
                     enough in reality. A good deal of the pain of whipping is mental, as any
                     school-boy can testify. With him, it is only skin deep; his skin is tough from
                     exposure, and is not readily affected.
                  He takes life easy, as a matter of personal convenience; sometimes sleeping on
                     the top of the baggage, which is on the top of the mule, and sometimes trotting
                     along with his comrades, listening to pleasant stories of genii and dragons, or
                     telling some pretty tough ones himself, but always in that happy and contented
                     frame of mind which evinces an entire absence of care. Clothing never annoys
                     him at all; a shirt or two and an old sash last him a lifetime; breeches he
                     wears little or none; shoes are superfluous, except when his circumstances are
                     affluent. What if he have nothing to eat now and then? He can smoke the pipe of
                     bliss, and sleep the sleep of oblivion. What if he be out of tobacco? No
                     matter; the Howadji will give him some. Moreover, he knows where the bag is
                     kept, and can help himself, provided nobody be looking on. Food is the least of
                     his wants. A bunch of grapes or figs and a piece of leather bread satisfy all
                     his necessities in this respect; and occasionally there are pots and pans that
                     come in as a sort a relish, to be licked when the dragoman has been drinking a
                     little arrack, and feels unusually good-natured. A very happy fellow is the
                     Arab muleteer, take him altogether, sleeping and smoking his way through life
                     on a capital of one mule. When he gets rich by making a fortune of ten dollars,
                     he buys a small ass, so that he can ride after his mule, and boast an ass of
                     his own; and then he assumes the honorable position of a Howadji among
                     muleteers, and is, to all intents and purposes,
                  
                     
                        A GENTLEMAN OF ELEGANT LEISURE.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXIX.
                  FROM BAALBEK TO DAMASCUS.
                  ABOUT noon we left the ruins of Baalbek behind us, and proceeded through the
                     plain of Bukaa toward Damascus. Our road lay along the base of Anti-Lebanon.
                     The aspect of the whole country was sterile and desolate in the extreme. There
                     was not a shrub on the wayside to relieve the utter barrenness of the scene, or
                     intercept the dazzling glare of the sun, which even now in midwinter had
                     something left of its summer fierceness. The weather was not warm; but the
                     whitish cast of the earth and the unclouded brilliancy of the sky, gave that
                     intensity of light so characteristic of Syria, and which is so destructive to
                     the sight that nearly half the inhabitants are afflicted with ophthalmia. Not
                     far from the outer walls of Baalbek, we saw the quarries from which the stone
                     for the Temple of the Sun and all the public edifices was taken. Large gaps, in
                     the form of an amphitheatre, are cut in the solid rock, from which the immense
                     blocks of stone in the castle were taken. The ground or bottom of the quarries
                     is covered with detached blocks, cut away, trimmed, and ready for
                     transportation. It is a strange sight to see these pieces there, just as they
                     were left in ages past, fresh from the hands of the masons. One block of stone
                     is of immense length. It is said to be larger and longer than any found in the
                     ruins of Baalbek. I think our dragoman said the length was sixty-seven feet.
                     The Arabs have another legend connected with this stone, rather harder to
                     credit than the story of the column. They say that the Sultan, when he was
                     building the Castle of Baalbek, found all the men in his kingdom unable to
                     remove this stone, so great was its weight. A woman, standing near, and seeing
                     all their efforts unavailing, said; "Upon my soul! a nice set of fellows you
                     are not to be able to carry a little stone!" "Little!" quoth they; "do you call
                     this little?" "To be sure I do," said the woman; "a mere nothing. If you were
                     men you could carry it." "Hear her!" said they. "Why, one would think you could
                     carry it yourself, the way you talk." "Carry it! Of course I can," said she;
                     whereupon she laid hold of the stone, lifted it up on her back, and trotted all
                     the way with it to Baalbek, where she laid it down by the castle-wall. "Now,"
                     said she to the Sultan, who was superintending the work, "give me ten thousand
                     piastres for carrying this stone here." "May I be kicked like a dog if I do,"
                     said the Sultan, in a rage. "What! have all my men disgraced, and then pay a
                     slave of a woman for doing it! Get thee away, wretch!" "Oh, ho!" said the
                     woman; "is that the way you talk?" Whereupon she seized the Sultan by the back
                     of the neck, and pitched him headlong into a neighboring ditch, giving him a
                     kick as he went. "By my soul!" quoth she, "men are forgetting their place
                     nowadays. They are getting as impertinent and conceited as popinjays." With
                     that she seized hold of the stone again, tumbled it over on her back, and
                     trotted all the way back with it to the quarry, where the workmen were still
                     looking at one another in silent astonishment. "There," said the woman,
                     pitching the stone down; "I told you so! You had better go now and help the
                     Sultan out of the ditch. He's floundering about there like a mud-turtle."
                     Saying which, she slapped the chief workman heels over head, because he was
                     staring at her, and went off dancing the Raas, since which time the stone has
                     remained just as she left it. The Arabs pointed it out to us, and said there
                     was no doubt about the truth of the story, for the stone was in the very same
                     spot. That they believed every word of it themselves was quite evident; and we,
                     of course, believed as much as we could.
                  Passing some ancient tombs on the left, we descended into a rocky valley,
                     called Wady Ain Tihebeh, or the valley of the well. Here there were some camels
                     feeding near by the fountain. They
                     had come over from Damascus with packs of merchandise for Baalbek; and so
                     picturesque they looked, all lying down in a circle, with their masters sitting
                     on the ruined fountain smoking, that I fain had to stop and make a sketch of
                     them. Soon after, we came to the village of Tihebeh, a miserable collection of
                     huts, with the white dome of a mosque in the centre. About this point we struck
                     off to the left from the plain of Bukaa, and shortly came to the valley of
                     Nebusheet; from which we climbed up a very rocky path, hardly practicable for
                     our horses, to the village of Nebusheet. In this village there is a mosque
                     containing a large tomb, called by the inhabitants the Tomb of the Prophet
                     Nebusheet. None others but the followers of Nebusheet live in the village, and
                     they are known as Meitmaleh. They revere the tomb of their prophet as the
                     Mohammedans do at Mecca; but it is only in secret or among themselves that they
                     dare to avow their belief. When among the Turks they pray like Turks, and
                     profess to acknowledge the superior power of Mohammed; but they are looked upon
                     generally as heretics, and are not admitted to all the privileges of the
                     Mohammedan faith. For instance, they can not go to Mecca, or enter the Mosque
                     of Omar at Jerusalem. In the valley beyond Nebusheet there is a rapid stream of
                     good water, from which the village is supplied. The labor required to carry the
                     water up the rocky path, a distance of nearly a mile, must be prodigious. The
                     Arab men know very well that it is harder work than smoking the chibouck; so
                     they attend to the smoking, and make the women and children carry the water. We
                     met in the pass some thirty or forty women and children, with scarce any thing
                     but rags on them, bearing great earthen pitchers on their heads; and yet they
                     toiled up the rocks singing merrily, as if theirs was as happy a life as any;
                     perhaps it was. About the same number were going down, being thus continually
                     engaged in the hardest possible labor, while the men were sitting up in the
                     village, smoking or doing nothing. I thought that in warm weather it must keep
                     half the population of Nebusheet thirsty to keep the other half supplied with
                     water. The stream below is called the river of Surgoya; and is a pretty strong
                     stream for its size, driving several mills. At one of these mills we stopped to
                     lunch. The hoppers were going at a great rate, and I peeped in to see how the
                     grinding was done. The miller wore a turban, and had so much dust in his beard
                     that he looked like an old Pasha. "Marhabba,"
                     said he, which means how d'ye do, or good morning, or something of the kind;
                        "Marhabba," said I, and I crept in through
                     the low doorway. Now, I had seen some few mills in my time, but never such a
                     mill as this. The whole machinery consisted of a round rough stone, with a hole
                     through it, in which was wedged a thick shaft of wood. At the bottom of the
                     shaft were some paddles, against which the water dashed at one side, turning
                     the shaft, and with the shaft the grindstone. A bag of wheat was hung over the
                     hopper, to which was fastened a piece of stick that ran over the stone, and by
                     its vibration jerked out the wheat. The miller, seeing my wonder, thought it
                     arose from inability on my part to understand the complexity of all this
                     machinery; and with great good-nature he explained the whole process in Arabic,
                     pointing with much satisfaction at each part, and showing me by a whirling
                     motion of the arm that it was the going round of the grindstone that ground the
                     wheat. This idea of the wonderful manner in which the wheat was reduced to meal
                     had such a hold upon his imagination that he jumped on the grindstone to stop
                     it, in order that I might see for myself. But the stone wouldn't stop
                     immediately, and it was only after being tilted on his back once or twice that
                     the worthy miller succeeded in getting himself braced against a post so as to
                     stop the mill. Then he took up a handful of the meal, and showed me that it was
                     really ground by that same machinery, which he made still clearer to my mind by
                     a copious dissertation in Arabic on grist-mills as a general thing. "Tahib!" said he, signifying "good." "Tahib," said I, and crept out through the same hole
                     that I entered, very much pleased with my visit.
                  On leaving the mill, we passed through a long winding valley, hemmed in on the
                     right and left by low monotonous hills, dotted over with oak bushes, and
                     uninhabited for many miles, save by
                     a few goat-herds. We were so disgusted with the monotony of this valley that we
                     forgot to ask the name. Ascending and descending through several passes, we at
                     length entered another valley, through which runs a stream that waters the
                     valley of Zebdene. Yusef had gone on to the village to look out for lodgings;
                     and my two friends and myself, tired of lagging behind with the mules, pushed
                     on for Zebdene, in hopes of reaching it before dark. Crossing the stream in
                     half an hour or so, we ascended a hill on the other side, and here we found two
                     roads going nearly in the same direction and of nearly equal size. We took the
                     upper one, which of course was the wrong one. By the time we had ridden a mile
                     it was quite dark, and we found from the lights in another direction that we
                     had made a mistake. There being no other path, we had to retrace our steps,
                     which is not pleasant in Syria, where every step is a matter of study for both
                     horse and rider, and stepping in the dark especially. We returned again to the
                     valley, from which we heard the muleteers coming down the side of the mountain,
                     shouting loudly to the jaded animals. They reached us presently, and we all
                     pushed on together for Zebdene. It was one of the most pleasant rides we had
                     enjoyed during our tour. The moon came out, as we ascended the banks of the
                     stream, and it became a mild, clear night, with the towering mountains in full
                     view all around us, and the snow-capt heights of Djebelesh-Sheik glimmering in
                     the distance. The sharp cry of a jackal from the ravine on the other side of
                     the stream had a wild and startling effect in the stillness of the night; and
                     the strange stories of Eleas and the muleteers about robberies and murders in
                     these lonesome glens made us involuntarily look toward every thicket on the
                     roadside. It was not an agreeable idea, take it altogether, that of having our
                     legs cut off, as was done with one traveler, or our skulls battered in with
                     clubs, as another was served not long before, or even to be politely requested
                     to give up our money, and compelled to make the rest of our tour on charity.
                     Yusef had taken with him all the guns, pistols, and swords—and, worse than
                     that, all the propensity for fighting that was in the party. We might have
                     fought upon a pinch, but I believe we preferred not fighting. For my own part,
                     I had made up my mind, if attacked by the robbers, to offer them my old coat,
                     two shirts, a toothbrush, a small pocket comb, some sketches of Baalbek, and a
                     few short-hand notes from which these pages are written, together with a draft
                     on my friend the Southerner, who was kindly paying my way to Alexandria, where
                     I expected a remittance. I had likewise about me some small paper money,
                     amounting to twenty kreutzers (sixteen cents), payable in Austria in the course
                     of forty or fifty years; a letter of introduction to the Pasha of Egypt, two
                     Seidlitz powders, and a pocket-compass, which, together with an expired
                     commission as third lieutenant in the revenue service, I intended delivering to
                     the chief of the robbers sooner than shed one drop of blood, and requesting him
                     as a favor to take any thing else about my person or in my knapsack that he
                     might find useful. Fortunately, however, for the reader and myself, we met no
                     robbers, or, if we did, they were so terribly afraid of us that they passed on
                     without shooting.
                  We soon came into the beautiful and fertile neighborhood of Zebdene. Signs of
                     civilization, such as we had not seen since leaving Beirut, began to appear on
                     both sides of the road. Every thing quite reminded us of home. The road was
                     broad and plain, and the gardens were well hedged with bushes. Rustic gateways,
                     covered with running roses, peeped out from clumps of trees; the gurgling of
                     springs and the soft echo of distant voices made a pleasant music in the night
                     air; and as we rode along under the shade of overhanging trees, and looked
                     through the vistas of foliage on each side, the running vines hanging in
                     festoons through the vineyards, and the groves of fig trees and olives were lit
                     up with a glow of moonlight, and vividly brought to mind our early impressions
                     of the beauties of Eden. As we entered the village, it was a pleasant variety
                     to find none of that shadowless and parched appearance about it that
                     characterized all the villages we had seen before. The houses were half hidden
                     among trees, with little green patches of ground about them, and though rudely
                     constructed of mud and stone, like all we had seen, yet they were evidently larger and
                     more commodious. We rode on some distance looking around us for Yusef, starting
                     up sleepy dogs, and exciting the wonder of the natives in our search, calling
                     Yusef, Yusef! as we went, but it was not until we had reached the farthest
                     extremity of the village that Yusef made his appearance. Alas, I grieve to tell
                     it! his face was very red, and he staggered a good deal, and labored under some
                     difficulty in getting out his words; in short, it was quite plain he had been
                     drinking arrack—a thing that he did a little too often for our satisfaction.
                     "Come dis way genelmen," said he, "I'm got you a very good house. My niece live
                     here—she gone down to Damascus now, but her husband very good man." Here was
                     another of Yusef's nieces; I was not sorry to hear that she was gone to
                     Damascus; for somehow Yusef always wanted to delay us when his nieces were at
                     home. The house was very nice and comfortable—one of the best we had seen in
                     our travels; it was situated in an inclosure, fenced in by high hedges, with a
                     rustic gateway in front covered with rose bushes, and had altogether a rural
                     and picturesque effect in the moonlight. The Arabs sitting about the door
                     smoking their chiboucks, and the mules standing under the bushes with their
                     packs, while the muleteers ran about shouting at a great rate and doing a great
                     deal of work that amounted to nothing, were all that reminded us that we were
                     in a foreign land. Without them we might readily have fancied that we were in a
                     quiet little country village at home.
                  The husband of Yusef's niece received us with great kindness and hospitality. A
                     good fire was blazing in the corner, near which he spread mats for us, and
                     while we were enjoying the cheeful glow of the fire, he brought us coffee and
                     pipes. Here let me tell you that you who take your ease at home, don't know the
                     luxury of coffee and tobacco. Syria in the month of December is the place to
                     find it out. You get up in the morning, after suffering all the tortures that
                     vermin can inflict during the night, eat a hasty breakfast, and are off before
                     sunrise. For six hours you climb scraggy mountains and descend horrible
                     precipices, and then sit down on a rock by the roadside or near some ruined
                     Khan, to eat a chicken and some leather bread; then the same riding is repeated
                     till night, when you feel as if a piece of horse or a well-cooked dog would be
                     a positive luxury. While you are warming yourself by the cheerful blaze of the
                     fire, hot coffee appears as if by magic—the very thing to brace up the system
                     for dinner, which comes in about an hour. Now, blessed be the man that invented
                     coffee! It goes down with such a relish after all the troubles of the day;
                     warming the throat, sending a thrill of delight into the stomach, filling body
                     and soul with joy, and inspiring a proper appreciation of the chibouck and
                     Djebel tobacco. All these delights we enjoyed at Zebdene, and very grateful and
                     happy we felt that night, in spite of the prejudices of the untraveled against
                     the use of stimulants. I shall long look back upon Zebdene as a bright spot in
                     our pilgrimage through Syria. In the month of May it must be one of the most
                     charming places imaginable.
                  Having a spare hour next morning, while the mules were being loaded, we walked
                     out to see the village by daylight, and were quite enchanted with the fresh and
                     verdant hedges of wild rose, the rustic gateways (which seemed to be the ruling
                     passion of the Zebdenes;), the pomp of groves, the garniture of fields, and
                     "all that the genial ray of morning gilds." On our return to the house the
                     horses and mules were ready, and we rode off merrily toward Damascus. Clouds
                     began to gather upon the mountains, as we passed out of the shaded avenues of
                     the village into the open plain, and it was not long before a heavy rain swept
                     down upon us, accompanied by a strong cold wind that was very piercing. Three
                     hours from Zebdene we came to the river Berada, another small stream, running
                     between high and precipitous rocks of very marked geological character. Parts
                     of the mountain sides were distorted as if by violent convulsions of nature,
                     and we observed in the rocks distinct marks of trees and impressions of leaves.
                     Our guide pointed out to us the place where the river formerly gushed through
                     the mountain on the left, after we had passed a bridge; and on the right, on a
                     high peak, the tomb of Abel. We had no data to authenticate thenticate the burial of Abel on the mountain,
                     but it was the current opinion among the Greek Christians that this was his
                     tomb. On the left, beyond the bridge, we saw a number of holes cut in the rocks
                     like doorways, in which the Jews in old times buried their dead. They are
                     called the tombs of the Jews. Farther on we came to the village of Suharadan—a
                     dirty gathering of dilapidated hovels; and soon after, the village of El
                     Sanean, situated on the slope of a hill. The valley on the left is well
                     watered, and is fertile and beautifully wooded on the banks of the rivulet,
                     having a fresh and verdant appearance, that contrasts pleasantly with the
                     barren mountains on each side. El Sanean is made memorable to us by certain
                     curious tombstones that we saw there, and by the vilest abuse that ever
                     unoffending pilgrims received. An old woman, literally a living skeleton,
                     covered with leather, followed us up all the way from the spring in the hollow,
                     shaking her clenched hands at us, and shrieking at the top of her voice, "Dogs
                     that you are—get away from here. Begone, filth of the earth!" Seeing that we
                     merely laughed at this (partly for the reason that it was all in an unknown
                     tongue, and partly because when translated it sounded so ludicrous to hear this
                     skinny old hag denounce us as barbarians and dogs, without the slightest
                     provocation, so much like what we were in the habit of doing toward the Arabs
                     ourselves, and so palpable a hit at travelers in general), the old wretch
                     actually danced with rage, flinging about her arms and working her jaws like
                     some galvanized mummy. Our dragoman was so overcome with laughter that it was
                     some time before he could give us the gist of her remarks. "Oh, yes!" she
                     shrieked, "you may laugh, you dogs—you don't know any better. You are nothing
                     but dirt, scarce fit to be spit upon! Begone from here, you grinning dogs,
                     before I defile my hands by scratching your eyes out! What do you come poking
                     about here for? Why don't you stay at home, where you are all dogs together?
                     You want some bread, eh? Ha! ha! that's good?" And here the ferocious old hag
                     laughed so horribly with her toothless jaws that we fain rode off to escape
                     further abuse.
                  In an hour we came to the stream of Zeita, where we stopped to lunch. From this
                     point on to the village of Dum-mar is a winding valley, highly fertile and
                     picturesque, the road running along a ledge at the base of the mountain on the
                     right, the river on the left, its banks covered with trees, and numerous
                     springs gushing from the rocks and running over the road, making one of the
                     most refreshing combinations of agreeable sights we had yet seen. At length we
                     entered the village of Dum-mar, the most beautiful spot on the whole road from
                     Baalbek to Damascus, not excepting our favorite Zebdene. We saw little of the
                     houses, for they are nearly covered up with trees and running vines; but the
                     gardens, wild and uncultivated as they are, teemed with richness of vegetation;
                     and the ruinous old walls by the roadside were overrun with luxuriant vines and
                     wild flowers. As we passed out of the village near the bridge we saw a large
                     gathering of the native Arabs, lounging and smoking their chiboucks under an
                     immense wide-spreaking tree in front of a Khan, with groups of camels laden
                     with merchandise from Damascus feeding in the shade, and at a short distance
                     from the crowd an Arab story-teller, shouting; at the top of his voice, the
                     famous history of Hassan, the Robber of Camels. The bridge crosses the River of
                     Dum-mar, a considerable stream, watering a fertile tract of country above.
                     Leaving the village we had a pretty hard ride up to the top of the mountain
                     called Jebel-el-Nazir. It was here we had the first view of the magnificent
                     plains of Haroun—a sight that can never be forgotten; one that is truly a joy
                     forever.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXX.
                  DAMASCUS.
                  IN the midst of an extensive wooded valley lay the beautiful city of Damascus
                     called by the Emperor Julian the true city of Jupiter, the eye of the whole
                     East. What can I say of the first view of Damascus, the bright glowing paradise
                     of the Orient, the famous city of the Caliphate, that from early youth had
                     haunted us in our brightest dreams of Eastern travel! There it lay before us at
                     last, outspread at the base of Jebel-el-Nazir, upon the broad plain embosomed
                     in groves of olives and cypress; with its mosques and minarets and castles, its
                     white domes and giant old gateways, rising from the mass of foliage, and
                     glittering in the sunbeams like a fairy city of snow in a summer garden. It was
                     enough to inspire even a practical man like myself, whose mission in the East
                     is to rake up stern facts and expose all visionary fancies—enough, I say, to
                     strike poetry into the unpoetical—even into a determined foe to romance. On
                     this very spot, or close by, it is said that a famous Sheik, whose tomb we saw
                     as we passed down, exclaimed on beholding Damascus: "I will proceed no further;
                     I will die here, for if I go on I shall be unable to enjoy Paradise." And sure
                     enough he died, for there stands his tomb. Like the first sight of
                     Constantinople, it is gorgeously Oriental; different indeed in position, but
                     scarcely less beautiful. Surrounded by luxuriant groves, and embosomed in
                     gardens, its white spires and domes stand out with wonderful distinctness and
                     sumptuous profusion from amid the waving mass of green; and afar on every side
                     from the base of Jebel-el-Nazir stretches the splendid valley of the Seven
                     Rivers, variegated with green fields and woods and villages; while on the one
                     hand gleam the bright waters of the River Burada and the Bahr-el-Merj, or Lake
                     of the Meadow; and on the other the snow-capt summit of Jebelesh-Sheik, the
                     ancient Hermon; and dim ranges of mountains loom up from the plains of Hauran,
                     and a purple glow from the setting sun hangs softly over the vast amphitheatre
                     of mountain and valley, giving more than earthly beauty to a scene that seemed
                     the baseless fabric of a vision. Such is the approach to Damascus, "the right
                     hand of the cities of Syria."
                  Here, before we pass beyond the Mausoleum of Abut-el Nazir, the guide of the
                     Prophet, let us take a long, lingering look over the plain, and drink deep into
                     our souls draughts of heavenly beauty; for within the walls of Damascus, as
                     within the city of the Sultan, all is " of earth, earthy."
                  Descending by a narrow pass to the left of the Mausoleum of Abut-el-Nazir, we
                     rode for about a mile along the base of the mountains, and then turned to the
                     right into the groves of Damascus. Here reality at once gave a check to our
                     enthusiasm. All travellers bound to Damascus, in search of the beautiful,
                     should take a good look at it from the summit of Jebel-el-Nazir, and die as
                     soon as possible, like the Sheik, but not go a step farther. There is certainly
                     nothing to die for within the walls of Damascus, though a good deal to produce
                     death, in the way of filth and disease. Instead of handsome villas, surrounded
                     by flower gardens and adorned with works of art, as we were led to expect from
                     the view above, we saw nothing but high mud walls, broken and dilapidated
                     gateways, and trees covered with dust; with a few breaches in the walls by the
                     way-side, exposing some wretched huts within the inclosure, as dirty as mud and
                     dust could make them. There was not the least attempt at ornament or comfort
                     visible any where; scarce sufficient cultivation to sustain life; lazy dogs and
                     lazier Arabs lay basking in the sun by the roadside, sharing mutually the
                     luxuries of dust and flies; and the whole aspect of the neighborhood, as we
                     approached Damascus, was neglected and barbarous in the extreme. The narrow and
                     mud-walled roads crossed each other
                     in all directions; dust covering them to the depth of six inches; and the air
                     was so filled with it that we were well nigh stifled before we entered upon the
                     principal paved road leading into the city. At the gate called by the Franks
                     the Porta di Baalbek, we were stopped by some Turkish guards, who entered into
                     a social conversation with our dragoman concerning our business in Damascus,
                     past history, and future prospects, all of which seemed to afford them the
                     highest satisfaction, as they resumed their chiboucks, upon being paid the sum
                     of two half-piasters, or four cents and a quarter, with an evident
                     determination to remain satisfied with the information they had received (and
                     the half-piasters) all the rest of their lives, and never to stop smoking again
                     on any account.
                  If our disappointment was great upon entering the groves in the neighborhood of
                     Damascus, it was greater still upon entering the city. The streets are not more
                     than eight or ten feet in width, badly paved in parts and not paved at all
                     generally; dirty beyond description, and abounding in foul odors and disgusting
                     sights of lepers and beggars. Overhead throughout most of the city were hung
                     ragged mats for the purpose, I believe, of keeping out the air in summer, and
                     making the streets wet and gloomy in winter. It was as much as our lives were
                     worth to ride through these streets over the slippery stones; spraining our
                     horses' legs, and getting jammed on each side of the street every dozen steps,
                     sometimes carrying away the shutters of a shop or a basket of fruit, and now
                     and then compelled to jerk up the off leg and hug the wall to avoid being
                     crushed by a drove of camels. The loads of these animals seemed expressly
                     designed to rake both sides of the streets; and where there was not room for
                     them, mules and donkeys supplied their place. We had often heard of the
                     hostility of the inhabitants of Damascus to Christians; their hatred of all
                     sects except their own, their intolerance toward foreigners, and their bigoted
                     attachment to Islamism; but we had been told that of late years they had
                     greatly improved in consequence of increased intercourse with the Frank nations
                     of Europe. Ibrahim Pasha taught them a good many lessons, without doing their
                     religion or morals much good. The British Government, in 1841, gave them some
                     notion of the importance of good behavior, which seemed to make some impression
                     upon them. They still vent their hatred, however, upon foreigners, as we found
                     from our experience, whenever they can do so without incurring risk. In passing
                     through some of the more obscure streets we had stones thrown at us by the
                     boys, and were repeatedly spit at by the children, and insulted by derisive
                     shouts of Frangi! Frangi! The men stood by laughing, evidently quite pleased
                     with the conduct of the rising generation, though it is due to them to say that
                     they were too lazy or too cowardly to take any part in these annoyances
                     themselves. After passing through several of the quarters in which the
                     different sects reside, we arrived at a wall with a door in it, upon entering
                     which we found ourselves in the Court of the Hôtel de
                        Palmyre, the only tolerable place for Frank travelers in the city.
                     From the streets the houses have the appearance of mud forts, most of them
                     being bare mud walls with holes in them, presenting a most forbidding and
                     gloomy aspect to the stranger, who is not aware of the pleasant surprise that
                     is in store for him when he passes the obscure little doorway. We were quite
                     charmed upon entering the Court of the Hôtel de
                        Palmyre. In truth, it seemed as if we had made a mistake and
                     stumbled into the palace of some Pasha. It was a very ordinary house, as we
                     afterward found, but appeared really magnificent, after what we had been
                     accustomed to. There were orange trees, laden with tempting fruit; a large
                     reservoir full of water, with a fountain in the centre; a paved court and
                     various archways, leading into the different apartments, all on the ground
                     floor; and then there were Arab and Greek servants, who were lounging about;
                     and the host, with a flaming red fez in his hand, received us as visitors of
                     high distinction—all very gratifying things to way-worn travelers, who had been
                     for eight days wandering about over the mountains of Lebanon. The air was
                     fragrant with the scent of oranges and rose water—we suspected the host of
                     havnig sprinkled the pavement or himself with attar of roses when he heard we
                     were coming—fountains were bubbling
                     away in the rooms and out of the rooms; in short, without going into
                     particulars, the whole was quite Lalla Rookhish—that is to say, like all things
                     Oriental, the first sight was full of enchantment. It was so strange and showy,
                     every thing so fashioned out to captivate the senses; the rooms extending clear
                     up to the top of the house, with domes above; the walls cornered and curved
                     into all sorts of shapes, and painted with brilliant colors, in stripes and
                     grotesque devices; marble floors, alcoves for the beds, running gauze curtains
                     drawn across, to keep off the spray of the fountains; divans to lounge and
                     smoke upon, with a pleasant mingling of the useful in the way of narguillas and
                     chiboucks. Oh, you have no idea how luxurious it was! Such was the effect of
                     these glowing features of Eastern life upon my nervous system, aided by two
                     cups of excellent black tea from a box presented to the host, as he solemnly
                     declared, by Mi-lord Bath, that I lost all sense of the dignity of Oriental
                     travel in the enthusiasm of the occasion, and gave vent to my joy in such
                     extraordinary flourishes on the flute as to arouse every smoking Arab and son
                     of an Arab about the establishment. They pronounced it, as I solemnly aver on
                     the responsibility of our dragoman, the most tahib music that ever was heard within the walls of Damascus, not
                     excepting the famous dead march of the Turkish band, consisting of three notes,
                     with variations. That beautiful air, called Ezepa Kouna by the Arabs, and so
                     much admired by them whenever I played it, rolled magnificently round the dome
                     of our chamber, and reverberated with ten-fold effect throughout the court, to
                     the great astonishment of two English gentlemen who had just returned from
                     Palmyra, and who had probably never heard it before, or only knew it by the
                     vulgar name of Zip Coon. My friends—the Captain and Southerner—were quite
                     charmed, but none so delighted as I was myself. We all declared it was a
                     glorious life, this riding, and smoking, and fluting our way through the land
                     of turbans, and went to bed as jolly as possible, to dream our first dream in
                     Damascus.
                  What we dreamt it would be impossible to say with any degree of accuracy. If I
                     remember right, the English captain tain was troubled about getting in all his
                     coal by 2 P.M., at which hour the steamer was to sail; the Southerner slept
                     soundly in a cane-brake; and it fell to my lot to dream that the grand Caliph
                     of Damascus had ordered me to be bastinadoed for misrepresenting him in the
                     report of a speech which he had just delivered in the United States Senate, on
                     the subject of free-soil. At all events, whatever our troubles were (and I
                     assure you, our night-caps had nothing to do with them), we all
                     woke up next morning in a very serious frame of mind; and, upon ascertaining
                     that we had bad colds, and our beards were dripping wet, and our heads ached,
                     we arrived at the following conclusions: That, however charming a fountain may
                     be in a bedroom in summer, it is apt to be damp in the month of December; that
                     cold marble floors are more pleasant in August than in mid-winter; and the
                     total absence of chimneys, stoves, and all means of warming a room, except a
                     miserable pot of charcoal, is not productive of comfort, however pretty and
                     Oriental the whole thing may be. All the glitter of colors on the walls looked
                     very tawdry this morning; the fountain sent a cold shudder through us; the Arab
                     domestics looked as lazy and filthy as ever, and in spite of the repeated
                     assurances of our landlord, that "indeed Mi-lord Bath had slept in this very
                     chamber," we changed our quarters for another room less showy but much more
                     comfortable.
                  We took for our guide through the city a methodical old gentleman called
                     Ibrahim. In his book of recommendations he is represented to be a "regular old
                     Jew," "as honest a man as any body could expect," "not the brightest guide in
                     the world, but the best in Damascus, and one who knows the way through the
                     city;" and, in justice to him, I must say that he deserved these testimonials,
                     and that his knowledge of the languages is equal to his knowledge of the
                     antiquities of Damascus.
                  The old gentleman (for he claimed to be a Reis) was very slow and dignified in
                     his movements, and wore a long beard and large turban, that gave him a most
                     imposing aspect; we called him Ibrahim the Solemn. He showed us the bazaars,
                     
                        ANCIENT ARCH IN DAMASCUS.
                      and told us, with great solemnity, that they were bazaars; the
                     mosques, too, he pointed out, and informed us that they were mosques; some old
                     walls, likewise, he showed us, and said they were walls; after which, satisfied
                     that he had imparted to us much valuable information, he took us to a native
                     smoking-house, and with our permission, called for coffee and narguillas for
                     the whole party, which he paid for out of his own purse, charging us afterward
                     only double the amount; according to a custom prevalent among guides all over
                     the world.
                  I was greatly struck with the majestic and dignified appearance of old Ibrahim;
                     and thought he would look very much like a distinguished person, on paper.
                     Indeed, I secretly entertained the belief that he was really some extraordinary
                     man, in reduced circumstances; probably one of the learned Rabbi that I had
                     read about in books on the East. My chief ground for the latter opinion was,
                     that he seemed always to be wrapt in a profound study; and had a great
                     antipathy to any thing like learning in others. Nothing so excited his contempt
                     (if I might judge by the gravity of his countenance, for
                        IBRAHIM.
                      he never manifested his excitement in any other way) as any allusion
                     to the history of Damascus. In a happy moment of inspiration, I got an exact
                     fac-simile of his features, which will enable the reader to see precisely how
                     he looked upon being asked by one of the party, if he remembered at what date
                     St. Paul preached from the house-top. On the subject of Roman antiquities he
                     was especially reserved. It was evident that he had an antipathy to the Romans,
                     and would in no degree contribute to the perpetuation of their fame. That he
                     will come out one of these days in a book against that people for building
                     useless walls and arches in Damascus, and thereby setting idle tourists all
                     agog, about ruins that don't exist as well as those that do exist, I have no
                     doubt whatever. I observed it in the expression of his countenance on several
                     occasions when I solicited his opinion about Herod the Great.
                  Actuated by the purest motives—chiefly by the desire to dissipate the mists of
                     fancy, as you know has been my object all along—I took the liberty of asking
                     Ibrahim if the ladies of Damascus were pretty; to which he replied by throwing
                     up both hands in horror, and saying, "God forbid that I should know. People say
                     they are, but I don't know; never saw them in my life." Now, I gave Ibrahim credit for sincerity in a good many
                     things; for instance, being in earnest when he smoked the narguilla, hating the
                     Mohammedans with a bitter hatred, loving the Armenians with a Jewish love, and
                     in believing that there was not a more honest man than himself in the city of
                     Damascus; but it must be admitted, that I had room for doubt on the point above
                     stated. Strange stories are told about some of the English nobility who have
                     visited Damascus of late; and nobody knows more about them than our old friend,
                     "except," as our maître d'hôtel was in the
                     habit of saying on all occasions, "Mi-lord Bath." Here is the last, translated
                     from the original Arabic:
                  There was once in the East an elegant beast, and Beck-ford was his name; a
                     harem he took, and then wrote a book, which won him some little fame;
                     Corruption was tired, till an earl it inspired to follow in his path; when soon
                     to shame it put his name, then washed it in a Bath.—Moral: Because a nobleman
                     is in Damascus, he needn't be a Damascus Blade.
                  The following lines, from a book published in India, entitled, the "Shurboo
                     Muit Amil," may be taken as another specimen of Oriental wit. The translation
                     is from the modern Arabic:
                  
                     ON A LITTLE MAN NAMED DAVID, WITH A VERY LONG BEARD.
                     
                        How can thy chin that burden bear?
                        Is it all gravity to shock?
                        Is it to make the people stare,
                        And be thyself a laughing-stock?
                     
                     
                        When I behold thy little feet,
                        After thy beard obsequious run,
                        I always fancy that I meet.
                        Some father followed by his son.
                     
                     
                        A man like thee scarce e'er appeared;
                        A beard like thine, where shall we find it?
                        Surely, thou cherishest thy beard,
                        In hopes to hide thyself behind it.
                     
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXI.
                  BATHS OF DAMASCUS.
                  WE arrived at the Hôtel de Palmyre, as
                     already stated, after eight days' wandering over the mountains of Lebanon, and
                     among the ruins of Baalbek, covered with the dust of travel and the filth and
                     vermin of Turkish khans. The first consideration next morning was a Damascus
                     bath. My English friend had been in Syria before, and knew all about the native
                     baths. He said they were "stunning," a word signifying every thing wonderful,
                     in an Englishman's mouth. "Stunning" baths are supposed to be baths that knock
                     into a cocked hat all a man's preconceived ideas of the luxuries of bathing,
                     and it is an expressive word, as I soon discovered. The tall Southerner
                     preferred enjoying his nap, so we left him in his glory. An Arab youth
                     accompanied us from the hotel, with special injunctions from the padrone to
                     show us to the baths patronized by his late master, Lord Bath. I don't know how
                     often his lordship went there, but it is to be hoped that he went often enough
                     to be cleansed of the impurities of rather a prolonged sojourn in Damascus. We
                     followed our guide through a confusing maze of narrow and dirty streets, till
                     he disappeared in a most forbidding doorway; and it was not until he
                     re-appeared and had repeatedly urged us to enter, that we could consent to
                     patronize such an unpromising place. He assured us, however, that we would find
                     the baths tahib, mucha tahib—very good; a
                     great deal better, we hoped, than they looked from the outside. Passing through
                     an open courtyard, in which were countless Arabs, half-naked, up to their
                     elbows in dirty clothes and soap-suds, we entered a large circular hall, the
                     public dressing and undressing saloon, where payments were made, and coffee and chiboucks
                     handed round. A fountain of cold water stood in the middle, into which dark
                     unshirted men of the establishment plunged their arms and heads to cool
                     themselves, and out of which they now and then dipped up water for thirsty
                     customers. Around the saloon was an elevated platform, upon which stood a
                     circular row of low bedsteads, most of which appeared to be occupied. It was a
                     strange sight altogether; on every side extraordinary apparitions of dusky
                     bearded men rising up out of the sheets, wild-looking Arabs with bald heads
                     running about screaming horribly, gray and grizzled old Turks falling on their
                     faces toward Mecca; a mist of cold steam rising from the sloppy marble floor;
                     and the whole space overhead filled with dangling clothes hung up on lines to
                     dry in the reeking atmosphere. In a retired part of the room, behind a huge
                     pile of smoking towels, sat the master of the establishment—a venerable Arab,
                     with a beard reaching to his middle. He also was smoking calmly amid all the
                     turmoil, and only stopped at long intervals to note down something on a pile of
                     paper which he held on his lap. I believe that man was writing a book—probably
                     a learned work on hydropathy, showing the absurdities of Preisnitz and his
                     followers in chilling the blood with cold water, when they might comfortably
                     boil it up to the proper temperature in hot water. To this venerable man of
                     letters we made known our wants as best we could in a broken mixture of Italian
                     and French, through our guide, who understood something over a dozen words of
                     each, stating that we had come a long way, and hearing in Damascus of the
                     famous repute of his baths, had determined to try them. The old man raised his
                     head, looked at us solemnly for some time, as if he suspected that we might be
                     tinctured with the heresies of Preisnitz, and then waved his hand gravely
                     toward a subordinate functionary who stood near. The subordinate was covered up
                     high over the head in a pyramid of towels. "Friend," said we, "can't you show
                     us into a private dressing room? We Franks don't like to make models of
                     ourselves in public." "Impossible," said he (through our guide, of course),
                     "every body undresses here." "But we are howadji of rank, and mustn't be confounded with common people;
                     besides, we are willing to pay double for a private room." "Oh, as to that,"
                     replied the man, very much affected by our allusion to backshish, "I knew you were mi-lords; but I am very sorry indeed;
                     this is the custom in Damascus. We never have private rooms here." "And do you
                     expect us," said we sternly, "to strip ourselves before all those naked
                     wretches?" "Praised be Allah," retorted the man, "we bathe none here but Reis
                     and Pashas! Don't you see his highness there?" pointing to the apparition of a
                     living skeleton, very dirty, sitting up in a pile of sheets, "that's a Pasha;
                     and his excellency on the left," directing our attention to a greasy,
                     bald-headed old Turk, who was amusing himself picking the fleas off his shirt,
                     "that's one of the chief officers of the government; and there, and there—all
                     Pashas and men of distinction. "Enough," said we; "strip us and boil us. Be
                     quick about it, and see that we are well scrubbed." Mounting the platform, we
                     selected two beds, and, with the assistance of the chief of sheet-holders, were
                     soon reduced to bare legs and short linens. Further than that we stoutly
                     protested against till screened from either a real or supposed gaze of wonder
                     on the part of the multitude around us, who appeared to think that the Frangi might develop some new features in human
                     anatomy. At last we made a compromise by denuding and sheeting ourselves. This
                     done, we thrust our feet into some wooden clogs, to keep them clear of the
                     floor, and were conducted into the first bath-room. Here was a blue mist,
                     through which all that we could discern were shaven heads, naked and dusky
                     figures looming through the warm soapy atmosphere, with a grim and horrible
                     effect. There was a hot, heavy, oppressive smell, that quite disheartened one
                     of us at least as to the prospect. I instinctively held my breath, for fear of
                     inhaling some plague, leprosy, or other loathsome disease peculiar to Oriental
                     cities. While thinking seriously of darting out, paying the backshish, and considering the thing done, a gaunt
                     figure emerged from the fog, and seized me with the grasp of a vice. He was the
                     most frightful looking monster I ever beheld—a perfect living mummy; dark,
                     lean, and shriveled, with
                     sharp-pointed yellow teeth, and only one eye, the other having been dug out
                     with some rough instrument; but that single eye was enough: it actually seemed
                     to glare with triumph at the idea of a Christian subject. Another naked wretch
                     seized hold of my friend the English captain, and we were both dragged rapidly
                     into an adjoining apartment.
                  I sincerely hope that the impression made upon my mind on entering this den of
                     satanic visions will never be effaced by any future experience. It was quite
                     sufficient to give me a general idea of the state of things to which a man may
                     be reduced by an evil course of life. In truth, it was worthy to be ranked with
                     Martin's illustrations of Milton. At one end was a seething caldron of hot
                     water, in the shape of a dark marble vase, from which arose hot clouds of
                     steam; the marble floor was wet and soapy, and of a smarting heat; the walls
                     were reeking with a warm sweat; high overhead was a concave ceiling, pierced
                     with round holes, in which were colored glasses, and through this the light
                     poured down in streaks of every hue; a mist of hot vapor hung in the
                     atmosphere, lit up by flashes of colored light, and gave the moving figures an
                     appearance of wretches roasting in flames of fire and brimstone; and all
                     around, in every direction, were bare bodies, and limbs, and shaven heads
                     glistening through the obscurity, and great naked monsters torturing them with
                     dippers full of scalding water or blinding lather from huge basins of suds;
                     some scraping with razors a bald crown, some scalding down a leg or an arm, or
                     rubbing off the skin from the backbone of a prostrate victim; others stretching
                     out limbs and trying to disjoint them, or scrubbing them down with hard
                     brushes—all working with a fiendish zest, increased to a malicious grin of
                     triumph when a groan or involuntary yell of agony could be elicited. "Surely,"
                     said I to the captain, "they are not going to put us through here in this
                     diabolical crowd?" "Oh, this is nothing," said he; "there's another place yet,
                     if I'm not mistaken. We can go into that if you like, only it's a good deal
                     hotter." "Hotter! Why, good heavens! there's not air enough here for a
                     musquito." "Nonsense; you'll not mind it directly; it's quite stunning, I
                     assure you, when you get used to it." Now, I had a painful misgiving of
                     absolute suffocation in the act of getting used to it, but it was too late to
                     retreat. At some magic word in Arabic from the captain, who was not much
                     pleased himself with the assemblage here, we were seized again by the naked
                     monsters before mentioned, and dragged into a room still further on, and of
                     much smaller dimensions. There were only two or three victims in this branch of
                     the establishment. It seemed to be the finishing-up place, where people who
                     chose to go through the whole operation were subjected to the final and most
                     exquisite ordeals; but we, as a matter of favor, were permitted to suit
                     ourselves by haying the whole thing concentrated. The fact is, in the rooms
                     through which we had passed there was such an odor of impure flesh that we were
                     both a little haunted by visions of plague and leprosy. Here, however, we were
                     past all odors; there was no further use for the organs of scent. It was of
                     such a fiery temperature that for a few minutes it was a sufficient labor to
                     struggle against suffocation. Soon the big drops of sweat rolled down from my
                     forehead; I was covered with a flow of steam and sweat that quite blinded me.
                     The captain vanished in a white mist, leaving a parting impression on my mind
                     of a man gasping for life in a sea of soap-suds. I saw no more of him for a
                     quarter of an hour. Meantime I was jerked out of my winding sheet by the
                     one-eyed monster, and thrust down into a sitting posture, close by the vase of
                     hot water. "Hold, for God's sake! What—" It was too late. A perfect deluge of
                     foaming lather came pouring down over my head and face, running into my eyes,
                     ears, and nostrils, and stopping up my mouth beyond all hope of speech. I have
                     an indistinct recollection of a confusion of agonies through which I went for
                     the next five minutes, but can not depict them with any thing like the force of
                     reality.
                  From the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, I was enveloped in a bank of
                     hot lather, which the horrid wretch who had me down was rubbing into my flesh
                     with a small rake, or some other instrument of torture. At last he reached
                     
                        BATHS OF DAMASCUS.
                      my eyes, and here he rubbed so effectually that the pain was too
                     exquisite to be borne. "Water, water!" I roared, in the very extremity of
                     agony, "water, you villain! quick, or I'm blind for life! "Mooè," suggested the captain from his bank of suds
                     on the other side, "call for mooè, that's the
                     Arabic; he'll understand it better than English!" "Mooè!" I screamed in the madness of anguish; "Mooè! you rascal!" There was a guttural sound of
                     assent from outside the coating of lather; it was impossible to see an inch;
                     but I heard a dabbling as if in water, and thought I detected something like a
                     fiendish inward laugh. Next moment my brain seemed to be scorched with a
                     hissing flame of fire, and my body felt as if a thousand devils were tearing
                     strips of skin off it with red hot pincers. For a while I was entirely
                     incapable of utterance. I could only writhe madly under the grasp of the live
                     mummy, who held me down with one hand, while he continued to pour the scalding
                     flood over me with the other, till a momentary cessation of the torture enabled
                     me to call for aid. "Captain! oh heavens, captain! he's boiling me in earnest!"
                     "Cold water!" said the captain in Arabic; "put some cold water on him!" There
                     was a pause now, while the man went in search of cold water, during which I sat
                     simmering in a puddle of suds, afraid to stir lest my entire suit of skin
                     should drop off. In a few minutes he returned, and, holding the bucket over my
                     head, he poured down a stream of fresh water that sent a shock into my very
                     core. It was a relief, however, as it eventually enabled me to open my eyes.
                     When I did open them, the first object in view was that diabolical wretch,
                     grinning horribly, and squinting with a malicious satisfaction at the results
                     of his labors. I was red all over, a perfect boiled lobster in external
                     appearance. "Tahib?" said he, signifying,
                     Good, is'nt it? "Tahib, hey?" And then he
                     took from a large bowl of suds a familiar-looking instrument, a brush, which he
                     fastened on his hand, and seizing hold of me by the arm, commenced rubbing with
                     all his might. To be carded down in this manner with a hard brush, the wooden
                     part of which now and then touched up some acute angle, was not productive of agreeable sensations, but it was
                     a vast improvement on the hot-water process. Such exquisite delight did the
                     villainous old mummy take in it, that he strained every muscle with zeal, and
                     snorted like a racer, his fiery eye glaring on me with a fiendish expression,
                     and his long pointed teeth, glistening through the steam, as if nothing would
                     have afforded him half so much satisfaction as to bite me. Stretching me on my
                     back, he scrubbed away from head to foot, raking over the collar bones, ribs,
                     and shin bones in a paroxysm of enthusiasm. This done, he reversed the
                     position, and raked his way back, lingering with great relish on every spinal
                     elevation, till he reached the back of my head, which event he signalized by
                     bringing the end of the brush in sudden contact with it. He then pulled me up
                     into a sitting posture again; for by this time I was quite loose, and felt
                     resigned to any thing, and drawing the brush skillfully over the beaten track,
                     gathered up several rolls of fine skin, each of which he exhibited to me, with
                     a grin of triumph, as a token of uncommon skill. "Tahib, Howadji? Tahib?" Good; isn't your excellency cleverly
                     done, eh?
                  Having arrived at this stage of the proceedings, the indefatigable monster
                     again covered me up in a sea of lather, and while I was writhing in renewed
                     agonies from streams of soap that kept running into my eyes, in spite of every
                     effort to shut them off, he dashed a large dipper, full of hot water, over me,
                     following it by others in rapid succession, till, unable to endure the dreadful
                     torturing, I sprang to my feet, seized the dipper, and shouted, "backshish!" at the top of my voice. The word acted
                     like magic. I never have known it to be applied in vain throughout the East. It
                     opens sacred places, corrupts sacred characters, gives inspiration to the lazy,
                     and new life to the desponding; in short, it accomplishes wonders, no matter
                     how miraculous. From that moment I was a happy man; rubbed down with a
                     lamb-like gentleness, smoothed over softly with warm sheets, dried up from head
                     to feet; turbaned like a Pasha, slipped into my clogs, and supported through
                     the various chambers into the grand saloon, where I had the pleasure of
                     greeting my friend the captain, of whom I had enjoyed but a confused notion of
                     proximity for some time previously. An attendant now handed us chiboucks and
                     coffee, which, together with the delightful sense of cleanliness and relief
                     from all further suffering, produced a glow that was quite ecstatic. Covered up
                     to our necks in warm sheets, we lay back, supported by pillows, sipped our
                     coffee and smoked our chiboucks with a relish to which all the past pleasures
                     of life seemed absolutely flat. A thorough feeling of forgiveness, a quiet
                     sense of happiness, and an utter indifference to the world and all its cares,
                     pervaded the entire inner man, while the outer was wrapt in that state of
                     physical beatitude which the Koran promises to the devout followers of the
                     Prophet in the seventh heaven. "Stunning, isn't it?" said the captain, calmly
                     puffing his chibouck.
                  Being Frangi, of course we backshished every
                     body, and were immoderately cheated. The entire expense, however, did not
                     exceed thirty cents, including coffee and pipes—little enough, one would say,
                     for such an ordeal. As for the effect upon the system we found it very pleasant
                     and salutary; but I have no doubt the old gentleman whom we left writing behind
                     the smoking pile of sheets will do full justice to that branch of the subject
                     in his work, which, it is to be hoped, will be translated into English. There
                     is only one objection to the boiling process; my hair has been falling out ever
                     since, and I am apprehensive of total baldness before any young lady will be
                     moved to pity, by these "hair-breadth 'scapes," these "dangers by flood and
                     field." The baths of Damascus are stunning; I fully agree to that; but it is
                     with an inward reservation, a fixed intention to flog that old mummy out of his
                     skin the very first time I meet him in Washington.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXII.
                  THE MISSIONARIES IN SYRIA.
                  I HAD the pleasure of becoming acquainted, during my sojourn in Damascus, with
                     several of the American missionaries; and I feel that it would be ungrateful to
                     omit a passing tribute to their kindness of heart, unpretending piety, and
                     noble exertions in the dissemination of Christianity among the Arabs.
                     Prejudiced, in some degree, against the missionaries as a class—partly from
                     having paid but little attention to the subject, and partly because I had seen
                     some very bad specimens in other countries, yet I had never doubted the high
                     and praiseworthy aim of the system; and it was a source of genuine
                     gratification to find that there are a great many more sincere people in the
                     world than I had supposed in my younger days. A good cause often suffers from
                     the unfitness or insincerity of its followers; but if it be founded upon true
                     and righteous principles, it must triumph in the end. It has been well
                     remarked, that "if men who are set apart to instruct others, instead of
                     entertaining them with what neither teachers nor hearers understand, and (what
                     is worse), stirring up the latter to dislike and hate one another for
                     difference in opinions, would preach the true Gospel of Jesus Christ, which is
                     'peace on earth and good-will to men,' and also enforce this excellent doctrine
                     by their own examples, and all other virtues by the same means, we should
                     undoubtedly soon experience a great alteration in the world." Nothing can be
                     more injudicious than to attempt the reformation of a barbarous people by
                     threats, or by confounding them with abstruse doctrinal mysteries. The
                     Christian religion is simple and easily understood; the most ignorant may be
                     taught to comprehend it, if it be presented in the unpretending language of its
                     best arid greatest teacher. But in order to do this, it would seem necessary
                     that the mind of the barbarian should be prepared in some measure to receive it
                     by a knowledge of the principles upon which it is founded; by some practical,
                     tangible showing of the difference between right and wrong; by such preparatory
                     lessons in civilization, as would enable him to perceive the temporal, as well
                     as the spiritual advantage of what he was learning.
                  The schools attached to the missions throughout the East are, in this view, of
                     incalculable service to the cause of Christianity; and, although there is
                     perhaps no other part of the world where so many difficulties have to be
                     contended against, the success which has attended the missionary teachings is
                     most remarkable. In Athens, Mr. Hill, by his judicious and admirable system of
                     education, gradually inspiring in his pupils a love of virtue, and a thirst for
                     spiritual knowledge, has made an impression on the hearts and minds of the
                     rising generation of Greeks that must eventually spread and become general
                     throughout the land. Evangelides, the Greek-American of Syra, has also done
                     much by his teachings; and the same may be said of all the missionaries and
                     teachers whom I met with in the Levant.
                  One of the most memorable and delightful evenings of my whole pilgrimage was
                     spent in the church of the Rev. Dr. Smith of Beirut. There, for the first time
                     in my life, I heard the Christian religion expounded in the land of its origin.
                     Attracted, as I was strolling by the door of the humble little church, by the
                     chaste and classic eloquence of the preacher, with whom I was entirely
                     unacquainted, I stepped in arid took my seat; and I may safely say, that never
                     had I listened to a more delightful or instructive discourse. Among the
                     congregation was a large number of intelligent-looking Arabs, in their native
                     costume; and the profound attention with which they listened to the teachings
                     of their pastor, and the strict decorum and good-breeding evinced in their
                     manner, struck me as the most impressive instance of progress in a land of
                     darkness and ignorance, toward a better state of things, that I had ever witnessed. Who can measure the good
                     that each one of these Arabs may, by his influence and example, do for his
                     fellow-men, even in his own day and generation?
                  Damascus has always been noted as the stronghold of Islamism; and the
                     inhabitants have ever been distinguished for their bigotry and intolerance.
                     Until very recently, Christian pilgrims were not only subject to insults in
                     passing through the streets, but frequently assaulted and maltreated without
                     provocation. A great improvement has become perceptible in this respect within
                     a few years past. Missionaries from every civilized nation are now permitted to
                     preach, and educate the native children without molestation; and although the
                     result of their labors is not so encouraging as in other portions of Syria
                     where there is less intolerance, yet there is every reason to believe that the
                     great cause of civilization is taking root, and that a few years more will
                     develop a growth equal to the most sanguine anticipations of those who are
                     interested in it.
                  Mr. Burnet, who has been in Damascus only six or seven years, now preaches to a
                     respectable congregation of Arabs in their own tongue. Dr. Shephard, Mr.
                     Lansing, and others, are making rapid progress in the education of the Arab
                     children; and when the system which they have adopted is thoroughly in
                     operation, there can be no question as to its beneficial results.
                  To each and all of these gentlemen I am indebted for much valuable information
                     in regard to the social condition of the Syrians; and I shall always remember
                     with unfeigned pleasure the delightful and profitable hours which I was so
                     fortunate as to spend in their society.
                  After seeing all that travelers, limited in time, can be expected to see in
                     Damascus and the neighborhood, we bade good-by to our kind friends, mounted our
                     horses once more, and proceeded on our journey.
                  For three days nothing particular occurred. A heavy rainstorm set in as we left
                     Damascus; and we were drenched to the skin, and compelled at last to seek
                     shelter in a miserable village up in the mountains, called Far-how-ar. On the
                     following lowing day, the rain turned to a cutting sleet, and we were forced to
                     stop at Beit Jem. Taking the rough bridle-path from that village, we ascended
                     Jebel-esh-Sheik, or Mt. Hermon, where we suffered intensely from the cold. The
                     mountain was covered with snow; and the whole aspect of the country was wild
                     and barren. We saw a few jackals among the rocks, and shot at one that came
                     snuffing the air rather close to us, but, with our usual luck, missed him.
                  On the evening of the third day we descended near by an old castle, to the
                     village of Baneas, the ancient Cesarea Philippi. We saw here the grotto from
                     which flows the spring said by some authorities to be the source of the Jordan.
                     I had promised to meet Doctor Mendoza and the Madam at Philippi; but they had
                     passed on the day before, evidently because it was "imposs to remain tranquil"
                     in such a place. I had also on various occasions during my life agreed to meet
                     friends and foes in Philippi. The friends were not there: I was not
                     disappointed in regard to the foes. We all had an abundance of them during the
                     night, and in the morning had no cause to complain of having met nothing in
                     Philippi.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXIII.
                  THE BATTLE OF THE MULETEERS.
                  THIS morning, before leaving Baneas, a terrible battle took place between my
                     dragoman Yusef and the muleteers. I caution the reader not to be alarmed for my
                     safety, when I state, that on an average, we have a battle every day. Neither
                     do I claim any great merit as a military man, on account of the coolness with
                     which I witness the strife of the contending parties; because, to be candid, I
                     always contrive to occupy some elevated position at a safe distance from the
                     scene of action, where I sit smoking my chibouck very pleasantly till the
                     conclusion of the fight. Besides, I know that Yusef is bound to conquer,
                     because he not only carries all the arms, but is perpetually so boiling over
                     with courage, that even when there is no real enemy at hand, he shoots the air
                     and kills a great many imaginary enemies. Under these circumstances I feel a
                     confidence in the result that is very cheering. The cause of the present
                     difficulty was this, as well as I could learn: The muleteers having found some
                     old acquaintances at Baneas, had spent the night in smoking and talking. When
                     the time arrived for starting they were in a sound sleep. Yusef tried, by all
                     manner of pushing and shouting, to wake them up; but the more he tried the more
                     they remained fast asleep. The effect seemed rather to be agreeable than
                     otherwise. At last, bereft of all patience, and aided by Francesco, he caught
                     them by the legs and dragged them out of doors, where he eventually brought
                     them to life, both by personal violence and a fierce torrent of abuse. "Now,"
                     said he, as I judged from his tone and manner, "if those mules are not ready in
                     ten minutes, I'll flog every one of you! I'll then cut your throats from ear to
                     ear. After that I'll tear out your livers, and give them to the dogs; I'll make
                     mince-meat of your hearts, and hang your bodies up by the heels, as a warning
                     to all muleteers throughout Syria. Yea, by the beard of the Prophet, if that
                     won't do, I'll tie you to the tail of my horse and drag you to Jerusalem, and
                     when I get you there I'll—no, I won't bury you in holy ground—I'll eat
                        you! By Allah, I'll EAT YOU!" This last threat was evidently made on
                     the spur of the moment; it was too dreadful to be premeditated, and must have
                     had its origin in the difficulty of getting rid of the bodies after dragging
                     them to Jerusalem. I could not think that Yusef really meant to eat the
                     muleteers; for, leaving aside every moral consideration, they were the dirtiest
                     set of vagabonds I ever saw, and must have been thoroughly saturated with
                     smoke. However, they seemed to think a little more smoking would do them no
                     harm; for the moment, Yusef turned his back and went into the khan to pack up
                     the cooking utensils, they very coolly filled their pipes and began to smoke
                     again, conversing at the same time with great good-humor. At the expiration of
                     half-an-hour, having waited patiently all this time, I ventured mildly to
                     suggest that we ought to be on our way, or we would never be able to reach
                     Tiberias. Upon this hint Yusef became suddenly fired with unconquerable
                     indignation toward the muleteers. He rushed furiously out of the khan, the
                     veins swollen in his forehead, and rage depicted in every feature. I followed
                     at a reasonable distance, thinking there would certainly be bloodshed this
                     time. "Where are they?" he shrieked. "Show me the rascals! Ho! Yakob! Hassin!
                     Mustapha!" "Here we are," said they; and, behold, they were sitting in the same
                     spot, smoking their chiboucks. "Dogs!" cried Yusef, drawing his pistol, "didn't
                     I tell you I'd kill you if the mules were not ready in ten minutes? Die, dogs,
                     die!" But they had no idea of dying; on the contrary, they rose to their feet,
                     and began to expostulate with Yusef on the violence of his conduct, which
                     brought forth a counter expostulation from him, and a retort from them, and
                     then a retort from him again, which brought up old scores, and the battle raged
                     fiercely in words for the space of
                     half-an-hour. It became by that time perfectly furious. Yusef howled and
                     shrieked, and spat at the muleteers; and the muleteers howled and shrieked, by
                     turn, and then smoked. The pistol evidently was a failure; it was returned to
                     its case. The battle of words now waxing fiercer, Yusef lost all patience.
                     Drawing his sword, he flourished it thrice over his head, shut his eyes, and
                     rushed blindly at the rebels! But there was no sign of a panic; they stood very
                     calmly while he flourished his sword around their heads, as if they thought the
                     cuts and thrusts that he made at them had no foundation in reality. Having
                     completely exhausted himself by the effort, he eventually returned the sword to
                     its scabbard and sat down. One of the muleteers, Mustapha, was conspicuous for
                     his docile temper. He was a comical old fellow, always in a good humor, and
                     ready to bear any amount of ill-treatment. Now, in cases of difficulty, Yusef
                     always ended the matter by beating Mustapha. Already he had beaten him several
                     times; and in Damascus, apprehending trouble on the road from a growing
                     disposition to mutiny on the part of the muleteers, he had provided himself
                     with several tough sticks, to encourage discipline. In the present emergency,
                     seeing Mustapha close at hand, he sprang to his feet, calling to Francesco to
                     bring him his best stick, and seized the poor fellow by the coat. The stick
                     came; Mustapha begged; Yusef stormed; Mustapha promised; Yusef foamed and spat
                     upon him; Mustapha howled most piteously; Yusef raged most furiously; Mustapha
                     called upon the Prophet to save him; Yusef struck him for his impiety, in
                     taking the name of the Prophet in vain. The more Mustapha begged and wept, the
                     more Yusef beat him; till, apprehensive of serious consequences, I called upon
                     him sternly to desist, on the pain of our sublime displeasure. It was not
                     without reluctance that the whipping was brought to a conclusion.
                  At ten o'clock we were packed and mounted, and on our winding way just as if
                     nothing had happened. Mustapha cracked pleasant jokes with every body, and
                     laughed heartily behind Yusef's back at the idea of the beating and shooting,
                     going through a great many pantomimic motions, showing how people died when
                     they were shot, and, when they were not shot, how they were beaten with a
                     stick, and how they wept at the pain thereof.
                  Meantime Yusef entertained us with some remarkable instances of his courage,
                     touching incidentally upon the affair of the Djereed, in which he had killed
                     four men and disabled six for life—the best men that could be produced by the
                     great Prince of Lebanon. He also pointed out the precise spot where he had
                     recently shot a dead man under the most singular and appalling circumstances.
                     It seemed that in returning to Damascus, after leaving a party of travelers at
                     Jerusalem, he had occasion to pass this way in the middle of the night, which
                     was the time he usually chose for traveling when alone, as it increased the
                     danger of robbers. He knew there were robbers waiting for him here, and in
                     order to give them notice of his approach he was singing merrily as he rode
                     along. All at once he saw a very tall man, as he thought, standing under an
                     olive tree, with his face turned up, looking at the moon. "Ho, villain!"
                     shouted our traveler, "is it me you want? Fall down on your knees, wretch, and
                     beg for mercy. Behold! I am Yusef Badra, the destroyer of robbers!" The man
                     instead of falling upon his knees seemed to grow taller as the destroyer of
                     robbers approached. "Fool, that you are!" cried Yusef, riding up still closer
                     and drawing his pistols; "don't you know I never miss killing when I shoot."
                     Still the man made no reply. "Then die! die like a dog!" Saying which Yusef
                     fired six times, and each time he heard a ball strike. "Oho!" said he,
                     perceiving that the man only moved a little without falling down or uttering a
                     single groan, "you are the devil; I'm very glad to see you, old gentleman!
                     Yusef Badra is not afraid of the devil, or any body else; besides, we have a
                     small account to settle." Upon which, drawing his sword, he urged his
                     frightened horse up to the spot and ran the mysterious stranger clean through
                     the body. It was not until then that he discovered his mistake. He had shot and
                     pierced through the body a dead man! The corpse was hung to a branch of the
                     tree by the neck, and the feet, being in the shade, were invisible ible at a short distance. It was a
                     poor traveler whom the robbers had murdered that night. Yusef cut the corpse
                     down, as he informed us, and pinned upon it these words, which he wrote upon a
                     piece of paper by the light of the moon: "If ever Yusef Badra meets the
                     wretches who murdered this man, he will cut their heads off and hang them by
                     the heels to this tree."
                  On the road leading down into the valley of El Huleh we crossed, near Baneas,
                     the chief source of the Jordan. At this point it is nothing more than a good
                     spring of clear water, enlarged to the size of a rivulet by contributions from
                     several smaller springs. It comes from a large cave in the mountain a little
                     beyond Baneas. In an hour and a half, having descended a long slope over a bed
                     of rocks, we reached an old bridge with three arches, which crosses a stream
                     called by the natives the true source of the Jordan. It is a disputed point
                     among biblical writers which of the two is in reality entitled to the name, the
                     size being nearly equal; but the best authorities seem to concur in giving the
                     distinction to the stream nearest to Baneas. Before reaching the bridge we
                     passed several fine olive groves, and had a distant view of the lake El Huleh,
                     whose bright waters gleamed like a sheet of silver in the hollow of the great
                     plain.
                  From the bridge we struck out into a marsh, directing our course toward the
                     base of Jebel Egil, the range of mountains on the right of El Huleh. We soon
                     found that the recent heavy rains had flooded all the low grounds, and our
                     horses and mules were sometimes scarcely able to extricate themselves from the
                     mud. Our baggage was frequently thrown off the backs of the mules in their
                     struggles, and recovered with great difficulty and delay. We saw waterfowl all
                     around us, chiefly cranes, snipe, and such as are common in swampy grounds; and
                     by dint of a great deal of firing, at the expense of an immense quantity of
                     powder and shot, accidentally killed two cranes that flew up suddenly within
                     ten feet of our sportsmen. In the afternoon we saw for the first time a Bedouin
                     village. It consisted of a dozen or fifteen low black tents, in the midst of
                     the marsh, with a population tion of lean and savage-looking Arabs, who looked
                     scowlingly at us as we passed. Soon after, we passed another encampment—an
                     extensive village of tents and straw cabins. Horses were tied to stakes about
                     the doors, and herds of buffalo, with short thick horns twisted back, grazed in
                     the surrounding marshes. Several lean and wolfish dogs ran fiercely at us, but
                     fled howling as we presented our guns. These Bedouins are not the genuine
                     descendants of Hagar, or the supposed wild Ishmaelites who still roam the
                     deserts of Arabia. They are partially civilized by intermixture with the Syrian
                     Arabs, and lead rather a pastoral than a predatory life. Those who abide in the
                     valley of El Huleh pay tribute to the Turkish Government for the use of the
                     land, and reside upon the plains permanently, moving their villages from one
                     part to another as the sheiks direct. Large herds of tame buffalo find
                     excellent pasturage here during the entire year, and upon the produce of these
                     and the cultivation to some extent of the soil they contrive to obtain a
                     tolerable subsistence. The land in some parts of the valley is exceedingly
                     fertile, and seems well adapted to the production of Indian corn, of which the
                     Bedouins raise a small quantity. Around the bases of the mountains, where the
                     land is not too marshy, wheat thrives well by the mere scratching up of the
                     ground with rude wooden plows (such as were used in scriptural times), and
                     sufficient flour for the people of the valley is produced with very little
                     labor. Rice is grown in the marshy lands, and grass abounds naturally
                     throughout the plain. In the vicinity of lake El Huleh tall rushes and flags
                     grow in great quantities, which are found useful in building and roofing the
                     huts. It seemed a little strange to us that these people should live in the low
                     grounds, their tents and cabins floating in water half the time, exposed to the
                     full glare of the sun in summer and the piercing winds in winter, while not
                     more than a few hundred yards distant, on the sides of the mountains, were some
                     very pretty sites for villages, pleasantly shaded by bushes, and protected from
                     floods and storms. But there is no accounting for tastes, certainly no
                     accounting for the tastes of the Bedouins. Some of the women and children were remarkable for the beauty of their
                     features; the men had also fine features and a commanding air about them even
                     in their rags; but they were a swarthy, unwashed set of vagabonds at best, and
                     lived in a style more suitable to a village of beavers than to any thing of the
                     human kind.
                  In the winter the greater part of the plain of El Huleh is covered with water;
                     all the small streams from the mountains swell the lake till it overflows its
                     low banks and spreads around for many miles. The sources of the Jordan may be
                     considered as flowing chiefly from the neighborhood of Baneas; but every stream
                     that runs into the lake of El Huleh forms in reality an additional source, as
                     they all unite in the lake, and eventually find their way, through the Sea of
                     Galilee, into the main river Jordan, which winds from thence a distance of
                     seventy miles into the Dead Sea.
                  On leaving the Bedouin villages we rode on toward Ain-el-Malaha, or the Stream
                     of the Mill. Our dragoman, who had maintained a profound silence for some
                     hours, while in the vicinity of the Bedouins, now gave vent to one of those
                     sudden paroxysms of fury which had frequently alarmed us with apprehensions of
                     an attack from some hidden enemy. We were riding along very pleasantly, not
                     dreaming of the least danger, when Yusef, without the slightest warning, dashed
                     madly out of our ranks, yelling like the very demon of wrath, and whirling his
                     gun fiercely over his head. The war-whoop of an American Indian could not
                     compare at all with the battle-cry of our ferocious dragoman. Away he scoured
                     over the plain, causing the earth to fly up from his horse's hoofs in a perfect
                     shower, turning and rearing, charging and chasing the enemy. Arrived at close
                     quarters, he fired his gun; then drew his pistols and fired them, and then with
                     a savage yell drew his sword, which he flourished with one hand, and his
                     dagger, which he flourished with the other, and then he laid about him in front
                     and behind, and on the left side and the right side, cleaving skulls, ripping,
                     cutting, and thrusting, and charging over dead bodies, and shrieking madly for
                     more live ones to come on. "Villains, cowards, dogs! the whole of you together
                     come on! come on! and die by the avenging hand of Yusef Badra!" I declare, on
                     the veracity of a traveler, it was the most desperate and exciting conflict I
                     ever beheld. By the time I had ridden up to the assistance of our friend who
                     was so bravely defending us, I could not perceive that there was a single live
                     person left, and even the dead had disappeared. "Why, in the name of common
                     sense," said I, "what have you been shooting at and killing all this time?"
                     "Killing!" shouted Yusef fiercely, his eyes starting from their sockets, while
                     he panted and foamed with rage; "killing! I could kill forty thousand of them!
                     There never was a Bedouin yet that could stand before me. I only wish I had
                     some of the rascals here now!" "Keep cool, Yusef," said I, alarmed at the
                     frightening demonstrations he was making, "keep cool, it's much the best way."
                     "Cool, sir! By Allah, I'll go back to the village this very moment and kill a
                     dozen of 'em for pastime. Do you think, prince of Generals! that I'm afraid of
                     a beggarly set of Bedouins!" "No, certainly not, Yusef," said I, soothingly.
                     "Nevertheless," cried he, fired by another sudden burst of fury, "I must, by
                     the beard of the Prophet I must, go back and kill a dozen of 'em, or I can't
                     sleep to-night!" Saying which he clapped heels to his horse, and was about to
                     dash off again, when I shouted, "Hold, Yusef, hold! I insist that you leave
                     those Bedouins alone, and don't attack them. Remember what our defenseless
                     condition would be during your absence!" "True, General, true; I won't attack
                     'em tonight for your sake. I respect you, oh, glorious General! commander of
                     all the military forces in America! I love you better than the brother of my
                     heart! This night you shall sleep soundly in Ain-el-Malaha."
                  We rode on peacefully for some distance after this, and encountered no other
                     immediate danger than that of being walked over by several caravans of camels
                     heavily laden with produce for the markets of Damascus, which we met in some of
                     the narrow passes as we approached the Mill of Malaha.
                  When there was nothing particular to occupy our attention in the way of ruins
                     or scenery, it sometimes happened that we became sleepy from the monotony of our journey, and lagged along in
                     pairs, conversing drowsily upon various topics suggested by the occasion. I was
                     very fond of drawing Yusef out, when he was in the proper spirit, not only
                     because he was well informed upon the every-day affairs of Syrian life; but
                     from a habit of argument into which I have fallen, in consequence of three
                     years' experience as a reporter in the United States Senate. If I sometimes
                     become a little disposed to indulge in flights of eloquence, not strictly
                     called for by any existing emergency, it is altogether through the force of
                     example.
                  The tall Southerner and the English Captain, having both fallen into a doze,
                     while they jogged along about a mile behind, I took advantage of the occasion
                     to indulge in one of my customary chats with Yusef, who seemed in an uncommonly
                     good humor, considering that all the Bedouins were out of sight. But this
                     conversation being of an important character, I must give a verbatim report of
                     it in a separate chapter.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIV.
                  THE GRAND SECRET OF HUMAN HAPPINESS.
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"How is it, Yusef, that your countrymen never think of bettering their
                        condition? See that lazy wretch basking in the sun there; why doesn't he go
                        to work and do 
                           TAKING IT EASY.
                         something useful? I verily believe he smokes all day and sleeps
                        all night."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"And wherefore, O General, should he trouble his head about any thing more?
                        The very philosophy of life is to be content with as little as possible in
                        this world."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Then he must be a great philosopher, for he certainly has no visible means of support. It
                        takes uncommonly little to satisfy him, so far as I can see."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Yet that little appears to be enough. He takes it easy, as you may
                        perceive, and doesn't seem at all unhappy."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Faugh! what a barbarous life! A fine looking fellow like that fooling away
                        his time basking in the sun like a great mud-turtle. Why, in our country he
                        might earn his dollar a day."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"True, O General, but he'd have to work."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Of course he would—ten hours a day, at least. Then you see he'd have the
                        pleasure of spending his money. He'd pay a tolerably high price for a small
                        cabin to live in; and a tolerably high price for something to eat, and
                        tolerably high prices for clothing for himself and family, and at the end of
                        a week, after six days of honest toil, digging a well or down in a coal-pit,
                        perhaps, he'd feel tolerably tired, and sleep soundly till the morning of
                        the seventh."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"To my poor understanding, O General, that seems rather a melancholy
                        life—not a hopeful one at least. I can only say that touching the matter of
                        labor, I am in the dark as to what it ends in."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (smiling).
                     —" Why, it ends in labor, to be sure; the man labors for money; and when he
                        gets it he labors either to keep it or spend it. But don't you perceive the
                        difference between a mere animal existence, and that noble ambition which
                        inspires a civilized people to seek for active, positive, or palpable
                        happiness—something they can hold in their hands and look at. In our
                        country, there are men who go thousands of miles by land and water (some try
                        to go in the air) to dig up gold in order that they may be happy. When they
                        get a hundred thousand dollars they only want another hundred thousand, and
                        when they get that they only want half a million more, by which time they
                        might be perfectly happy only for some other want. Sometimes when they
                        haven't any other want in particular, they lose all their money by some
                        visitation of providence—a fire or flood, or die of a fever just as they are
                        going to be perfectly happy."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Adjaib! wonderful! And do they pray, too, as well as do all this?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Why—yes: they contrive to spare one day out of seven ostensibly for that
                        purpose; some of them can't spare even that. While you barbarians spend most
                        of your time in idleness, taking it easy, as the saying is; stopping what
                        little work you do at least five times a day to pray and smoke, no matter
                        how important may be your business, we work hard early and late, and never
                        stop our labors (especially if they be profitable) to pray at all, and very
                        seldom to smoke, though we economize time by chewing a little. I never knew
                        a man in our country to think so much of his soul or any body else's as to
                        stop short in a bargain amounting to ten dollars, or even ten cents, for the
                        purpose of communing with his Maker. We don't do it; we haven't got the
                        time; can't spare it. Time is money, Yusef. Every day is a dollar, or five
                        dollars, or ten dollars; every minute is a cent or the fraction of a cent,
                        more or less.
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"But, in the name of the Prophet, when you get all this money together,
                        what do you do with it? Don't you ever stop working?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Oh, yes: we retire from business sometimes; purchase a country seat—build
                        a handsome villa, and live there a month or two, by which time we become
                        perfectly satisfied."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Then you take it easy, and smoke the pipe of content at last?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Why, no—not exactly. We become perfectly satisfied that it's a dull
                        business—that it won't pay: too slow, entirely too slow; can't get through
                        life fast enough doing nothing in the country. Go back to town. Speculate;
                        make more money—or lose what we've got. The fact is, life is a bore at best;
                        we know it; we get through it as fast as we can, in order to skim off what
                        cream there may be in it, and enjoy it in a concentrated form; we live a
                        good deal in a short time."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"But what becomes of all the money you make by living fast?"
                  
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Oh, we leave it to our children. We can't well spare the time to eat it or
                        wear it on our backs, so when we die we bequeath it to our sons, who, being
                        rather younger in the world, don't know its value, and spend it. They spend
                        it tolerably fast sometimes, Yusef; they live very rapidly on it,
                        indeed—railroad fashion, using a good deal of steam to help them along: they
                        get over the track with considerable velocity, you may depend upon it."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"And then what do they do?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (with a yawn).
                     —"Bust!"
                     Yusef whistles with astonishment, but says nothing.
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (finding Yusef so favorably disposed toward a peaceful and
                        contented mode of life).
                     —"I consider this an appropriate occasion, Yusef, to let you know my utter
                        abhorrence of the system of flogging which you adopt in your management of
                        the muleteers. It is extremely repugnant to my feelings, and I beg you will
                        not repeat it hereafter."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Inshalla! they are nothing but brutes. It does 'em good, sir. They
                        couldn't get along without it. Fain would I do any thing to oblige your
                        Excellency, but if I quit whipping them they would raise a mutiny
                        directly."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"A most absurd argument—fit only for a barbarous people. These muleteers
                        are freemen, and not slaves. You have no moral right to whip them. If they
                        were slaves it might be another question. What do you think would be the
                        result if we Americans, a free-born people, were to seize up a free-born
                        sailor or soldier and flog him like a slave?"
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Think, O General? Doubtless I'd think he deserved it. Discipline, sir,
                        must be kept up in all the relations between master and man. If a man won't
                        do his duty, he must be whipped into it; that's the way I always serve these
                        dogs."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"It wouldn't do for you to undertake such a barbarous thing in our country.
                        Thank God! we are a civilized people. Public sentiment and the laws of the
                        land would soon put down such tyranny. The captain of a whale-ship, or of
                        any other ship, who flogs a man and accidentally kills him by too much
                        flogging, is tried by the laws of the land, and fined from five dollars up
                        to fifty! Think of that! I have known naval officers to be tried by Court
                        Martial for cruel and unusual punishments, and even REPRIMANDED, in certain
                        extreme cases where death resulted; yes, Yusef, sometimes actually informed
                        in writing that they were to consider themselves severely CENSURED!"
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"To me, O General, that seems to be a most unwise and oppressive state of
                        things. When I pay a man for his services haven't I a right to do what I
                        please with him, body and soul? If I hire him to work and he won't do it,
                        haven't I a right to take satisfaction out of his hide? If I take a dislike
                        to him, haven't I a right to beat him upon any pretext whatever?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (excited).
                     —"Great heavens! Is it possible that even a brutish Arab can maintain such
                        monstrous doctrines as these? Do you know, miserable barbarian, that the
                        very walls of our Capitol would cry out in execration of doctrines so absurd
                        and inhuman? Senators would rise in their places, and call for the opinions
                        of naval and military commanders; Secretaries would hold official councils,
                        and proclaim to Congress and the world their devotion to the interests of
                        the service; Lieutenants, Captains, and Generals would avow their abhorrence
                        of cruelty in every form, and indignantly contend against sapping the
                        foundation of our national defenses, by depriving them of an established
                        privilege. Never let me hear you utter such abominable sentiments again, or,
                        by all the rights of humanity, I'll put you in a book! I'll do it, Yusef, as
                        sure as fate! Your name shall figure on the title-page!"
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (turning pale).
                     —"In the name of Allah, beloved General, Light of my eyes and Friend of my
                        heart, wherefore this extreme displeasure? Surely, thou hast mistaken my
                        meaning. I didn't intend to say that I'd make whipping a general thing; that
                        I'd whip any respectable person of my own class. My observations were
                        designed to apply exclusively to low brutes of muleteers, without friends or
                        influence; mere dregs of society, destitute of brains and feeling. Your
                        Excellency does me gross injustice, if you think that, because I would whip a muleteer for insolence
                        or disorderly conduct, that I would, if placed in command of a ship, or at
                        the head of a regiment, whip any of my officers for the same, or even a much
                        greater offense."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (somewhat pacified).
                     —"Of course not, Yusef; certainly not. I never knew any commander, holding a
                        position of high authority, either in America or England, to contend for
                        such an indiscriminate exercise of power as that. It gratifies me to
                        observe, that ignorant and debased as you are, there are yet some
                        enlightened principles of civilization not altogether unfamiliar to
                        you."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (warmly).
                     —"Bless your generous heart, O General; I knew you'd do me justice! I knew
                        it by instinct! What, sir, flog an officer for getting drunk or insulting
                        me? No, sir. I'd take him aside and reprimand him; I'd talk to him, like a
                        brother, with tears in my eyes, or challenge him to mortal combat."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Such is the practice in all enlightened communities; and I must say, that
                        with such principles, Yusef, you would be an ornament to any community,
                        however skilled in the noble science of human destruction."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (enthusiastically).
                     —"A noble—a glorious—a wonderful science! O great and effulgent Chieftain!
                        brightest ornament of the City of Magnificent Distances! not a night passes
                        over the head of Yusef Badra that he doesn't wallow in rivers of blood! His
                        bed is a bed of human skulls! his pillow is the cold and clammy corpse of a
                        fellow man! the sweetest breath he inhales is the putrid effluvia of the
                        dead,! the grinning and fleshless jaws of his enemies are smiling flowers to
                        his heart; the ribs and joints that lie scattered around him are pleasant
                        verdure to his eyes, refreshing them after the scorching heat of battle; the
                        wailing of the widowed for the dead, the moaning of the bereaved for lost
                        friends and kindred, are dulcet sounds that thrill sweetly upon his ears;
                        all—all the visions that can give hope and inspiration to the warlike soul,
                        diffuse themselves through the soul of Yusef Badra. Yet he wakes to find
                        himself without a foe; his very soul thirsting for blood, he finds but a
                        dastardly tardly muleteer to chastise for theft or laziness! Fain would he
                        plunge his sword through the miserable dog; tear out his bowels, and fling
                        them to the crows; but the baggage of the Howadji must go on; it won't do to
                        gut the wretches yet awhile. I'll gut them at the end of the journey; by
                        Eblis, sir, I'll do it in Jerusalem! yea, O General! I can't wait even so
                        long as that! I'll do it in Nazareth! No, by heavens! I can't wait till
                        then. I'll gut 'em in Tiberias! Two days from this date I'll—what? wait two
                        days? Nay; by all the glories of war! I'll do it at Malaha—the very first
                        stopping-place we come to. I'll rip them open from head to foot! I'll cast
                        their entrails out over the house-tops, to be devoured by birds and beasts
                        of prey! I'll drink their blood to cool the fever of courage and defiance
                        that forever burns within me! I'll do it at Malaha! nay, by all the horrid
                        luxuries of murder, I'll gut 'em NOW—this very moment—Ho! Mustapha!
                        Yakob!"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (seizing Yusef's horse by the bridle).
                     —"Hold, Yusef, hold! Are you mad? In the name of humanity, don't commit such
                        an outrage as that. Calm yourself, Yusef—calm yourself. Now, I beg you, as a
                        friend, not to shed the blood of innocent men. We may meet some robbers
                        before long; and if we do, I promise you, on my honor, I shall not strike a
                        blow; I'll get behind you, and you may slay them all single-handed."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (foaming).
                     —"I'll do it, General; I'll do it. What? only single-handed? Is that all the
                        odds your Excellency intends to give them? Tie my hands, sir—tie my hands
                        behind my back! I'll fight the rascals without hands! Come on, sir! come on!
                        By heavens! I think I see some now behind that rock! So—ho—o, Sulemin,
                        So—o—ho; gently, my boy, gently—So—ho!"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (getting behind Yusef).
                     —"Verily, I do believe they are robbers. Now, don't sacrifice yourself,
                        Yusef! Be calm; be deliberate. Take good aim when you shoot; aim at their
                        heads. Remember my life is in your keeping."
                     Hitherto Yusef had evinced his excitement by turning very red in the face;
                        he now evinced it by turning very pale, on account of the intense character of the
                        pleasure he experienced in catching a glimpse of two muffled figures,
                        crouching behind a rock on the road-side. But, somehow, Syed Sulemin,
                        usually so docile and obedient, began to cut an extraordinary number of
                        flourishes, and actually refused to proceed a step further. Saladin,
                        inspired by the capering of his rival, and supposing that it was preparatory
                        to a race, dashed off without further notice, and in a few moments was close
                        up to the rock. The figures rose; there were four. They were not robbers;
                        they were only two Bedouin women, an old man, and a donkey, resting with a
                        sack of wheat, on their way to the mill. I had scarcely noted these facts,
                        when Syed Sulemin came thundering up with Yusef, who had drawn his pistols,
                        and was ready for slaughter.
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Where are the wretches? Let me at 'em! Pooh! only two women! only one old
                        man! only a miserable ass! Come on, sir! come on! We'll find better game
                        than that before long."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"I sincerely hope not. Certainly, if we again discover human game, I shall
                        dismount from Saladin, and let him proceed alone. On the whole, I think we
                        are rather fortunate in not finding robbers on this occasion."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"But the delight—the glory of the thing! The exquisite satisfaction of
                        shedding blood. On, Sulemin, on. By heavens! if there's a robber within ten
                        miles, we'll have him!"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (seizing Yusef's bridle again).
                     —"Now, I protest against this insane courage, Yusef; this flying in the face
                        of Providence. Take it easy—take it easy. The very philosophy of life is to
                        be content with what you've got. If you have friends instead of enemies
                        around you, it is the will of Allah. Smoke the pipe of content. Be assured,
                        good and evil fortune enough will come in due time; don't make yourself
                        unhappy by bad dreams and sanguinary hopes. Bask in the sunshine of peace,
                        while it lasts; cease that constant chafing for human blood. Sleep while you
                        can sleep, and smoke while you can smoke. Depend upon it, there is no
                        happiness in steaming it through the world this way; living at a railroad
                        speed; wearing yourself out with internal fires; besides running the danger
                        of bursting up, by destroying the escape-pipe of your courage. Take it easy,
                        Yusef—that's the true philosophy of life."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (a little confused).
                     —"But what is ease? A sitting-hen takes it easy; it's her business—she likes
                        it; she has a natural propensity for sitting. A mud-turtle basks in the sun;
                        it suits him; he feels comfortable; he doesn't like running; his legs are
                        too short. A snail travels slowly; he's a slow coach; he takes it easy,
                        because he can't take it fast; he carries his house on his back, and it
                        makes no difference where he goes or how long it takes him; he's always at
                        home. But, do you think, O General, that I, Yusef Badra, renowned in history
                        and in song throughout Syria, could take it easy if I were alone upon a
                        desert, with six armed Bedouins bearing down upon me?"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (thoughtfully).
                     —"Why, no, Yusef—I don't see that you could well take it easy under those
                        circumstances. In fact I rather think you'd take it fast. I'm tolerably
                        certain that I would where the odds were so great against me. This is an
                        extreme case, however."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (proudly).
                     —"That's the beauty of it—there's where the principle lies. I couldn't stand
                        it, you see. If there was only one Bedouin, I might sit still, and let him
                        strike me the first blow, for pastime; but six!—six to one! No, sir, I
                        couldn't take it easy in the common sense—I'd have to kill 'em; rip 'em up,
                        gut 'em, scatter their brains on the four winds of heaven: Every man takes
                        his ease in a different way, according to his capacity, inclination, or
                        courage. The coward takes his ease in peace; the brave man in war. My ease
                        lies in blood—human blood, sir. When I wallow in it, I feel comfortable and
                        happy—I'm perfectly easy then, only I want more—that's the only difficulty;
                        I always want more; if it wasn't for that I'd be the happiest man
                        living."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Certainly a very unfortunate propensity, as regards its operation upon the
                        rest of mankind. Happily, we are differently organized, as you say; for if
                        we all took our ease in killing, the world would be pretty easy before
                        long."
                  
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"That's the beauty of it—the very principle of existence! A Turk takes his
                        ease in smoke; a Frenchman in dancing; a German in beer, talk, and pipes; an
                        Englishman in beefsteak; an American—pardon me, O General, I mean no
                        disrespect in referring to your own words—an American in being uneasy. When
                        he is uneasy he is easy, and when he is easy he is uneasy."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (puzzled).
                     —"Really, Yusef, I hardly know which side of the question you have placed me
                        upon now. We seem to agree, and yet we don't agree—no—we differ and—I don't
                        know! that's not right. One of us must be wrong—there's a mistake
                        somewhere."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"Your Excellency is wrong."
                  
                  
                     GENERAL.
                     —"Upon my word, it seems so; though I'm certain I started right. The fact
                        is, Yusef, we must come to a compromise, and allow that there's right and
                        wrong on both sides. All nations have their merits and their faults; there
                        is good every where, if mankind would only profit by it. Extremes of
                        laziness, or of restless ambition, are alike inimical to happiness. The
                        whole universe is founded upon compromise; the harmonies of nature are
                        compromises. Every tree and flower that springs from the earth yields its
                        verdure or its fragrance by compromise with the elements. Life is a
                        compromise; society, government, nations—all are compromises; and they who
                        base their conduct upon an adherence to the lessons taught by the harmonies
                        of nature, are most apt to enjoy what we call happiness in this world."
                  
                  
                     YUSEF (enthusiastically).
                     —"Most sublime and beloved General! Verily, that last touch of eloquence
                        hath aroused my inmost soul! I am intensely enlightened and inspired by this
                        discourse! By all the compromises! by all the harmonies of existence, I
                        swear that this moment I could slay Hassin the Dragon-killer. I could devour
                        the seven-headed Dragon, and wallow in the blood of Rabadab, the four-handed
                        Giant! Nay, by all the ghosts of the gory dead—"
                  
                  
                     GENERAL (alarmed).
                     —"Be calm, Yusef! be calm. Compose yourself! It was not my intention, in
                        speaking thus, to arouse you in that frightful manner. Suppress those
                        dreadful thoughts, I beseech you, and tell me what object that is in the
                        distance. There! don't you see something like a stone box?"
                  
                  
                     YUSEF.
                     —"I do, most certainly. That, your excellency, is not a stone box, but a
                        mill—the famous Mill of Malaha—where this night you shall sleep soundly, or
                        my name's not Badra, the Destroyer of Robbers!"
                  
                  From all I had heard respecting the accommodations of the mill, I naturally
                     supposed that it was an extensive establishment kept by some wealthy miller,
                     who, for the purpose of enjoying society in this remote region, had built an
                     addition to it, where he entertained travelers of distinction, and perhaps
                     furnished them with choice bread and wine of his own manufacture. I need not
                     say that I was a little disappointed when we rode up and took a general survey
                     of the premises. But as this again is an important matter, involving adventures
                     of a very stirring character, I must reserve it for another chapter.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXV.
                  THE MILL OF MALAHA.
                  I WISH it to be distinctly understood that I entertain no vindictive or
                     revengeful feelings toward any body on account of the disappointment I
                     experienced in the first view of the Mill of Malaha. To be candid, it arose
                     partly from a credulous faith in every thing that the Arabs told me, however
                     wonderful, and partly from a natural disposition to invest every thing with the
                     charms of romance. Notwithstanding the practical sense of my companions, who
                     believed nothing at all that was not in print, and who were continually
                     producing authorities on every doubtful point, I secretly swallowed every thing
                     miraculous, and filled up all the obscure parts with glowing anticipations,
                     that were doomed never to be realized. Even at the time, I often suspected that
                     such things were only to be found in the Arabian Nights; but somehow I could
                     not help thinking they might turn out to be true, and on that hope hung an
                     immense amount of anticipation. Bearing in mind, however, that my mission was
                     of a practical character, I was always ready to admit the facts in the end, and
                     to denounce the Arabs for their extravagant indulgence in hyperbole, as also to
                     expose the fallacies of all travelers who make a practice of investing
                     commonplace realities with the glowing absurdities of fiction. It may be set
                     down as a rule that when a writer on Oriental life tells you what a pleasant
                     thing it is not to be civilized; when he even professes to have some savage
                     propensities in his nature, and has an unconquerable desire to be a wandering
                     Ishmaelite, there must be something wrong in the man. Either he is making a
                     book to be read by a public that continually thirsts for something strange and
                     new, or wishes himself to appear in the light of a dark-minded, restless,
                     unhappy man, so high above all the conventionalities of society, that to be a
                     savage is the only condition really worthy of him; or, worse than all, there is
                     so little of the genial and kind in his nature that he finds few to love him at
                     home, finds fault with others for what he owes to himself, and becomes smitten
                     with a morbid contempt for civilization. It reads very prettily, all
                     this—especially if it be cleverly done. But let me tell you, my friends, there
                     is a dreary, commonplace, comfortless reality about Arab life, with all its
                     barbarous romance; a beggarly vagabondism that is entirely unworthy of being
                     aspired to by any person of good principles or common sense; a bestiality that
                     must make any one who has a respectable home turn to it with a grateful heart
                     and an inward thankfulness that he was born in a tolerably decent country, and
                     among a people, who, with all their affectations and absurdities, are yet
                     something better than savages.
                  And now for the Mill. Behold it, as we wind down the rugged pathway toward the
                     stream of Malaha—a little square stone building, half in ruins, with a flat
                     top, perched over the water among the rocks, a camel browsing on the bushes
                     near it, and a dozen lazy Arabs squatted down by the door smoking their
                     chiboucks. That single glance was enough. Every thought of the hospitable old
                     gentleman and his accomplished daughters; the flower-gardens, the choice
                     home-made bread and sparkling wines of Lebanon, vanished in a moment. I said
                     nothing; but rode quietly up to the door, where, with a misgiving of the
                     sequel, I resigned my horse to the muleteers, and saw him, together with the
                     horses of my companions, led off to a cave in the neighboring mountains. A very
                     animated conversation now took place between our dragoman and the Arabs. The
                     chief talker, a rugged ill-favored man, whose dark leathern skin looked darker
                     still from the fact that his beard and eyebrows were covered with meal, was no
                     other than the old miller himself, and the others were Bedouins who had come
                     over from an encampment on the opposite side of the stream. As well as I could
                     catch the drift of the conversation from Yusef's manner ner and gestures, which I had now learned to
                     interpret with considerable accuracy, it appeared to be this: that we, a
                     traveling party, consisting of the Commander-in-Chief of all the military
                     forces in America, a royal prince, son of the King of the United States, and an
                     English Lord, whose palace at home was built of pure gold, wanted lodging for
                     the night in the far-famed Mill of Malaha, of which we had read in ancient and
                     modern history, and whose proprietor we had always regarded as the sublimest
                     miller that ever the world had produced. On the other hand, it was urged by the
                     miller that he was a devout Mussulman, and would never consent to having his
                     mill defiled by the presence of a party of infidels, who were at best not fit
                     to kiss the smallest toe of the great Prophet; that should he suffer us to
                     sleep there, he would never more have a particle of luck, and ten chances to
                     one the grindstones would fly in his face and kill him stone dead, or the mill
                     itself would tumble down upon him after we had left, and make minced meat of
                     himself and all his family. To which, as I took it, Yusef replied that, praised
                     be Allah, we were convinced of the errors of our ways, and were on a pilgrimage
                     to Jerusalem, where there was no earthly doubt we would join the standard of
                     the Prophet in less than a month; and that, besides, being royal personages of
                     boundless wealth, we would cheerfully pay as high as three piasters each
                     (twelve and a half cents) for the accommodation of his establishment, together
                     with a liberal backshish in the morning. In
                     reply to which, the miller, with glistening eyes, stated that he was not that
                     narrow-minded sort of person who could from any religious prejudices be guilty
                     of so inhospitable an act as to turn from his doors a party of distinguished
                     Howadji; that he always regarded the Americans and English as the most liberal
                     and enlightened people in the world, next to the Arabs, and upon the assurance
                     of five piasters each and such backshish as
                     we deemed consistent with our rank and dignity, he would cheerfully consent to
                     having the mill honored with our presence. Keeping in view his own interests,
                     Yusef made answer to this by saying that he, being our responsible agent in all
                     pecuniary matters, deemed it incumbent bent upon him as a man of honor, known
                     throughout Syria, and even to the remotest corners of England and America, as a
                     dragoman, who never lied or took advantage of the liberality of his employers,
                     to pay just and reasonable prices for every thing, and that he could not
                     reconcile it to a sense of duty to pay more than four piasters; but that he had
                     not the slightest doubt that the backshish
                     would amount to treble that sum. At this the miller shook his head dismally,
                     grunted a few words of doubt, which I interpreted to signify that he had become
                     rather accustomed to promises of that kind; then puffed his chibouck awhile,
                     and ended by waving his hand for us to enter. By this time it had begun to
                     rain, and we were glad enough to find shelter.
                  If the external appearance of the mill was disheartening, the interior was
                     absolutely dramatic and inspiring. Stables I had slept in; caves, haystacks,
                     trees, and the broad canopy of heaven had afforded me lodgings in cases of
                     emergency; but I had seen nothing half so strange or curious in the way of
                     accommodations for a night's rest as the mill of Malaha. It was just high
                     enough to stand up in where the arches that supported the roof ran up to a
                     point; but these arches being very rough and irregular, and the ground,
                     consisting chiefly of holes, it was necessary to crawl into the dark recesses
                     on our hands and feet. The water made a tremendous rush underneath; and,
                     looking through the broken parts of the floor, there was every prospect of
                     tumbling through during the night, and being carried down among the wheels, and
                     afterward deposited in the lake of El Huleh. Following Yusef, who carried a dim
                     lamp in his hand, we narrowly escaped being ground to pieces by two
                     grindstones, which flew round continually at a tremendous rate, without any
                     covering over them; and in the course of time having worked our way over
                     several holes and through a good many puddles of foul water, we found ourselves
                     on a sort of elevation about a foot high, close by the grindstones again, where
                     we learned that we were to spend the night. The dust and chaff, together with
                     the intense darkness notwithstanding the lamp, and a thick cloud of smoke from
                     a crowd of Arabs, hid away somewhere
                     in the obscurity, afforded me reasonable grounds for thinking that if any one
                     of us ever lived to see daylight again, it would only be through the
                     intervention of Providence: certainly there was nothing here to encourage such
                     a hope.
                  The ground being somewhat soft, I had the curiosity to feel it, and then take
                     up a handful and smell it; by which means I became sensible of the fact that it
                     consisted of a very rich deposit of manure. However, having a couple of
                     mattresses, we spread them over it, and found that it made a very warm bed,
                     although it must be admitted that the points of rock which came through it did
                     not produce an agreeable sensation when they came in contact with our ribs.
                  "A stunning place, this," said the English captain, good-humoredly. "Upon my
                     word, I think we'll have a jolly time of it to-night."
                  "Yes; very jolly: the fleas are getting lively already," said the tall
                     Southerner, scratching himself fiercely.
                  "Coffee!" said I; "coffee, Yusef. Gentlemen, I hold it as a principle that
                     coffee is an elixir for all the ills that flesh is heir to, provided it be
                     sweetened with the sugar of—"
                  "Lead," suggested the captain.
                  "No, sir; the sugar of content. Coffee expands the soul, warms the imagination;
                     sends a cheerful glow throughout the entire man after the toils of travel, and
                     acts as nature's balmy restorer, when sleep is banished by fortuitous
                     circumstances, or by—"
                  "Fleas," said the captain, suddenly starting, as if stung by a wasp. "What an
                     abominable nuisance they are! I'll venture to assert that they are as large
                     here as humble-bees. Never felt any thing like them in my life! Stunning, quite
                     stunning, I assure you!"
                  There was no doubt of it. I began to feel them myself, though I had always
                     boasted of being proof against such petty annoyances. They actually began to
                     pierce like a thousand needles. Sometimes they pierced like cambric needles,
                     and sometimes like large sail-needles; and very often they pierced like all the
                     needles that ever were manufactured, put together in assorted bunches. While
                     Yusef and Francisco were absent boiling the coffee outside of the mill, and
                     getting supper ready, we entertained ourselves scratching a trio, and jumping
                     now and then nearly out of our skins in the most desperate efforts to shake off
                     the vermin.
                  Presently supper appeared; and, I say it in justice to our dragoman, a most
                     excellent supper it was. He was a capital cook and caterer, and fed us like
                     princes, as he always represented us to be. The Arabs crept around us out of
                     holes in the walls and dark corners, and while we ate they looked on with
                     greedy and longing eyes, and said a great deal on the subject which we could
                     not comprehend. They seemed very lean and hungry, and talked rapidly as each
                     mouthful disappeared. It was evident that they built some hopes upon coming in
                     at the end of the feast. We told Yusef to give them something to eat, which he
                     did; when, feeling very happy and comfortable, we had our chiboucks lit, and
                     smoked our Latakia tobacco in great state, as became persons of royal
                     dignity.
                  I gradually dropped off into a doze, a mere doze, for I scorn the charge of
                     having slept a wink that night. The grating of the grindstones, the everlasting
                     clatter of tongues, the dust, chaff, smoke, and fleas, to say nothing of the
                     roar of the water down below, were enough to banish all hope of sleep; I merely
                     closed my eyes to try how ridiculous it would feel. How long they remained
                     closed I scarcely know; it was not long, however, for I soon heard a heavy
                     breathing close by my head, and felt the warm breath of some monster on my
                     face. I knew it to be no Arab; it blew and snuffed altogether unlike any thing
                     of the human kind. Thinking it might be all fancy, I cautiously put out my hand
                     in the dark (Yusef having carried the lamp away), and began to feel around me.
                     For some moments I could discover nothing, but in waving my hand around I at
                     length touched something—something that sent the blood flying back to my heart
                     a good deal quicker than it ever flew before. To tell the honest truth, I never
                     was so startled in all the previous adventures of my life. The substance that I
                     put my hand on was bare and warm; it was wet also and slimy, and had large nostrils with which
                     it seemed to be in the act of smelling me, previous to the act of mastication.
                     With the quickness of lightning I jerked up my hand, and felt it glide along a
                     skin covered with long rough hair; the next instant my ears were stunned by the
                     most dreadful noises, which resembled, as I thought in the horror of the
                     moment, the roaring of a full-grown lion. But it was not the roaring of a lion;
                     it was only the braying of an ass. The monster was a Syrian ass. There were two
                     of them, and they both began to bray; they brayed in concert; and I declare in
                     all sincerity, it was the most intolerable concert I ever heard. Had it been a
                     lion, the consequences might have been serious to the whole party, as well as
                     to the animal himself, for I should certainly have called upon Yusef to bring
                     out his pistols and guns, in which event there is not the least doubt that some
                     of us would have fallen victims to the conflicting wrath of the rival
                     lions.
                  Oh, Lamartine! Alphonse de Lamartine! if thou couldst have witnessed our
                     sufferings on that occasion, I'm certain thy tender eyes would have shed floods
                     of briny tears! In thy weeping Pilgrimage thou didst weep for the past, the
                     present, and the future; for the great and the little; for the happy and the
                     wretched; for the birds of the air and the beasts of the field; for the great
                     leviathan of the deep and the smallest creeping thing earthly. Thou didst weep
                     when thou wert happy and when thou wert sad; when thy heart was full and thy
                     tongue refused its office; and when thy tongue spake and thy heart in turn was
                     sealed with sorrow; thou didst weep that the land was stricken with ruin, and
                     thou didst weep that the ruin was sublime—that thou wert gifted with the power
                     to weep, and that there was cause to weep—that mankind was wicked and Alphonse
                     de Lamartine the only living mourner in the land of desolation; that the little
                     wren was happy and the Great Philosopher miserable; that the Great Philosopher
                     was a Poet, and the little wren neither a poet nor a philosopher but a simple
                     wren. Thou didst weep from the beginning unto the end of thy Pilgrimage; thou
                     wert born with tears in thine eyes, and thou hast shed them copiously unto the
                     present day; wherever thou hast
                        MILL OF MALAHA.
                     
                      roamed, thy footsteps are marked in
                     tear-drops; thy whole life has been a constant overflow of tears; thy lachrymal
                     ducts have never yet been dry, and never will, until the tear-bags within are
                     withered up in dust; nay, even then thou wilt start new floods from that
                     feeling heart, and weep that the world hath lost a Poet and a Philosopher.
                     Wherefore, I—a simple General in the Bobtail Militia, following in thy
                     footsteps on a Crusade against the Mists of Fancy—do venture to assert that
                     hadst thou seen us in this old mill, beset by fleas, donkeys, and filthy Arabs,
                     thou wouldst have opened thy flood-gates of sympathy and refreshed us with
                     balmy sighs and copious showers of gentle tears.
                  Now, as long as our grievances were confined to vermin, dirt, and noisy Arabs,
                     we bore them very cheerfully, and even admitted that little afflictions of that
                     kind add materially to the spice of travel; but when it came to making asses of
                     us by placing us on a par with such animals, it was altogether too much to be
                     borne. I had often heard that traveling makes one acquainted with strange
                     bed-fellows, but in all my previous experience I had never been subjected to
                     the mortification of sleeping in the same bed with two genuine asses.
                  "What," said I, fired with honest indignation, "are we to stand this? Breathes
                     there a man with soul so dead that he'll voluntarily sleep with a pair of vile
                     asses?"
                  "Ho, Yusef!" cried the Captain, "we'll be ass-assinated if you don't turn these
                     abominable beasts out. We are in danger of being devoured bodily."
                  Yusef declared that he was very sorry, but it was a Mohammedan custom to show
                     great tenderness and respect to animals of the brute kind; he would ask the
                     miller to put the asses out, but could not insist upon it as a matter of right.
                     Another exciting conversation now took place in which all the Arabs
                     participated. Yusef stormed, threatened, and swore; the old miller protested,
                     remonstrated, and finally declared that he could not be guilty of any thing so
                     inhuman; that he would sooner drive out of his house on a rainy night the
                     brother of his affections than the asses of his heart; so, to make peace, the
                     asses of his heart were suffered to remain.
                  I will not undertake to describe how we spent the rest of that memorable night:
                     how the grindstones came within an inch of grinding us to death every time we
                     stretched our legs out; how in attempting to escape from the furious attacks of
                     the fleas we got ourselves involved under the hoofs of the asses; how the old
                     miller stopped smoking about midnight, and by the united assistance of all his
                     Arabs succeeded in the course of two hours in getting his mill stopped; how
                     every one of them talked all the rest of the night, and went to sleep about
                     daylight; and how we got up at the same time and made a vow never again to stop
                     at the Mill of Malaha.
                  At sunrise we were mounted, and on our way toward the Sea of Galilee.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXVI.
                  THE REBEL SHEIK.
                  OUR road this morning lay along the base of Jebel Egil, on the right side of
                     the valley El Huleh, as we faced toward Tiberias. We met several caravans of
                     camels and mules, and passed numerous herds of cattle and a few Bedouin
                     villages. The weather was mild and pleasant, with a slight sprinkle of rain
                     during the forenoon. On the ridge dividing the valley of El Huleh from Lake
                     Tiberias, or the Sea of Galilee, we had a fine view of both lakes, the one
                     lying in the broad plain through which we had passed, gleaming brightly through
                     a mass of verdure; the other, famed as the sacred waters of Galilee, almost
                     encircled by barren mountains, dim in the haze, and still and desolate as it
                     lay outspread before us in the noonday sun. Far and near, whichever way we
                     looked, the mountains were blanched with the scorching heat of summer; and all
                     the rains of autumn were still swallowed by the thirsty earth, and still there
                     was the same dreary waste of whitish stones and sodless heights; dreary and
                     shadowless, yet rich beyond all that earth could yield in the history of Him
                     who had stilled the tempest and walked upon the waters.
                  As we wound our way among the barren rocks we saw several Arabs skulking about
                     the cliffs, armed with long guns, and apparently watching our motions with keen
                     interest. By certain signs they seemed to communicate with others in advance;
                     and now and then, when they thought we were not looking, they disappeared and
                     ran along on the other side of the ridge, so as to keep pace with us. Our
                     dragoman looked uncommonly anxious and downcast, which made me think he was
                     very much afraid that some of these suspicious vagabonds would get away before
                     he could get a good chance to shoot them. On this account, as I supposed, he
                     kept very close to us, we being altogether unarmed, so as to be on the spot
                     when the attack commenced, and at the same time afford us protection with his
                     courage and fire-arms.
                  But it seemed as if we were doomed never to enjoy a good adventure in the way
                     of an attack from the Arabs. No matter how fervently we wished to be robbed
                     (having only a trifle of small change about us), I verily believe had we hung
                     bags of gold on our backs, and invited every prowling thief we met on the way
                     to shoot at us; had we proclaimed aloud that it would greatly oblige us to be
                     peppered with slugs or knocked on the head, so as to have a genuine adventure,
                     to put down in our journals, and talk about when we got home, not one would
                     have dared to undertake such a thing, so efficiently were we protected by our
                     dragoman. These fellows, who watched us so closely, were, as we soon
                     discovered, the followers of a noted refugee from the Turkish Government,
                     formerly the Sheik of Baalbek, who had fortified himself in the ruins of Khan
                     Jub Yusef.
                  As we rode up in front of the Khan, the Sheik came out and received us with
                     great civility. He was followed by a few armed men, who, upon seeing that there
                     were no spies in the party, dropped off quietly, and sat down on the rocks,
                     some distance off. A long conversation took place between the two heroes (our
                     own and the hero of the Khan), the substance of which appeared to be this: that
                     the Sheik, unable to endure the oppressive sway of the Turks, had taken up arms
                     against them, resolved to die fighting for the freedom of his country. All the
                     followers that he could prevail upon to join his standard amounted only to
                     nineteen; yet with this handful of men he had fought and slain more Turks than
                     he could count. Himself and his party were sentenced to be hunted throughout
                     the land, and shot down, tortured, or mutilated, wherever they could be found.
                     Several had been killed at different times in battle; three had recently been
                     captured in a foraging expedition down by Tiberias, and, after suffering the
                     cruelest tortures, were shot and hung upon poles, as a warning to the rest of
                     the band. For himself (the Sheik),
                     there was no hope but to kill a few more Turks before he died. Already he had
                     been hunted like a wild beast throughout the length and breadth of the land;
                     his comrades had been scattered and shot down till only himself and six or
                     eight remained; but they were resolved to sell their lives dearly.
                  The Sheik was one of the finest-looking men I had seen in the East. He was
                     about thirty years of age, tall and well-proportioned, and easy and dignified
                     in his manners. His features were of the true Oriental cast, regular and
                     pleasing in repose, but indicative of a fiery temperament, and the unlimited
                     sway of the passions when once aroused. Nothing could be finer than his
                     eyes—dark, brilliant, and piercing; at times gentle as a woman's, yet
                     alternately, as he changed from calmer themes to the oppression of the Turks,
                     flashing with a savage hatred that was perfectly withering in its ferocity. His
                     costume was rich and picturesque. It consisted of a handsome turban, which set
                     off his dark flowing beard to great advantage; loose trowsers, profusely
                     embroidered; a costly vest, ornamented with braid and silver buttons; and over
                     his shoulders an ample robe, resembling a poncho, of rich and beautiful colors.
                     There was a natural ease in all his movements, an unaffected dignity in his
                     manners, a genuine eloquence in the rich tones of his voice and the copious
                     flow of his language, that I have seldom seen equaled, and never surpassed, in
                     any other part of the world.
                  Within the Khan we caught a glimpse of his wife, a beautiful young creature,
                     who bounded away like a frightened fawn as we entered. No wonder the Sheik
                     guarded well his ruined Khan, for it held within it a living treasure—a being
                     of grace and beauty—whom he doubtless loved with all the passion of his race,
                     whose gentle and confiding eyes were all that smiled upon him now.
                  No: there was another treasure, dearer to him perhaps than his wife. An Arab
                     may have something like a true regard for a woman; there is no reason why he
                     should not, except that it is not the custom of the country, and an Arab
                     regulates his affections pretty much like ourselves—according to custom. In
                     Oriental countries it is customary to love a favorite horse with great
                     constancy and devotion: the Sheik of Baalbek had a beautiful horse, and the
                     probability is that he was even more attached to it than he was to his
                     beautiful wife. Nor is it (to reduce every thing to the pure ore of truth) at
                     all unlikely that he had two or three more wives, equally charming, hidden away
                     in some dark corner of the ruins. The reason why my suspicions were aroused on
                     this subject was, that he took a great deal of pride in introducing us to his
                     horse, while not the slightest intimation escaped him that such a thing as a
                     wife was any where about the premises.
                  It was my first sight of a genuine horse of the desert. I had seen in Zanzibar,
                     and even in Washington, horses called Arabians, and probably they were of Arab
                     blood; but there is just as much difference between the ordinary Arab horse and
                     the true Bedouin breed (so seldom found except in the deserts) as there is
                     between a cart-horse and a racer. This was certainly one of the most beautiful
                     animals of its kind. The delicacy of the features, the fine flashing eye, the
                     small sharp ears, the proudly arched neck, the clean and symmetrical limbs,
                     were all indicative of the purest Arabian blood. What struck me most was the
                     fierce pawing of the ground, the perpetual chafing, the restless and constant
                     swaying to and fro of the head, all so fraught with a high spirit yet unbroken
                     by the cruelty of man; so like the motions of a caged beast, that frets and
                     sways unceasingly in its barred prison, and ever pants for liberty, till the
                     fire within burns away, and it dies untamed and savage to the last. Yet with
                     all this chafing, this eloquent appeal for a return to desert-life, he seemed
                     to know and love his master well: a word, a touch, a motion of the hand, even a
                     glance of that flashing eye, thrilled through him, and caused him to snuff the
                     air, and quiver as if burning with some ungovernable impulse.
                  The ordinary Syrian horse possesses many fine qualities, though of course it
                     can bear no comparison with the pure Arab. For powers of endurance, sureness of
                     foot, spirit, and gentleness under proper management, it is difficult to find
                     his equal. At Beirut almost every variety can be found at reasonable
                     prices.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXVII.
                  THE SYRIAN HORSES.
                  WHILE on the subject of horses, it may not be amiss to mention that we were
                     extremely fortunate in that respect. No person who saw us mounted, and on our
                     journey, would, for a moment, have supposed so, from the physical aspect of our
                     animals; but it was in remarkable points of character, rather than in the
                     remarkable points which adorned their forms, that their chief merit consisted.
                     Indeed, it would have been difficult to find four horses, either in Syria or
                     any other part of the world, to compare with ours in general intelligence and
                     reflective powers. That there was something akin to the noble faculty of
                     thought, something of a much higher order than mere instinct, in every one of
                     them, was beyond all question. As for Saladin, it is but simple justice to him
                     to say, that he had a head that would have done honor to some of the Howadji
                     whom I had met during my wanderings in the East. Not only did he carry an
                     uncommon amount of brains in it, but he possessed, in an extraordinary degree,
                     the faculty of doing himself credit by the manner in which he made use of them.
                     His brains and his judgment went in partnership, as a general thing; though, as
                     all great mortals have their weak points, so I am forced to admit that Saladin
                     had his. Strong in his passions, he sometimes suffered them to have unlimited
                     sway over both his brains and his judgment, which is a weakness common to
                     genius; but if he was bitter in his resentments, he was also devoted in his
                     attachments. There was no nonsense or affectation about him of any kind; he
                     professed nothing that he did not accomplish, in a zealous, off-hand manner. An
                     enemy to the back-bone, he was a friend to the very bottom of his stomach. God
                     bless old Saladin! I love him, with all his faults! Day after day how he toiled
                     for me up-hill and down-hill, over beds of rock and beds of mud, in sunshine
                     and in storm, wherever I wished to go—save in those extreme cases, already
                     referred to, when the fire of genius or the excess of vindictive passions
                     caused him to forget, for the moment, that he carried so true a friend upon his
                     back.
                  The horse upon which the English Captain rode, was the most classical in form
                     of any in the party; that is to say, there was a rotundity of body in him that
                     continually reminded me of the fat horse in front of the Roman Capitol, and of
                     the bronze horses in Naples, which were probably modeled upon animals of the
                     horse species that had recently been drowned. The Captain, doubtless, in view
                     of this fact, as well as on account of his warlike spirit, called him Waterloo;
                     but it was chiefly for fleetness of foot that Waterloo was distinguished, in
                     the eyes of the Captain. This conceit I always regarded as a weakness on the
                     part of my friend; because, to tell the truth, Waterloo was the only really
                     clumsy animal in the party. The Captain, however, was firmly persuaded that
                     Waterloo was born for a racer; that he, Waterloo, had been a racer in early
                     life, and had strained the muscle of one of his fore-legs, which accounted for
                     the fact that he always came in at the end of every race on the journey. All
                     that was necessary was, to keep the switch going; and certainly it did seem
                     essential, for the moment the Captain stopped switching, Waterloo stopped
                     running. The switch was just as indispensable a part of his machinery as the
                     piston-rod to a steam-engine. When we set out in the morning, the right arm of
                     the Captain commenced working, just as regularly as machinery could work, and
                     it only stopped when it was requisite that Waterloo should also stop. By night
                     both parties were entirely exhausted with the labors of locomotion. But the
                     most singular part of it was, that my friend would never admit that Waterloo
                     was not naturally a full-blooded racer. He would even go so far as to bet his
                     hat on a trial of speed with Saladin, which was a proposition so preposterous
                     that I never could listen to it without a smile of disdain.
                  
                  The little iron-gray, upon which the tall Southerner rode, was, perhaps, the
                     most ferocious and determined of the whole cavalcade, when aroused from his
                     habitual sobriety, by any inspiring cause. We never came in sight of the
                     Portuguese party, consisting of Dr. Mendoza, the Madam, Emanuel Balthos, and
                     their muleteers, that the iron-gray did not become perfectly frantic, and cause
                     all his companions to become frantic by his capers. I don't know what was the
                     reason—I only know that there was no beautiful little palfrey called Zulieka in
                     our party.
                  Yusef's famous steed of the desert, Syed Sulemin, was part and parcel of
                     himself. They certainly must have been born at the same time; nursed in the
                     same manger; educated in the same school; inspired by nature with the same
                     warlike spirit and the same savage propensities; so congenial were their souls,
                     so well adapted the one to the other; so thoroughly identified were they in all
                     the relations of life. If Yusef said, let us go, it was go; if he said, let us
                     stay, it was stay; let us dance, it was dance; let us fight, it was fight. No
                     matter what he thought, said, or did, Syed Sulemin thought, said, and did the
                     same—not that they spoke exactly the same language, but there was a perfect
                     understanding of tongues between them. The only material difference that I
                     could discover in their points of character was, that when any thing like a
                     real enemy appeared, Syed Sulemin never stopped until Yusef said stop, rather
                     decidedly; and it was evident that he did so then more from habit than any
                     positive desire he had to avoid a hostile meeting. It was really affecting to
                     witness the tenderness that existed between our dragoman and his beloved horse.
                     Every morning, regularly, before mounting, Yusef greeted Syed Sulemin in the
                     most brotherly manner. He asked him how he felt; how had he slept; what was the
                     general state of his health; had any body stolen his oats; and upon being
                     answered, as Syed Sulemin was in the habit of answering, by a peculiar working
                     of the ears, a neighing and nickering, and other well-understood signs, Yusef
                     could never restrain his affection, but invariably hugged him round the neck,
                     exchanged kisses with him, and shook hands with his fore-foot to show him that
                     they were still devoted friends, and never could be separated by any adversity
                     of fortune. Often as this was repeated, Yusef never seemed to tire of it; on
                     the contrary, whenever we arrived at a Khan where there was a concourse of
                     people, the very first thing he did upon dismounting was to say: Kiss me, you
                     beauty! and when Syed Sulemin had kissed him, Shake hands with me, you rascal!
                     and when Syed Sulemin had shaken hands, Fight me, you coward! and when Syed had
                     fought him, Dance for me, you cripple! and when Syed had danced, Now fall down
                     on your knees, and say you love me, you brute! and when Syed had finished doing
                     and saying all these things, and a great many others, Yusef looked triumphantly
                     upon the assembled Arabs, as much as to say: Wretches! did you ever see the
                     like of that before? Filthy barbarians! did you ever hear a horse talk English
                     like that? Miserable bumpkins! don't you perceive that I am Yusef
                     Badra, the renowned Dragoman and Destroyer of Robbers? Benighted dogs! don't
                     you understand, at a glance, that this is the famous Steed of the Desert, Syed
                     Sulemin—that cost ten millions of piasters before he was born!
                  The only time I ever knew Yusef and Syed Sulemin to disagree was on the
                     occasion of an extraordinary display of horsemanship in which Yusef seldom
                     indulged. It was at a small village on the road-side, where a large concourse
                     of the inhabitants, including a number of women, had gathered on the house-tops
                     to see the Frangi pass, especially to see Yusef, who had friends here, and who
                     was generally regarded as a miraculous and most astounding character by all
                     villagers throughout Syria. On this occasion, he was resolved to show them his
                     best specimen of horsemanship. Dashing up gallantly in front of the whole
                     crowd, he whirled the djeered over his head,
                     and then flung it up in the air to a prodigious height. As soon as it struck
                     the ground he was on the spot; when, with a proud smile of conscious skill, he
                     hung over in his saddle till his hands reached the earth, and grasped the stick
                     firmly so as to lift it up and whirl it over his head again. The Arabs were
                     astounded; but the sensation was premature. Yusef neither lifted up the stick nor whirled it
                     over his head on that occasion. Had he even lifted himself up without the
                     stick, he might have sustained the illusion by a series of fictitious
                     flourishes; but he remained hanging there by the saddle in the most pitiable
                     state of helplessness. He tugged, and writhed, and struggled, much in the style
                     of a cat hung by the tail. It was all one: there he dangled entirely unable
                     either to lift himself up or extricate his feet from the stirrups.
                  It was an awkward position for any man; positively humiliating for one who was
                     regarded as an Admirable Crichton by the whole female population of Syria; more
                     than awkward and humiliating in the presence of a large concourse of
                     experienced riders; but intensely deplorable as a display of horsemanship on
                     the part of the renowned Badra, the Prince of Dragomans and Destroyer of
                     Robbers. The Arabs on the house-tops laughed aloud; the women tittered and
                     screamed, and, to the best of my belief, asked Yusef if he stood in need of
                     their assistance, which was an exceedingly satirical and feminine question; for
                     the truth was, Yusef didn't stand at all; if he needed any assistance he rather
                     hung in need of it.
                  Fortunately, however, Syed Sulemin stood. It was admirable to behold the
                     resignation with which he turned his head and contemplated the struggles of his
                     friend and master. What else could he do? It was not in horse-flesh to lend a
                     helping hand on such an occasion. Syed Sulemin could not reasonably be expected
                     to take hold of Yusef in his teeth and throw him up on his back again; hence,
                     like a philosopher, he calmly awaited the result.
                  Mustapha, the muleteer, happening to come along about this time, and perceiving
                     his renowned master hanging by the leg in that critical position, stood by and
                     contemplated the scene for some moments in profound astonishment. Had he been a
                     vindictive or revengeful man, he would, in remembrance of the beatings he had
                     received in Baneas and other places, have passed on; but Mustapha had a kind
                     and forgiving heart. As soon as he discovered that it really was not an
                     intentional display of horsemanship, he seized Yusef in his arms and extricated
                     the embarrassed leg from the stirrups.
                  I am sorry to say that Yusef, owing, perhaps, to a flow of blood to the head,
                     took his stick immediately upon regaining the saddle, and struck Syed Sulemin
                     several times with great fury; which Syed Sulemin resented by running away from
                     the scene of the disaster, and never stopping till he reached the next village.
                     Furthermore, that soon after our arrival at that village, where we spent the
                     night, Yusef, who had never spoken a word since the disaster, now broke forth
                     and charged Mustapha with having stolen his oats on the previous night. This
                     Mustapha denied most indignantly. Yusef said that to deny so palpable a fact
                     was to call him a liar; whereupon he fell to work with his stick and beat
                     Mustapha; nor is it probable that he would have desisted until he had fairly
                     flayed the poor fellow from head to foot, had I not interfered and sternly
                     protested against such a severe mode of punishment. Next morning Syed Sulemin
                     and his master kissed and made up; and Mustapha relieved his feelings on the
                     road by riding on top of the baggage on his mule, some distance in the rear of
                     Yusef, and convulsing himself and all the other muleteers with silent laughter;
                     as also by showing every body, except our dragoman, how a djeered may be picked up in certain cases.
                  To complete this sketch, I may as well add that, besides the four horses above
                     described, we had three baggage mules, all respectable animals in their way.
                     They belonged to the Arabs who drove them, and were much like their
                     masters—rugged and unpromising in appearance, but capable of enduring any
                     amount of fatigue, when driven to it by the force of circumstances. The only
                     fault they had, was an unprofitable habit of lying down with our baggage in the
                     middle of every marsh and river that lay across our road. It was a habit
                     equally unprofitable to both parties, because it damaged our provisions,
                     saturated our bedding, ruined our books and maps, put us out of temper, and did
                     the mules no good whatever, inasmuch as they only increased the weight by the
                     amount of water soaked up in that way, besides the beatings they received ceived for the trouble. But it was
                     no use to reason with them; they would do it; somehow it afforded them
                     satisfaction.
                  Before proceeding on our journey to the Sea of Galilee, I must not forget
                     another remarkable feature that usually was prominent in our travels. While we
                     are winding our way toward Tiberias, with nothing but bare and desolate rocks
                     on both sides, permit me to introduce you to our friend and fellow-traveler,
                     Tokina.
                  Attached to our party was a small donkey, which often excited my wonder by his
                     great spirit and powers of endurance. Tokina was his name; and, although it
                     could not be denied that he was an ass—a perfect ass, I may say—yet he was a
                     most sensible little fellow, and had a soul very much above any common ass. He
                     was not much bigger than a Newfoundland dog, but he had an amount of ambition
                     concealed beneath his shaggy little hide that would have done honor to any
                     horse in Syria. If his ears were long, so was his head; he carried a good deal
                     in it as well as on it.
                  There was not an inch of the way from Beirut to the summit of Mount Lebanon,
                     and from the summit of Mount Lebanon to Damascus, and from Damascus to
                     Jerusalem, that he did not bear himself bravely under all circumstances; never
                     once flagging, however great his burden; always trotting along briskly,
                     tumbling into rivers and ditches, and climbing out again as much alive as ever;
                     carrying immense lazy Arabs on his back up hill and down hill, and running away
                     now and then, and kicking all the mules within his reach. Tokina was not only a
                     remarkable ass, but a transcendentalist. There was no telling what he was about
                     half the time, he maintained such an aspect of profound wisdom, and used such
                     obscure and uncouth language to explain himself. He was also something of a
                     politician; that is to say, he was very fond of any body that gave him oats,
                     and always wagged his ears and smiled pleasantly when he expected little
                     attentions of that kind. When imposed upon by unmerciful riding, he would bear
                     it all patiently, never tripping until a good opportunity occurred of making
                     something by it; and then he would stumble into a ditch, as if by accident, and
                     come out rejoicing without saddle or rider. I often imagined when he brayed on
                     occasions of this kind that he meant to say: "Bismillah! you are in the mud
                     now! See how I throw dirt on you! You needn't think to impose upon me because
                     I'm little. By the beard of the Prophet! a pretty fellow you are, truly! Two
                     hundred pounds' weight nearly riding on a little chap like me! But don't think
                     because you're a bigger ass than I am that you can come it over me in this way
                     much longer. I won't stand it; if I do may I be turned into a two-legged
                     animal, and walk on end all the days of my life!" Whereupon he would kick up
                     his heels and dash off, laughing to himself in such wise that it was perfectly
                     human. Then to catch him was a job that afforded us infinite diversion; to see
                     him dodge under the mules, and run behind and before the horses, and upset the
                     Arabs that were on foot; it was such innocent relaxation for a great mind.
                     Being ridden upon he seemed to regard as one of the necessary evils of society,
                     and bore it always as long as he could; the greatest ass in the world could not
                     do more. Doubtless he saw how the big people around him rode on the little
                     people, and how the principle extends from the highest to the lowest of the
                     living kind—those with vertical as well as those with horizontal backs. If he
                     made use of his senses, he could not help perceiving that the various
                     governments of Europe rode on Turkey; that Turkey rode on the Pashas of Syria;
                     that the Pashas of Syria rode on Yusef Badra, the Destroyer of Robbers; that
                     Yusef rode on Mustapha, and Mustapha on the back of his mule; that life is a
                     general system of riding and being ridden upon, and even the smallest of asses
                     has a weight of despotism to bear upon his back.
                  I have often thought that the auto-biography of a Syrian ass would be most
                     interesting and instructive. What strange revelations he could give us of
                     character, adventure, and book-making! What valuable reflections on the
                     antiquities of Palestine! What rich and copious notes on affairs of Government!
                     Pardon any thing thou may'st deem amiss in these remarks, O Tokina! for I know
                     and love thee well, and mean thee no
                     offense. If thou should'st feel at all hurt, remember that I, your best friend,
                     who have saved thee many a beating, am of the human species myself; and accept
                     as a peace-offering the sketch herewith appended, in which I have endeavored to
                     do justice to thy personal beauty, and at the same time show the world that
                     thou art grievously imposed upon!
                  
                     
                        TOKINA.
                     
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                  THE SEA OF GALILEE.
                  SOON after leaving the ruins of Khan Jub Yusef, we entered upon a bed of solid
                     rock. It was a perfect picture of desolation. Scarcely so much as a blade of
                     glass was in sight. All was blanched and barren around for many miles, and
                     there was no sign of life save the bleating of a few sheep, and the sad lowing
                     of camels from the valley. The pathway was marked by holes worked in the rocks
                     by mules and caravans. It had been traveled over in the same way for centuries
                     upon centuries past. As we came out toward the brow of the hill overlooking the
                     lake there was a change in the scene more like some enchanting optical illusion
                     than any thing real. There lay outspread before us in the calm of the evening
                     the beautiful valley of Genesareth, its green fields and groves of olives
                     glistening, after the morning showers, in a flood of rich sunshine. The lake
                     was placid and clear, and light clouds were sleeping calmly on the tops of the
                     mountains. Bare and desolate were those craggy heights, yet rich beyond all the
                     powers of art in the glow of the evening sun. Descending by a stony path, we at
                     length entered the valley, leaving to the left the village of Tell Hum. We
                     stopped a while at an old ruin called the Khan Minyah, where we saw a few
                     ragged Arabs sitting out on the roof, smoking their pipes, and listening to the
                     traditional romances of some old story-teller. A few compliments passed, some
                     questions were asked and answered, on both sides, when we rode on through the
                     low and well-watered plain, amid groves of fig-trees and olives. The air was
                     deliciously soft and balmy. A fresh scent of flowers arose from the earth, and
                     around us there were green slopes of
                     grass, and banks of fragrant herbs, and thick shrubberies of oleander in full
                     bloom. Camels browsed lazily among the bushes; herds of sheep were scattered
                     over the openings of meadow, and lambs ran frisking from us as we passed; the
                     cackling of hens and the distant barking of dogs about the villages fell
                     pleasantly on the ear; and sometimes we crossed little streams of limpid water,
                     lingering like ourselves to catch each beauty by the wayside, yet ever
                     journeying on to the Sea of Death. Here and there we saw a swarthy Bedouin,
                     seated upon the rocks with his pipe in his hand, watching the smoke from his
                     lips as it curled upward, and vanished in the air. Pelicans stood upon the
                     shores of the lake peering into the clear water in search of prey; and the
                     dapper duck sported about on its surface, diving out of sight as we approached.
                     Yusef meantime entertained us with the wonderful history of Hassin, the
                     Dragon-killer; telling us all about the way in which Hassin outwitted the Grand
                     Vizier, and slew the most ferocious seven-headed dragon that ever existed; how
                     he went off to court the daughter of the Sultan, a cruel Princess who had a
                     palace built of the skulls of her lovers, and only wanted one more skull to
                     finish it; how she set him to work to test the sincerity of his professions by
                     ordering him to eat at a single meal forty cows, four hundred sheep, two
                     thousand chickens, and a thousand baskets of bread; also to drink twenty or
                     thirty hogsheads of wine, and empty every well of water within a circuit of ten
                     miles; how Hassin, by helping a giant out of a cobweb, in which he (the giant)
                     had become entangled under the disguise of a fly, so won upon the regard of
                     that distinguished person that he made himself as small as an ordinary man, for
                     convenience, and disguised in Hassin's clothes did eat all the cows, sheep,
                     chickens, and bread, and drink all the wine and water, and then call for more,
                     protesting that such trifles as these only gave him an appetite; how Hassin
                     eventually carried off the Princess, and lived with her in a palace of gold
                     ornamented with diamonds and precious stones, and became known throughout the
                     whole world as the greatest of Sultans, and was called ever after Hassin, the
                     Dragon-killer.
                  In due time we emerged from the bushes, and came out upon the pebbly beach of
                     the lake, not far beyond Ain-et-Tin. We rode at once into the clear sparkling
                     water. It was pure as crystal, and so calm that the mountains on the other side
                     seemed suspended in the air, and the reflection of the sky was as rich in quiet
                     beauty as the sky itself. The ruined villages along the shores presented
                     strange and mystic pictures in their inverted shadows; palm-trees overhung the
                     deep with all their mirrored richness of outline; white ruins of mosques
                     glittered in the distance; the naked and craggy mountains behind were steeped
                     in an atmosphere of purple; and the waters and the mountains were wrapt in the
                     sublimity of repose and the hallowed associations of the past.
                  Much of the pleasure we experienced in viewing these scenes, it must be
                     admitted, arose from the physical comfort we enjoyed in the genial glow of the
                     evening, after our sad experience in crossing the snow-capped heights of
                     Jebel-esh-Sheik, and our sufferings in the Mill of Malaha. Apart from the
                     scriptural interest so interwoven with every spot around the Sea of Galilee,
                     and the gratification of finding some place upon which to refresh the eye,
                     after days of travel through desert regions of parched earth and sterile hills,
                     there is in reality but little in the natural scenery about the lake,
                     unaccompanied by freshening rains and a glowing sky, to attract attention. The
                     valley of Genesareth is certainly a charming spot, but the charm is greatly
                     heightened by the predisposition to be enchanted in the eye of the beholder.
                     Around the shores of the lake the mountains are much the same as all the
                     mountains throughout Palestine; and it is only in certain conditions of the
                     atmosphere that they acquire that beauty which had so delighted us. This I
                     think it due to the reader to state, in order that he may not be disappointed
                     should he ever visit that region.
                  Continuing along the shores of the lake for a few miles, we took to the road
                     again, and soon arrived at the village of Medjdel, a collection of miserable
                     huts pleasantly situated a short distance from the water, under the brow of an
                     abrupt cliff. Medjdel is interesting as the birth-place of Mary Magdalene dalene. We had no time to explore
                     the caves or artificial grottoes in the cliff.
                  Passing over a rocky and precipitous path, along the shores of the lake, we at
                     length beheld the castle and ruins of Tiberias, once the capital of
                     Galilee.
                  Tiberias is handsomely situated on a slope facing the lake. It is a filthy and
                     dilapidated town, built in the Saracenic style, and is at present in a wretched
                     state of ruin and decay. One or two mosques in the upper part on the hill-side,
                     and a few scattering palm-trees among the ruins of the ancient city, give it
                     something of an Oriental character. The foundations of the old walls and the
                     remains of the ruined gateways are still standing; and the broken columns and
                     friezes scattered about the outskirts of the town bear evidence of its grandeur
                     in by-gone centuries. The first view, on the approach, embraces the ruined
                     castle on the top of the hill and the immense gateway and fortifications. From
                     these it would appear that in the days of its prosperity Tiberias must have
                     been a city of considerable importance. Columns and cornices of massive
                     proportions, beautifully cut, lie partially imbedded in the ground; and large
                     blocks of stone, which evidently occupied in remote periods a prominent place
                     in the temples and palaces, are scattered about for many miles. Portions of the
                     ancient walls are nearly perfect; but the greater part seem to have been shaken
                     down by some convulsion of nature—probably the great earthquake which destroyed
                     Safed—or shattered into ruin by the ravages of the wars between the Turks and
                     Syrians. This city was once the capital of Galilee, and was famed in later
                     periods of its history as the principal seat of Rabbinical learning. It
                     contains at present a population of several thousand, chiefly Jews, who hold it
                     by sufferance of the Turks. Some of the most learned of the Rabbi composed and
                     promulgated their works here, and at one period it boasted institutions of
                     learning and historical research unequaled by any in the East. The streets are
                     narrow and unpaved, the houses are of filthy appearance, and the aspect of the
                     inhabitants sickly and emaciated. Unlike the larger towns in Syria through
                     which we had passed, Tiberias showed no symptoms of European influence. The
                     turbans and fezzes, the loose flowing robes and Oriental slippers, the sashes
                     of rich silks, and all the peculiarities of costume which distinguish a purely
                     Oriental people, existed here without change or innovation. Many of the Jewish
                     women, whom we accidentally saw as we passed by the doors, had fine features
                     but seemed wasted and haggard from sickness. The children were gaudily dressed
                     in red and yellow robes, and were remarkable for their beauty. The shops are
                     mean and filthy. A lethargy apparently hung over the place. Turbaned and
                     dark-bearded men, with downcast eyes and sallow faces, walked slowly through
                     the narrow streets, and seemed to sigh as if they bore some weight upon them
                     that an eternity of years could not remove. Vailed and shrouded women glided in
                     from the doorways, and the ghosts of shriveled old women sat crouchingly in the
                     sun, shaking their palsied heads, and moaning as if they never more could feel
                     its genial warmth. Starved and hairless dogs staggered about through the filth,
                     stopping here and there to scratch up the bones of some carcass; foul odors
                     filled the air, and green and fœtid pools of water lay stagnant among the
                     ruins.
                  We stopped at the only tolerable house in the place, a sort of hotel for Frank
                     travelers, kept by one Wiseman, a German Jew. Our arrival occasioned the
                     liveliest commotion throughout the establishment. Women and children ran all
                     about, screaming at the top of their voices that the Howadji had come—to be in
                     a hurry—to get out of the way—to stop making such a noise—to be stirring about,
                     and not stand staring at one another like fools; while we, calling for water,
                     sat down in the big room, and heard water echoed all over the house in German,
                     Italian, and Arabic; but saw nothing of it for half an hour at least. Herr
                     Wiseman, our host, was all that a host could be, good-humored, busy, and
                     obliging. He showed us, among other important evidences of the reputation of
                     his establishment, the register of names, from which it appeared that Lord
                     Somebody and suite had spent three days here en
                        route to Damascus; explored the Lake of Tiberias; were highly
                     gratified with their visit, especially his lordship, who, with the exception of a bad
                     night's rest in consequence of the fleas, enjoyed himself exceedingly; would
                     recommend all travelers to take a boat and view the lake by moonlight. Tres contents with the hotel, but his lordship
                     could not, in justice to his friends, say that the beds were altogether free
                     from the nuisance of fleas. That Mr. Somebody-else, chancellor to a British
                     Consulate, fully concurred in the opinions and sentiments expressed by the
                     aforesaid lord, and would add, for the benefit of the traveling public, that
                     excellent fish might be caught in the lake, and sportsmen could find capital
                     shooting on the other side, but on no account to venture out without a flask of
                     brandy, London brand. That the Hon. Lady Blank, attended by her dragoman and
                     servants, was on her way from Jerusalem and the Dead Sea to Damascus, and hoped
                     to spend the summer in Constantinople; was highly gratified by her visit to
                     Tiberias, and considered Herr Wiseman a most accommodating and obliging person,
                     but would advise all travelers to call for fish, and by no means to order
                     beefsteak, as the beefsteak here was positively ruined in the cooking, unless
                     personally superintended.
                  From the windows of our chamber we had a good view of the lake. There were two
                     or three boats down by the water; but, not having romance enough in our party
                     to go on a moonlight excursion, we spent the evening in writing up our
                     journals. At an early hour next morning after breakfast, our mules being sent
                     on to Nazereth with the baggage, we mounted our horses, and rode down to see
                     the famous warm baths of Tiberias. These baths are situated about two miles
                     from the town, at the extremity of the valley. They have long been celebrated
                     for their medicinal virtues, and are much resorted to by invalids. At present a
                     good building, erected by Ibrahim Pasha, covers the chief spring. In the centre
                     of the largest apartment is a spacious reservoir, into which the water, warm
                     from the mountain, falls from the mouth of a stone lion. The floors are of
                     marble, and all conveniences are found for bathing. The visitor may swim about
                     in the pure element if he likes, and, for a few piasters, become thoroughly
                     saturated with sulphur. There is an inner apartment ment of smaller dimensions
                     where the water is of still higher temperature—so warm, indeed, that at first
                     it is painful to bear the hand in it. Invalids may be parboiled here to
                     perfection; and it is said that they come from all parts of the country for
                     that purpose. The water is clear and pure, and is strongly impregnated with gas
                     and sulphur. Doubtless its medicinal virtues are not exaggerated: and the day
                     may come when some enterprising Yankee will purchase the premises, and have out
                     his bills throughout the hotels of the East, "Sulphur Baths of Galilee—Pavilion
                     of Tiberias: boats, horses, and bowling saloons always ready for visitors; the
                     best liquors kept at the bar; pleasure trips to Safed only 12½ cents; steamer
                     Pasha leaves for Tell Hum and all the intermediate ports twice a day: Fare 25
                     cents. Zachary Doolittle, Proprietor."
                  
                     
                        BATHS OF TIBERIAS.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXIX.
                  JOURNEY TO NAZARETH.
                  FROM Tiberias we ascended by a mountain-pass toward Nazareth. It was a day of
                     deadened sunshine; sallow in its light, but not cloudy; so still that the hum
                     of life rose up from the valley and followed us to the height, where we turned
                     to look back upon the sacred waters. On the right, over on the mountain, lay
                     the ruins of Safed.
                  Years ago, I forget how many, occurred the great earthquake that laid it
                     desolate. It was a scene of terror well-remembered by the survivors and by the
                     inhabitants of Tiberias. I stopped awhile to trace out the sad havoc that had
                     been made there; and, while I gazed upon its mouldering vestiges, the past
                     seemed to rise before me in all its terrible reality.
                  A murky gloom hung over the shores of Galilee. No gleam of sunshine rested upon
                     the sacred waters. The hot air was stagnant upon the mountains, and the valley
                     of Genesareth lay parched in the stillness. Its groves of olives were withered;
                     its herds were motionless; its ruined temples without shadow. From the heights
                     of Safed down into the pulseless waters below there was a hush of life; for the
                     presage of Doom was spread abroad. A death-pall lay upon the blanched
                     earth.
                  Then there came a low sighing out of the gloom, but none knew whence it came.
                     Fear smote upon the hearts of the people, and they fell prostrate and prayed.
                     There was a feverish trembling of the earth, and it was still again; and again
                     it trembled and moaned, and again it was still. The hour was come; it came not
                     with a sudden shock, but with the slow certainty of fate. A deep, sad wail of
                     death rose upon the air. All living things fled, but they knew not where to
                     flee. The plains opened in smoking fissures, and the mountains were cleft
                     asunder by a hand that man hath never seen, and great rocks rolled crashing
                     down into the depths below. Shrieks of terror mingled with the crash, and
                     smoking masses of earth were upheaved, and buried beneath them houses and
                     temples, and all that stood upon its sod. Men rushed from their abodes and
                     smote their breasts, crying, Woe! woe! a judgment hath fallen upon Safed! Women
                     fled shrieking with their children into the dark caverns. But there was death
                     in the noonday light, and there was death in the darkness; all was desolation
                     and death; wherever they fled, desolation and death. Crushed beneath the
                     falling masses, they lay buried in a sepulchre of ruins. The dread doom had
                     come; there were no sounds but the sounds of woe. Woe to, the highest and the
                     lowest; woe, woe to Safed; woe to all that were there that fatal day. The
                     living were buried, and the dead were cast up from their graves, and the living
                     and the dead were entombed in the convulsed earth to moulder henceforth
                     together. Days after, putrid corpses were dragged from the ruins: strong men,
                     crushed and maimed, grasping masses of ruin in their clenched hands as they
                     died; the corpses of mothers, with their skeleton arms still twined around
                     their babes; blackened and bleeding, some were dragged out to drink in the
                     light of heaven once more, and die raving mad. O happy fate for them that were
                     crushed to rise no more! For days after, the living lay maimed in the sad
                     chaos, and smothered cries were heard when Safed was no more—wailing for the
                     lost that were never to be seen again; for the dead that never more could know
                     the bitterness of life.
                  The dream was ended: I turned and rode on toward the plain of Hatim.
                  On the ridge, as we left Tiberias, we had a fine view of Mount Tabor, which,
                     from its regular outline, standing alone on the plain of Esdraelon, is easily
                     distinguished from the neighboring mountains. We passed some rich spots of
                     ground on our way this morning, and saw the Arabs at work scratching it up for
                     the spring crops with their rude wooden plows and stunted oxen. On the left, two hours from
                     Tiberias, we passed the village of Lubieh, pleasantly situated on a mountain
                     slope, and surrounded by groves of olives. Sometime during the forenoon, we
                     passed through the famous plain of Kurim Hatin, where was fought one of the
                     bloodiest of the battles between the Christians and the Saracens that occurred
                     during the Crusades. Saladin, the hero of the Saracen hosts, here added to his
                     fame by deeds of bravery scarcely paralleled in the history of those sanguinary
                     wars. It was on the plain of Kurin Hatim, according to some writers, that
                     Christ fed the five thousand with the loaves, and on one of the neighboring
                     heights preached his Sermon on the Mount; but the best authorities deny that
                     there is any satisfactory evidence of this.
                  In the valleys that swept down on the left, we saw a number of Bedouin
                     encampments; and on the road met straggling parties of ragged and
                     suspicious-looking fellows, armed with guns, who eyed us scowlingly, but always
                     passed on when they caught sight of Yusef. The missionaries in Damascus had
                     advised us to take a guard from Baneas to Nablous, as that was the most
                     dangerous part of the road. We had heard a good many stories, especially of the
                     dreadful state of things between Tiberias and Nazareth, where, it was said that
                     it was an every-day occurrence to be knocked on the head and beaten within an
                     inch of one's life, if not killed outright, by the banditti who infested that
                     region. Confident, however, that Yusef would slay them all if they attacked us,
                     we dispensed with the guard, and encountered every risk, under a most agreeable
                     sense of security.
                  Early in the afternoon we passed through the village of Ker Kenna or Cana, and
                     stopped at the lower part, near a fine grove of pomegranates, where we found
                     excellent water. It was here that Christ turned the water into wine, and we
                     could not but feel as we drank from the flowing spring, that there was
                     something in its scriptural associations to make it a memorable event in our
                     journey. There was a luxury in sitting here by the fragrant pomegranates
                     smoking our pipes after our morning's ride, and watching the children as they
                     came down from Cana with their earthen pitchers, as in olden times, to carry up
                     water from the well. A few lazy Arabs gathered around us to see what we were
                     doing; they watched with particular interest the progress of a sketch that I
                     made of the well, pronouncing it, as I supposed from their manner, the most
                     wonderful work of art they had ever beheld. These people, like all we had seen
                     in this part of the world, seem to recognize no difference between winter and
                     summer. They were clad in loose rags, although the weather was cool, and in
                     their huts seldom used fire, except a few coals to boil their coffee and light
                     their pipes. We gave them a trifling backshish for looking at us, and, wishing them a pleasant time of
                     it, went on our way toward Nazareth.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XL.
                  NAZARETH.
                  LEAVING Mount Tabor several hours on the left, we passed through the village of
                     Remeh, and descended into the valley beyond. On again ascending we came in view
                     of Nazareth. Apart from its scriptural associations, there is little about
                     Nazareth to attract attention. It is a mere village of square, flat-roofed
                     houses, situated on the side of a hill, with a mosque and some large buildings,
                     occupied by the monks, in the lower part. The valley is well-wooded with olive
                     trees, which extend up beyond the houses toward the top of the hill. A few palm
                     trees present a picturesque outline near the mosque. The general appearance of
                     the valley of Nazareth is similar to that of most of the valleys through which
                     one passes in Syria. Before reaching the town we came to a square plat of
                     ground, inclosed by a stone wall, within which stands a convent. We were met at
                     the door by a Greek priest, who invited us to enter. This convent is said to
                     cover the spot on which the Virgin Mary was born. We took off our hats and went
                     in. Places of this kind are turned into mere catch-penny shows, and there is no
                     evidence of their being the identical places referred to in the Scriptures,
                     other than the traditional testimony of the monks. The convents built upon them
                     are sustained chiefly by the contributions of pilgrims and travelers, and these
                     contributions depend of course upon the skill of the monks in maintaining the
                     authenticity of the localities. That the position of Nazareth is well
                     established, I believe admits of no doubt; but farther than that is uncertain.
                     The spot upon which it is said the Virgin was born is in a sort of vault in the
                     back part of the chapel; it is covered with a square marble slab, over which is
                     erected a canopy. There is a well of fine water underneath, from which we
                     drank. While we were looking on, several priests entered with lighted wax
                     candles, and went through various ceremonies; kneeling and kissing repeatedly
                     the marble slab. A poor old woman, covered with rags, forced herself in through
                     the crowd, and fell groaning upon the floor, kissing the cold stones and the
                     robes of the priests with frantic eagerness. She seemed to be under the
                     influence of religious excitement, and would probably have left us in that
                     belief had she not, when we turned to depart, bounced up with activity, and
                     headed us off before we reached the door, begging vociferously for alms. The
                     change in the expression of her countenance was quite miraculous. She was no
                     longer the groaning devotee; it was plain enough to see that there was method
                     in her madness. We gave her a few piasters, and also a trifle to the worthy
                     priest, who was equally assiduous in his attentions. Both of them wished us a
                     happy journey, and we wished them a continuance of their profits.
                  We stopped at the house up in Nazareth built by the Latin monks for the
                     accommodation of pilgrims; a very clean and convenient stone building, with
                     rooms that seemed grand, after the wretched places we had slept in since
                     leaving Damascus. It was a long time before the keys came, but they came at
                     last, very much to our satisfaction. It was too late to see any thing that
                     evening; so promising ourselves a pleasant trip to Mount Tabor next morning, we
                     turned in after dinner, and slept soundly through the night.
                  The monks of the Latin convent treated us very kindly. We were visited by
                     several of them, and found them friendly and obliging. Of course we paid well
                     for every thing we had; but we got the value, besides pleasant smiles and kind
                     words.
                  In the traveler's register we saw the names of several acquaintances, among
                     others that of our excellent Minister to Constantinople, Mr. Marsh, and his
                     family, and some tourists from Kentucky. Mr. Marsh was taken ill here a few
                     months before on his return from Egypt. He bears testimony to the kind treatment which himself and
                     family received from the monks during his stay in Nazareth. We saw also the
                     name of an American gentleman who appeared to be a most indefatigable traveler
                     in the East and throughout Europe. Very few registers that I saw any where were
                     without his signature. I saw it on the ruins of Baalbek, and on various other
                     ruins; and met with no minister, consul, traveler, dragoman, or guide who was
                     not acquainted with him personally or by reputation. Among the Arabs he was
                     generally known as my Lord Willoughby, a mistake that doubtless originated in
                     the passion for titles displayed by his dragoman, Emanuel Balthos. I also
                     frequently met with the name of a much-esteemed traveling companion from
                     Boston, who, doubtless from the same cause, was remembered throughout the East
                     as the Prince of Wales. Not only do I believe that this will be news to both of
                     these gentlemen, but caution all travelers who may come after me through that
                     land of metaphor not to misconstrue the fact in any way should they find it
                     reported that General Sir John Brown, of the City of Magnificent Distances,
                     accompanied by the Prince of Wilmington and Lord Captain Bullfinch, had just
                     passed; but to attribute it all to our dragoman, whose passion for display in
                     matters of this kind is perfectly incorrigible.
                  It is recorded in the register of the Latin Convent by a Mr. Alwyn, of Quebec,
                     some six or eight months ago, that he was robbed and cruelly beaten by the
                     Arabs near Djenin. I had heard of the affair in Smyrna, and now read it in his
                     own handwriting. It appeared that he was traveling through Palestine
                     accompanied only by his dragoman. Three miles from Djenin he was attacked by
                     four Arabs, who dragged him from his horse and beat him with stones and clubs
                     till they thought he was dead. The dragoman made his escape, and it was
                     supposed he was an accomplice of the robbers. Mr. Alwyn found, upon coming to
                     his senses, that his skull was fractured in several places, and he lay for some
                     hours unable to move. At length some traveling Arabs passing that way took him
                     to Djenin. The Sheik refused to let him have a horse to take him to Nazareth,
                     without an assurance of forty piasters, which he had to promise on the prospect
                     of obtaining it from the Latin monks, as he had been plundered of all his
                     money. On his arrival in Nazareth he was most kindly and hospitably received by
                     the monks, who paid for his horse, dressed his wounds, fed him, and took good
                     care of him for three months, when he was sufficiently recovered to proceed on
                     his journey. Our companion, the English Captain, was chief officer in the
                     steamer in which he took passage, and bore testimony to the truth of the
                     narrative.
                  On the day after our arrival in Nazareth the weather was so unpromising that we
                     were reluctantly forced to abandon our visit to Mount Tabor. It is only a ride
                     of three hours; but we thought a rainy day could be better spent on our way to
                     Jerusalem, especially as there was every prospect of the wet weather setting in
                     for the winter.
                  First, however, we went to take a look at the sights. Nazareth is one of the
                     worst specimens of a Syrian town; it abounds in abominations of all kinds, and
                     is the abiding-place of as dark and villainous a population as we had yet seen.
                     The difference was very striking between the inhabitants of this part of the
                     country and those about Tripoli and Mount Lebanon. There they seemed pastoral
                     in their habits; they were polite and affable, and had a frank and cheerful
                     expression that was very pleasing. As we advanced southward from Damascus the
                     people were of a darker complexion, and had a scowling and morose cast of
                     countenance. We found their religious prejudices stronger as we approached
                     Jerusalem, and sometimes had difficulty in obtaining lodgings in the native
                     houses, though the magic effects of backshish
                     never failed in the end to open their doors.
                  The women of Nazareth, as far as we had any opportunity of seeing them, are
                     extremely beautiful. They are carefully masked, however, and it is only
                     accidentally that the traveler can catch a glimpse of their faces.
                  During the forenoon we went to the Latin convent, which is reputed by the monks
                     to be built upon the spot where stood the house of the Virgin Mary. The chapel
                     has some tolerable paintings; incense is burnt continually on the altar, as in
                        the chapels throughout Italy,
                     and, altogether, it reminded me of the ordinary Italian churches. Most of the
                     monks are Italians, from the Tuscan and Roman States. A school is attached to
                     the convent, where the Christian children of the town are educated free of
                     expense; a medicine-shop or infirmary also forms a part of the establishment;
                     and we saw around the doors crowds of sick and afflicted creatures, to whom the
                     monks were distributing medicines. It must be admitted, that whatever may be
                     objected to these institutions throughout Palestine, their effect is beneficial
                     to the poor people; and, in general, the monks who occupy them are kind and
                     humane to all who need their assistance.
                  By noon we were on our way toward Jerusalem. Ascending the hill on the east, I
                     stopped in a grove of olives to make a sketch of the town. The weather was raw
                     and chilling, and I barely had warmth enough left in my hands to take a rapid
                     outline of the principal points. My companions becoming impatient, I had to
                     spur up old Saladin, and push on to make up for lost time. We soon came to the
                     high range of bluffs overlooking the plain of Esdraelon. The view was very fine
                     as we commenced our descent. On the left loomed up the beautiful and moundlike
                     outline of Mount Hermon; in front, at a distance of ten or twelve miles, the
                     barren peaks of Little Hermon; and beyond, inclining to the right, the vast and
                     prairie-like plain of Esdraelon, a wilderness of rich land covered with
                     wild-grass and weeds, and dotted at remote intervals with the ruins of castles
                     and villages. Our road lay close by the reputed Rock of the Precipitation. Dr.
                     Robinson discredits the authenticity of this as the true location, and believes
                     the Rock of the Precipitation to be not far behind the Greek convent. He very
                     justly argues, that an infuriate rabble would have had no object in carrying
                     their victim so great a distance from the town, when there were precipices in
                     the immediate vicinity quite as well adapted to their purpose.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLI.
                  A GAZELLE HUNT.
                  DESCENDING by a rough and stony path, we commenced our march across the great
                     plain of Esdraelon. There was little to relieve the monotony of this part of
                     our journey; sharp gusts of wind swept over the plain, and the only sounds we
                     heard were the lowing of cattle at a distance and the rattling of the withered
                     weeds along our path. By accident somebody in the party who had the gun let it
                     off at the right time and killed a hawk; and occasionally a gazelle would start
                     up and bound off over the plain. On one of these occasions the excitement was
                     so strong that it came well-nigh costing us more than the game would have
                     amounted to had we succeeded in capturing every gazelle within a range of ten
                     miles. It was the first time we Frangi had seen this beautiful animal in its
                     native wilds; and so impressed were we by the remembrance of the "gazelle-like
                     eyes" we had left at home, that we agreed to capture one if we could, dead or
                     alive. With this determination the tall Southerner took Yusef's double-barrel
                     gun, well loaded with slugs; the English Captain a stick to make his horse run
                     them down; myself nothing at all, because I was not skilled in hunting; but I
                     had a penknife in my pocket, with which it was possible I might be called upon
                     to bleed somebody in case of a bruise or fracture. Yusef had his small gun, his
                     Allen's revolver, sword, daggers, knives, and other arms. Thus equipped for the
                     chase, we rode along keeping a sharp look-out among the weeds on each side of
                     the path. It was an anxious time, for every moment we expected to see a fine
                     herd of gazelles bounce up. But not the sign or shadow of a gazelle was to be seen for miles. Eventually our
                     enthusiasm was cooling down in the chilling air, and we began to despair of
                     seeing any more gazelles, when a thumping sound struck upon our ears. It was
                     sudden and distinct, almost like a shock of galvanism. Per Baccho! what a
                     glorious sight! Four splendid gazelles, not fifty yards off, in the act of
                     bounding away! Shoot 'em! Catch 'em! Stop 'em, somebody! O Jupiter! what
                     splendid animals! There was a sudden pause, and then a shout of excitement from
                     the whole party, and away dashed every body, shouting at the utmost power of
                     his lungs, and shooting to the extreme extent of his powder and fire-arms. The
                     mules, heavily laden as they were with baggage and the additional weight of the
                     muleteers who were asleep on top, pricked up their ears and began to caper
                     about, till, no longer able to control their enthusiasm, they started off to
                     join the chase. The muleteers were thrown from the baggage, and were suddenly
                     waked up by finding themselves on their heads; when jumping to their feet they
                     ran after the mules as fast as they could, shouting at the top of their voices,
                     like the rest of us. It is not to be supposed that Tokina, the ass, was proof
                     against all this. At the very first intimation of a general stampede, he
                     dropped down on his head, and deposited Francesco, the boy, in a mud-hole, and
                     then springing up again, ran off toward Nazareth with his tail straight out,
                     his ears pointed forward, and his mouth wide open, braying in the most
                     hysterical and frightful manner. Thereupon Francesco likewise started off at
                     full speed, shouting madly for somebody to stop the ass; so that there was not
                     a single living object in the party, two-legged or four-legged, that was not
                     chasing something. It was a general chase all round, of the most exciting
                     character, for which it must be admitted some of us were altogether unprepared.
                     The mules evidently were not in a proper condition to undertake a rapid and
                     tortuous run of this kind; for the baggage being carelessly fastened to their
                     backs by means of various small cords, soon began to slip off on either side,
                     and to hang dangling underneath in a way that was not only inconvenient to the
                     mules themselves, but extremely perilous to our cooking utensils and stock of
                     provisions. One mule especially labored under an unusual combination of
                     disadvantages. Yusef had purchased several chickens in Nazareth, of which he
                     designed making a stew that evening, and in order to keep them fresh he had
                     tied their legs together and fastened them in a live state on the top of the
                     cooking utensils. The pans and kettles, sliding down on each side of the mule,
                     remained hanging by the handles underneath, and banged away there against each
                     other in the most terrific manner; and the chickens, having nothing to balance
                     them on top, slipped over behind, and hung between his hind-legs, where they
                     got up such a cackling and fluttering that the unfortunate animal, driven to
                     distraction by the noise and other causes, went perfectly insane with fright,
                     and ran all round in a circle for ten minutes, by which time every cord was
                     broken, and our entire stock of provisions and implements of domestic economy
                     deposited at intervals over nearly a hundred acres of ground. The other mules
                     had knapsacks, mattresses, bundles of clothes, and a variety of other articles
                     hanging over them and under them; but by dint of hard kicking, and an
                     occasional fit of rolling, they got rid of them at last, and went their way at
                     random. Meantime the horses branched off in different directions, and made the
                     most frantic efforts to overtake the game. The horse of the English Captain,
                     though equal in spirit to any in the party, seemed least likely to accomplish
                     the general object, on account of some peculiarity in the construction of one
                     of his fore-legs, the chief tendon of which had been growing shorter and
                     shorter every day from the time of leaving Beirut, and was now so short that he
                     was forced to do all his running on three legs. The animal upon which the tall
                     Southerner was mounted was a slender little iron-gray which also had a very
                     remarkable peculiarity. It was the misfortune of this horse to be possessed of
                     a body that tapered off toward the hind part without the slightest symptom of a
                     stomach. No matter how much corn or barley he ate of nights, or how tight the
                     saddle-girths were drawn in the morning, he was always so deficient in stomach,
                     that in two hours from the time of starting, the girths invariably reached his
                        hind-legs, and the saddle
                     occupied the space directly over his tail. It was in this condition that he was
                     compelled to make chase after the gazelles. The legs of the tall Southerner
                     were somewhat long for so small a horse, and having no natural support from the
                     saddle, on account of its position, he was forced to tie them in a hasty knot
                     underneath, by which means a constant spurring and goading was kept up, and an
                     irregularity of motion on the part of both horse and rider extremely curious
                     and picturesque at the distance of half a mile. Yusef's famous steed of the
                     desert, Syed Sulemin, was perhaps the only animal in the party that could be
                     said to keep the run of the gazelles, but he kept it at so great a distance
                     that they must have been entirely out of sight when the firing commenced. The
                     last I saw of Syed Sulemin and his master they were rapidly disappearing in a
                     cloud of smoke; and it was not until the chase was entirely over that I began
                     to entertain the most remote idea of ever beholding them again. While all this
                     was going on, it is not to be inferred, from the minuteness of the details into
                     which I have entered, that my horse Saladin stood still in order to afford me
                     an opportunity of noting down all these facts; for such was not the case; so
                     far from it, indeed, that he had been tied by the hind-legs with a thick rope
                     to a stake, and his fore-legs bound together with a strong chain, and his tail
                     fastened in some way to a heavy wagon, I am certain he would have carried them
                     all with him sooner than be left behind. What I saw was at a single glance, but
                     the whole thing was of an unusual and impressive nature, which enables me to
                     recall the details without difficulty. That Saladin was bound to be in chase of
                     something was a self-evident proposition. He was not an animal mentally or
                     physically calculated to stand still when there was any prevailing excitement.
                     In the present case, however, he made a mistake at the very beginning which was
                     the chief cause of all the misfortunes that befell the mules. These animals, as
                     ill luck would have it, were some two or three hundred yards ahead of us, a
                     little to the left of the path, when the stampede commenced. Saladin, entirely
                     indifferent as to what he was running after, provided he overtook took
                     something, started off briskly at the very first shout; and having but one eye,
                     which was the left eye, it happened that he caught sight of the mules just as
                     they became fired with ambition to join the chase. I have no doubt whatever
                     that he thought they were legitimate game, and that the grand object to be
                     achieved was to run them down and then run over them. Such small game as
                     gazelles probably never occupied the attention of so great a head as his. At
                     all events, no sooner did he catch sight of the scampering mules, than he
                     neighed as if ready to burst with impatience; and, tossing up his head and tail
                     simultaneously, dashed after them full speed. All his previous efforts in the
                     way of running seemed ridiculously tame, compared with the prodigious bounds
                     which he made on this occasion. Accustomed as I had in some measure become to
                     his fits of insanity, this so far surpassed any derangement under which he had
                     hitherto labored, that I was forced to let him have his way, and confine my
                     energies to keeping myself in the saddle. The mules, startled at the clatter of
                     the baggage about their legs, and panic-stricken at the thundering of hoofs
                     behind them, tried hard to head off; but Saladin kept his left eye on them and
                     never ceased to head off after them, till every one in the train was running
                     round in a circle at the utmost extremity of his speed. No equestrian corps in
                     a circus could have presented half so extraordinary a spectacle. It was utterly
                     in vain that the muleteers kept running round inside the ring, calling upon me
                     in the name of Allah to give over running their mules down in that way, and
                     swearing by every hair in the beard of the Prophet that if I kept it up much
                     longer the poor animals would drop dead on the spot; for Saladin, driven to the
                     very climax of enthusiasm by the noise of the tin pans and the screaming of the
                     chickens, rushed furiously after the mule upon which they were hung, and never
                     left off biting him until the unfortunate beast was entirely rid of his load
                     and crazed beyond all hope of recovery. By this time the rest of the party
                     began to gather in, and by their united assistance both Saladin and the mules
                     were stopped. In the course of half an hour we gathered up the scattered
                     remnants of our baggage and went our
                     way, greatly dejected in spirits. We never saw either the chickens or gazelles
                     again.
                  The unhappy issue of this adventure had a very depressing effect upon the whole
                     party. We had lost a good deal of time, as well as chickens and cooking
                     utensils; and, from all we could ascertain in regard to the prospect of getting
                     any thing to eat at Djenin, or any reliable means of cooking what we might get,
                     it was a very doubtful prospect indeed. There was every reason to apprehend
                     that we should be compelled to go to bed supperless; which was by no means a
                     pleasing view of the case, considering the exercise we had taken in our hunt
                     after the gazelles. In consequence of this state of feeling, there was very
                     little said on the subject by any body, except the muleteers, who, for as much
                     as half-an-hour, did nothing but beat the unfortunate mules, in the hope of
                     obtaining the satisfaction in that way which was properly due them by Saladin.
                     But, as well as I could catch the drift of their conversation, both from the
                     way in which they looked at me, and the violent manner in which they belabored
                     the poor animals when they saw that I was composed under the circumstances,
                     there was not the slightest doubt, on my part, that their resentment was
                     directed against myself, as the chief cause of all the trouble, rather than
                     against either Saladin or the mules; and that being denied the privilege of
                     relieving their minds upon a Howadji, they relieved them upon their own
                     personal property.
                  As for Saladin, I regret to say, that he did not evince such a spirit of
                     resignation as I expected from a horse of his greatness of character,
                     especially from a descendant of the renowned Ashrik. From the moment of being
                     stopped in his attempt to get a piece out of the mule, which he had driven mad,
                     he fretted and chafed in an unusual manner, as if under the influence of some
                     fierce and insatiate passion for flesh, which could only be appeased by a large
                     mouthful out of some animal in the party.
                  The English Captain was the first to break the silence by any direct reference
                     to the affair of the gazelles. He said that it was the most stunning
                     circumstance within his knowledge how it was that he had missed overtaking the
                     largest of the gazelles, which was the one he had in his eye all along. He had
                     kept that gazelle in his eye from the very beginning, and was gaining on it
                     rapidly, when it suddenly disappeared; it must have perceived that it was quite
                     useless to run away from him any longer, and hastily concealed itself in a hole
                     till he passed by. The tall Southerner was of opinion that the whole difficulty
                     was owing to the want of stomach in his irongray; which was the cause of the
                     saddle slipping back, so as to prevent him from taking good aim. He thought
                     that had the saddle remained in its proper place, he could have steadied
                     himself by the stirrups; instead of which, it required most of his attention to
                     keep his legs tied together underneath. However, he believed that he had
                     wounded one of the gazelles very severely, for he saw it leap more than thirty
                     feet when he fired.
                  Yusef, during this conversation, lost much of his dejected expression of
                     countenance; and when the tall Southerner spoke of having wounded a gazelle, he
                     was no longer able to suppress his enthusiasm. He declared, in the most
                     emphatic manner, that he had wounded two, one of which he had no doubt dropped
                     dead in five minutes after, for he had broken one of its hind-legs, and
                     crippled both the fore-legs, in such a manner that it was utterly impossible
                     for it to run more than a quarter of a mile farther. The other was not so badly
                     wounded, having only lost its eyes by a slug (he knew that the eyes were
                     destroyed by the way it ran); and there was some probability of its living, but
                     it could never see where it was going. He would have gone after the dead one,
                     and, in fact, did go some distance after it, but—
                  Here Yusef stopped. Had he been struck with lightning he could not have stopped
                     more suddenly, or more unaccountably to himself. It was well for him that he
                     was not thrown headlong over his horse. The cause of the interruption was this:
                     being a little too far behind to hear distinctly all he said, I had
                     thoughtlessly ridden up rather near; and precisely at the most interesting
                     point (for I felt exceedingly curious to know why the dead gazelle was left
                     running about with one broken leg
                     and two crippled legs), the very point that most required explanation, my horse
                     Saladin, still chafing under his recent disappointment, seized that moment to
                     obtain satisfaction; and the way he obtained it was, by seizing in his teeth
                     that portion of Yusef's horse which was nearest to him.
                  Now I have never said that Syed Sulemin was a cowardly horse: I do not say so
                     now; his spirit was beyond question. But there are times when the bravest of
                     horses, as well as the bravest of mankind, are apt to betray a natural weakness
                     incident to the flesh. So sudden and so exquisite was the torture inflicted
                     upon Sulemin by this unprovoked attack, that he not only yelled in the excess
                     of his anguish, but jumped at least two feet from the ground. Nor did he cease
                     his convulsive throes when he lit upon the ground again; but continued to rear
                     and plunge in such a frightful manner that it was quite evident the pain had
                     driven him mad. Every horse in the party, either from astonishment at this
                     unexpected turn of affairs, or fear of consequences, began to rear and plunge
                     at the same moment. The result was, that the horse of the English captain,
                     having only the perfect use of three legs, was unable to plunge sufficiently
                     far out of the way; and Syed Sulemin in the fury of his wrath, upon
                     discovering, as he thought, the author of the insult, gave that unfortunate
                     animal a kick that sent him staggering into the midst of the other horses,
                     where he was kicked again by the iron-gray, and afterward bitten by Saladin. It
                     was with the utmost difficulty that we were enabled to restore order among the
                     contending parties.
                  When order was at length restored, we resumed our journey; but such was the
                     jealousy and ill-feeling, not only between the horses, but between the riders,
                     each of us protesting that it was the fault of the others, that a general gloom
                     prevailed in the end, and we rode on for several hours in silence. What
                     conclusion my companions came to, I am unable to say: for my own part I was
                     determined never again to join in a gazelle-hunt to the latest hour of my
                     existence.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLII.
                  DJENIN.
                  THE great plain of Esdraelon is one of the finest tracts of country in the
                     East. In its general aspect it reminded me of some of the vast plains in
                     California, after the summer heats have withered up the grass. Some portions of
                     the land seem to be rich and arable. We saw a few fields covered with stalks of
                     Indian corn, from which we inferred that this grain might be produced here in
                     large quantities by proper cultivation. No part of Palestine that we had yet
                     seen appeared so well calculated to sustain a large population. Railroads might
                     be run through it at a very trifling cost, and an easy communication opened
                     with the seaboard. In some places I noticed wild cotton, which naturally
                     suggested thoughts of cotton mills. Tunnels might be cut through the mountains
                     to Jerusalem, and a profitable trade thus opened with the inhabitants of Judea;
                     and by removing the sands from the Desert the line of communication might be
                     carried to Cairo, Suez, the East Indies, China, and California. The hot-baths
                     of Galilee would be a pleasant place of retreat in the summer; and good hotels
                     would soon spring up throughout the country as the blessings of civilization
                     progressed. I sounded the inhabitants on the subject of annexation, but they
                     did not seem disposed to discuss the question; in fact the only answer they
                     gave me was, backshish! There seemed to be no
                     hope at all of reclaiming the poor creatures.
                  Passed during the afternoon the villages of Yafa and El Mazraah, mere
                     gatherings of hovels like bee-hives, situated on mounds or elevations,
                     resembling islands in the plain; also, El Fuleh, a pretty looking village,
                     picturesquely situated in a sort of oasis on the left. Stopped to refresh
                     ourselves at Mukeberteh, a filthy
                     and miserable village, inhabited by the most ragged and scowling set of
                     vagabands we had yet seen. Saw in the distance beyond Little Hermon, the ruined
                     castle of Bizan. It stands upon an elevation in the valley of Jezreel, which is
                     a part of the great plain of Esdraelon. This is celebrated in scriptural
                     history as the spot where Saul's body was hanged by the Philistines, after his
                     defeat and death. Saw Mount Carmel on the left; also Gilboa, noted in
                     scriptural history as the place where the battle took place in which the
                     Israelites were defeated and Saul slain. This spot is also famous as the scene
                     of a sanguinary battle between Saladin and the Crusaders.
                  Late in the afternoon, after a ride of six hours from Nazareth, we arrived at
                     Djenin, the ancient Ginea, a town of considerable size, handsomely situated at
                     the base of a range of mountains on the south side of the plain.
                  We found it somewhat difficult to obtain lodgings here, in consequence of the
                     hostile feeling of the inhabitants toward Christian travelers. Djenin is one of
                     those places occasionally found in Palestine where this religious intolerance
                     has been in full force for centuries, and still remains unchanged,
                     notwithstanding the progress of a more liberal and enlightened state of feeling
                     throughout Syria and the East. A few days before our arrival two English
                     travelers, who had encamped outside the town in their tent, were beset during
                     the night by a heavy storm, which blew down their tent. It was so dark and
                     cold, and the rain poured down so heavily, that they were obliged to give up
                     all hope of erecting it again, and they proceeded to the town with their
                     dragoman, to try and find shelter till morning. For some time they walked about
                     through the dark and filthy streets, applying for lodgings at every door, but
                     as soon as it was found that they were Franks they were driven away with
                     abusive and insulting language, and sometimes threatened with violence if they
                     did not at once get away out of the town. Wet and cold as it was, they were
                     forced to return to their wreck of a tent, pack up their baggage as well as
                     they could in the dark, and proceed on their journey in the midst of the
                     storm.
                  Our own experience in Djenin was not quite so bad as this, though bad enough.
                     Upon entering the town we rode up to a fountain, where we waited nearly an
                     hour, while our dragoman went in search of some lodging-place. He had a niece
                     here whose husband was a Christian; but he feared they were not at home, having
                     heard that they were on a visit to Jerusalem. While we were waiting at the
                     fountain, a great many ragged children and women came to get water and stare at
                     us; and before long, a number of cadaverous and thievish-looking men began to
                     gather around us, smoking their pipes, and remarking upon all our peculiarities
                     of costume and manners. It was a great comfort to think that we had near us the
                     means of striking terror into the hearts of these lazy vagabonds, in case they
                     should undertake to treat us with any sort of disrespect. In all truthfulness,
                     they were the most squalid, miserable, scowling set of villains it was ever my
                     fortune to behold; ragged to the very extremity of raggedness; dirty to the
                     foundation of dirtiness; smoked and smoky to the essence of smokiness; and
                     beastly in all respects to the lowest pitch of beastliness.
                  Yusef returned in due time, bringing tidings that his niece had really gone to
                     Jerusalem; but that he had, after great difficulty, obtained lodgings for us at
                     the house of a Christian Arab from Nazareth.
                  Djenin afforded us a fair example of the extent to which mental and physical
                     persecution may be carried without absolutely producing insanity. Expecting
                     every moment to be robbed by the natives, who are the worst in all Palestine,
                     we lay in the hut of a Christian Arab, where we were literally in danger of
                     being devoured by asses, cows, goats, and smaller animals, such as cats, dogs,
                     rats, and lizards, as well as by the vermin, which completely obliterated all
                     my remembrances of South America and California. Never before had I been
                     conquered by annoyances of this kind; I had always slept through them, and
                     laughed at my companions next morning for being troubled about such trifles.
                     But, O Lamartine! Lamartine! if thou hast tears to shed—and I know thou hast
                     yet a few more left—in the name of humanity, shed them now! It was pitiable to behold us; it was more
                     than pitiable—actually heart-rending. To this day I can not think of that
                     miserable little town and the night we spent there without an itching to get
                     farther away from it. In the middle of the night, after tossing, rolling, and
                     groaning, without even so much as a wink of sleep—for the fleas actually
                     covered me as a live coating of black mail—I started up and looked around in
                     search of sympathy. The tall Southerner was sitting up on the mud floor, his
                     hair disheveled, his eyes wild and and haggard, and his face dreadfully scarred
                     and emaciated; he was in the act of aiming a blow, with an empty bottle, at the
                     head of some hungry animal that had been trying to eat him. The English
                     Captain, jolly as ever, was scratching himself with one hand, while with the
                     other he held a pipe, which he smoked with great calmness and good-humor.
                  "Hallo!" said I, "what's the matter, Captain?"
                  "The fleas," said the Captain; "they're quite stunning, I assure you. Never saw
                     so many in all my life."
                  "Why don't you catch 'em?"
                  "Too strong for me; can't hold 'em. 'Pon my honor, they won't let me sleep a
                     wink. Awfully ferocious animals; stunning, quite stunning, I assure you. Sir, I
                     don't think any thing short of hot brandy-punch will cure them."
                  The proposition was so gratifying that we all immediately agreed to it.
                     Francesco and Yusef were aroused, and commanded to produce fire and water in
                     ten minutes, on the pain of our displeasure. Very soon we felt quite happy, in
                     spite of the vermin—happier, a good deal, than we did next morning.
                  I have looked in vain for a scientific description of the Syrian flea. Surely
                     it deserves a place in natural history: and, although unskilled in entomology,
                     I shall here notice briefly this extraordinary animal. The Pulce granda, or Syrian flea, is of a lively
                     disposition and irregular in his habits, given to late hours and disturbances
                     of the peace. He sleeps occasionally during the day, but is always wide awake
                     at night, when his vivacity is very remarkable. Human blood is his food; he
                     prefers Christians to Arabs as an article of diet; has great vigor of muscle
                     and capacity for digestion; carries in his mouth a long harpoon, which he
                     throws with great skill; uses likewise a boarding-knife and patent
                     forcing-pump. He never dies naturally, but is subject to diseases of the brain,
                     from too great a flow of blood to the head. Wounds produced by this ferocious
                     animal are unpleasant, but not fatal. Constant depletion, however, may destoy
                     life; hence, by repeated attacks, a man may be altogether dried up; in which
                     case he becomes a dry subject. One should always, when he feels the harpoon
                     thrown into him, seize hold of the flea by the hind-legs, tear him out by main
                     force, and deposit him secretly upon his neighbor. I always did so, as nearly
                     as practicable, upon the English Captain or the Southerner. Sometimes I dropped
                     him into their ears, so that they might have odd dreams to tell when they waked
                     up.
                  We had fleas all through Syria; we were flayed by fleas from Beirut to
                     Jerusalem. They are the living embodiment of the nights in Palestine, which are
                     now the nearest approximation to the knights of Jerusalem.
                  In the morning, after a hurried breakfast, I went to take another look at the
                     town. The weather was wet and gloomy, and nothing could exceed the comfortless
                     and melancholy aspect of the whole place: the narrow streets, half-filled with
                     ruins and piles of filth; dead carcasses sopping in green pools of mud; the
                     dark alleys reeking with a sickening stench; the walls of the houses blackened
                     with smoke, and tottering to ruin; a few half-naked wretches, scarce bearing
                     the semblance of human creatures, wallowing about the doorways amid the foul
                     abominations; stagnation, decay, ruin every where—the earth polluted, the air
                     accursed, the very dogs sneaking into darkness, as if to hide their
                     degradation.
                  We were glad enough to take our leave of so unpleasant and inhospitable a
                     place. It rained hard all the forenoon, and our ride was uncommonly dreary.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XLIII.
                  ADVENTURE WITH THE SAMARITANS.
                  WITHIN three miles of Djenin we passed the spot where the attack was made by
                     the Arabs upon Mr. Alwynn. It was a lonesone and desolate valley, between two
                     ranges of barren mountains, and seemed a fit abode for banditti. Keeping a
                     sharp look out, however, on both sides, and occasionally behind, we were
                     determined to seize at once upon any bad characters whom we might discover
                     prowling about, and hang them up to the first tree on the roadside; but they
                     must have suspected from our general appearance and the efficient manner in
                     which we were guarded, that we were people not to be trifled with, for we saw
                     nothing of them.
                  In about two hours we reached Kubatayeh, a village inhabited chiefly by a
                     population of Turks. Soon after, we came to a mountain pass, from which we had
                     a fine view of the rich plain below. The village of Sanean on the opposite side
                     is prettily situated on an eminence, and is surrounded by ruinous walls and the
                     remains of an old castle, which any person who has the time to spare may find
                     worth looking at. On the left, two hours farther on, is the village of Jeba, a
                     picturesque collection of ruins embosomed in olive groves. This part of the
                     country abounds in groves of fig-trees and olives, and we saw a number of Arabs
                     plowing in the fields, very much as the fields must have been plowed three
                     thousand years ago. What would a farmer think at home, in this the nineteenth
                     century, to see the ground rooted up with a forked branch of a tree, with a
                     pair of oxen fastened to it by a string?
                  At Jeba, we diverged from the main road, sending on our mules to Nablous, and
                     took a by-road to Sebustia. From the summit of a mountain not far from Jeba we
                     had a fine prospect of the valleys on both sides, with their flowing streams
                     bordered with green shrubbery. The mountains were terraced in every direction,
                     and fig-orchards and vineyards flourished luxuriantly on all the arable
                     grounds. In the distance gleamed the bright waters of the Mediterranean—the
                     most welcome sight we had enjoyed from the time of leaving the cedars of
                     Lebanon. It is wonderful how the heart is gladdened by a glimpse of a familiar
                     object, after one has been shut in for some time among strange scenes. I really
                     felt as if I could hug old ocean, when I beheld his honest face shining in the
                     sunbeams.
                  On our descent from the ridge, we passed through Burka, where we were stared at
                     by the inhabitants with vacant wonder; and some distance below we crossed a
                     deep valley and ascended on the other side a mound-like hill, upon which was
                     situated in ancient times Samaria, the capital of the Israelites. Nothing now
                     is left of the ancient city but broken columns and cornices, scattered
                     throughout the fields on the hill-sides, some of which are partially imbedded
                     in the ground; and a double row of columns, said to have formed a portion of a
                     temple built by Tiberius. The whole site of Samaria, covering several hundred
                     acres of ground, now rudely cultivated, is strewn with these relics of the
                     ancient city. One of the most picturesque objects to be seen there, is a ruined
                     mosque, built perhaps during the time of the Saracens. The view in every
                     direction is very fine; and the position of the old city must have been one of
                     the most charming in Syria for salubrity, convenience, and scenic effect. Of
                     the present town of Sebustia, little need be said. A description of one Syrian
                     village, answers with little variation for all the rest; low square huts, with
                     flat tops; a lazy, beggarly population of picturesque Arabs, are the principal
                     features in all these villages. The inhabitants of Sebustia seemed to be still
                     more rude and debased than any we had yet seen in our wanderings, probably from
                     being farther removed from the ordinary traveled route. Some had a brutish and
                     idiotic appearance.
                  
                  We sat down by the ruins of the old mosque, and spread our table-cloth and
                     provisions on a stone, and while we ate our lunch, the natives began to gather
                     round us in large numbers, and stare at us with undisguised astonishment. Yusef
                     was very much disgusted with their rudeness, and gave vent to his displeasure
                     in English, which struck us as somewhat remarkable, inasmuch as it was not to
                     be supposed that these poor wretches were learned in that tongue. The number
                     increasing, we began to think they meditated a descent upon our chicken, and I
                     assumed the responsibility of telling Yusef that he had better drive them away.
                     He looked embarrassed and distressed (doubtless he felt humiliated by their
                     want of manners), but mustering up his usual spirit, he addressed them in
                     Arabic, and they all talked together with great violence for some time. At last
                     I saw that the Arabs were getting very forward and excited, and our dragoman
                     very pale. I knew that Yusef was going to be furious, and that the next thing
                     would be a general fight, which, considering the odds against us, I was rather
                     anxious to avoid. With this view, I told him to let them alone, and by no means
                     to attack them. At the same time, in order to appease their ferocity, I threw
                     them the bones of a chicken which I was picking and some crusts of brown bread,
                     which I told them in good English was the best I could do for them, as I was
                     very hungry, and had eaten most of the provisions. Instead of being thankful
                     for small favors, they became perfectly incensed at this, and asked Yusef, as
                     he declared himself, if I meant to say that they were dogs. I have reason to
                     suspect that he denied the charge most emphatically; for after a great deal of
                     exciting talk, he picked up the chicken-bones and the bread, and in their
                     presence, devoured both the one and the other with amazing avidity. No sooner
                     had he done this (and I was certain it was not from hunger), than his jaws
                     began to chatter, and he said: "Gentlemen, we had better go on. It will take us
                     till night to reach Nablous;" and at the same time he pulled out his purse and
                     distributed a large amount of backshish among
                     the crowd; caught up the remnants of our lunch and thrust them into a bag,
                     which he cast over his saddle, then mounted Syed Sulemin, dashed spurs into the
                     sides of that noble animal, and led the way down the hill with uncommon
                     celerity. My friends and myself mounted as fast as we could; for to tell the
                     truth we did not altogether like the appearance of these modern Samaritans, and
                     we departed in the rear of Yusef, with a very ticklish sensation about the
                     backs, as if it would be unpleasant to be peppered with slugs out of the long
                     guns, with which some of the Arabs were armed. It took us at least half an hour
                     to catch up with him; and he then told us that we had made a most fortunate
                     escape; that the rascally beggars at Sebustia had threatened to insult us, and
                     that he (Yusef) had told them that if they did so he would not only cut their
                     throats from ear to ear, but raze their village to the ground; in which event
                     we might possibly find ourselves in difficulty with the Turkish Government upon
                     our arrival in Jerusalem. This was the reason that he had compromised the
                     matter—had he been alone he would never have rested content without their
                     blood, but taking our interests into consideration, he had refrained from
                     making an attack, and had ridden away hastily lest he should be provoked into
                     it by their demonstrations of hostility. We were very glad that the adventure
                     had turned out so well, and saw at once how prudently our dragoman had
                     acted.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XLIV.
                  NABLOUS.
                  WE had a very pleasant ride of two hours through the valley of Nablous. It was
                     one of the richest and most luxuriant valleys we had seen in all Palestine,
                     abounding in fine groves of olives, fig-trees, and thriving vineyards and
                     gardens; the grounds were fenced in with good stone walls, and we passed
                     several mills, situated on the bank of a stream, which courses down through the
                     middle of the valley. In the spring it must be a perfect little Paradise.
                     Travelers who have passed through it at that season, dwell with delight upon
                     the beauty of its gardens, and the abundance of rich flowers that bloom on the
                     roadside.
                  It was near sundown when we entered the old stone gateway of Nablous. Passing
                     through a labyrinth of narrow, illpaved and filthy streets, we found
                     comfortable lodgings at the house of one Asam, a Protestant Christian. Learning
                     that Dr. Mendoza and the Madam had arrived on the previous day, I lost no time
                     in finding them out. They had procured tolerably good quarters not far from the
                     house of Asam; and when I was ushered up the stone stairway, I had the pleasure
                     of beholding them in all their glory, seated at a table, and glowing radiantly
                     in the fumes of coffee and omelette. The Doctor's head was buried in a red
                     night-cap; his face was of the purest olive color, and he bore evidence of
                     having suffered the most intense physical privations. The Madam wore a large
                     hat, about as broad in the brim as an umbrella, in order to preserve her
                     complexion, which was already rather dark; and I saw with distress that her
                     amiable features were dreadfully lacerated by the attacks of vermin. However,
                     she smiled as sweetly as ever, and met me with her accustomed politeness and
                     cordiality; and the doctor, although rather depressed in mind, became eloquent
                     very soon on the subject of the accommodations of Palestine.
                  "'Tis a 'orrible country," said he; "I no want to voyage here again. De ruin
                     are interess, but the hotel not good. Very bad hotel. I shall be content to
                     arrive in Jerusalem. De Madam are a little indispose; but he shall be better
                     when he arrive in Jerusalem. Sit down; take some coffee. Mon Dieu! very bad
                     country dis. To-morrow we shall depart on our voyage. 'Tis imposs to remain
                     longer in Nablous."
                  We had some further conversation as we sipped our coffee, relative to the
                     inconveniences and discomforts of Syrian travel; and it was a great source of
                     pleasure to both parties to find that we had all endured the most intense
                     physical tortures from the time of our departure from Damascus.
                  It rained hard all night. In the morning, it cleared away, and we went out to
                     explore the town. Nablous, called in Scriptural times Sychar, is a town of
                     considerable importance, with a population of about eight thousand—chiefly
                     Jews, Christians, and Turks. There are some good stone buildings in the
                     principal streets; and it has some pretensions to bazaars. It is well supplied
                     with fruits and vegetables from the neighboring gardens, and oranges are
                     brought up in large quantities from Jaffa. The streets are rendered rather more
                     convenient for walking than those of most towns we had seen, by means of a deep
                     pathway cut in the centre for camels and mules.
                  On the left, as we faced toward the Jerusalem road, is Mt. Ebal; on the right,
                     Gezeroum, on which is situated the synagogue of Samaria. Ebal is barren and
                     rocky; Gezeroum, also rocky, but cultivated to some extent. We visited the
                     Samarians, a sect claiming to have no relationship with any living tribe, and
                     whose family records, it is said, extend back more than three thousand years.
                     They are much like the rest of the population of Nablous, in physiognomy and
                     dress; the number now living is about a hundred and fifty.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XLV.
                  A STRIKING SCENE.
                  ON leaving Nablous we visited Jacob's well, where Christ gave the waters of
                     life to the Samaritan woman. The situation of the well accords with scriptural
                     history, and there is very little doubt as to its great antiquity. It is dug in
                     the solid rock. A large stone covers the mouth; and this is all that now marks
                     the spot.
                  We also visited the reputed site of Joseph's tomb. A rude stone building covers
                     the pretended sepulchre; but the best authorities deny that there is any
                     evidence that Joseph was buried here.
                  The road, as we struck off to the right toward Jerusalem, passes over a
                     mountainous and unpromising country. Some fertile valleys are seen at distant
                     intervals; but for the most part the face of the country is barren and rocky.
                     Leaving Kubelan to the left, we stopped to rest at the picturesque ruins of a
                     Khan, in sight of El Lubban, in the valley of Lubban. This valley is cultivated
                     and fertile; and we saw in it many thriving groves of olives. Ascending a
                     precipitous mountain beyond the Khan of Lubban, we had a fine view from the
                     summit, of the strange old village of Singil, which for scenic effect can
                     scarcely be surpassed in Palestine. In about an hour we reached the stair-like
                     road of stones leading up into it. Singil is a curiosity. Situated on a pyramid
                     of rocks, it bears the appearance at a short distance of one mass of ruins; and
                     indeed it is little better upon a nearer approach. The entire village is in the
                     last stage of decay. As we climbed up the barren and rugged road, and entered
                     the mass of ruined walls, we were struck with wonder at the wretched appearance
                     of the hovels on either side. Some of them are built of mud and straw, in the
                     shape of bee-hives, scarcely ten feet in diameter, and only five or six in
                     height. In these miserable dens of filth whole families of men, women, and
                     children were living like so many pigs, and quite as dirty.
                  We found rather good quarters in the ruins of an old Khan, among goats,
                     chickens, and smaller nuisances; all of which we endured with great resignation
                     after our experience in Djenin.
                  At an early hour in the morning we took our leave of Singil, and from the top
                     of the mountain saw the sun rise in his most inspiring style, gilding the
                     mountain peaks in the vast circle around with all the radiant glory of his
                     rays. Stopping awhile at Ain-el-Haramayeh, we enjoyed a sight less grand, but
                     scarcely less striking. It was washing-day with the women of the village. About
                     three-score of leathern-faced and skinny old hags were standing up to their
                     knees in water at the foot of the fountain, scolding one another, or more
                     probably (as I took it) abusing their husbands; and pounding their husband's
                     breeches with great clubs, as if nothing would please them better than to be
                     pounding legs in them at the same time. I saw one ferocious old hag take up a
                     ragged shirt, wring it maliciously by the neck, then place it on a flat stone,
                     and mash it into a shapeless mass by the desperate and malignant blows that she
                     gave it with her club. I was really very glad that her husband was not inside
                     of that shirt, while she was wringing and pounding it; for I should have felt
                     called upon to expostulate with her, and there is no telling how such
                     interference from a stranger would have been received by the excited bevy of
                     furies who were flourishing their clubs all around. The probability is that I
                     should have been compelled in the end to seek protection behind Yusef; who by
                     this time, however, was a long way off, because, as he afterward admitted, he
                     always kept clear of women on wash-day. He disliked the female sex every day in
                     the year; he disliked them on wash-day more than ever; because it always
                     brought to mind a favorite sash that
                     he wore, which he gave to one of his nieces to wash some time ago, telling her
                     at the same time to be careful how she rubbed it, as it was of very rare and
                     delicate texture, and he never would wear any thing with holes in it. Now this
                     niece, being of a malicious turn, like all womankind, took the sash to a
                     neighboring fountain, and belabored it with a club till she pounded a small
                     hole in one end of it; and then she brought it to him, with tears in her eyes,
                     and said: "I am very sorry, Uncle Yusef, but I've spoiled your sash. If you'll
                     forgive me this time, I'll never do it again. You see what a great hole there
                     is in it!" "Yes," said Yusef, "I see there is; a pretty business you've made of
                     it. You may take it now and wear it on your head as a token of my displeasure;
                     when I have any more sashes to wash I'll wash them myself." And so he did, to
                     the best of my belief; for, during the whole journey, I never saw him give a
                     sash to one of his nieces to wash, though I sometimes detected him giving them
                     handkerchiefs and other nice little presents that were perfectly new.
                  On leaving Ain-el-Haramayeh, we passed through some fine valleys, abounding on
                     both sides of the road with luxuriant groves of fig-trees. The inhabitants of
                     this part of the country seemed to be more industrious and thriving than those
                     living between Nazareth and Nablous. Some very good pieces of ground, fenced in
                     with rough walls of stone, were frequently to be seen on the sides of the
                     hills; and it was pleasant to hear the songs of the native laborers who were
                     engaged in sowing the grain for the crops of the coming season.
                  Passing to the right of a dirty village called Jibia, we stopped awhile at
                     Sinea and Infua, and thence continued on to Bireh, rather a larger and better
                     looking village than we had seen since leaving Nablous. A short distance below
                     Bireh is an old Khan, with a fountain near it, where we dismounted to refresh
                     ourselves, and had the satisfaction of being abused for half an hour by a crowd
                     of washerwomen, still more ferocious and alarming in their appearance than
                     those of Haramayeh.
                  Beyond Bireh, toward Jerusalem, we entered a rocky plain entirely destitute of
                     wood. This, with little change, continued till we began to ascend the mountains
                     overlooking the sacred city. Several caravans of camels, laden with merchandise
                     for the interior towns, obstructed the narrow passes in the rocks, and
                     sometimes obliged us to turn back in order to avoid being walked over. It was
                     very Oriental, this sort of thing, but not pleasant. I had a great notion to
                     put some of those camels to death—especially one that walked both Saladin and
                     myself off the road, and sent us rolling down a steep hill, in such a dangerous
                     way that it was a miracle our necks were not broken.
                  The camel is an oddity in his way. He looks very well in a picture or on a
                     desert standing under a palm-tree; he looks well at a distance with a family of
                     Bedouins on his back; he looks well lying down by the ruins of an old mosque;
                     in an artistical point of view, he looks well almost any where; yet when you
                     come to analyze his character, and consider all the fine descriptions that
                     poetical writers have given of his patience, his gentleness, his powers of
                     endurance, his admirable physical construction, and all that, I am rather
                     disposed to regard him in the light of a humbug; and I take the more
                     satisfaction in expressing this opinion because it has a healing influence upon
                     the bruises that I received when Saladin and myself were rolled down the hill.
                     As to his gentleness, he is gentle from pure laziness. He can be vicious enough
                     at times. Let any body who would test the mild spirit of the camel, place his
                     fingers between the teeth of that gentle animal, at certain periods, when he
                     has been fretted, and there will soon be no further room for doubt on the
                     subject. The camel is gentle, when he is not savage; patient, when he is not
                     impatient; affectionate, when he wants something to eat; docile, when he is
                     taught to understand that the absence of docility is usually filled with a
                     stick. As to his physical strength and powers of endurance: Can he jump as far
                     as a flea? can he carry as heavy a load on his back; can he endure half the
                     amount of heat or cold? I mean in proportion to his size. Let any body who
                     admires the beauty of the camel
                     stand behind one and see him go down a hill; cast a look at his feet and legs;
                     and ask himself, Is that beautiful? is that picturesque? is that graceful? and
                     he will see how ridiculous the idea is, and what an awkward, ungainly, absurd
                     animal the camel is. I hold that Tokina, the Prince of Asses, has more beauty
                     in his person and more sense in that long head of his, than all the camels in
                     Syria. I am perfectly satisfied with my experience in camels. Once, during a
                     sojourn in Zanzibar, I mounted a camel, and was thrown over his head before I
                     had traveled ten paces. On another occasion, as I was walking by the sea-shore
                     one morning, three frisky old camels, by way of a frolic, ran after me. I was
                     rather brisk at running—especially when three large animals with whose habits I
                     was not familiar were after me—and I gave them a very fair race of it for as
                     much as a mile, and probably might have made them run a mile or two more, had I
                     not run into some quick-sand. The camels ran all round the quick-sand twice or
                     three times, and then went away about their business, which was more than I
                     did, for I was up to my arm-pits in the sand by that time; and I remained there
                     perfectly satisfied that I was gaining on them up to that period, and that I
                     would eventually have beaten them had I retained the free use of my legs. I was
                     not satisfied; however, with the way I was going then, so I shouted to some
                     Arabs who chanced to be near, and they pulled me out. Ever since that period I
                     have been prejudiced against camels, nor has that prejudice been removed by my
                     experience in Syria. I would recommend all camels in future to keep clear of
                     any body that looks like a General in the Bobtail Militia.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLVI.
                  JERUSALEM.
                  FROM a mountain-pass above the plain beyond Bireh, we rode out on a wide waste
                     of whitish rocks, and beheld in the distance a walled city, dim in the shades
                     of the coming night.
                  
                     
                        VIEW OF JERUSALEM FROM THE GROTTO OF JEREMIAH.
                     
                  
                  "How doth the city sit solitary, that was full of people! how is she become a
                     widow! she that was great among nations, and princess among the provinces, how
                     is she become tributary!
                  "She weepeth sore in the night and her tears are on her cheeks; among all her
                     lovers she hath none to comfort her:
                     all her friends have dealt treacherously with her, they are become her
                     enemies."
                  The resident population of Jerusalem is about seventeen thousand; consisting
                     chiefly of Turks, Armenians, Arabs, Greeks, Italians, and Jews of all nations.
                     It is estimated that the average number of pilgrims who visit the Holy City
                     every year is about fifteen thousand. On particular occasions the influx of
                     strangers is of course much greater. Sometimes, when the accommodations of the
                     city are insufficient for so many pilgrims, encampments are formed outside the
                     walls; and many find shelter in the Convents of Bethlehem and St. Saba. The
                     uncertain tenure upon which each sect holds its right of worship in Jerusalem;
                     the mingled severity and laxity of the Turkish laws; the fanatical zeal with
                     which all the sects are inspired, and the bigoted hatred that exists between
                     them, give rise to perpetual hostility of feeling, and often to sanguinary
                     feuds. It is deplorable and melancholy to see how profaned are the precepts of
                     Him who preached peace and good-will toward all men in this very spot; whose
                     voice still lingers upon Zion and the Mount of Olives; to witness in their
                     worst form envy, hatred, and malice practiced in His name, and the outward
                     worship of God where sin and wickedness reign triumphant. Perhaps upon the
                     whole face of the globe there could not be found a spot less holy than modern
                     Jerusalem. All the fierce bad passions that drive men to crime are let loose
                     here in the struggle for immortality; all the better traits of human nature are
                     buried in fanaticism; all the teachings of wisdom and humanity are violated in
                     a brutish battle for spiritual supremacy.
                  In the Holy Sepulchre the hatred between the sects is fierce and undying. The
                     Greeks and Roman Catholics, the Copts, Armenians, and Maronites, have each a
                     share in it, which they hold by sufferance of the Turkish Government; but this
                     union of proprietorship, instead of producing a corresponding unity of feeling,
                     occasions bitter and constant hostility. The Greeks and Romans, who are the two
                     largest sects, and in some sort rivals, hate each other with a ferocity
                     unparalleled in the annals of religious intolerance. The less influential sects
                     hate the others because of their power and repeated aggressions; the so-called
                     Frank Catholics hate the Copts and Armenians, whom they regard as mere
                     interlopers, without any right to enjoy the Christian mode of worship; all hate
                     each other for some real or imaginary cause, and each indulges in the
                     self-glorification of believing itself to be the only sect that can find favor
                     in the eyes of the Creator. Such is the bitterness of this sectional hostility
                     that for many years past it has been impossible to keep the building in a state
                     of repair. The roof is dilapidated, and the rain pours in through the windows;
                     yet so it remains. The Latins will not permit the Greeks to undertake the
                     necessary repairs, lest the mere act should give an implied ascendency of
                     power; the Greeks refuse to give the Latins permission for the same reason; the
                     Copts and Armenians are too feeble to contend with the more powerful sects; and
                     the more powerful sects refuse to grant them any liberty which they do not
                     already hold in despite of them through the Turkish Government. During the
                     ceremony of the Holy Fire, which takes place once a year, the scenes of
                     ferocity and violence that occur are indescribable. Religious insanity, and all
                     the horrors of blood-thirsty fanaticism, destroy many of the devotees. Crimes
                     of the darkest character are committed with impunity. Half-naked men and
                     frantic women struggle madly through the crowd with live coals of fire pressed
                     to their breasts; bodies of the stabbed and maimed are dragged out dead; the
                     chanting of priests, the howling of the burnt, the groaning of the crushed,
                     fill the thick and suffocating air; and from the swaying mass arise dying
                     shrieks of Immanuel! Immanuel! Glory to God! Sickened with the disgusting and
                     humiliating spectacle, the beholder turns away with the startling words of
                     Ferdinand upon his lips— 
                        Hell is empty and all the devils are here.
                     
                  
                  We were not long installed in our quarters at Signor Stephano's hotel, when we
                     were beset by dealers in all sorts of relics; crosses of pearl and olive-wood,
                     fruit-beads from Mecca, ear-rings of asphaltum from the Dead Sea, polished
                     flint and petrified olives from the Mount of Olives and the Garden of Gethsemane, and small trinkets,
                     manufactured of lead, from the Convent of St. Seba. These relics, which are
                     purchased in great quantities by the pilgrims, form an important source of
                     revenue to the convents of Jerusalem. A considerable portion of the population
                     also obtain a living by making and vending them. The most skillful carvers of
                     pearl are said to be the inhabitants of Bethlehem. Some very beautiful
                     specimens are carried about by the Jewish peddlers who frequent the Frank
                     quarters. The pearl is imported on the backs of camels from Cairo and the
                     Isthmus of Suez. In general, the designs are taken from the pictures in the
                     various convents, and, considering the rude instruments used in executing them,
                     and the prevailing ignorance of the principles of art, they are wonderfully
                     well done. I saw many that gave me a high opinion of the natural ingenuity of
                     the Arabs. Olive-beads and the fruit-beads of Mecca and Bethlehem are hung up
                     for sale in all the bazaars. A few piasters will purchase quite a collection.
                     Enough of walking-sticks, paper-cutters, and snuff-boxes, purporting to be cut
                     from the ancient olive-trees in the Garden of Gethsemane, are sold annually to
                     freight a ship. It is rare to find any thing in the way of a relic that can
                     really be traced to the original olives; for, being only eight in number,
                     walled round and well-guarded, no portion of them can be taken without
                     permission from the guardians, who are careful not to destroy a very profitable
                     source of income by destroying the trees. For a few piasters, however, a good
                     deal can be done even in the Garden of Gethsemane; twigs and leaves and pieces
                     of roots can be bought by a little persuasion, and a little more backshish to overcome any lingering scruples of
                     conscience on the part of the custodians. Wicked as it was to do it, I thought
                     so much of my friends at home, that I violated my own conscience and that of an
                     old priest several times, in order to get a good supply of the sacred
                     relics.
                  Near the Golden Gate, which faces the valley of Jehosaphat, stands the ruin of
                     a Mohammedan sepulchre. I was greatly struck by the lonely and desolate aspect
                     of the place; and made a sketch of the ruin, including a few of the surrounding
                     objects.
                  
                     
                        MOHAMMEDAN SEPULCHRE.
                     
                  
                  In my rambles about Jerusalem, I passed on several occasions through the
                     quarter of the Lepers. Apart from the interest attached to this unfortunate
                     class of beings (arising from the frequent allusion made to them in the
                     Scriptures), there is much in their appearance and mode of life to attract
                     attention and enlist the sympathy of the stranger. Dirt and disease go
                     revoltingly together here; gaunt famine stalks through the streets; a constant
                     moan of suffering swells upon the dead air, and sin broods darkly over the ruin
                     it has wrought in that gloomy and ill-fated spot. Wasted forms sit in the
                     doorways; faces covered with white scales and sightless eyes are turned upward;
                     skeleton arms, distorted and fœtid with the ravages of leprosy, are
                     outstretched from the foul moving mass; and a low howl is heard, the howl of
                     the stricken for alms; alms, O stranger, for the love of God! alms to feed the
                     inexorable destroyer! alms to prolong this dreary and hopeless misery! Look
                     upon it, stranger, you who walk forth in all your pride and strength and
                     breathe the fresh air of heaven; you who have never known what it is to be
                     shunned by your fellowman as a thing unclean and accursed; you who deem
                     yourself unblest with all the blessings that God has given you upon earth; look upon it and learn that
                     there is a misery beyond all that you have conceived in your gloomiest hours—a
                     misery that can still be endured; learn that even the Leper, with death gnawing
                     at his vitals and unceasing tortures in his blood, cast out from the society of
                     his fellow-man, forbidden to touch in friendship or affection the hand of the
                     untainted, still struggles for life, and deems each hour precious that keeps
                     him from the grave.
                  The quarter of the Lepers is a sad and impressive place. By the laws of the
                     land, which have existed from scriptural times, they are isolated from all
                     contact with their fellow-men; yet there seems to be no prohibition to their
                     going out beyond the walls of Jerusalem, and begging by the roadside. Near the
                     gate of Zion, on the way to Bethlehem, I saw many of them sitting on the rocks,
                     their hideous faces uncovered, thrusting forth their scaly hands for alms.
                     Their huts are rudely constructed of earth and stones, seldom with more than
                     one apartment, and this so filthy and loathsome that it seemed unfit to be
                     occupied by swine. Here they live, whole families together, without distinction
                     of sex; and their dreadful malady is perpetuated from generation to generation,
                     and the groans of the aged and the dying are mingled with the feeble wail of
                     the young that are brought forth branded for a life of misery. Strange and
                     mournful thoughts arise, in the contemplation of the sad condition and probable
                     destiny of these ill-fated beings. Among so many, there must be some in whose
                     breasts the power of true love is implanted; love for woman in its purest
                     sense, for offspring, for all the endearments of domestic life which the
                     untainted are capable of feeling; yet doomed never to exercise the affections
                     without perpetuating the curse! some, too, in whom there are hidden powers of
                     mind, unknown save to themselves; ambition that corrodes with unavailing
                     aspirations; a thirst for action that burns within unceasingly, yet never can
                     be assuaged; all the ruling passions that are implanted in man for great and
                     noble purposes, never, never to give one moment's pleasure unmixed with the
                     perpetual gloom of that curse which dwells in their blood.
                  As I plodded my way for the last time through this den of sickening sights, a
                     vision of human misery was impressed upon my mind that time can not efface. I
                     passed when the rays of the sun were cold and the light was dim; and there came
                     out from the reeking hovels leprous men, gaunt with famine, and they bared
                     their hideous bodies, and howled like beasts; and women held out their
                     loathsome and accursed babes, and tore away the rags that covered them, and
                     pointing to the shapeless mass, shrieked for alms. All was disease and sin and
                     sorrow wherever I went; and as I passed on, unable to relieve a thousandth part
                     of the misery, moans of despair and howling curses followed me, and the Lepers
                     crawled back into their hovels to rot in their filth and die when God
                     willed.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XLVII.
                  ARAB GUARD TO THE DEAD SEA.
                  A MESSENGER from the Sheik of Jericho called upon us this morning to let us
                     know that the Arab guard was ready to conduct us to the Dead Sea and the
                     Jordan. He assured us we would have no trouble with the Bedouins with such a
                     guard; they were all terrible fellows, whom the Bedouins knew too well to
                     attack; for, praised be Allah, they had killed some hundreds of the rascals
                     already, and would kill some hundreds more before long. It was a great source
                     of consolation to be protected in this efficient manner; for I must confess it
                     was rather startling to hear the strange stories that were told of the way in
                     which travelers were attacked and murdered, or carried off into the deserts and
                     never heard of again. I expected to see twenty able-bodied men, well-drilled,
                     and armed to the teeth, because it seemed as if it would require that number of
                     men, and men of that kind, to slay so many Bedouins. They were down at Job's
                     well, he said, waiting for us; and meantime he would receive the two hundred
                     piasters for the Sheik, and forty piasters for the men. The latter sum was to
                     be devoted to the purchase of a sheep, and the sheep was to be roasted on the
                     banks of the Jordan, and the men were to eat it. This was my understanding of
                     the case when I paid my share of the forty piasters; and I did it the more
                     willingly because I was fond of sheep roasted in this way, and anticipated
                     taking some part in the feast. But here let me record a notable fact: the sheep
                     is a humbug. To the best of my belief, there never was such a sheep killed or
                     roasted by the Arab guard. If such a sheep be in existence at all, it is just
                     as likely to die a natural death as the Bedouins when shot at by these same
                     Arabs.
                  Bidding good-by to our worthy comrade, the English Captain, who had made up his
                     mind to return to Beirut, we passed out of Jerusalem by the Jaffa gate, and
                     went down to Job's well. There was no guard there; not the sign of a guard;
                     nothing but the well and two asses. So, having nothing better to do, we (my
                     friend and myself, and not the asses) sat down on the top of the stone wall and
                     amused ourselves throwing pebbles into the well. It appeared to be very
                     deep—perhaps about a hundred feet. I had no doubt at all of its antiquity. It
                     looked old enough; but whether Job had authorized the naming of this spot after
                     him, or whether it was merely a freak of fancy on the part of the Latin monks,
                     we could not tell. Historians differ so much touching the location of these
                     wells and their right names, that I was always content to let them settle the
                     knotty points, and thank God for the fresh water, when I found any. A queer,
                     ruinous old place Job's well was, consisting of a very deep hole in the solid
                     rock, with a pile of broken walls and a moss-covered dome over it, in the
                     Judean style, built perhaps some few centuries ago; for I believe no historian
                     pretends that any thing but the well itself can be traced to scriptural times.
                     It lies in a blanched and arid valley of rocks, close down by the foot of Mount
                     Zion.
                  
                     
                        PILGRIMS ON THE ROAD TO JERUSALEM.
                     
                  
                  
                  All along the road coming from Mar Saba were long lines of pilgrims, mostly on
                     foot, some mounted upon camels and donkeys, and all wending their way toward
                     Jerusalem. They had been to the Greek convent, and were returning after the
                     ceremonies. The priests wore long beards and flowing robes, and the common
                     pilgrims were ragged and barefooted, and walked at a weary pace with their
                     heads bowed down. I never saw any thing that so impressed me with the idea of
                     earnest devotion. With scarce clothes enough to cover their nakedness, poor and
                     friendless, many of these way-worn pilgrims had wandered from their far
                     off-homes, over mountains and deserts, through scorching suns and dreary
                     wastes, to lay their bones near the Sacred City.
                  While we were sitting upon the top of the ruin, there came out from among the
                     rocks close by a ragged Arab, of most uncouth aspect, with a long gun hung over
                     his shoulders and a rusty sword swinging by his side. An old pistol and a
                     crooked knife were thrust in his sash, which was long and flashy, but defaced
                     by the dirt of ages. All the colors of the rainbow were combined in his turban,
                     his tawdry vestments, and scanty breeches, and his nose was hooked like an
                     eagle's, and his eyes flashed and wandered like the eyes of some wild beast
                     that had been caught not long before. I declare, within bounds, that he was the
                     most ferocious, unshaved, unwashed, and dilapidated looking vagabond I had seen
                     in all my travels, and it was not without suspicion that I watched him as he
                     approached, and a lurking fear that there were more of the same kind not far
                     off. Sure enough, out came another pretty soon, just as if the ground had
                     opened and let him through from some infernal region below; and another soon
                     after, rubbing his eyes; and then another waking himself up too, all armed like
                     the first, with long guns mounted all over with brass, and rusty swords, and
                     old pistols fastened in their sashes, and all looking so ragged and hungry, and
                     so much like genuine robbers, that I involuntarily turned to see if Yusef had
                     brought his fire-arms to bear upon them. My chief dependence was upon Yusef,
                     for I never carried any weapon of defense except a penknife, and my companion
                     was likewise unarmed. Besides, Yusef had a courageous and blood-thirsty
                     disposition, as he repeatedly avowed, and delighted in nothing so much as in
                     killing people, which I was not naturally fond of, apart from the risk of
                     killing myself by carrying deadly weapons. I had always felt a presentiment
                     that, if I carried a revolver or pistol of any kind in my pocket, it would go
                     off and disable me for life; hence I never carried any thing more deadly than a
                     penknife, and that I was resolved not to use in the way of violence unless
                     driven to the last extremity.
                  Instead of rushing upon these fellows, however, brandishing his guns, pistols,
                     and swords, as was his habit when nothing was in sight, Yusef greeted them with
                     a kindly salaam, saying, "Good-morning, friends; how do you do?" to which they
                     answered in the same friendly strain; and a great many compliments passed, as I
                     supposed from the flowery style of the conversation that ensued. Yusef passed
                     his chibouck around, and they all sat down and began to talk with great
                     animation and a rapidity of utterance that would have astonished me had I not
                     become rather used to it. Even as it was, I thought some of them would
                     certainly choke in getting out so many raking gutturals at once. The talk did
                     not seem at all likely to come to an end short of two or three hours. At last I
                     made bold to come down from the top of the wall and ask what they wanted.
                     "Nothing, O prince of Generals," said Yusef; "only to take you to the Dead
                     Sea." "Do you mean to say, thou vilest of dragomans, that this is the Arab
                     guard sent here by the Sheik of Jericho to protect us against the Bedouins?" "I
                     do, O General! It is verily the Arab guard." "For which we paid two hundred
                     piasters, and forty piasters for the roast sheep?" "Yea, the same; verily the
                     same, on my sacred honor as a dragoman; only there will be another man before
                     we reach Mar Saba."
                  I looked at their guns, which were pointed in various directions; said nothing,
                     but secretly hoped the other man would not be a corpse. For you perceive the
                     expected guard of twenty that were to insure our lives had been reduced to
                     eleven imaginary men before we arrived at Job's well. It now consisted of four
                     actual beggarly varlets. Each carried a long gun, as already stated, and each had a dangerous way of carrying it
                     across his back, or over his shoulders, or under his arms; so that there were
                     stocks and muzzles ranging all round. It was utterly impossible for one of
                     these guns to go off without killing somebody. As we rode on down the valley
                     the fifth man joined us; and when I saw that his gun was longer, if any thing,
                     than the rest, and was carried so as to take a still wider range, I at once
                     committed myself to Providence, under the conviction that if there was any
                     shooting to be done it would not be the Bedouins that would suffer, but we who
                     rode behind the guard; and especially I dreaded this result when I came to
                     think that there might be powder in the pans and slugs in the barrels, and that
                     the powder might take fire if the locks should once get to going. In faith, so
                     impressed was I with this idea that I fully made up my mind to call these
                     fellows aside the very first chance, and prevail upon them by a heavy backshish to discharge their guns at some rock or
                     tree, and keep them unloaded until we were attacked by the Bedouins; and it was
                     my settled determination, in the event of such an attack, to join the Bedouin
                     party at once, and remain on that side till the conclusion of the fight.
                  
                     
                        THE ARAB GUARD.
                     
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLVIII.
                  THE DEAD SEA AND THE JORDAN.
                  OUR ride to Mar Saba, notwithstanding the guns of the Arab guard, was devoid of
                     any incident worth relating. The distance in point of time is about three hours
                     from Jerusalem. The road lies mostly between two ranges of craggy bluffs,
                     almost destitute of vegetation, and entirely uninhabited. On the left we saw
                     the caverns in which the monks lived, before the general massacre by the Turks,
                     in which some thousands were brutally butchered. These caves are now only
                     inhabited by goats. Some of the bones and skulls of the murdered monks are
                     still scattered about the rocks. The Wady is of a very singular geological
                     formation, and bears the appearance of having at some remote period formed the
                     bed of a river. I am not aware of any theory having been formed on the subject,
                     but it struck me as not improbable that this may have been the original outlet
                     of the Jordan, after passing through the Dead Sea. That a stream of water so
                     deep and rapid should continually pour into so small a sea, and lose itself in
                     evaporation, does not seem reasonable. But the question remains, where it does
                     it go now, or how can it fall into the Mediterranean, if the surface of the
                     Dead Sea be, as scientific explorers have determined, considerably below the
                     level of any other sea into which it could flow? According to the most
                     authentic English measurement the depression is 1311 feet, 9 inches. Lieut.
                     Lynch gives it at 1316 feet, 7 inches. The subject involves some curious
                     questions, but is rather too profound for a casual traveler. Having seen it
                     stated, however, that a recent corps of French engineers have decided the
                     depression to be much less than either of these estimates (I have forgotten the exact
                     measurement, but believe it is about ten or fifteen feet), may it not be that
                     there is a mistake in the instruments? that by a little more measuring it may
                     be discovered that the Dead Sea is rather higher, if any thing, than the
                     Mediterranean?
                  If a difference of five, ten, twenty, or fifty feet can be made by half a dozen
                     corps of learned explorers, the only question that remains is, how many will it
                     take to bring it up to its proper level, so that the water may flow out
                     naturally, without subjecting the unlearned traveler to perplexing and
                     unprofitable conjectures.
                  Turning off a little from the highway, we took a walled road on the right, to
                     Deir Mar Saba, and were soon in front of the convent gate. We had a letter of
                     introduction from the patriarch of the Greek convent in Jerusalem to his
                     brother of St. Saba, for which we paid about a dollar. This precaution of an
                     introduction is deemed necessary in order to provide against any secret attack
                     upon the monks. The gate is always kept closed, and a guard is stationed on the
                     watch-tower who gives notice of the approach of strangers. Repeated
                     depredations committed upon the monks by the Bedouins and others, and the
                     isolated position of the convent, have given rise to these precautions. Our
                     letter was pulled up in a little box to a high window, and read by the
                     patriarch; after which we were let in through a small door, and led down a
                     great many stone steps into the little building set apart for the accommodation
                     of travelers.
                  We found our quarters very clean and comfortable; the fare good and the Greek
                     patriarch very friendly and obliging. He showed us all the curiosities of the
                     convent, including the room-full of skulls, the date-tree planted by St. Saba,
                     the skull of St. Saba himself, the pictorial temple in which the works of that
                     distinguished saint are duly represented on the walls, and numerous strange
                     grottoes and chapels dug into the solid rocks. A very queer, picturesque old
                     place is the Convent of St. Saba; and any traveler who has the time can not
                     better employ it than by spending a few days there, rambling through its vaults
                     and chapels, and studying the remarkable history of its founder, which is full
                     of wild romance.
                  At an early hour in the morning, we mounted our horses, outside the gate, and
                     set off with our Arab guard for the Dead Sea. The road is wild and desolate
                     beyond conception. Not a living thing was to be seen for miles on the wayside.
                     All around was blasted and sterile. A few sickly shrubs grew along the ravines,
                     through which we passed on our journey. From the top of the highest mountain we
                     beheld a glistening sheet of water, far down below, encircled by rocky heights.
                     It was the Bahr el Lut—the Sea of Lot.
                  Winding out from a deep gorge, we came upon the plain. As we toiled slowly
                     along the dried bed of a water-course, we saw behind the banks of earth some
                     Arabs, armed with guns, but as we drew near they skulked away, and we saw them
                     no more. Doubtless they were spies from Jericho, watching to see if we were
                     accompanied by the usual guard. A jackall, started from his lair, fled up on a
                     bare mound, where he sat licking his lips. Nothing more occurred till we
                     arrived at the shores of the Dead Sea.
                  We dismounted and walked down upon the beach. A sultry mist hung over the
                     mountains, and the air was still and heavy. There was a low sad moaning from
                     the surf, as it rolled over upon the long slopes of mud with its thick and
                     slimy foam; and when I dipped up a handful of it and swallowed it down, I was
                     not surprised that there were no fish to be found there. It did seem even that
                     a few strange birds that came wheeling down over it, turned away again out of
                     the pestilent air. Dwarfish shrubs, gnarled and leafless, grew in the mud, back
                     from the beach. Along toward the Jordan was a low morass, with dank weeds in
                     it, and all around the weeds and rushes were stricken with the death-spirit,
                     and drooped and withered, or lay rotting on the foul earth. Verily the ban of
                     God is upon the land; "it mourneth and fadeth away."
                  We filled our tin cans with the bitter water; and, upon returning to the mound
                     of earth upon which our horses stood, saw in the distance a large party of
                     mounted horsemen. At first we
                     thought they were Bedouins, and there was the most intense anxiety and
                     consternation on all sides. Yusef turned ghastly pale, and said that the water
                     made him sick; but no sooner did he catch sight of a horseman, who dashed out
                     of the front ranks of the approaching party, than he set up a frightful yell of
                     defiance, plunged spurs into his horse, and set out furiously to meet him, and
                     settle the thing by single combat. Long before the rival warriors met, they
                     commenced firing their pistols and guns in the air, and when they did at last
                     come together, they grappled each other by the neck, and I thought it was the
                     most dreadful scene I ever witnessed to see them thus twisted up in a struggle
                     of life or death. But it was neither a struggle of life nor of death, as we
                     soon discovered; it was only a struggle of love—pure devotion of heart between
                     Yusef Badra and his friend Emanuel Balthos.
                  In a few moments the whole party came up, headed by the Catholic Bishop of
                     Jerusalem, and a dozen priests. It was the party of Dr. Mendoza. Nothing could
                     exceed the devotion of the Bishop, and all his followers, to the interests of
                     Dr. Mendoza and the Madam. Being all of the same religion, there was a bond of
                     sympathy between them from the first moment of their meeting in Jerusalem. They
                     guided the Doctor and the Madam all about Jerusalem, showed them all the relics
                     of antiquity, gave them the best rooms in the convent; never let them go out of
                     sight a single moment; attended them even to the Dead Sea, all from motives of
                     the purest regard, and without even a hint at money. What could the Doctor do
                     in return but make a handsome present of a hundred pounds to the convent, and a
                     little pocket-money to these strangers in a strange land?
                  We were all delighted at this meeting on the shores of the Dead Sea. No sooner
                     had we met and shaken hands, than Doctor Mendoza expressed himself in the
                     following manner:
                  "Bad countree dis. Convenience for sleep in Jericho not good. I have drink de
                     water of de Dead Sea and no like. De Madam also drink: consequent he are
                     indispose. We shall proceed to Jerusalem. 'Tis imposs to exiss in dis countree.
                     I shall be content to depart for Beirut."
                  After much pleasant conversation in the same strain, we shooks hands again and
                     parted; Doctor Mendoza and his devoted followers for St. Saba, and we for the
                     Jordan and Jericho.
                  We rode along the beach for some miles, and then struck off into a morass,
                     through which our horses plunged and staggered for some miles farther, till we
                     reached a higher part of the plain and found a mule-path leading to the Jordan.
                     Our Arab guard evinced the most intense anxiety as we drew near the boundary of
                     the Bedouin country. As to Yusef, he never was more cool and collected in the
                     absolute presence of the most dangerous foe. For more than an hour he scarcely
                     uttered a word; but with looks of the most profound indifference, reined up his
                     steed of the desert, and rode along in our very midst, as if he had no further
                     thought of the Bedouins than to be the central point of attack when the
                     fighting commenced.
                  In good time, we drew up our horses on the banks of the river. While our guard
                     were busily engaged in disposing of their forces on the tops of the neighboring
                     hills, so as to be as far away from the Bedouin country as possible in order
                     that they might enjoy a more extended view of it, and cut off all stragglers
                     that might come in their direction, we dismounted and indulged in various
                     reflections concerning the Jordan. The conclusion that I came to was this: I
                     was greatly astonished to find the river Jordan no bigger than what we call a
                     creek in the back-woods of America; and resolved in all my future readings
                     about rivers, lakes and seas in the old world, to look at them through an
                     inverted imagination. I stood at the water's edge, and tossed a pebble across
                     to the other side with all ease. It was not more than thirty yards wide at
                     most; and although the current was swift, yet it was impossible to get quite
                     rid of the idea that the Jordan, so famed throughout the whole civilized world,
                     must be somewhere farther on, and this little stream only one of its
                     tributaries. Why it was I thought so, it would be impossible to say; but I
                     certainly must admit that I never was so disappointed in regard to the size of
                     a river in my life.
                  
                  The sheep for which we had paid the messenger of the Sheik of Jericho, forty
                     piasters, was not roasted here by the Arab guard according to contract; but
                     fortunately Yusef had provided himself with a cold leg of mutton for us in
                     Jerusalem, which we devoured with amazing relish after our ride, and he also
                     gave us some brown bread which he had thoughtfully smuggled into his bag at the
                     Convent of St. Saba, and which we washed down with copious draughts of water
                     out of the Jordan. While we were thus sitting on a conspicuous part of the
                     bank, eating our lunch, I could not but think that we afforded an excellent
                     mark for any prowling Bedouins that might be concealed in the bushes on the
                     other side; and on that account, as well as because of my original
                     disappointment, I sincerely wished that the river was as wide as the Ohio.
                     Every time I looked over into the Bedouin country, I expected to see a dozen
                     guns pointed at my head; and this notion became at length so unpleasant, that
                     in order to divert my thoughts from so painful a view of the subject, I called
                     to Yusef, who was standing behind a tree not far off, priming his pistols, to
                     come and sit down opposite to me, and give me a detailed history of the affair
                     with the six Bedouins, whom he had slain on his last journey through Syria. It
                     struck me as a little singular that he did not exhibit his usual alacrity in
                     obeying this summons, especially on a subject so congenial to his nature; I
                     therefore repeated it with some warmth; upon which he reluctantly left his
                     station, and seated himself close behind me, when he immediately began to give
                     me a rapid account of this remarkable affair. Finding myself unable to hear him
                     distinctly, with my back turned toward him, I requested him to sit opposite me,
                     which he very reluctantly did. Indeed it was evident that something preyed upon
                     his mind, for often as I had heard him repeat the story, I never before knew
                     him to omit the part where he had pinned two of the Bedouins to a tree with a
                     single thrust of his sword. On this occasion, his chief concern seemed to be to
                     get through as soon as possible; and he frequently looked behind him to the
                     other side of the river, as if he thought we might eventually be compelled to
                     depart for Jericho without even a skirmish with the rascally inhabitants of the
                     Bedouin country. I afterward found that I was quite right in my suspicion as to
                     the cause of his anxiety; for he assured me, after we had mounted our horses
                     and left the river some distance behind us, that such indeed was the case, and
                     that he had a great mind to go back again and spend the night there watching
                     for them.
                  Having finished my lunch about the same time that Yusef got through killing the
                     six Bedouins, I took my tin can which I had purchased in Jerusalem, and
                     accompanied by my friend the tall Southerner, who was quietly smoking his
                     chibouck most of this time, went down to the river and filled it with water for
                     the benefit of some acquaintances at home. Every drop of that water, I intended
                     distributing with miserly discretion, and when I came to the last drop it was
                     my design to fill the can again with fresh water out of the nearest pump, and
                     still protest on my veracity, as a traveler, that it contained water which I
                     had myself dipped up out of the Jordan.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XLIX.
                  THRILLING ALARM IN JERICHO.
                  A PLEASANT ride of three hours from the banks of the Jordan brought us to the
                     reputed site of Jericho. Nothing remains of the ancient city, and I believe it
                     is admitted by the best authorities on scriptural history, that there is no
                     ground for the assumption that this was the location of Jericho. It is not even
                     rendered probable by any reasonable conclusions from historical evidence.
                     Without entering into that question, we had sufficient to do to credit our
                     senses, when we were told that we were in the midst of the village, and that
                     there was no other village than what we saw around us. A ruinous old Khan,
                     eight or ten wigwams built of mud and bushes; half a dozen lazy Arabs lying
                     about on piles of rubbish, smoking their pipes; a few cows, sheep and goats,
                     browsing on the stunted bushes; some mangy-looking dogs, engaged in devouring
                     the carcass of a dead mule, and a few hungry crows waiting near by for a share
                     in the feast, were all the signs of habitation and life that we could see about
                     Jericho. The Khan stands at a distance of a few hundred yards from the huts or
                     wigwams, and is said to be occupied at present by a Turkish guard of
                     twenty-five soldiers, stationed there by the Pasha of Jerusalem, to protect the
                     people of Jericho from the Bedouins. We saw nothing of the soldiers. Doubtless
                     they were asleep, and the probability is that they had been asleep ever since
                     their departure from Jerusalem. It appeared, from all we could learn, that in
                     consequence of the depredations committed by the Bedouins upon travelers
                     visiting the Dead Sea and Jordan, and also upon the Arabs, living in the
                     villages on this side of the river, that the Turkish authorities of Jerusalem
                     had agreed to furnish the Sheiks, numbering five, with this guard for their
                     protection, and as an equivalent had caused them to enter into stipulations for
                     the safe conduct of all travelers to those places, holding them responsible for
                     any loss by robbery or plunder, and allowing them to exact a hundred piasters
                     from each traveler in payment of their services. This tariff upon pilgrims
                     affords the Sheiks and their dependents their principal means of support. The
                     guards are not very expensive, in point of equipment, as may be seen from the
                     specimens with which we were favored; nor does it appear that they exercise any
                     very salutary effect upon the Bedouins, since there appear to be quite as many
                     robberies committed now as there were before this arrangement. It is essential
                     to have them, nevertheless, for depending as they do chiefly upon Frank
                     pilgrims for their support, they contrive when cheated of their profits by a
                     refusal to take advantage of their protection, to do the robbing themselves;
                     and this being regarded by the Turkish authorities as a matter between
                     themselves and the Franks, it is seldom noticed. Each of the five Sheiks,
                     belonging to the different villages on the Jericho side, takes his turn in
                     furnishing a guard, and receiving the emoluments, so that the profits are
                     pretty equally distributed. In addition to the sum of a hundred piasters to the
                     Sheik (about four dollars American money), there is, as before stated, the
                     further sum of forty piasters to the men, for a sheep that is never either
                     killed or roasted; which I shall always regard in the light of a gross
                     imposition upon the credulity of strangers. Besides this, there is there an
                     unlimited amount of backshish to be paid to
                     the guard individually at the end of the journey, for taking good care of the
                     Howadji. I paid the backshish without
                     reluctance, because I felt extremely grateful in being permitted to reach
                     Jericho without being shot through the head—not by the Bedouins but by the
                     guard; and I could not but feel sensible of their kindness and discretion in
                     keeping away on the distant hills when we were down by the Jordan, and thereby
                     exposing us to but one danger at a time—that from the guns of the Bedouins on
                     the other side of the river.
                  
                  It was a mild pleasant evening as we reined up our horses before the palace of
                     his highness the Sheik of Jericho. The sun was in the act of setting, and to do
                     him justice he did it as well as ever I saw it done. The whole valley of the
                     Jordan was steeped in a glowing atmosphere of purple; and the mountains beyond
                     the Dead Sea were admirably finished off on top with cities of gold made out of
                     naked rocks and sunshine; and the Bedouin country, take it altogether, to its
                     most distant point of view looked very much like a land of wild, undefinable
                     beauty, and glowing romance.
                  Regarding the palace of the Sheik of Jericho, of which I have made mention, it
                     was a mud hut about thirty feet in length, ten feet high, and roofed with a
                     combination of bushes, straw, manure, mud, gravel, and old rags. It had three
                     walls altogether—the back wall and the two end walls. The whole of the front
                     part was open, or rather would have been open, had not the Sheik with a degree
                     of shrewdness and ingenuity very characteristic of the citizens of modern
                     Jericho, placed some bushes in a pile there, with an inside partition of the
                     same, and formed a sort of connection between them and the roof by another pile
                     on top, so that in point of fact he had a front wall and porch at the same
                     time, where he could sit in warm weather, and smoke the pipe of content. This
                     was to be our lodging-place for the night; it was the best and only
                     lodging-place we could find. The Sheik and his family lived in one corner of
                     the bush part, which was the part of which he seemed to be most proud; and some
                     cows, goats and chickens lived in the main or mud part. The only remaining
                     part, being the other corner of the bush-work, which, in the absence of any
                     tourists from foreign countries, was temporarily occupied by an ass, we had to
                     wait awhile till the Sheik and the ass came to an understanding in regard to
                     the right of possession. The Sheik in order to make room for us, was in favor
                     of removing the ass to that part of the house which was occupied by the goats
                     and chickens. The ass was in favor of staying where he was. The Sheik
                     endeavored to remove him by force. The ass being the heavier body, stood his
                     ground and wouldn't be removed by force. In vain the Sheik expostulated with
                     him; the ass was not to be humbugged in that way; his head was too long for
                     that; so he remained doggedly where he was, and seemed to have made up his mind
                     so to remain as long as he chose. At this crisis, the conflict of opinion in
                     regard to the right of possession, appearing to be direct and positive, and to
                     admit of no compromise between the parties, the Sheik went up to a bag that
                     hung upon a post, and took out some barley, which he held out in his hand as an
                     additional argument. The ass looked at the barley, smelled it, found that it
                     was good, concluded that the argument was based upon just principles, and
                     quietly followed the Sheik into the goat and chicken department, where he was
                     tied fast to a post, and severely flogged by that individual for refusing to be
                     convinced at first. I considered that there was a moral in the incident, and
                     noted it down for future study.
                  By the time we had scraped up the ass's bed, and made our own beds in place of
                     it, Yusef had boiled some coffee, which was very refreshing to us after our
                     day's journey. We had a good supper of stewed chicken in due time, which we
                     shared with the Sheik; and about ten o'clock, being tired, we turned in to
                     sleep. In order to give a proper understanding of the startling adventure that
                     befell us during the night, it will be necessary to go back a little, and
                     mention that not more than three or four nights previously a large party of
                     armed Bedouins had made a descent upon the village, and in spite of the
                     vigilance of the Turkish guard, who were sound asleep and not to be wakened by
                     the cries of the villagers, had captured and driven off a number of cows and
                     sheep, and threatened to kill every body in the village the next time they came
                     down. A similar invasion, or perhaps a worse one, was nightly apprehended; so
                     that the alarm was general, and all the live stock was driven into the houses
                     for safe keeping. This the old Sheik communicated to Yusef with great coolness,
                     considering the danger; but it was not so taken by Yusef. His eyes seemed as if
                     they would start out of his head, when he was informed of this unpleasant state
                     of things, and it was some time before he could calm himself sufficiently to
                     give us any idea of the dangers that
                     threatened us. I have no hesitation in confessing that it was not a piece of
                     intelligence calculated to make me sleep soundly. Nothing but the implicit
                     confidence I had in the courage of Yusef, could have induced me to risk my life
                     in such a place a single hour longer; although it was now dark night. As soon,
                     therefore, as he had interpreted for us the startling information which he had
                     received from the Sheik, I came to the conclusion that our only hope of safety
                     lay in Yusef. Calling him up close to where we were seated, I stated to him in
                     substance that being unarmed, and in no way prepared to resist an attack from
                     the Bedouins, I was willing, as doubtless also my friend the Southerner was, to
                     yield to him the post of honor; which was directly across the entrance into our
                     quarters.
                  "If it should unfortunately happen," said I, "that these Bedouins should make a
                     descent upon us to-night, they will unquestionably come in through the first
                     hole or doorway that they find open. Now as there is no door here to put in
                     this gap, and no means by which we can secure ourselves for defense, the only
                     possible chance of escape we have depends upon you. Arm yourself well, Yusef;
                     load and prime your guns and pistols carefully; see that your sword and knives
                     are properly disposed for action: spread your mattress directly across the gap
                     in front of us, and keep watch as long as you can. Should you fall asleep,
                     which is not likely under the circumstances, the Bedouins will no doubt wake
                     you up, as soon as they step on you. While you are grappling with them, my
                     friend and myself can tear away the bush-work behind us, and make our escape.
                     Should you survive the conflict, you will overtake us in the morning on the
                     road to Jerusalem; but should you fall, we will take care to mention all the
                     facts to your family in Beirut; and hand them over any funds that may be due to
                     you."
                  I can not say that Yusef took this proposition with the avidity which was to be
                     expected from one who had been thirsting so long for the blood of a Bedouin. He
                     looked confused and astonished at first; then turned very pale and trembled all
                     over; and when I spoke of conveying the melancholy intelligence to his family
                     regarding his fate, he was more affected than I had ever yet seen him. All this
                     I attribute to that remarkable feature in human nature which causes us, after
                     we have long cherished any fond anticipation, to feel something of a re-action
                     when it is likely to be realized. Seeing clearly that this was what affected
                     Yusef, I laid hold of his mattress myself, and fixed it across the gap in the
                     bush-work, and told him not to despair; that there was every reason to believe
                     that the Bedouins would be down upon us before morning. I then assisted him in
                     fixing his weapons of defense; and all being arranged to my satisfaction,
                     directed him to give the alarm the moment the attack was made.
                  Yusef, without saying a word, lay down, and was perfectly quiet for about ten
                     minutes, as if in profound thought. At the expiration of that time, he suddenly
                     began to snore, which aroused me from a doze into which I had fallen. I
                     instantly thought of his singular dream in Baalbek concerning the lion; and on
                     that account felt some doubt as to his being asleep. Not content with snoring,
                     he began to mutter broken sentences, and what was a little singular, he
                     muttered in English, which was not his habit generally when asleep. "Poh!
                     Bedouins! I only wish they'd come! Cowardly rascals! I'd like to see them walk
                     over me—I'd soon kill 'em—rip—shoot—" and so on, till I put out the light, fell
                     asleep myself, and left him thus talking to himself in the dark. My friend, the
                     tall Southerner, who took things easy, generally, had fallen asleep some time
                     before, and thus we slept on, and might have slept soundly till morning but for
                     what followed.
                  I fancy that it must have been about midnight that I was aroused from a
                     pleasant dream of home, by something like cold flesh lightly moved over my
                     face. In the panic of the moment, I grasped at the invisible object, and, to my
                     intense horror, found that it was a human hand! Great heavens! it must be a
                     Bedouin feeling for my neck! "A Bedouin! A Bedouin!" I shouted, holding on to
                     the struggling hand with all my might. "Help, Yusef! help! I've got him! A
                     Bedouin, by all that's horrible!" The tall Southerner sprang to my assistance
                     in a moment. It was intensely dark;
                     by reason of which, not being able to see, he stumbled against the struggling
                     man, whom he grappled by the throat, and we all three rolled over in a heap
                     together. Finding it utterly impossible to distinguish friend from foe, I again
                     called to Yusef for help. "Help, Yusef, help—we've got him! Strike a light
                     quick, or he'll get away! A light! a light!"—It was all in vain; there was
                     neither an answer nor a light, and the dreadful thought occurred to me that
                     this Bedouin had stabbed Yusef, or cut his throat, and then crept over to serve
                     my friend and myself in like manner. "Never mind," said the tall Southerner,
                     coolly; "he's all safe. I have him by the throat. You grope about and find my
                     knife, General; we'll fix him presently." I can not say that I approved of this
                     proposition. It was not pleasant, the idea of groping about in the dark, after
                     what had happened. I might find something more than a knife; perhaps I might
                     find another Bedouin. The struggle that had just taken place, quite satisfied
                     me that one Bedouin was as much as I could conveniently manage. "No," said I,
                     "you keep him down while I strike a light. I have a match in my pocket, if I
                     can only find it. Hold on to him, if you can." It was as much as the tall
                     Southerner could do to retain his grasp of the man's throat, who, upon hearing
                     the word "knife," struggled like a maniac; but my athletic friend was too
                     strong for him. He held him down with the grip of a vice. While they were
                     struggling, I got the match out of my pocket, and succeeded in lighting it; by
                     which time the old Sheik and his wife, alarmed at the frightful noises that we
                     made, were calling upon us in the most heart-rending tones to spare their
                     lives. The sight that met my eyes, upon holding up the match, was one that I
                     shall never forget. Had I beheld a grizzly bear in the hands of my friend, or a
                     rhinoceros, or even a seven-headed dragon, it might possibly have surprised me;
                     but I was completely stunned and overwhelmed with astonishment at the actual
                     spectacle. There, in the extreme corner, lying on his back, his eyes starting
                     from their sockets by reason of being choked in the iron grasp of the tall
                     Southerner, who held him down by the throat, was no other than our faithful
                     dragoman and protector, Yusef Badra! It was clear enough, even at a glance, why
                     he did not come to our assistance when called upon at the first alarm; it was
                     clear enough why a supposed Bedouin should understand English, and struggle
                     like a maniac when he heard that his throat was going to be cut; it was all
                     clear enough now, except the cause of this singular mistake which had well-nigh
                     cost us the life and future services of Yusef Badra. I need not say with what
                     astonishment the tall Southerner relaxed his grasp; how Yusef sat up with
                     blood-shot and starting eyes, looking all around him, and gasping for breath;
                     how we immediately lit the lamp, and pacified the old Sheik and his wife, who
                     were perfectly frantic with fear; in fine, how we called upon Yusef to tell us,
                     in the name of the seven wonders, how he had fallen into this difficulty.
                  "Spirit of Eblis!" he gasped, panting for breath, "what a horrible—a—a—what a—a
                     very dreadful night-mare I've had! By the beard of the Prophet!—I—I—thought I
                     was ch—choking! It even seemed to me that I was al—almost st—strangled; for I
                     protest I c—c—couldn't get my breath! I do believe—I—I—would have d—d—died, if
                     your Excellencies hadn't w—w—aked me up!"
                  In the course of a few minutes, when he had somewhat recovered, he gave us some
                     further particulars in regard to his dream, which was certainly of a very
                     extraordinary character. It appeared that as he lay upon his mattress thinking
                     how he could best protect us from the Bedouins, the idea occurred to him that,
                     being very cunning fellows, they would, in all probability, upon seeing a
                     door-way open in the bush-work, naturally suppose that he, Badra, the Destroyer
                     of Robbers, was lying there waiting for them; that they would, therefore,
                     endeavor to effect their entrance through that part where the Howadji lay. In
                     order to meet them upon their own ground, therefore, he had cautiously crept
                     over into that corner, behind us, where he sat waiting for them; that while he
                     was thus watching over us, he fell into a doze, but imagined it was into the
                     river Jordan; and feeling himself going down, he began to swim; that the moment
                     he moved his hand for that purpose,
                     it was seized hold of by a large snapping-turtle, which held him fast, and was
                     pulling him down under the water, when another turtle, still larger, seized him
                     by the throat, and got on top of him, and doubtless would have strangled him
                     had he not, as he supposed, awakened us by his groans. He felt very thankful to
                     us for saving his life, and would take care in future not to eat so much
                     supper, which he imagined was the cause of his sleeping so badly.
                  Having thus satisfied us as to the cause of the whole alarm, and proved that
                     the result of the adventure was a subject of congratulation to both parties, we
                     all lit our chiboucks, and enjoyed pleasant conversation on the subject of
                     strange dreams, till day-light warned us that it was time to get breakfast and
                     depart for Jerusalem.
               
               
                  CHAPTER L.
                  CHRISTMAS NIGHT IN BETHLEHEM.
                  ON our return to Jerusalem, we devoted the few days intervening before the 25th
                     of December to a more thorough exploration of the neighborhood. So familiar now
                     to every reader of Oriental travels are the Tombs of the Judges, the Mount of
                     Olives, the Grotto of Jeremiah, the Mount of Zion, and all the places famed in
                     sacred and classical history, that it would be a difficult task to add any
                     thing new to what has been written on these subjects.
                  I had heard much in regard to the ruinous aspect of modern Jerusalem; and,
                     strange as it may appear, was rather disappointed in not finding it so
                     dilapidated a city as I had supposed it to be. Indeed, it seemed to me in quite
                     as good condition as most of the cities which I had seen in Turkey and Syria.
                     The first view on the approach by the Damascus road, is strangely beautiful and
                     impressive. The white mosques, and minarets, and rounded domes, and the fine
                     old gateways, are strikingly Oriental. The houses and bazaars in the upper and
                     middle parts of the town, toward the Jaffa gate, are as good as any in Beirut,
                     and not at all like what one might expect in Jerusalem.
                  On Christmas afternoon, having made up our minds to spend the night in
                     Bethlehem, we set out with a crowd of Frank pilgrims, and in due time arrived
                     at the convent. This building is very large and of irregular form; and is said
                     by the monks to be built over the Grotto of the Manger. The most reliable
                     authorities deny that there is any reasonable ground for the assumption. We
                     found the whole village of Bethlehem filled to overflowing with pilgrims from
                     all countries tries; and it was not
                     without difficulty that we obtained a room in the convent, which was already
                     overflowing with visitors.
                  In that old convent I passed the most memorable Christmas of my life; and I
                     sincerely hope it was the last of the kind that I am destined ever to spend. To
                     give the remotest idea of the ceremonies would be utterly impossible; and if I
                     thought that a single reasonable being in any civilized country, no matter of
                     what persuasion, could look upon them with other feelings than those of
                     disapproval and humiliation, I would not even acknowledge that I was there.
                  Long before midnight the crowd was dense and crushing. Hundreds of monks,
                     bearing candles, were assembled around the main altar. There was a waxen image
                     there; a strange disgusting thing, with staring eyes of glass, tawny skin, and
                     wrinkled neck; its cheeks puffed out, and its mouth slightly open, as if it had
                     been suffocated with thick incenses. A string of beads was coiled up on its
                     breast. It was dressed in white, and glared strangely with silver spangles and
                     tawdry lace.
                  They laid it on its back on the altar; and they talked to it, and chanted, and
                     prostrated themselves in its presence; and the wild glare of many lamps
                     glistened upon their pale greasy faces and shaven heads; and anon they turned
                     to the pictures on the walls, of bleeding and mutilated saints, and bowed down
                     again with closed eyes, and chanted their heathenish rites, and moaned for the
                     wickedness of the unbelieving.
                  In jostling crowds they put aside the staring and affrighted Arabs, and went
                     from alcove to alcove in a scorching halo of light; and hour after hour, as the
                     incense and foul air rose thicker and thicker over the heads of the swaying
                     mass, they fell prostrate before the ugly wax image, and chanted the glory of
                     the new-born.
                  On the floor, surging around the many feet, was a sea of human heads, bald and
                     blue with recent shaving, and the grizzled beards of the old were frothy as the
                     foam wrought by a fierce tempest.
                  There was something intensely brutish and disgusting in the whole spectacle. I
                     could not but think that it was rank blasphemy, this exhibition of pretended
                     divinity in a miserable wax image; a thousand times more barbarous than the
                     heathenish rites of savages. The great fat monks, in their coarse sackcloth,
                     with their shaven heads and bare feet; the sweat standing in big drops on their
                     faces; their eyes rolling wildly in their heads; their hoarse chants grating
                     harshly upon the air; the lustful expression with which they turned from the
                     altar, and on their bended knees gazed into the faces of the women, presented a
                     scene too sadly impressive ever to be forgotten.
                  At the hour of twelve, they lifted with awful looks the tawdry babe from its
                     resting-place on the altar, and held it up for the multitude to gaze upon; and
                     then they bore it off in clouds of incense, through long winding passages, and
                     descended into the cave, and laid it down upon a rock; and the wax candles cast
                     a pale and ghastly light upon it, and as it lay there with its round glass eyes
                     staring at them, they fell prostrate and worshiped it, and chanted, and moaned,
                     and wept at the feet of the panting crowd. Again they rose, and with hot,
                     blood-shot eyes, scowled malignantly upon the heretics that pressed down upon
                     them to see the strange spectacle; and in the thickness of the foul atmosphere,
                     and the gloom of the dark, reeking cavern, they looked slimy and monstrous, and
                     I thought it was the most sickening exhibition of brutish superstition that the
                     eye of man could behold.
                  Parched with thirst and dazzled with the unceasing glare of lights thrust in my
                     eyes for hours before, humiliated by the degrading spectacle, and sick at
                     heart, I struggled out from the crushing mass, and groped my way up the winding
                     passages to our quarters in the convent. I lay down, my brain burning with
                     visions of monstrous and unholy rites, and strove to sleep; but, hour after
                     hour, I started up and wondered what strange, unearthly sounds fell upon my
                     ears; what fearful spectres were painted upon the air; what weight of horror
                     lay like a night-mare upon my breast. Can it be, I thought, that—
                     
                        
                           "——Some tormenting dream,
                           Affrights me with a hell of ugly devils?"
                        
                      Or is it that men are driven mad by the terrors of death; that they thus
                     draw darkness out of the future and swallow it into their souls? Is it that all
                     this is done in the name of that merciful Redeemer, whose words fall like balm
                     upon the heart?
                  And then, as the night waned, and the sounds fell fainter and fainter upon the
                     air, a soothing calm stole over me, and closing my eyes, I wandered back in
                     thought to a happy home across the waters, and saw around the peaceful fireside
                     on a Christmas night, a circle of familiar faces, all gentle and smiling, all
                     radiant with hope; and kindly greetings passed; and pleasant words were spoken,
                     and the happy past was revived, and bright anticipations of the future beamed
                     upon every face; and I inwardly thanked God that so much of good was yet left
                     upon earth, so much of bright promise in the future; and in the soothing of
                     those happy memories and the hopefulness of better things to come, I committed
                     myself to the keeping of Him who showeth the path of life, in whose presence is
                     fullness of joy, at whose right hand are pleasures for evermore.
               
               
                  CHAPTER LI.
                  CROSSING THE RIVERS.
                  THE heavy rains during our stay in Jerusalem had swollen the rivers, so that on
                     our journey from Jaffa along the coast we were frequently stopped, and
                     compelled to make a detour of several miles in order to find a crossing-place.
                     Even then, owing to flats and marshes, we were subject to danger and
                     inconvenience, and sometimes reduced to the necessity of dismounting, and
                     hiring some of the neighboring Arabs who were acquainted with the fords to
                     drive our horses before us and carry ourselves across on their backs. The mules
                     usually  contrived, about midway in these difficult passages, to get
                     fast in the mud, and upset themselves and the baggage; which always occasioned
                     the most intense excitement among the Arabs. To give any idea of the shouting,
                     and shrieking, and flourishing of sticks; the frantic lamentations on all
                     sides; the thundering reproaches of Yusef; or the remonstrances of the Howadji
                     against the damage of their precious curiosities, would be entirely out of the
                     question. I shall content myself by leaving all that to the imagination of the reader, and
                     presenting a sketch of what impressed me as the most picturesque feature in the
                     scene.
                  The position is striking, and not altogether ungraceful. It has the advantage
                     of making one pair of legs answer a double purpose—that of carrying the owner
                     across the river, and at the same time the Howadji who is mounted upon the back
                     of the owner; and it presents the Howadji in rather a more elevated point of
                     view than if the legs of both parties were in the water; which, however,
                     sometimes happens before they reach the opposite bank. Should the Arab who acts
                     the part of carrier in these cases, accidentally step upon the point of a sharp
                     stick, and suddenly let go his hold, the probability is, that the hold of the
                     gentleman upon his back will reduce both parties to a level, but not to an
                     equality; because the more elevated naturally falls underneath, and he not only
                     suffers from the disaster, but is obliged in the end to pay backshish for a back that failed to carry him over,
                     and no deduction made for getting his own back saturated with mud and
                     water.
                  At one of these fords we met our old friend Maximilian, the celebrated Greek
                     patriarch, who, in company with a high-priest of the same church, performed his
                     pilgrimage to Jerusalem in a basket. Experience had taught him the danger of
                     depending upon a mule when a river was to be crossed; for, on one occasion, the
                     mule upon which the two baskets were hung—that of Maximilian on one side, and
                     that of the high-priest on the other—took it into his head to lie down, which
                     he did in spite of all the Arabs, and it was with difficulty that the venerable
                     pilgrims were rescued from a watery grave. Hence, the wily old patriarch, being
                     too infirm to stand much moving, hit upon the expedient of having himself
                     carried across all future rivers in the following manner:
                  He caused a stout Arab to get under the basket when they arrived at a river;
                     and at a given signal the ropes being unfastened from the mule, and placed in
                     the hands of the carrier, so as to form a secure way of balancing the load, the
                     basket and the patriarch were borne off at the same time, and safely
                     landed on the opposite side, unless in case of accident. If any accident
                     occurred we heard nothing of it. My impression is that Maximilian reached
                     Jerusalem in safety.
                  Any person unacquainted with these circumstances, would, perhaps, at the first
                     glance, imagine that the sketch is designed to represent a peculiar race of men
                     never before heard of; with long beards, basket bodies, and an unusual number
                     of arms and legs, and the knees of the two principal legs turned backward, so
                     that these singularly-constructed people may see what is going on behind them
                     while they walk. There are many curious races of men in the world, according to
                     the narratives of enterprising travelers; but I will not undertake to say that
                     such a race as this is to be found in Palestine. Although fully impressed with
                     that belief when I saw the Greek patriarch mounted in his basket, upon the back
                     of an Arab, I now give this explanation to caution the general reader, as well
                     as all physiologists and scientific men, to be careful how they fall into the
                     same error.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER LII.
                  THE DESOLATE CITY.
                  THIS was a dreary day; from the rising of the sun nothing in sight but a waste
                     of waters on the left, a desert plain on the right, and the blanched and rugged
                     heights of Carmel dim in the distance. Our road lay along the coast of
                     Phœnicia, over barren rocks and beds of sand, all parched and shadowless.
                  Evening came, and thick clouds covered the sky; the sun was hid in the gloom;
                     there was neither heat nor cold, nor glare nor darkness; but a dim, death-like
                     pall was outspread upon the earth. No bird of the air or beast of the field was
                     in sight; no sound broke upon the stillness but the sad moaning of the surf; no
                     sign of life, or hope, or promise was within the last sweep of desolation
                     around.
                  We rode silently on our way; and about the seventh hour of our journey from El
                     Mukhalid, we beheld afar upon the 
                        VILLAGE OF EL MUCHALID
                      shore a ruined city. Fragments of walls and towers rent asunder, and
                     masses of ramparts, shattered by earthquakes and the ravages of war, loomed
                     darkly through the haze. The Arabs stopped, and, pointing to the ruins, said
                     that there lay all that was left of Cesarea.
                  We rode on, and drawing near saw that ghostly city was walled around with
                     ramparts, and masses of ruin were scattered round about over the plain. A few
                     sickly weeds grew among the banks of broken columns and shattered walls; but
                     there was neither shrub nor leaflet nor green sod there; all was withered and
                     lifeless.
                  I stopped awhile to sketch the ruins, while my comrades passed through and went
                     their way toward Tantura. When I had finished, I entered through a crumbling
                     archway, and wandered about, lost in wonder at the utter desolation of the
                     place. Not a living soul was there; not a living thing that I could see; not a
                     sigh, or whisper, or sound of life came from out of the ruins. The silence of
                     death was every where; not even the low wail of the surf now reached me through
                     the masses of shattered walls; and I thought how terrible was the wrath that
                     had thus smitten the abodes of men with destruction; how "the Lord maketh the
                     earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth
                     abroad the inhabitants thereof."
                  There was nothing but ruin every where; high walls rent in gaping fissures;
                     towers shivered asunder to their bases; great archways cast down in rugged
                     masses; streets choked and filled with shattered columns or covered over with
                     blasted earth, all waste and sodless. Not a bird of good or evil omen sat upon
                     the fragments; not a beast haunted the ruins; it was all still, all silent and
                     without life.
                  Ruined cities there are, scattered broadcast throughout this land of
                     desolation; yet all that I had seen had some remnant of vitality within their
                     walls. Dark and squalid men and masked women haunted them; dogs and wild beasts
                     of prey and birds of evil omen fed upon the dead things that were cast out from
                     the doors; but here there was nothing of the present; all was silent, all dead.
                     No foul odors from dark and narrow streets; no bearded men with downcast faces,
                     stalking sadly through the fallen city; no dark-eyed women to steal a flashing
                     look at the stranger; no human voice to utter a word of welcome, or say, Depart
                     in peace; no moody follower of the Prophet to scowl his hatred, or stalk
                     unheeding by; all was of the past.
                  
                  I sat upon a broken column, and looking with a saddened heart upon this scene
                     of desolation, wondered what had become of all that had lived here; the good,
                     the wicked—the brave, the beautiful, and the gay; how lived they; how died
                     they; were all the records of their deeds for centuries past buried with them,
                     and nothing left; was there happiness within these walls; did they feel as we
                     who looked upon these ruins felt; did they look back over the past and forward
                     to the future, and in their ambition encircle the wide world, and turn to dust
                     at last to feed the worms of the earth and nourish the weeds; and was this mass
                     of ruins all they had left to mark the spot?
                  There was not a breath to answer; not a leaf to whisper of the past; all gone,
                     never to be seen upon earth again: not a soul but myself was there—a stranger
                     from a distant land the only inhabitant now.
                  In the grave-yard there is only the gloom of death; silence is all we look for
                     there; but here, in the abiding-place of men, where once there was the din of
                     life, there was the silence of death and more than its gloom; for these walls
                     were built for the living. I had wandered through ruins in another clime, where
                     two thousand years ago a city was buried, and all were buried within it in the
                     midst of life; yet I saw their homes unchanged; the frescoes upon the walls;
                     the marks idly made by the soldiers; the bedrooms, the wine-cellars, the signs
                     upon the doors, the tracks of the carriage-wheels in the streets, as they were
                     buried two thousand years ago; so fresh, so life-like, that one would scarcely
                     be startled to see the dead arise and resume their avocations. But here nothing
                     but the bare and ruined walls was left to tell of the past; there was no
                     connecting link to unite it with the present; nothing within the shattered
                     gateways, or abroad over the desert around, but fragments of columns and
                     massive stones—a waste of ruins; all dreary and voiceless—all wrapt in
                     desolation.
                  The silence of a ship upon the sea at night, when all are buried in sleep, and
                     the waters have ceased their dirge, is without gloom; for the stars in the
                     heavens are worlds where thought may wander; where the soul may drink in the
                     beauties ties of the firmament; and if the darkness be upon the deep, then its
                     mysteries are eloquent; in its unfathomable caves lie wonders that can never
                     cease to inspire glowing thoughts of the greatness of the Omnipotent.
                  Not such is the Desolate City; the city of the silent dead. Here is nothing to
                     tell of them that dwelt there. The land is laid waste, and the earth mourneth
                     and fadeth away. "The Lord hath done that which he had devised; he hath
                     fulfilled his word that he had commanded in the days of old: he hath thrown
                     down and hath not pitied."
                  Such is Kaisariyeh—once a proud city of the Phœnicians; now all that remains of
                     Cesarea Palestina.
                  
                     
                        KAISARIYEH.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER LIII.
                  A SERIOUS CHARGE.
                  AT Tantura an incident occurred which any gentleman of respectable standing in
                     society might well be excused for passing over in silence. I do not believe a
                     similar case is to be found in all the records of Syrian travel, though,
                     doubtless, many a traveler has had personal experience of the same kind. It was
                     an unpleasant charge, to say the least of it; a provoking and unmerited charge;
                     one that touches the very soul of an honorable man in the tenderest part. Fain
                     would I proceed on the journey, and leave Tantura to future travelers; but a
                     desire to maintain that spirit of candor and truthfulness by which it has been
                     my constant endeavor to distinguish this narrative from all others, induces me
                     to give a full exposition of the facts.
                  Tantura is a small village by the sea-side; the houses are also small and very
                     dirty, like all the houses in Palestine. Such a thing as a hotel is not known
                     in Tantura, or even a common tavern, or the remotest approach to any thing like
                     it. There ought to be a Khan there; the traveling public require it, and would
                     patronize such an establishment, but Tantura is Khanless; there is not even a
                     can of milk to be had for love or money. The only place we could find to stop
                     at was a small hut, situated in a pond of green and stagnant water. There was
                     room for improvement all about the house, but not much room inside; at all
                     events, not any to spare, considering that the occupants for the single
                     apartment of which it consisted were already two mules, four goats, several
                     dozen of chickens, and the owner and his wife. Add to this our party of
                     Howadji, servants and muleteers, and there is little left to subtract except
                     the vermin, which might be continually subtracted for many years, and yet leave
                     a remainder. The old Arab, who claimed to be proprietor, was a cadaverous and
                     unwholesome-looking person, broken down in spirits, and evidently laboring
                     under a complication of domestic miseries. His wife was a leather-faced,
                     sharp-featured, shrewish sort of body, who seemed to be continually spurring
                     and goading the old man on to make himself useful, never ceasing for five
                     minutes to keep him at work, and always extremely enraged when he sat down to
                     smoke. I had strong reason for believing that she had bought him with money,
                     and was taking the worth of it out in petty installments; or, it might be, that
                     she really thought the affairs of the house required constant and laborious
                     attention, or they might in the course of time become deranged.
                  After our evening repast was over, being rather tired, we spread our mattresses
                     and lay down, as we supposed, for the night. But it was not for the night, nor
                     for more than a very small part of it; because, as I said before, the house
                     itself was unpromising, the landlord was unpromising, his wife was unpromising,
                     and the whole establishment gave no promise whatever except that of vermin,
                     which was faithfully fulfilled. We had a great abundance, and were not at all
                     disappointed. I was so little disappointed myself that long after my companions
                     fell asleep, which they did at last, I rolled about in extreme bodily anguish,
                     wishing that some of the genii said to exist in those countries would transfer
                     me to the meanest stable-loft at home. There was a dim wick burning in a small
                     earthen lamp, in one corner of the house, by which I was enabled to look about
                     and see if there was any possibility of bettering my condition. Rubbish and
                     dirt abounded in every direction, so that it was some time before I could make
                     out what there was in the opposite corner—rather a darkish sort of place, with
                     some mud cupboards or shelves, not very clearly defined. The thought struck me
                     that there might be some cavity or elevated hole there in which I could stow
                     myself away above ground. It was a very happy thought, and a very bright
                     thought under the circumstances, but
                     not a lucky one, take it altogether. Wishing to disturb nobody, I crept
                     cautiously over two or three snoring Arabs, and reached the corner without
                     waking a living soul, so far as I knew. It was a capital place; indeed, I may
                     say such a snug sort of spot for a quiet nap as would have enchanted any man of
                     imagination. In the corner, and extending along the wall to the length of six
                     or seven feet, was a kind of mud cupboard, with two or three large cavities or
                     shelves in it, a good deal like the place for dead bodies in the catacombs of
                     Rome. But it was not the holes that I was so pleased with; they were all filled
                     with old earthen vessels, kettles, pans, and other loose rubbish; it was the
                     space which I supposed to be on top that charmed me. The mud-work was very
                     frail, and shook a good deal when I began to climb up, but by groping my way
                     cautiously, and balancing the whole structure whenever it began to give way, I
                     got on top at last, about ten feet from the ground, and was greatly rejoiced to
                     find that it was a most admirable place for a night's rest. All it wanted was
                     to be cleared up a little, the surface being covered with onions to the depth
                     of two or three inches. I had thrown my coat up before me, which I often used
                     as a pillow, and, having nowhere else to put the onions, began forthwith to
                     gather them up in a pile at one end, and stow them under the coat, so as to
                     make a comfortable resting-place for the head. This I was doing as quietly as
                     possible, from a desire not to disturb my friends who were asleep down below.
                     While I was raking up the last of the onions, and carefully balancing myself
                     lest the cupboard should fall over and kill somebody, I distinctly heard a
                     voice in the opposite corner of the house; a woman's voice, low but sharp
                     enough to be the voice of the old man's wife, which it unquestionably was. Then
                     there was a guttural response; then the woman's voice again, a little louder
                     and a good deal sharper; another guttural response; a thumping sound, followed
                     by a groan, and then out of the darkness crept the old man, looking up at me as
                     he approached with an expression of countenance in which terror, anxiety, and
                     astonishment predominated. He kept staring at me for some moments to my great
                     surprise, mumbling over something to himself in Arabic, of which I understood
                     not a single word except Howadji. "Well," said I, leaning over the top of the
                     cupboard, "what do you want with the Howadji, old gentleman? Can't you let me
                     make a bed here?" To this he responded as before, only with more spirit, having
                     apparently taken courage at the gentle manner in which I addressed him. Unable
                     to understand him, I resumed the gathering up of the onions. The female voice
                     in the corner again reached my ears, and the old Arab became quite violent. "My
                     friend," said I, rather annoyed, "you are wasting breath. Really I can't
                     understand a word you say. Ho, Yusef! wake up. Ask this old gentleman what he
                     wants." Yusef woke up and rubbed his eyes. "What's the matter, O General? Where
                     is your Excellency?" "Here," said I, "up here on top of the catacombs in the
                     corner." "Bless my soul! And this old fool, what does he want?" "In faith,
                     Yusef, I don't know. He's been growling at me like a bear for ten minutes."
                     Yusef turned fiercely upon the old Arab, and addressed him in tones of thunder.
                     What the answer was I don't know; it certainly was not of a satisfactory
                     nature, for I never before saw Yusef so enraged and indignant. He drew his
                     sword, and would doubtless have put the poor man to death on the spot had not
                     the voice of the woman broken in at this juncture, which caused him to return
                     it to the scabbard in some trepidation, and cover himself up as quickly as
                     possible in his blanket; upon which the old Arab made the best of his way back
                     to the dark corner where his wife was. Yusef now raised up his head again,
                     looked cautiously around him, and indignantly uttered these words: "By Allah!
                     this is too bad! O General! General, my blood boils; for heaven's sake, let me
                     kill somebody; quick, let me kill somebody; I can't stand it, I must—" "Stop,
                     Yusef! There must be no bloodshed here! What did the man say to you?" "Say? O
                     wherefore do you ask me? How can I repeat it? I'm ashamed of my country. In six
                     months, O General, you shall see Yusef Badra in America." "Nay, but I command
                     you to tell me. Out with it, if you choke in the effort. What did he say?" "He
                     said, O General! he said you were stealing his onions!
                      he declared by the holy beard of
                     the Prophet that he saw you at it himself; that with his own eyes he beheld you
                     gather them up and put them in a bag." "Good heavens, Yusef!" "Yea, he called
                     upon his wife to save him from my just wrath; and what do you think she said, O
                     General? Can you guess what she said?" "No, indeed, Yusef; I am perfectly
                     confounded." "She said she missed some of them about a week ago, and had no
                     doubt now that you were the same fellow that stole them, as nobody else knew
                     where they were. Likewise she said, O General, that if I molested her husband
                     she would proceed at once to tear the eyes out of my head, and then enter a
                     complaint against me before the Turkish authorities at Acre, and, at the same
                     time, have your excellency bastinadoed for theft."
                  It was enough; I got down from the top of the cupboard; mildly reproved my
                     companions for making a laughing matter of so serious a charge; requested Yusef
                     to light my chibouck and say no more; calmly seated myself on a spare mat, and
                     gave free indulgence to melancholy reflection. Oh destiny! had it come to
                     this?—to this at last! That I, who had spent four precious years of my life in
                     the Treasury Department of the United States; whose chief study was the study
                     of the banking system; whose most earnest hope was, never, by any visitation of
                     Providence, to be Secretary of the Treasury, president of a bank, or signer of
                     a circulating note; that I, whose only ambition was to be thought an honest man
                     as well as to be one in reality; that I, who had chased the mighty leviathan of
                     the deep, slept in the veritable castle of the renowned Crusoe, dug the
                     glittering ore out of the gold mines of California, explored the remotest
                     corners of the earth for the benefit of mankind,; that I, who had smiled at the
                     Queen of Greece, and frowned at Otho, King of Greece; who had entered upon the
                     grandest Crusade against the Mists of Fancy that ever was conceived by the soul
                     of Chivalry, should at last be accused of stealing onions! Enough! enough! I
                     turned over, put my pipe away, and went fast asleep; for I was callous to fleas
                     now; they might bite me by millions; rats and mice might gnaw at my vitals, but
                     I was totally resigned to all earthly afflictions that could be piled upon me;
                     and the consequence was, I slept soundly till morning.
                  
                     
                        RUINS NEAR TANTURA.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER LIV.
                  AN EXTRAORDINARY AFFAIR.
                  DOCTOR Mendoza and the Madam occupied the house next door. I was going to say
                     they slept there; but they slept nowhere at all on the present occasion. They
                     were wide awake all night; there was no sleep in Tantura for persons of
                     fastidious taste on the subject of hotels: the contrast indeed was rather
                     striking between the accommodations of Tantura and St. Petersburg. Perhaps
                     there never was a more wretched house made by human hands than that occupied by
                     Doctor Mendoza and the Madam—except ours, and I defy the whole world to produce
                     such lodgings as we had.
                  In the morning at break of day, I went out to shake off some of the
                     acquaintances of the night; the Doctor and the Madam were sitting upon a pile
                     of baggage in front of their hotel, groaning in a most disconsolate manner. We
                     were always strictly Parisian in our politeness—no matter under what
                     circumstances we met—especially the Madam, who had been educated in the true
                     French school. It would have done any man of feeling good to see her when she
                     rose from the baggage and returned my salutation; it was the most striking
                     exhibition of politeness under difficulties that I ever beheld. Her skin was
                     perfectly green, spotted over with red bites; her nose swollen to an unusual
                     size by repeated attacks made by noxious reptiles; her hair disheveled and
                     uncombed, and her dress and general exterior, covered with dirty straw and mud.
                     Yet she bowed as gracefully and smiled as pleasantly, as ever bowed and smiled
                     a lady in the dress circles of a Parisian Opera-house. It was really charming
                     to behold such unruffled politeness. "Oh, Monsieur General éral! Monsieur
                     Général! was all she could say—"Quel jolie ville, Tantura! Quel hôtel Parisien!
                     Oh, Mon Dieu!' and throwing up her hands, she sank down again upon the baggage
                     in the most graceful manner. I verily believe if it were the fate of the Madam
                     to be seized by a Royal Bengal tiger she would melt him by her politeness, or
                     die gracefully in his teeth.
                  Doctor Mendoza's skin was greener than ever; that is to say, the green
                     predominated, but there were yellow spots, and red and black spots all over his
                     face, which gave some variety of color to his features. There was but little
                     variety in the expression, however, for it was that of unmitigated disgust for
                     Tantura and its accommodations. The corners of his mouth almost tied themselves
                     in a knot under his chin, and his under lip formed a perfect representation of
                     a piece of beef-steak thoroughly saturated with water.
                  "Good-morning, Doctor," said I; "how did you pass the night?"
                  "No pass de night!" replied the Doctor gloomily, "'tis imposs to sleep. Very
                     bad place dis. Hotel are not good in Tantura. Very bad hotel. De Madam is
                     indispose. He shall have pleasure to arrive at Beirut. Very good hotel in
                     Beirut. I no like dis country. Tis interess for the ruin, but I no like the
                     ruin for sleep in, cos 'tis imposs to sleep. Very much pulce for bite. No get
                     much to eat here; no much flesh on the Arab for manger. 'Tis necess for eat de
                     traveler. I shall be tres contents to leave Tantura—'Tis imposs to remain
                     here."
                  I really felt very sorry for the Doctor; he looked so green and dejected, so
                     utterly incapable of enjoying misery, so wrapt up in that single idea of a
                     comfortable hotel, that I declare upon my honor had it been in my power I would
                     have built a hotel on the spot, and given him the very best room in it. There
                     was no help for him, however; and expressing my sympathy for his unhappy
                     condition, I returned into the hut to dispatch a hasty cup of coffee before
                     starting upon our journey.
                  Yusef had prepared a good breakfast of stewed chicken and rice; but having no appetite, I contented myself
                     with the coffee and a small piece of bread; after which I called for a
                     chibouck, and endeavored to soothe my nervous system by a comfortable smoke.
                     The conversation turned incidentally upon the affair of the onions. I was
                     averse to any allusion to so humiliating an episode in our tour, and made
                     several attempts to change the subject. It was no easy matter, as may be
                     supposed, to silence our dragoman when any thing unusual was weighing upon his
                     mind; he had to give vent to his indignation in some way, and the most natural
                     was by talking.
                  Although he spoke in English which it was not likely the old Arab woman
                     understood, he had hitherto kept a guarded watch upon his tongue; but now
                     finding she had disappeared, he broke forth in his usual strain of violence. He
                     denounced the whole female sex as the root of all evil; he protested that he
                     would sooner be tied to the tail of a wild horse than to any female that ever
                     breathed; he swore that the insult offered by that old hag to his beloved
                     friend and master, would rankle in his breast until he had slain every male
                     member in the family. I was greatly moved at this avowal of sympathy and
                     devotion, and did my best to soothe the excited feelings of Yusef, by telling
                     him that the greatest of mankind were subject to the caprices of fate; that
                     charges alike humiliating had been preferred against high officers of state and
                     other great men, who required far more to be distinguished for integrity than
                     myself; that in the present case this was an ignorant old woman, who was more
                     to be pitied for her ignorance than blamed for the injustice she had done me;
                     that it was very true many evils in this life could be traced to the gentler
                     sex, yet we could not well do without this source of trouble, for were we alone
                     in the world we would find ourselves much more miserable, and in all
                     probability would pine away for want of something to make us only as unhappy as
                     we were before, and in the end become totally extinct. To this Yusef replied
                     that he felt the full force of my remarks, and would even go as far as to admit
                     that perhaps this was one of the necessary evils of life; but what he most
                     insisted upon was, that there was no other evil that did not spring from the
                     female sex; in illustration of which he related the well-known case of the
                     Persian Shah, who had repeatedly demonstrated the truth of the axiom. I had
                     read about this case somewhere, and it was already known to me, but inasmuch as
                     the reader may not be familiar with it, I may as well add that this renowned
                     Shah was in the habit of asking, whenever any disaster occurred—Who was she?
                     meaning thereby, who was the female that caused it. On one occasion a poor
                     stone-mason fell from the top of a house and broke his leg. The Shah demanded
                     the name of the woman. His attendants said it was not a woman, but a poor
                     stone-mason. "Who was she?" repeated the Shah. "Go find out what woman caused
                     this accident." The attendants did so; they inquired of the poor mason, and
                     ascertained that while he was at work on the top of the house, he saw a
                     beautiful woman in the street, and in leaning over to see her the better, he
                     lost his balance and fell to the ground. Such was the cause of the accident;
                     "And" said Yusef, alluding perhaps remotely to a certain feat of horsemanship,
                     and a certain bad dream concerning a lion, in the earlier part of the journey,
                     "such is the cause of all the disasters that have ever——"
                  Here the conversation was cut short by the most dreadful series of noises that
                     I had heard during the whole journey. My first impression was that we were
                     besieged by a party of mounted Bedouins; for the yelling of horses and the
                     shrieking and screaming of Arabs were perfectly deafening. I looked appealingly
                     to Yusef. He was our only hope of salvation in the terrible emergency of the
                     moment. At first he turned pale, evidently with joy at the prospect of a fight;
                     then hearing the noises more distinctly, he sprang to his feet, seized his
                     sword and rushed out, foaming with rage. The tall Southerner and myself, loth
                     to see him sacrificed in our defense, without striking a blow in our own
                     behalf, followed him with what weapons we could snatch up in the hurry of the
                     occasion. Upon reaching the open space in front of the hut, we beheld a sight
                     that might well astonish and confound the most experienced of travelers.
                  
                  Several of the horses belonging to Dr. Mendoza's party, and our own three, were
                     twisted up in a convulsed group, in all the fury of mortal combat! Syed Sulemin
                     was standing on his hind-legs in the very midst of the contending parties,
                     striking out frantically with his fore-legs in every direction. The iron-gray,
                     with his head outside of the circle, was kicking behind him to the extreme
                     extent of his power; and Saladin—alas, that I should be called upon to narrate
                     so disgraceful a proceeding on the part of a descendant of the renowned Ashrik!
                     Saladin, regardless of that high fraternal spirit which should prevail even
                     among horses against a common enemy, was biting Syed Sulemin! actually tearing
                     and torturing with his teeth the very flesh out of the rear of a
                     fellow-warrior! Well might the noble Sulemin keenly feel this unkindest cut of
                     all—the common enemy bearing down upon him on the right and on the left and in
                     front; and a sharp fire in the rear from one who should have given him all
                     needful aid and comfort.
                  All the Arabs belonging to both parties were running around with cudgels in
                     their hands beating the horses, and striving by that means, and by the most
                     terrific shouts, to separate them. Emanuel Balthos, the dragoman of the
                     Portuguese party, was also running about; but he was judiciously beating the
                     Arabs for suffering the horses to fight, and not the horses for fighting. Yusef
                     upon seeing that some of his own Arabs received the chief portion of the
                     punishment, rushed into the battle and cudgeled the Arabs of Emanuel Balthos.
                     Doctor Mendoza, apprehensive that the fight was becoming general, danced all
                     about, tearing his hair, and calling upon Yusef and Emanuel and the Arabs and
                     the horses—all to stop fighting for God's sake, or it would frighten the Madam
                     out of "his wits." He shouted in Portuguese, in French, in Italian, in English;
                     he protested that the "Madam was indispose;" that it was "necess to remain
                     tranquil," but all in vain—there was no stopping the fight; and in the
                     extremity of his despair, he wrung his hands, and groaned—"'Tis imposs! 'tis
                     imposs!" The Madam shrieked wildly, in her anxiety for the safety of the
                     Doctor; she shrieked alternately nately, "Mon Dieu! Mon
                        Dieu!" and "Docteur! Docteur!"
                     and strove several times to faint upon the pile of baggage, but was unable to
                     do so on account of the interest she felt in the progress of the contest.
                  Eventually the whole affair was brought to a conclusion in a very singular
                     manner. Tokina, the ass, having received a kick from one of the horses,
                     doubtless, for casting ridicule upon the battle by incessantly braying, ran to
                     the mules for satisfaction: they being tied fast to a shed, were rather more
                     contracted in their sphere of action. The sudden and violent attack which he
                     made upon this party, caused them to show their resentment with one accord; and
                     so unanimous was the strain upon the shed, that it fell to the ground with a
                     tremendous crash, filling the air with dust and fragments, and totally
                     confounding every animal and every spectator on the entire premises. The strife
                     was at an end. The horses were led away panting; the mules were unfastened from
                     the wreck of matter; and Tokina, the peace-maker, ran off as fast as he could
                     toward Acre, braying hysterically at the absurd issue to which he had brought
                     the whole affair, and the contempt which he had thereby cast upon every body
                     concerned in it except himself. I could not but feel vexed and mortified at
                     this insulting conduct on the part of Tokina; and I really thought when I
                     caught the last glimpse of his ears in the distance that he was as great an ass
                     as anybody.
                  It is hardly necessary to add that upon a general review of the circumstances,
                     it was ascertained that the whole difficulty orginated in a matter of jealousy
                     between Syed Sulemin and my horse Saladin.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER LV.
                  RISE, DECLINE, AND FALL OF YUSEF BADRA.
                  NATIONS have had their good and evil fortune, and, according to all the
                     evidences of history, the vicissitudes of prosperity and adversity which have
                     attended them, have invariably resulted from in their own good or evil conduct.
                     So we find it even more immediately apparent in the case of individuals. The
                     fate of my renowned dragoman, friend, and leader, Yusef Badra, furnishes,
                     perhaps, one of the most striking illustrations on record.
                  I have endeavored to show in the course of this narrative that Yusef was, by
                     nature and education, fierce and unrelenting in his prejudices; that the two
                     ruling prejudices of his life were, an innate hostility to the female sex, and
                     an insatiable thirst for the blood of his fellow-creatures; that to restrain
                     him from the indulgence of these unfortunate propensities, was my constant
                     endeavor throughout the entire journey. From the time of leaving Jerusalem,
                     this task, partly of friendship and partly of self-preservation, became daily
                     more arduous; and so much trouble did it occasion me, that I often felt
                     disposed to abandon him to his fate. All the nieces, whom he failed to meet on
                     the road after leaving Damascus, he met in Jerusalem. Despising the whole sex,
                     as he did, he nevertheless felt it to be his duty to call upon his relations,
                     for the sake of his deceased uncle, whose memory he considered himself bound to
                     honor. Now, these nieces, as well as all that he had previously met in Baalbek
                     and elsewhere, knowing his repugnance to the sex, always maliciously contrived
                     to make him drunk with arrack, so as to humble him in the eyes of the world. It
                     was entirely in vain that I represented to him the weakness of suffering fering
                     himself to be caught by their snares; he declared that they were as cunning as
                     so many devils, and that a man might as well undertake to live without eating
                     or drinking, as to avoid the snares of woman; in short, as he had often said
                     before, that the female sex was the root of all evil.
                  Scarcely a town on the coast, as we drew near Beirut, was free from these
                     temptations. At Acre, we slept in a very fine house, owned by the husband of
                     Yusef's most beautiful niece. This one he hated more than all the rest, because
                     she was more malicious. She made him drunk so soon, that when he brought us in
                     our supper, it was with difficulty he could stand upright; and all the English
                     he remembered was the burden of a song which I had taught him on the road, in
                     the hope of overcoming his absurd prejudice against womankind. Even that he was
                     puzzled to get exactly right. At first he had it: 
                        
                           "Oh, believe me, if all those endearing young arms,
                           Which are twined round me fondly to-day,
                           Were to change by to-morrow, and lose all their charms—"
                        
                      And then finding himself at a loss for what was to follow, he began again: 
                        
                           "Oh, endear me, if all those believing young arms
                           Were to twine round me fondly to-day,
                           I'd change by to-morrow, and fleet in those charms—"
                        
                      But that was not right; he thought he must have been right at first: 
                        
                           "Oh, gaze on me fondly, if all those young charms,
                           Which are-twined round my arms to-day—"
                        
                      And so on, till I was forced in self-defense to request silence, and sing
                     the song myself, which so inspired Yusef that he danced all around the room;
                     then made a fierce and sudden attack upon Francesco, the boy, whom he conquered
                     in a moment; and finally declared he loved his glorious General, he loved the
                     tall Southerner, and he loved Francesco, and he loved Syed Sulemin, and he
                     loved Tokina the ass; nay, by heavens! he almost loved his niece! In this happy
                     frame of mind, he retired to remote and unknown parts of the house, and we saw nothing of him again till
                     morning; when, as usual of late, he looked morose and gloomy, and beat all the
                     muleteers. Truly, saith Socrates, doth intemperance rob us of our reason, that
                     chief excellence of man, and drive us to commit the very greatest
                     disorders.
                  Thus, it will be seen, commenced the decline of Yusef Badra. His rise took
                     place on the journey to Jerusalem. At Baalbek, he rose rather high. At Damascus
                     he rose higher. At Jerusalem he rose highest. Now commenced his decline. That
                     very day, on the journey to Tyre, as we were going through a narrow pass, we
                     met a caravan of camels. Yusef, incensed at the driver of the first camel for
                     not getting out of the way, came very near slaying both the man and the camel
                     on the spot; and would have done so, had not the man exhibited so much spirit
                     and courage that it struck the warlike soul of Badra with admiration; he not
                     only pardoned the offense, but cordially shook hands with the offender and
                     passed on. I saw with pain and anxiety that Yusef was daily giving way more and
                     more to his fierce passions; and that sooner or later, it must end in his utter
                     ruin. On the occasion of this difficulty, therefore, I deemed it my duty to
                     warn him of the results that would probably ensue from this unlimited sway of
                     courage.
                  "What," said I, "would have been the consequence had that man been a coward?
                     You would have slain him on the spot—run him through the body with your sword.
                     I saw it in your eye, Yusef; don't deny it; I saw that you meant to do it."
                  "Do it?" cried Yusef, smiling proudly. "Fight a single man? a miserable
                     camel-driver? No, sir; I merely intended to cut his head off with one blow, so
                     that he never would find out till he sneezed that it was off at all; the camel
                     I should simply have ripped open."
                  "That's precisely what I mean. The man was not a coward, and, therefore, you
                     admired him, and felt that he was a congenial soul. You spared his life; you
                     shook hands with him; you loved him as a brother. But had he been a coward, as
                     I before said, what would have been the consequence? A momentary pleasure to
                     you, would have been death to him. For I certainly could not have arrested your
                     arm, situated as we were in a narrow pass."
                  "It is even as your Excellency says," replied Yusef, with deep contrition;
                     "such, indeed, was my intention. I freely confess it. But consider, beloved
                     General, the circumstances, I may say the character and extent of the
                     provocation. For nearly forty days have I restrained myself to gratify your
                     Excellency. Never before have I performed the journey through Syria without
                     killing at least six men. This time what have I killed? My sword and fire-arms
                     are fairly rusty for want of use. Not a single life have I taken up to the
                     present date."
                  "You are certainly mistaken in that, Yusef. I saw you cut the heads off of more
                     than a hundred chickens before we reached Jerusalem, and I have your own word
                     for it that you killed a gazelle on the plains of Esdraelon. Besides that, you
                     struck terror into the soul of every suspicious vagabond on the road; and I'll
                     venture to assert that many of them have since died from fright, which, the
                     experience of medical men sufficiently demonstrates, has frequently produced
                     that result. Now, I hold, that you might as well kill a man as frighten him to
                     death."
                  "Your Excellency is right," cried Yusef; "I did do some trifling service in
                     that way, merely to keep my hand in. I likewise killed a couple of men in
                     Jerusalem, as a matter of amusement. I had forgotten the circumstance. However,
                     I shall never be able to show my face in Beirut, or sleep soundly on my arrival
                     there, without killing at least one more; and I ask it, as a special favor,
                     that your Excellency will not deny me this pleasure."
                  "Most emphatically I forbid it, Yusef. Furthermore, I take this occasion to
                     declare that if you attack or molest in any way a single unoffending person
                     between this and Beirut, I shall put you in a book. Not one of your daring and
                     intrepid acts has escaped my notice. These frightful exhibitions of
                     chivalry—these perils that you are continually rushing upon, endangering not
                     only your own life but the lives of the whole party, shall be fully described
                     and held up to the traveling community munity, to warn them of the evil effects of misguided courage. Yusef Badra
                     shall become a name not only feared throughout Syria, but a terror throughout
                     the whole civilized world!"
                  This threat, which I made with all the force and emphasis necessary to give it
                     full effect, did not allay in any degree the fiery zeal of my dragoman.
                     Scarcely had I concluded, when he seized my hand in the most enthusiastic
                     manner, and said—
                  "By all the compromises of Earth, O General. I would slay ten thousand men, and
                     die ten thousand deaths to oblige your Excellency! If you deem me worthy of
                     figuring in this important history of which you speak, I only ask that you will
                     call me by my proper name, and give me no fictitious title."
                  "I'll do it, Yusef—I'll certainly do it; so I warn you; be on your guard."
                  With that, to my great surprise, he gave vent to his fearful war-cry, Badra!
                     Badra for ever! and before I could utter a word, dashed off at full speed. It
                     was in vain that I shouted to him to stop; there was no stopping him now; and
                     as I rode along, restraining by every possible means the fiery spirit of
                     Saladin, my mind was filled with the most gloomy forebodings. I felt quite sure
                     that something dreadful was going to happen. Oh that insatiable thirst for
                     fame! How it 
                        
                           "——Heaps the plain with mountains of the dead,
                           Nor ends with life, but nods in sable plumes,
                           Adorns our hearse, and flatters on our tombs!"
                        
                     
                  
                  As we drew near Beirut, we stopped at every house on the road-side to inquire
                     if Yusef had passed. The muleteers had gone on; and the party now being reduced
                     to the tall Southerner and myself, we were compelled to depend altogether upon
                     signs for the information we sought—pronouncing in various different ways the
                     name of our leader and the word dragoman, and then pointing up the road. The
                     answers were invariably to the same effect, and being communicated in signs
                     they were singularly dramatic. We judged, from the frantic manner in which
                     these signs were made, that a furious horseman had passed, that he was armed
                     with guns, pistols, and knives; that he flourished his sword at every body in
                     the most terrific manner; that he smote the very air for breathing ing in his
                     face, and vanished in a cloud of dust. The description was not to be mistaken.
                     No other horseman than Yusef could be meant.
                  Within six miles of Beirut, we overtook a withered little man, hobbling along
                     and talking strangely to himself: he stopped when he saw us, and running up
                     began howling frantically at us in Arabic, and flourishing his hands in the
                     air, and beating his sides by turns in the strangest manner, as if entirely
                     bereft of his senses. Our first thought was that the poor fellow was drunk or
                     crazy; our next that he was a beggar, and wanted alms. We threw him a few
                     piastres, which set him to howling louder than ever, nor did he stop his
                     violent gesticulations to pick them up, but ran after us as we rode on, working
                     himself into a perfect phrensy. That he was an unfortunate lunatic we were now
                     thoroughly convinced; he ran after us for as much as a mile, sometimes catching
                     our horses by the tails and trying to stop them; and when he found that we
                     still continued on, he at length flung himself prostrate on the ground, rolled
                     over and over, and howled like a hyena. The whole thing was unaccountable and
                     singular. Not the remotest idea of the cause occurred to either of us. Unable
                     to do any thing for the poor fellow, we rode on as fast as we could to the
                     nearest hut, which was in sight, and made signs to some Arabs there to go back
                     and see what was the matter. To this the only reply we could get was a perfect
                     torrent of Arabic, and the most threatening and indignant looks, mingled with
                     the words—Beirut! Beirut!
                  I declare, for my own part, that I was completely struck aghast with mystery.
                     Certainly it was the most singular occurrence that had happened during the
                     entire journey. What could it mean? Was the man mad? Were all the Arabs near
                     Beirut bereft of their senses? In truth, it seemed so; and entirely unable to
                     come to any other understanding in regard to the matter we pushed on rapidly;
                     and in about an hour more entered the suburbs of Beirut.
                  It was a delightful evening. The civilized appearance of the town, after all
                     the ruinous places we had seen, the familiar masts of the shipping, the stir
                     and activity every where, had an
                     indescribably pleasant effect. It seemed quite like returning home, after a
                     long absence. I thought, when we drew up in the neat front yard of Demetrie's
                     Hotel, that it was the cleanest and most pleasant-looking place I had ever
                     seen; that the Arabs lounging about were all dandies of the first rank in the
                     world of fashion; that Demetrie was the finest-looking man, with his splendid
                     mustache and Albanian costume, that could be found in the whole East; and, in
                     short, that every thing and every body looked wonderfully new and
                     civilized.
                  Yusef was not there. He had arrived; had embraced his friend Demetrie, who
                     admitted that he was a little under the influence of arrack; and, as well as we
                     could understand from the drift of Demetrie's hints, had gone off to see one of
                     his nieces, to whom he had a letter from another niece in Jerusalem.
                  It was not until after breakfast the next morning, that we enjoyed the pleasure
                     of seeing Yusef. He was standing out in the front yard, dressed in the most
                     gorgeous of Oriental costumes. His turban was of the richest texture and most
                     flashing colors; his vest actually glittered with gilded embroidery and silver
                     buttons; his sash was of flaming vermilion; his sword and atagar of Damascus,
                     dazzled the eye as they swung by his side in the morning sun-beams; his legs
                     were swathed in crimson velvet; and his feet seemed to spurn the earth in the
                     glory of yellow embroidered slippers, the richest productions of Aleppo. I
                     declare, without exaggeration, when I saw him thus encircled by an admiring
                     crowd, rolling out torrents of rich Arabic, as he gracefully waved his hands in
                     the air, showing with what ease he had encountered the Bedouins from Damascus
                     to the Dead Sea, I thought he was the most graceful, warlike, and
                     distinguished-looking man the world had ever produced. When I approached and
                     said: "Good-morning, Yusef; how do you do?" it was really flattering to my
                     feelings, the mingled dignity and deference with which he bowed to me, and the
                     Oriental richness of the figures of speech which he made use of in returning
                     the compliments of the morning.
                  "Brightest ornament of the glorious land of Liberty," said he, "radiant and
                     most effulgent miracle of Generals, most graceful, extraordinary, and
                     accomplished horseman; thou who fearest neither man nor beast; thou who hast
                     traversed the dangerous and devious windings of the desert mountains of Syria,
                     like the flaming planet that was deemed worthy to be worshiped by the great
                     Zoroaster;—behold! I, who have never bowed to Bedouin foe; I, who would scorn
                     to bend the knee by compulsion before the grand Sovereign of all the Turkeys;
                     I, Yusef Badra, kiss the hem of thy garment, and greet thee with the willing
                     devotion of a heart steeped to the core in human blood!—a heart that seldom
                     throbs save in a crimson sea of gore!"
                  In this strain he talked for some time, greatly to the admiration of all the
                     surrounding Arabs; after which, we set out, under his guidance, to make some
                     purchases in the bazaars. As we were strolling along leisurely through the
                     streets of Beirut, I took advantage of the occasion to ask Yusef the reason of
                     his mysterious disappearance on the road. He changed color a little at the
                     abruptness of the question; but quickly answered that it was merely for the
                     purpose of killing a man, of whom he had heard strange accounts in Sidon. This
                     man, it appeared, was of gigantic stature, seven feet high at least, and large
                     in proportion; every body on the road was afraid of him; he had even
                     threatened, in case he ever met Yusef Badra, to clip the ears from the head of
                     that individual; which, taken altogether, so aroused the soul of Badra, that he
                     had determined upon putting this braggart to death. After his (Yusef's)
                     conversation with his beloved General, being inspired thereby, and reminded of
                     this giant, he set out full speed for the purpose of carrying his purpose into
                     execution. He had not gone more than a few miles when he discovered the giant,
                     concealed behind a rock, waiting for him. Maddened at the cowardice of this
                     trick, he put spurs to Syed Sulemin, dashed straight up to the spot with drawn
                     sword, and challenged the miserable wretch to stand forth and defend himself.
                     The miserable wretch was even taller than he was represented to be—eight feet
                     high at least. But, in despite of
                     that, finding him unwilling to close in the fight, Yusef dismounted and beat
                     him with the flat of his sword till the poor braggart cried out that he was
                     killed, conquered, overwhelmed, and completely satisfied. "Doubtless he is dead
                     by this time," added Yusef, with great coolness, "it is impossible that he
                     could have long survived the fright and the beating together."
                  At this juncture, I was astonished to perceive that Yusef turned ghastly pale;
                     his knees knocked together, and he was transfixed to the ground like one who
                     unexpectedly discovers a spectre. Following the direction of his starting eyes,
                     I beheld two Turkish soldiers within a few steps, walking straight up to him.
                     "Excuse me, gentlemen," said Yusef, turning to us, with a ghastly smile,
                     "I—I—have a l—l—little business to settle." At the same moment, the Turkish
                     soldiers laid their hands upon his shoulders, uttered a few words in a low tone
                     of voice, took him each by the arm, and walked off rapidly, leaving both my
                     friend and myself perfectly amazed and confounded.
                  Alas! need I tell it? this was the fall of Yusef Badra! In two hours the whole
                     town of Beirut was in commotion. It was cried aloud in Greek, in Arabic, in
                     Italian, in French, in English—Have you heard the news? Yusef Badra's in jail!
                     Badra's in jail! Badra! Badra! God help poor Badra! Sad is the fate of Badra!
                     Poor Badra! Unhappy Badra!
                  We returned toward Demetrie's. The pathway was lined with Arabs, friends, and
                     fellow citizens of the fallen Badra. They cried aloud to us, as we passed,
                     Howadji! Howadji! Badra! Badra!
                  We entered the yard in front of Demetrie's. It was filled with muleteers who
                     had served under Badra; among whom we recognized our own Mustapha. They cried
                     out to us, O Howadji! Howadji! Badra! Badra!—Mustapha caught us frantically by
                     the coat-tails, and wept aloud, while he pointed toward the jail, and cried,
                     Badra! Badra!
                  We met Demetrie in the saloon. His fine face was clouded with trouble. "Have
                     you heard the news?" said he, "Badra's dra's in jail! Yusef Badra's in jail. O,
                     Howadji! can't you get him out! He's a good fellow! He drinks; but he's a good
                     fellow! O Howadji! Howadji! Badra! Badra!"
                  We went straightway down to the office of the American consul. At the door we
                     met Eleas, the servant of the English captain, who was weeping bitterly.
                     "Badra's in jail," he cried, "poor Yusef Badra! They put him in jail for
                     nothing at all—they'll punish him for nothing at all—only beating a miserable
                     Turk on the road! O, Howadji! Howadji! save him! Save poor Yusef, your friend
                     and dragoman!"
                  It was even as Eleas told us. The withered little man, whom we had met on the
                     road, was the victim of Yusef's misguided courage; and had laid his complaint
                     before the Turkish authorities that morning. Yusef was accordingly seized, as
                     already stated, and put in jail.
                  The American consul, in compliance with our request, sent for Yusef; who was
                     accompanied to the office by a guard of Turkish soldiers. There was much talk
                     on all sides; but the authorities were immovable. Nothing could be done. The
                     case was an aggravated one, and must go before the Sultan. It was for the Grand
                     Seignor to decide what was to be done with a man so inspired with courage that
                     he could not pass a decrepit old Turk on the road without attempting to kill
                     him. The consul did all in his power; we said and did all we could; the friends
                     of Yusef wept all they could. It was to no purpose; the laws of the land must
                     take their course. Poor Yusef! No more was he Yusef the Brave! Yusef the
                     Destroyer of Robbers! Throughout Beirut he was now, "Poor Yusef!"—nothing but
                     "Poor Yusef!"
                  We went to his prison. There he sat behind the bars, surrounded by thieves and
                     vagrants, and stared at by the idle rabble outside, crushed down in body and
                     soul. The big tears rolled down his cheeks. When he saw us he covered his face
                     and groaned: "My niece did it, gentlemen; she made me drunk. All my misfortunes
                     have come from devils in the form of angels. Take warning, O Howadji, and never
                     put faith in woman!" We told him how sorry we were that we could do nothing for him; that he was a very
                     pitiable object to be sure, but he could only blame himself for it; that it
                     would be greatly to his advantage in the end, perhaps, to spend some time in
                     prison, inasmuch as it would enable him to refrain from visiting his nieces,
                     and save him from the mortification of being made drunk on arrack; that
                     confinement has its pleasures as well as its pains; and should he be kept in
                     jail six months it would doubtless be a continual source of satisfaction to him
                     to reflect upon the blood of the six Bedouins he had slain, and anticipate the
                     pleasure of killing six more as soon as he was set at liberty; in short, that
                     although he would present a most pitiful and heart-rending sight behind the
                     bars, to all his pretty nieces who might chance to pass that way, and was a fit
                     subject of commiseration for all the muleteers whom he had beaten on the road,
                     yet that, considering the thing in its proper light, there was every reason to
                     congratulate himself, inasmuch as he would be comfortably provided for in the
                     way of bread and water, and not suffered to spend his money extravagantly, for
                     it would all be taken care of, and properly appropriated to the use of the
                     Turkish authorities, and that of the old man whom he had beaten on the
                     road.
                  Having thus afforded all the consolation in our power to the unfortunate Yusef,
                     we bade him a kindly farewell, never more, perhaps, to see his familiar face
                     again. The steamer for Alexandria, was already getting up steam.
                  We returned to Demetrie's, with a crowd of Arabs after us, who still cried out
                     to us, as if they thought the Howadji all-powerful, "O save poor Yusef Badra! O
                     Howadji! Howadji! take pity upon poor Yusef Badra! the friend of our heart! the
                     joy and pride of Beirut!"
                  As we sat down to our last dinner at the hotel, Doctor Mendoza and the Madam
                     entered. They had arrived the day before us. They were delighted at the happy
                     termination of the voyage through Syria; Doctor Mendoza said that the Madam was
                     a little indispose, in consequence of the horse-fight at Tantura, which had
                     disordered his (the Madam's) nerves; but he would be well directly.
                  Doctor Mendoza had, with his customary kindness of heart, evinced the most
                     profound concern for the fate of our dragoman from the moment he had heard of
                     his arrest by the Turkish soldiers. He went to the Portuguese consul's that
                     afternoon, before the steamer sailed, and stated the whole case in the hope of
                     obtaining Yusef's release. On his return he popped his head in at the door of
                     our room, where we sat smoking our chiboucks, and lamenting the unhappy fate of
                     the Destroyer of Robbers. With a clouded brow and desponding voice, he told us
                     of the interview:
                  "I have speak my consul for your dragoman. No-ting can be done. She are necess
                     to remain in jail, because she can not get out. No more she shall voyage at
                     present. 'Tis imposs. It will be necess for her to remain tranquil. Very bad
                     hotel in jail, because it are without the convenience for eat and sleep.
                     Consequent she shall die. Dis is all. No more at present she shall get out. I
                     am very sorry, but—'tis imposs!"
                  
                     
                        THE END OF YUSEF.
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
            STANDARD BOOKS RECENTLY PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS,
            FRANKLIN SQUARE, NEW YORK.
            
               Coleridge's Complete Works. Complete Works of Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
                  Comprising The Friend; Aids to Reflection; Biographia Literaria; Poetical and
                  Dramatic Works; Lectures on Shakspeare; Literary Remains; Church and State.
                  Portrait. Small 8vo, Muslin, $1 00 per Volume.
               Lives of the Humboldts. Lives of the Brothers Humboldt, Alexander and William.
                  Translated and arranged from the German of KLENCKE and SCHLESIER, by JULIETTE
                  BAUER. With Portraits. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
               Ranke's Civil Wars. Civil Wars and Monarchy in France, in the Sixteenth and
                  Seventeenth Centuries; a History of France principally during that Period. By
                  LEOPOLD RANKE, Author of 'A History of the Popes in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
                  Centuries." Translated by M. A. GARVEY. 12mo, Muslin.
               Homes of the English Martyrs. By Rev. CHARLES B. TAYLOR. Beautifully
                  Illustrated. 12mo.
               Ross Browne's "Yusef." Yusef: a Crusade in the East. A Narrative of Personal
                  Adventures and Travels on the Shores of the Mediterranean, in Asia Minor,
                  Palestine, and Syria. By J. ROSS BROWNE. 12mo, Muslin. (In
                  press.)
               Grote's History of Greece. History of Greece.—I. Legendary Greece.—II. Grecian
                  History to the Reign of Peisistratus at Athens. By GEORGE GROTE. 10 vols. 12mo,
                  Muslin, 75 cents per Volume.
               Dr. Cox's Interviews. Interviews, Memorable and Useful. From Diary and Memory
                  Reproduced By Rev. Dr. SAMUEL H. COX. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
               Dr. Kane's Arctic Expedition. The United States Grinnell Arctic Expedition in
                  Search of Sir John Franklin By Dr. E. K. KANE, U.S.N. With Illustrations. 8vo,
                  Muslin.
               Alison's History of Europe. History of Europe from the Fall of Napoleon in 1815
                  to the Accession of Louis Napoleon in 1852. By Sir ARCHIBALD ALISON, Bart., Author
                  of the "History of Europe from the Commencement of the French Revolution in 1789
                  to the Battle of Waterloo," &c., &c. A New Series. Publishing in Parts.
                  Part I 8vo, Paper, 50 cents; English and Edinburgh Edition also for sale, at $4
                  25.
               
               Burns's Life and Works. Life and Works of Robert Burns. Edited by ROBERT
                  CHAMBERS. 4 vols. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents per Volume.
               Lamartine's Restoration. History of the Restoration of Monarchy in France.
                  Being a Sequel to the "History of the Girondists." By ALPHONSE DE LAMARTINE.
                  Portrait. 3 vols. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents per Volume.
               Guizot's Shakspeare. Shakspeare and his Times. By M. GUIZOT. 12mo, Muslin, $1
                  00.
               Guizot's Corneille. Corneille and his Times. By M. GUIZOT. 12mo, Muslin, $1
                  00.
               Gray's Geology. Elements of Geology. By ALONZO GRAY, A.M., Author of "Elements
                  of Chemistry" and "Elements of Natural Philosophy," and C. B. ADAMS, A.M., Fellow
                  of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Professor in Amherst College, and
                  State Geologist of Vermont. With numerous Illustrations. 12mo, Sheep, 75
                  cents.
               Lossing's Field-Book of the Revolution. The Pictorial Field-Book of the
                  Revolution; or, Illustrations, by Pen and Pencil, of the History, Biography,
                  Scenery, Relics, and Traditions of the War for Independence. By BENSON J. LOSSING.
                  With over 1100 Engravings on Wood, by Lossing and Barritt, chiefly from original
                  Sketches by the Author. 2 vols. Royal 8vo, Muslin, $8 00; Sheep, $9 00; Half Calf,
                  $10 00; Morocco, gilt edges, $15 00; Volume I., Muslin, $3 50; Volume II., $4
                  50.
               Goodrich's Select British Eloquence. Select British Eloquence; embracing the
                  best Speeches entire of the most Eminent Orators of Great Britain for the last two
                  Centuries; with Sketches of their Lives, an Estimate of their Genius, and Notes,
                  Critical and Explanatory. By CHAUNCEY A. GOODRICH, D.D. 8vo, Muslin, $3 50; Sheep,
                  $3 75; Half Calf, $4 00.
               Mrs. Hale's Woman's Record. Woman's Record; or, Biographical Sketches of all
                  Distinguished Women from the Creation to the Present Time. Arranged in Four Eras,
                  with Selections from Female Writers of each Era. By Mrs. SARAH JOSEPHA HALE.
                  Illustrated with more than 200 Portraits, engraved by Benson J. Lossing, Esq. 8vo,
                  Muslin, $5 00; Half Calf, $5 50; Morocco, gilt edges, $7 50.
               Pierson's Missionary Memorial. American Missionary Memorial. Including
                  Biographical and Historical Sketches. Edited by H. W. PIERSON, A.M. With numerous
                  Illustrations. 12mo, Muslin, $1 75; Muslin, gilt edges, $2 00; Morocco, gilt
                  edges, $5 00.
               Görgei's Hungary. My Life and Acts in Hungary in the Years 1848 and 1849. By
                  ARTHUR GÖRGEI. 12mo, Paper, 85 cents; Muslin, $1 00.
               Lanman's Webster. The Private Life of Daniel Webster. By CHARLES LANMAN. 12mo,
                  Paper, 62½ cents; Muslin, 75 cents.
               Anthon's Cornelius Nepos. Cornelii Nepotis Vitæ Imperatorum Excellentium. With
                  English Notes, &c. By CHARLES ANTHON, LL.D. 12mo, Sheep, $1 00.
               Anthon's Cicero's Tusculan Disputations. Cicero's Tusculan Disputations. With
                  English Notes, Critical and Explanatory. By CHARLES ANTHON, LL.D. 12mo, Sheep, $1
                  00.
               Parisian Sights and French Principles, Seen through American Spectacles. With
                  Illustrations. 12mo, Paper, 85 cents; Muslin, $1 00.
               Docharty's Algebra. The Institutes of Algebra. Being the First Part of a Course
                  of Mathematics, Designed for the Use of Schools, Academies, and Colleges. By
                  GERARDUS BEEKMAN DOCHARTY, LL.D., Professor of Mathematics in the New York Free
                  Academy. 12mo, Sheep, 75 cents.
               "Our Own Correspondent." The Personal Adventures of "Our Own Correspondent" in
                  Italy. Showing how an active Campaigner can find good Quarters when other Men lie
                  in the Fields; good Dinners while many are Half Starved; and good Wine, though the
                  King's Staff be reduced to Half Rations. By MICHAEL BURKE HONAN. 12mo, Paper, 75
                  cents; Muslin, $1 00.
               Butler's Analogy. Bishop Butler's Analogy of Religion, Natural and Revealed, to
                  the Constitution and Course of Nature. With an Analysis, left unfinished by the
                  late Rev. ROBERT EMORY, D.D., President of Dickinson College. Completed and
                  Edited, with a Life of Bishop Butler, Notes and Index, by G. R. CROOKS. 12mo,
                  Muslin, 75 cents.
               Atlantic and Transatlantic. Sketches Afloat and Ashore. By Captain MACKINNON,
                  R.N., Author of "Steam Warfare in the Parana." 12mo, Paper, 75 cents; Muslin, $1
                  00
               Chalmers's Life and Writings. Life and Writings of Thomas Chalmers, D.D., LL.D.
                  Edited by his Son-in-law, Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, LL.D. 4 vols. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00
                  per Volume.
               Anthon's Latin Dictionary. A Latin-English and English-Latin Dictionary, for
                  the Use of Schools. Chiefly from the Lexicons of Freund, Georges, and Kaltschmidt.
                  By CHARLES ANTHON, LL.D. Small 4to, Sheep, $2 00.
               Lotus-Eating. A Summer-Book. By G. W. CURTIS, Author of "Nile Notes of a
                  Howadji," "The Howadji in Syria," &c. Beautifully Illustrated from Designs by
                  Kensett 12mo, Paper, 60 cents; Muslin, 75 cents.
               
               Mysteries; or, Glimpses of the Supernatural. Containing Accounts of The Salem
                  Witchcraft—The Cock-Lane Ghost—The Rochester Rappings—The Stratford
                  Mysteries—Oracles—Astrology—Dreams—Demons—Ghosts—Spectres, &c. By CHARLES
                  WYLLYS ELLIOTT. 12mo, Paper, 50 cents; Muslin, 75 cents.
               Hildreth's History of the United States. 
                     FIRST SERIES.—From the First Settlement of the Country to the Adoption of
                        the Federal Constitution. By RICHARD HILDRETH. 3 vols. 8vo, Muslin, $6 00;
                        Sheep, $6 75; Half Calf, $7 50.
                     SECOND SERIES.—From the Adoption of the Federal Constitution to the End
                        of the Sixteenth Congress. By RICHARD HILDRETH. 3 vols. 8vo, Muslin, $6 00;
                        Sheep, $6 75; Half Calf, $7 50.
                  
               
               Mayhew's London Labor. London Labor and the London Poor in the Nineteenth
                  Century. A Cyclopedia of the Social Condition and Earnings of the Poorer Classes
                  of the British Metropolis, in Connection with the Country. By HENRY MAYHEW. With
                  Engravings of the Scenes and the Persons described, copied from Daguerreotypes
                  taken by Beard expressly for this Work. Publishing in Numbers, 8vo, Paper, 12½
                  cents each.
               Humboldt's Cosmos. A Sketch of a Physical Description of the Universe. By
                  ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT. Translated from the German, by E. C. OTTE. 4 vols. 12mo,
                  Paper, $2 80; Muslin, $3 40.
               Bunsen's Niebuhr. Life and Letters of Barthold George Niebuhr. With Essays on
                  his Character and Influence. By the Chevalier BUNSEN, and Professors BRANDIS and
                  LORBELL. 12mo, Muslin, $1 25.
               Stiles's Austria. Austria in 1848 and 1849. Being a History of the late
                  Political Movements in Vienna, Milan, Venice and Prague; with Details of the
                  Campaigns of Lombardy and Novara; a full Account of the Rise, Progress, and
                  Conclusion of the Revolution in Hungary; and Historical Sketches of the Austrian
                  Government and the Provinces of the Empire. By WILLIAM H. STILES, late Chargé
                  d'Affaires at the Court of Vienna. With Portraits of the Emperor, Metternich,
                  Radetzky, Jellacic, and Kossuth. 2 vols. 8vo, Muslin, $3 50.
               Harrison's Latin Grammar. An Exposition of some of the Laws of the Latin
                  Grammar. By GESSNER HARRISON, M.D., Professor of Ancient Languages in the
                  University of Virginia. 12mo, Sheep, 75 cents.
               The Principles of Courtesy; with Hints and Observations on Manners and Habits.
                  By GEORGE WIN FRED HERVEY. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
               Anthon's Roman Antiquities. Manual of Roman Antiquities. From the most recent
                  German Works. With a Description of the City of Rome, &c. By CHARLES ANTHON,
                  LL.D. 12mo, Sheep, 87½ cents.
               Anthon's Grecian Antiquities. Manual of Greek Antiquities. From the best and
                  most recent Sources. By CHARLES ANTHON, LL.D. 12mo, Sheep, 87½ cents.
               Dr. Olin's Works. The Works of STEPHEN OLIN, D.D., late President of the
                  Wesleyan University. 2 vols. 12mo, Muslin, $2 00.
               Nile Notes of a Howadji. By G. W. CURTIS. 12mo, Paper, 75 cents; Muslin, 87½
                  cents.
               The Howadji in Syria. By G. W. CURTIS, Author of "Nile Notes of a Howadji."
                  12mo, Muslin, 87½ cents.
               Barnes's Notes. 11 vols. Notes on the New Testament, for Bible Classes and
                  Sunday Schools. By Rev. ALBERT BARNES. Maps and Engravings. 11 vols. 12mo, Muslin,
                  75 cents per Volume. Each Volume sold separately. Comprising Notes on the Four
                  Gospels, 2 vols; on the Acts of the Apostles; on the Epistle to the Romans; on the
                  First Epistle to the Corinthians; on the Second Epistle to the Corinthians and the
                  Epistle to the Galatians; on the Epistles to the Ephe sians, Timothy, Titus, and
                  Philemon; on the Epistle to the Hebrews; on the general Epistles of James, Peter,
                  John, and Jude; on the Revelations. Questions on the above. 18mo, 15 cents per
                  Volume. As follows: Vol. I. on Matthew; II. on Mark and Luke; III. on John; IV. on
                  Acts; V. on Romans; VI. on First Corinthians; VII. on Hebrews.
               Romanism at Home. Letters to the Hon. Roger B. Taney, Chief-Justice of the
                  United States. By KIRWAN. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
               Richardson's Arctic Searching Expedition. The Arctic Searching Expedition: a
                  Journal of a Boat-Voyage through Rupert's Land and the Arctic Sea, in Search of
                  the Discovery Ships under Command of Sir John Franklin. With an Appendix on the
                  Physical Geography of North America. By Sir JOHN RICHARDSON, C.B., F.R.S.
                  Engravings. 12mo, Muslin, $1 25.
               Recollections of a Literary Life; or, Books, Places, and People. By MARY
                  RUSSELL MITFORD. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
               Dr. Turner's Scriptural Prophecy. Thoughts on the Origin, Character, and
                  Interpretation of Scriptural Prophecy In Seven Discourses. Delivered in the
                  General Theological Seminary of the Protestant Episcopal Church. With Notes. By
                  SAMUEL H. TURNER, D.D 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
               Layard's Discoveries at Nineveh. A Popular Account of the Discoveries at
                  Nineveh. By AUSTEN HENRY LAYARD. Abridged by him from his larger Work. With
                  numerous Wood Engravings. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.
               
               Stephen's Lectures on French History. Lectures on the History of France. By Sir
                  JAMES STEPHEN, K.C.B. 8vo Muslin, $1 75.
               Wesley and Methodism. By ISAAC TAYLOR. With a new Portrait. 12mo, Muslin, 75
                  cents.
               Madame Pfeiffer's Voyage. A Lady's Voyage round the World. By Madame IDA
                  PFEIFFER. Translated from the German, by Mrs. PERCY SINNETT. 12mo, Paper, 60
                  cents; Muslin, 75 cents.
               Sixteen Months at the Gold Diggings. By DANIEL B. WOODS. 12mo, Paper, 50 cents;
                  Muslin, 62½ cents.
               Creasy's Fifteen Decisive Battles. The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World;
                  from Marathon to Waterloo. By E. S. CREASY, A.M. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
               Miss Strickland's Queens of Scotland. Lives of the Queens of Scotland and
                  English Princesses connected with the regal Succession of Great Britain. By AGNES
                  STRICKLAND. 6 vols. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00 per Volume. Vols. I., II., and III. are
                  now ready.
               Forest Life and Forest Trees: comprising Winter Camp-Life among the Loggers,
                  and Wild-wood Adventure. With Descriptions of Lumbering Operations on the various
                  Rivers of Maine and New Brunswick. By J. S. SPRINGER. With Illustrations. 12mo,
                  Paper, 60 cents; Muslin, 75 cents.
               Rule and Misrule of the English in America. By the Author of "Sam Slick the
                  Clock-maker," "Attaché," "The Letter-Bag," "Old Judge," &c. 12mo, Muslin, 75
                  cents.
               The Nile Boat; or, Glimpses of the Land of Egypt. By W. H. BARTLETT.
                  Illustrated with a fine Steel Engraving, and numerous Wood-cuts. 8vo, Muslin, $2
                  00; Muslin, gilt edges, $2 25; Morocco, gilt edges, $4 00.
               Mills's Literature and Literary Men. The Literature and Literary Men of Great
                  Britain and Ireland. By ABRAHAM MILLS, A. M. 2 vols. 8vo, Muslin, $3 50; Half
                  Calf, $4 00.
               Carpenter's Adventures in Mexico. Travels and Adventures in Mexico, in the
                  Course of Journeys of upward of 2500 miles performed on foot, giving an Account of
                  the Manners and Customs of the People, and the Agricultural and Mineral Resources
                  of that Country. By WILLIAM W. CARPENTER, late of the U. S. Army. 12mo, Muslin, 75
                  cents
               Loomis's Elements of Algebra. For the Use of Beginners. By ELIAS LOOMIS, M. A.
                  12mo, Sheep, 62½ cents
            
         
      
   
