
    ----CITATION----
        Bagby, George William (1828-1883). What I Did With My Fifty Millions .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5700 wright2-0181
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               FOR VIRGINIANS ONLY.
               
               WHAT I DID WITH MY FIFTY MILLIONS.
               
               BY
               MOSES ADAMS.
               
               
                  EDITED FROM THE POSTHUMOUS MS. BY CSAR MAURICE, ESQ., OF THE RICHMOND (VA.) WHIG.
               
               
               PHILADELPHIA:
               
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
                  
                  1874.
            
         
         
            
            OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, RESPECTING "FIFTY MILLIONS," AS IT APPEARED
               SERIALLY.
            "THE WINGS OF RICHES.—The first installment of Moses Adams's new story, concerning
               which the world has already heard so many tantalizing things that have made the world
               stand on tip-toe, appeared in the daily Whig of Saturday, in which
               edition (as well as the semi-weekly and weekly) the rest of the narrative will be
               told by the ex-millionaire. 'Tis marked already by the satire, keen but never cutting
               (it can cut, but it doesn't), the knowledge of human nature, alike in
               its weakest and its most earnest, its most and least genial aspects, the pathos, the
               riant and easy humor, that make Dr. Bagby, in our critical judgment, another Elia of
               our era, with more varied powers than Lamb, though none so well cultivated as those
               of that essayist and occasional poet. 'What I Did with My Fifty Millions,' recalls
               the Doctor's best work, 'Blue Eyes and Battlewick,' published many years ago in the
                  Southern Literary Messenger, and, unfortunately, never put before
               the world in book-form. We shall follow the career of that fortune with eyes of
               interest, especially as we have an idea that some small part of it will be laid apart
               for us. That is, if we survive until 1876, the year in which the story is cast; the
               place being Richmond, with temporary shuntings on the sidetracks of Lynchburg and
                  Kurdsville."—Petersburg Index.
            "'FIFTY MILLIONS.'—... The style of Doctor Bagby is fitted more to the pages and
               character of the quarterlies and to the book publications of the day, than to the
               daily and weekly journals. Bagby is the Mark Twain of Virginia, and we have no doubt
               that some of our book publishers could subserve a public demand, and at the same time
               promote very handsomely the business interests of their establishments, by furnishing
               it in book-form. 'What I Did with My Fifty Millions' is quaint, original, and
               peculiarly Virginian, and its style adds to the virtues of its great local interests,
               those features of terse and trenchant style, which will cause it to be read in other
               circles than where the cavaliers and their descendants have left their
                  footprints.'"—Bristol News.
            
            "'FIFTY MILLIONS.'—Dr. Adams's great romance, 'What I Did with My Fifty Million
               Dollars,' is concluded in the last number of the Whig, in which the
               wonderful serial has been published. The final installment is longer than those which
               preceded, and is crowded with incidents and tableaux of abiding interest. In the last
               sad scene, he beholds, as in a trance, all the comrades and companions of his earlier
               years; and there troop in long procession through the old man's breaking and
               wandering mind the figures, inter alios, of many
               Petersburgers—Mr. Osborne, McCabe, Glass, 'the two Barhams,' the two Venables,
               Cameron, the writer, and many others. This vivid memory cheers the old man's heart,
               as his hold on earth relaxes, and he falls asleep with the happy vision shining in
               his eyes. We hope the story will be collected and printed in book-form for the
               amusement and entertainment of the public. There is in it much more than the humor
               which plays on its surface; there is even more in it than the pathos which often
               breaks through it with tears. There is in the analysis of the vagaries and
               hallucinations which precede death, the evidence of deep study and knowledge of
               physiology and psychology too. But we will not discount the reader's enjoyment of the
               'Fifty Millions.' It ought by all means to appear in
                  book-form."—Index-Appeal.
            "'WHAT I DID WITH MY FIFTY MILLIONS.'—The series of papers under this fantastic title
               is brought to a conclusion in the issue of the Richmond Whig of May
               1st.
            "Dr. Bagby has made his fancy of great wealth the starting point for excursions in
               every direction, sketching, as he alone of living writers can do, the familiar
               Virginian life as it was before the war, as it is now in its transition state, and as
               it can never again appear under the new conditions that surround us. Untrammeled by
               any fixed limits, he introduces into these separate pictures his own reflections on
               men and things—reflections now profound, now playful, here fantastic, there pathetic,
               but always tinged with his own humor, always revealing something of his own self and
               thought. These sketches are often personal, and the author has the rare boldness to
               talk of the men he means by their own names, but the personality is but such as
               Charles Lamb indulged in when he wrote of the India House, or when he so
               affectionately and yet so quizzically recorded his memories of the Benchers of Gray's
               Inn.
            "Dr. Bagby's genius is akin to Lamb's; he has the same keenness of local observation,
               the same love for quaint nooks of space, for quaint examples of mankind, for old
               fashions of thought and speech and life. His humor, too, is of Elia's kind,—a
               melancholy humor, yet a jesting, a humor often sarcastic in form, always loving in
               fact. He draws his pictures of Virginia as Lamb did of London, always narrow in his
               theme, but always wide in its treatment, perfect in the minute observations he loves
               to make, because his mind is practiced in large views of men and things.
            "Virginia has in truth produced, though Virginia hardly knows it, a school of
               Virginian art, men devoted to portraying Virginian life, and portraying it so well
               that, had they been Bostonians, with the Old Colony for their subject, the country
               would have resounded with their fame. Elder Woodward, Sheppard, and Fisher, with
               brush and pencil; Valentine, Gait, and Barbee, with the chisel; in science, Ruffin,
               Rogers, Maury, and Hotchkiss; in literature, Thompson, Aylett, Cooke, Pollard, Marian
               Harland, and Geo. W. Bagby.
            "Among these men of letters the last stands pre-eminent as the essayist
               of Virginia, the pen-painter of Virginians, their life and manners, their foibles and
               their virtues. It is a great pity that these sketches of a time and people fast
               passing, almost wholly passed away, should not be collected and put in enduring form.
               Sheppard's pencil has preserved in outline almost every phase of the old-time negro
               life in Virginia. Elder's brush has recorded it to its minutest detail, and Valentine
               has stamped it into marble, but the essays of Dr. Bagby have in turn touched on every
               part of Virginia, and touched each one to adorn and to preserve. The country village,
               the court-house green, the plantation home, the editor, the planter, the belle, the
               hard-worked country doctor, the pampered house-servant, the traveling gambler, the
               court-house bully, the country dandy, the hale old farmer, and the busy, much-worked
               and all-loving matron and mother; all these, as seen in Virginia, the Virginia as it
               stood in 1850, and likewise the Virginia as in 1870 it was passing away, his pictures
               keep alive for us and for the future.
            "We hope, and hope earnestly, that the essayist will frame these pictures in a book
               and so preserve them. Let the 'Fifty Millions' lead and let the title be 'For
               Virginians only,' and our word for it, Virginia will buy and read, and value, will
               laugh, and now and again will shed a pleasing tear over that book."—Norfolk
                  Virginian.
            "'FIFTY MILLIONS.'—Doctor Bagby is a humorist of the finest taste, and his
               productions are of native growth. Born of Virginia's soil, suffused with a local
               coloring at once pure and brilliant, his pictures of men and scenes have a charm
               about them which it is hard to describe without incurring the charge of extravagance
               from those who do not know his works. For us this provincialism is very attractive,
               but, in addition, we find that he scatters wit, wisdom and learning with a generous
               profusion through his pages, so that one rises from his 'Fifty Millions' with a
               conviction that until this serial appeared Bagby was unknown even to his own people
               and his familiar friends. This performance is to be published in a volume, and on its
               appearance we shall have a word to speak about it, until when we beg his friends, our
               friends, and the friends of our native literature to interest themselves in making
               the forthcoming volume a complete success."—Norfolk ( Va.)
               Landmark.
         
         
         
            
            FOR VIRGINIANS ONLY.
            
               WHAT I DID WITH MY FIFTY MILLIONS.
            
            BY MOSES ADAMS.
            
            EDITED FROM THE POSTHUMOUS MS. BY CÆSAR MAURICE, ESQ., OF THE RICHMOND (VA.)
               WHIG.
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1874.
            
            
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by G. W. BAGBY. In
                  the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
            
         
         
            PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
            IT seems that the old man ("Mozis")*
                did really believe that he possessed an enormous sum of money—the internal
               evidence leaves no doubt whatever on this point—and he must have passed many
               sleepless nights in imagining what he did with it. He seems, too, to have labored
               under the additional delusion that he had been for a very long time "cooped up," as
               he expresses it, in editorial sanctums and libraries, whereas it is well known that
               his actual business was that of a hoop-pole splitter in the barrel factory of the
               Columbian Mills. But this confinement appears to have disagreed with him, and may
               have led to the mental torsion that gave birth to the strange production now
               published. Hence the passionate outburst of affection for his foster-mother, Nature,
               which would be almost ludicrous did we not remember how the simple old soul must have
               pined for the free life in the woods, to which, as a mauler of rails for Col. Hubard,
               of Buckingham, he had been accustomed from his very boyhood.
            
               
               *"Mozis Addums," whose "Letters to Billy Ivvins," published in the
                  Southern Literary Messenger, many years ago, produced such an
                  excitement in Virginia and throughout the South. Late in life, when Fifty
                  Millions was written, he had learned to spell his name correctly and to write
                  not very bad English.
            
            The date "1890" in the first foot-note indicates that the article, written at some
               uncertain period, was afterwards revised and annotated at intervals, as the old man's
               strength enabled him to indulge in literary occupations—probably after nightfall, his
               only leisure time. His precise cise age has always been a matter of conjecture, but
               had he lived till 1890 he would have been not less than one hundred and eleven years
               old. The records of the old Masonic Lodge at Curdsville prove this.
            Due allowance must be made for the discrepancies in the annotated dates, for the
               interpolations of various kinds, and for the garrulity incident to age. These and the
               doting fondness of the old man for the Virginia customs, which he fancied he had
               placed upon everlasting foundations, with the further fact that after much reflection
               he could not prevail upon himself to spend any of his money outside of his native
               State, may well excuse his wild fancies and incoherences. And our readers no doubt
               will the more readily condone his faults in view of the fact that, in his prime, the
               well-meaning creature gave them many a hearty laugh which they have not yet
               forgotten.
         
         
            POSTSCRIPT.
            People have been so delighted with the extravaganzas of MOSES ADAMS that they have
               demanded the publication of his lucubrations in an enduring book form. It seems never
               to have occurred to them that in laughing at MOSES's follies they are laughing at
               their own. De te fabula narratur. Those who read
               between the lines (as the French say) detect in all MOSES'S phantasies a lurking
               satire on the disposition made by poor old Virginia of her "fifty millions" on
               internal improvements. We hope, when they read again, they will inwardly digest, and
               profit by the operation. In the meantime, MOSES, no doubt, chuckles in his sleeve,
               and is happy in contemplating the hilarity of his dupes.
            
               C. M.
               Whig Office, Richmond, Va.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               
                  FIRST INSTALLMENT. Where the Money came from—First Effect of
                  Riches—Yearning for Ashcake and Buttermilk—Overwhelming Sense of Poverty—Misery
                  and Wrath—A Morning Walk—Accident—Calvin Jones and Tom Kirkpatrick 13
               
               
                  SECOND INSTALLMENT. The Cat out of the Bag—How People behaved—Park
                  and Reservoir for Lynchburg—Alarming Increase of Destitution—W.E. Binford and the
                  Widow Bexley—How to Help, whom to Help, and When—Rush of Editors, Photographers,
                  etc.—"Sky Surprises" 19
               
               
                  THIRD INSTALLMENT. Fits of Pride—How cured—A Sneaking
                  Heart-Devil—The Pleasure of Giving—Some Schoolmarms—Ham. Chamberlayne—Deacon
                  Handy—"The Native Virginian"—Numerous Widows—Colonel McDonald—Billy
                  Christian—Trick on a Fat Doctor, etc. 25
               
               
                  FOURTH INSTALLMENT. Laura Park—Sneers at Jones and Adams—The Great
                  Reservoir—New Market-House—Grand Celebration—Arrival of Old Lynchburgers—Ballard
                  Kidd and Harriet Rouse—Works at Curdsville, etc.—Rage of a baffled Rich
                  Man—College for Old Virginia Fiddlers, etc. 33
               
               
                  FIFTH INSTALLMENT. Blessings of the Fiddlers' College—Dancing
                     vs. Pure Hugging—Course on Fife and Tobacco-Horn—Blind
                  Billy—Buckingham Female Institute—"Chermany" and "Ant'ny Over"—Langhorne's Tavern,
                  Ça Ira, New Store, Raine's Tavern, etc.—Spout Spring, Red House, Pamplin's,
                  Tarwallet, etc.—College for Old Virginia Cooks—Hampden Sydney College—Mosque and
                  Shot-Tower at Burkeville 40
               
               
               
                  SIXTH INSTALLMENT. Good Sidewalks in Richmond—Council of Cobblers
                  and Ostlers—New Capitol proposed—Intense Rage of the Legislature—Speeches of
                  Indignant Members—Appearance of Capitol in 1910—Strangers from Japan and North
                  Carolina—Deplorable Consequence of a Bank, etc. 47
               
               
                  SEVENTH INSTALLMENT. Railroad Depots in Richmond—Improvements on
                  Broad Street—Shields House—Virginia Historical Society Building—Colonel T. H.
                  Wynne and Dr. W. P. Palmer—Automaton of Com. Porter—Brice Church—Free-Pew Question
                  settled—Paganism of Adams—Pulpit Propriety and Duck Guns—Rev. Dr. Broadus—Varlets,
                  Cudgels, and Assassins—Congregational Singing—Church of Spectroscope 52
               
               
                  EIGHTH INSTALLMENT. Mr. Pigskin on Immigration—Adams Hints at
                  Empire—Ten Thousand Dollars each to Fifteen Hundred Girls—Bad Consequences of Good
                  Intentions—Excitement in Virginia—Adams Hated—Regarded as an Active Intransitive
                  Fool—Gov. Kemper—Expensive Joke on Wife—A Lesson to Husbands—Rev. Dr.
                  Peterkin—Venom without Spondulics 60
               
               
                  NINTH INSTALLMENT. Sad Results of an Explosion—Drs. Cullen and
                  McGuire—Happy Resection of a Steeple—Burwell Music Hall—Great Fiddling Festival—A
                  Treat for Pretty Girls—Happiest Time of Old Adams's Life—Gen. Richardson and Col.
                  Sherwin McRae—Adams's Patent Lecture-Halls—Judge Waller Stapler—"Johnny Reb." 69
               
               
                  TENTH INSTALLMENT. Cremation of Piano Advertisers—Wisdom of Roman
                  Catholics—The Addie Deane House—University of Virginia—Judge William Robertson,
                  Dr. Maupin, etc.—Editorial Academy—Asylum for Worthless Young Men—Parke
                  Park—Richmond Boulevard—Matthews & Matthews—Life's
                  Appomattox—Semi-Phalansterian Squares, etc. 76
               
               
                  ELEVENTH INSTALLMENT. Black Crook Club Monument—Dr. Leigh
                  Burton—Nat. Sturdivant Terrace—Hermann Garden—Louis Euker—Cornelia
                  Cathedral—Worship Purely Musical—Leo Wheat—Major Burr Noland—Diseased
                  Germans—Midnight New Year Services—Our Saviour—Mary Davidson—General Mahone—Elder,
                  Fisher, and Sheppard—G. Watson James, etc. 87
               
               
                  TWELFTH INSTALLMENT. Tour with Artist-Friends—Suggestive
                  Summering—Badly Apple-Brandied—Judge Crump—John R. Thompson's Tomb—Yankees—"The
                  Fast of Pea Time"—Squirted out of Town—Peter Mayo and Alexander
                  Cameron—Valentine's Colossal Statue—Dr. W. Hand Browne—Adams's "Folly," Eleven
                  Hundred Feet High—Gala Day all around the Globe—Excitement in Lynchburg—Jack
                  Slaughter and Robin Terry—Trash Green—Death of Wife—Badly Kicked—Home near
                  Pamlin's Depot 97
               
               
                  THIRTEENTH INSTALLMENT. A Lonely Old Age—Dark and Bitter
                  Thoughts—Arrival of the Commodore—Throwing Mexican Dollars—A Negro Killed—A Stormy
                  Night—Trouble of Life's Ending—Misery of this World—Hallucinations—In the
                  Fodder-stack—A Voice 109
               
               
                  FOURTEENTH INSTALLMENT. Aunt Polly Waddy—Cavalry Comin'—Ned
                  Gregory, Barron Hope, V. Dabney and others—Slugs and Gulgers—Col. T. F. Owens—An
                  Old Virginia Breakfast—The Commodore Breaks Loose—A Terrible Time—Cremation—Loose
                  Again—Earthquakes, Cholera, etc,—Grand Dinner—Royal Ashcake—Toasts, Speeches, and
                  Perfect Bliss—Asleep at His Own Table 116
               
               
                  FIFTEENTH INSTALLMENT. In Gordonsville—Grand Triangular Bob Sully
                  Hotel—Fried Chicken and Hard-boiled Eggs in Effigy—Vast Gongs—Stofers, Frys,
                  Scotts, Chapmans, Kincheloes, etc.—The Sphinx—Adams a Nuisance—Sent to
                  Poor-House—Death—Burial and Obituary—The End 125
               
            
         
      
      
         
            What I did with my fifty millions
            
            WHAT I DID WITH MY FIFTY MILLIONS.
            
               FIRST INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Where the Money came from—First Effect of Riches—Yearning for Ashcake and
                     Buttermilk—Overwhelming Sense of Poverty—Misery and Wrath—A Morning
                     Walk—Accident—Calvin Jones and Tom Kirkpatrick.
               
               FOR twenty years at least I had been in the habit of putting myself to sleep by
                  imagining what I would do with the precise sum of fifty millions of dollars. An
                  excellent hypnotic I found it, with no morphine or chloral after-effects. It may
                  have unfitted me for the hard grind of actual life, but no matter now. When it
                  came I was as tranquil as a May morning. The fact is, the transfer was not
                  completed until the close of the month of May, 1876. Negotiations, etc., had been
                  going on for months beforehand, and it has always been a matter of inordinate
                  pride to me that I attended to my regular duties and kept the whole thing a
                  profound secret from my family, friends, and, indeed, everybody in America—the
                  money having come from Hindostan. It required a deal of innocent lying to do this,
                  but secrecy was indispensable to the surprises I meditated, and a surprise, you
                  know, is the very cream of the delight as well of giving as receiving.
               One of the bankers, a Calcutta man, if I remember rightly, had the good sense, on
                  taking leave, to put into my hands a small box filled with gold-pieces, so that I
                  might feel my wealth right away and have no doubts about it. The party left on the
                  nine o'clock Fredericksburg train, and,
                  after bidding them good-by at the hotel, I put a handful of money in my pocket and
                  walked out to get a little fresh air. My wife always interprets this to mean a
                  glass of beer, but she was mistaken in this instance. Besides, she was up the
                  country at the time.
               I went straight to Gerot's, ordered a nice little supper to be sent to a room
                  up-stairs which I engaged for the night, and with the supper a bottle of his best
                  champagne, a bundle of his finest cigars (I found I did not want a whole box), a
                  quire of foolscap, pens, and ink. Then I walked down to the telegraph-office.
               On the way a number of acquaintances greeted me, and I wondered to myself whether
                  the tone of their voices (they were not uncourteous at all) would have been
                  different if they had known how much money I was worth. A few months later my
                  wonder was quieted.
               The reason I went to the telegraph-office was this: Years and years before, my
                  friend, Calvin D. Jones, had said to me,—
               "If I should ever become suddenly very rich, do you know what I would do?"
               "No," I replied.
               "I should run as hard as I could stave and give away every dollar I could persuade
                  myself to give, for if I stopped one second to think about it I should never give
                  one cent."
               By that I knew that Jones was a man of intellect.
               He then lived in Rome, Georgia, and was drugging people there. I telegraphed him
                  to draw on me for expenses, and meet me as early as possible in Lynchburg.
               That done, I returned to Gerot's.
               My supper, as nice a one as heart could wish, was all ready for me in my room. How
                  often and over again my appetite had been whetted for that identical supper! and
                  now there it was before me, the gold in my pocket, the wine, the cigars, paper and
                  pens, all as I had imagined a thousand times.
               And what think you was the result?
               A loss of appetite?
               Not that exactly, but an intense honing for ashcake and buttermilk.
               Gerot had neither, and it was too late to get them elsewhere; so I drank a glass
                  or two of wine, and addressed myself to the task of writing out minutely what I
                  intended to do with my money. The plan was in my head, complete and clear, and,
                  once written down, my purpose was to carry it out to the very letter.
               I had not finished the first page before I stopped suddenly, threw down the pen,
                  and groaned aloud in such anguish of spirit as I had never felt before; for never
                  before had I felt so crushing a sense of poverty.
               "My God!" I cried, "what can a man do with a miserable pittance of fifty millions?
                  I want to give Virginia a perfect system of county roads, so that one may get off
                  at a station and go to the nearest country-house without breaking his neck, and it
                  would take five hundred millions to do that. Then there is the capitol—to fix that
                  and its surroundings as I would like to have them fixed would consume the last
                  dollar in my possession. Bah!"
               That bah! was intoned more like an oath than an introït. I rose and paced the room
                  for an hour or more in mingled rage and misery. Then I drank the rest of the wine
                  (it would not keep, in fact, was flat already), put a cigar in my pocket ("maybe
                  Gerot will take the others back—a pipe is plenty good enough for me, suits my weak
                     digestion"*
                     ), and walked out.
               
                  
                  *He refused positively to do it—1890.
               
               Day was just faintly dawning.
               Putting a chew of tobacco in my mouth and saving my cigar for after breakfast, I
                  strode furiously up the tow-path of the canal, exclaiming aloud, as I went
                  along,—
               "I must be rich! I will be rich! I will pinch and screw, and save and
                  shave, and skin until I get some money. I will go into Wall Street, join a
                  railroad ring, get elected to Congress—do anything to make a fortune. I will
                  invest, I will buy town-lots in Manchester—I must make money. I want
                  a hundred million, two hundred million, as much as Astor, Vanderbilt, and Stewart
                  combined, and I will have it. Yes, a thousand, two thousand, millions
                  of dollars. I will flood the South with money. Set every industry humming, restock every
                  plantation, buy up every negro legislature, buy Congress, buy Grant bodily; my
                  people shall not, no, by the gods! they shall not suffer any
                  longer."
               A thought struck me like a blow from a catapult.
               "Suppose you do all this, and in Persia and India tens of thousands are perishing
                  from starvation. The world is too big for you. You cannot be God."
               Miserable, yea, the miserablest of living men, I bowed myself down where I stood
                  and actually wept with wrath and mortification.
               Just then a sweet breeze sprang up, the waves began to clap their hands, the song
                  of the river, which I had not heard before, mingled with the soft tones of the
                  wind and the orisons of the birds, the heavens above me flushed with the
                  love-light of expectation at the sun's coming, and aloft and alow and around was
                  the ineffable loveliness and peace of morning in its prime. Suddenly there came
                  from thicket, or copse, or the distant forest, I could not tell where, a
                  "wood-note wild" of some bird I had not heard for half a century nearly, and in an
                  instant the beauty, the mystery, the holiness of nature came back to me just as it
                  came in childhood when sometimes my playmates left me alone in the great orchard
                  of my home in Cumberland.
               From cursing and moaning I fell to adoring. My soul, full of gratitude, could find
                  only the simplest expression.
               "Thank God! I can do some good; and I will."
               My short but deep thanksgiving ended, I gave myself up wholly to the dewy beauty
                  and freshness around me, and cried out, in rapture,—
               "Oh my mother, my mother, my mother! my foster-mother! the only mother I ever
                  knew! all these long, long, long years have I been cooped up in sanctums, in
                  libraries, in all sorts of dens of houses, pining for you, with your bright face
                  in full view across the water or over the hill yonder, but no chance to come to
                  you except for a moment only. And now, now, O Father of Earth, I
                     can come back to you—that is one blessedness of riches. Back,
                  never, never, never more to be parted from you till, sinner that I am, I go to
                  heaven."
               I trust there is no good business man within the reading of my print who will not
                  say with considerable emphasis that I made a sufficient sentimental ass of myself.
                  At any rate, from that hour I have never had any further trouble with myself,
                  never desired to be inordinately rich, but have been perfectly content to struggle
                  on with my pitiful fifty millions and do the best I could.
               It being now broad daylight, I turned homewards, and, as I did so, my thoughts
                  took another turn.
               "Moses, old fellow," said I to myself, "you and I are going to have a good time.
                  The way we are going to find some pretty stream in the depths of the woods, and
                  spend the livelong day by its side enjoying the clear, running water (just as we
                  did in Princeton at Stony Brook, before we ever dreamed of the protoxide of
                  hydrogen), and, the blue heavens shining through the tall tree-tops, before Old
                  Probabilities, drot him! was born, and we ever knew anything or cared anything
                  about atmospheric waves, the nebula hypothesis, or any such foolishness, is the
                  way. Won't we consecrate a day, yea, many days, every recurring season to the
                  worship of nature, just as you and I and William Christian*
                   used to do ever so many years ago in Lynchburg? I just tell you, my son,
                  we are going to have the finest, the tip-toppest-A-Number-Onest kind of a time.
                  Why, sir, we'll—"
               
                  
                  *A friend of mine. His middle name was Henry Brown, but he, dropped the Brown
                     1884.
               
               In a trance of delight at the pleasure in store for me, I had wandered several
                  feet below the level of the tow-path. An enormous black bolide, as it seemed to
                  me, fell upon me from the skies, and consciousness left me.
               When I came to myself I was lying on the deck of a freight-boat, receiving such
                  attention as the ignorant captain could give. The bolide proved to be only a mule,
                  which had broken a rotten tow-line and tumbled down the canal-bank, stunning me as
                  he passed. A fracture of the shoulder-blade and a few severe bruises were soon
                  patched up by Dr. Coleman after my return to the city, so that I took the ten
                  o'clock train on the Danville road as if nothing had happened.
               
               Jones came promptly to Lynchburg, and refused flatly to believe in my fifty
                  millions, but being convinced, mounted a horse and proceeded day after day to
                  scour the country around the town, to the bewilderment of the citizens. Such was
                  his zest, and so heartily did he enter into my plans, that he kept me up every
                  night till one or two o'clock, suggesting, altering, and greatly improving the
                  hints I had originally given him. During the daytime I had a trying experience.
                  Forced to keep quiet, while the money burned in my pocket, I was dreadfully
                     bored.*
                  
               
                      
                  *Dr. Early pulled out my last tooth at this time, and the new set made me
                     miserable in spite of my money.
               
               At length Jones came back one night in triumph—he had found, not what he wanted
                  exactly, but the best that could be had.
               "I can fix all the rest," said he, after having given me a minute account of the
                  topography.
               Tom Kirkpatrick†
                   was called in the very next morning, the lawyer's part of the business
                  intrusted to him, and having furnished these friends of my early manhood with work
                  that would occupy them a long time (Jones particularly), and pay them well, I
                  hurried back to Richmond. Ad. Williams and J. L. Apperson‡
                   laughed in my face at first, but in due time they became convinced, as
                  Jones had been, and promised me to make the necessary purchases as adroitly and
                  cheaply as under the circumstances was possible. And they were as good as their
                  word. They did their duty quickly, that is to say, within a few months, and at
                  much less cost than I had counted upon. I had to be economical, and I
                  will say here that few if any of my agents ever pleased me more than Williams
                  & Apperson.
               
                  †Afterwards President of the Court of Appeals.
               
               
                  
                  ‡Well known real estate men in Richmond fifty years ago. Very correct in
                     their dealings.
               
               It was half a year before Jones and Kirkpatrick completed their work, a peculiar
                  obstacle intervening.§
                   Six months of torture mingled with pleasure (knowing what was to come) to
                  me. My family and friends upbraided me for my long-continued idleness, while
                  everybody wondered how I made buckle and tongue meet. I did it though, and am
                  proud I did not overdo the thing. Money was a little, very little, bit more
                  plentiful at my house, and my wife, satisfied that I did not gamble,*
                   convinced herself that I had drawn a prize in the Louisville Library
                  Lottery. She had a notion, too, that I had found a gold-mine. [A great calamity to
                  a Buckingham man.] What else could make me spend whole days by my lone self in the
                  woods? She was certain of it.
               
                  
                  §Everybody, even the country people, were alarmed lest the Old Market-house
                     should be disturbed.
               
               
                  
                  *It is true I used to play teetotum for June apples when a boy, but that
                     oughtn't to count.
               
            
            
               SECOND INSTALLMENT.
               
                  The Cat out of the Bag—How People behaved—Park and Reservoir for
                     Lynchburg—Alarming Increase of Destitution—W. E. Binford and the Widow
                     Bexley—How to Help, whom to Help, and When—Rush of Editors, Photographers,
                     etc.—"Sky Surprises."
               
               BUT you should have seen her face that bright day (the brightest of my life, I
                  sometimes think), when I broke the news of my good fortune to her, and proved it
                  by incontestable vouchers. It was worth fifty-one millions of dollars at the very
                  least, that face was.
               The next day I was back in Lynchburg.
               There is a pea-green edifice on Court Street, opposite the court-house. I went
                  there first. There is a smaller edifice a little way down the hill, behind the
                  pea-green house. I went there next. There is a brick house near the reservoir, and
                  about a square from West Street. I went there, smiling openly [W. R. M. and self
                  got arrested there one night for serenading a tree-box], as I slowly walked along
                  the wall of the reservoir. Then I went to a house on Federal Hill, which has a
                  large garden attached to it. And then I went up to Liberty.
               
               What happened in consequence of these visits is, so far as I am aware, none of
                  your business; but if I had given my friends in Lynchburg and at Avenel the whole
                  world, I would have done for them no more than they deserved. To them I owed many,
                  a great many, of the happiest hours of my life. "Owed," did I say? There was no
                  debt, no sense of obligation, on my part; nothing of the kind. I would have been a
                  dog, the biggest and most villainous of dogs, if I had not gone straight to them.
                  I simply could not have been happy if they had not shared largely of my
                  happiness.
               But the cat was out of the bag.
               Everybody knew (it ran like lightning over the whole State and to the very ends of
                  the earth, I believe) that Moses was what they called "immensely rich," and that
                  he intended Lynchburg should have a magnificent park and a reservoir, the like of
                  which had not been seen since the days of the Romans, nor even then. Other things,
                  it was whispered, were to come.
               I wish very much I could say that the change in my circumstances produced no
                  change in myself, or in others. But it was not so. Success had never greatly
                  elated me or made me conceited, nor did it now. But one of the annoyances of
                  pecuniary success is that it parts one from his friends, and this from no fault of
                  either the rich or the poor man. The former cannot make his friend as rich as
                  himself, while the latter, if a man of spirit, is not content to be on unequal
                  terms with any one, even in the matter of money. Affiliation of rich with rich,
                  and poor with poor, is inevitable. So it would have been with me, had I not been
                  too old to form intimacies of any kind, save with womenfolks, to whom I had
                  belonged for many years, and continued to belong. But men of wealth, gravitating
                  towards me naturally, became my associates to such an extent that one day I
                  suddenly waked up to the fact that those who had not succeeded, had no money nor
                  the art of making it, no longer interested me. How often I had decried this and
                  sneered at it in some of my acquaintances who had gone ahead of me! And now I
                  caught myself saying testily of this or that man who had once been tolerably dear
                  to me, "He is down on his luck." As if it were the man's fault, when I knew he was
                  doing his utmost to rise. But such knowledge does not better the matter nor soften
                  the heart. For the innate weakness of not being able to get along in the world
                  there is no remedy; it is the least curable of diseases. Pity for the weakling is
                  of no avail. All of this is very natural. The traveler ascending a river in a
                  powerful steamer cannot long concern himself about the poor creature who is
                  drifting downward in a canoe, and is soon lost to sight. Sympathy for him is a
                  waste of energy, which had better be preserved until it can do some good.
               This, I believe, is the ordinary course of reasoning in the minds of men who rise
                  above their fellows, and fancy they are the engine in the steamboat, and not the
                     cwt and a half of humanity on the deck. It was in my
                  own case, despite the fact that my money had come to me as it were out of heaven.
                  And whence comes every good and perfect gift but from heaven?
               You made your money, you say. But, my friend, who made you?
               
               I am persuaded that there will be plenty of conceit in this world, pride of
                  riches, of talent, station, what not, so long as the delusion about free-will*
                   lasts. But what has that to do with my fifty millions? Find out, if you
                   can, my friend.
               
                  *Jimber-jawed men will never concede this.
               
               A very few experiments satisfied me that there was scarcely one of the "poor
                  devils who could not get along in the world" who did not crawl, and that quite
                  rapidly in some instances, where the proper remedy was applied, when help was
                  given in time, and thoughtfully.†
                     [I am more doubtful about helping than I was ten years ago—1892.]
               
                  †The habit is to help only when men are at the last gasp.
               
               "Fortunately, it was in your power to render just that kind of aid."
               Yes, I am aware of the fact. I am also aware of the fact that there never was a
                  thoughtful rich man before my time.
               
               The change in other people towards myself was at first not what I had anticipated;
                  nor did I ever receive the worship [I sometimes regret this] which some of my
                  readers may suppose I received. Here and there turned up a wretch who would have
                  eaten my shoes if I had permitted him; now and then a great man, failing, clutched
                  at me with a desperation that excited my profound pity; sometimes I was amused,
                  and sometimes disgusted, at the obsequious fawning of certain parties, whose names
                  I am tempted to mention; but in the main people were manly enough, and soon gave
                  me to know that in their eyes I was no better than I had been before.
               Nevertheless, it is very certain that I became in no time a most respectable
                  person, and received a deal of attention. The courtesy of life-insurance and
                  sewing-machine agents was marked. Circulars of every description made waste-paper
                  a drug in my house. Editors kindly chronicled my every movement. Photographers
                  seemed to have a high opinion of my face. Biographies of Adams became the order of
                  the day. Mr. Smyth haunted me, and my likeness appeared in Frank
                     Leslie within a week after my wealth was heralded to the world. Bank
                  presidents sometimes bowed to me. Mr. Z., of the Big Concern, suddenly ceased to
                  forget that he had been repeatedly introduced to me; and it was intimated to me
                  that an article from my pen would be acceptable to any country paper in
                  Virginia.
               Opportunities to invest, to take stock, to go into, partnership, and to promote
                  the most meritorious business enterprises, were frequent. A hint about starting a
                  literary paper in Richmond was boldly thrown at me. I neither invested nor took
                  stock, my money being already well placed, so as to yield me an income of four and
                  a half millions.
               A person whom I had good reason to consider the most consummate [something erased
                     here—Ed. Whig], and yet a good sort of a fellow, too, who had
                  professed warm friendship for me, and had a thousand opportunities to give me a
                  lift, but deserted me when I was down, played his game with his wonted smartness.
                  Meeting me on the street, he shook my hand, said warmly enough, but not a shade
                  too warmly, "Congratulate you, Moses," and walked on. It was not in the least
                  overdone, one way or the other. For weeks I did not lay eyes on him. But I knew my
                  man. In due time be came, not in person, but through his agents (men he fancied
                  had influence with me, and flattered them by so telling them), with the most
                  cunning and insidious propositions, seemingly in my own interest, to all of which
                  I replied, calmly,—
               "Tell Ben Brown I can do nothing for him now."
               But when he went down into the deepest depths, then I came to him and lifted him
                  up as high as it was possible ever again to lift him. For all along I had well
                  remembered how kind he had been to me before good fortune had hardened him into
                  adamant. Moreover, I had long known that, in society as in the forest, there are
                  beasts of prey who delight to lap the blood of the gazelles and springboks. Rather
                  than give up their nuts and wine for a single day, these human tigers would crunch
                  the bones of their best friends, yes, of their own fathers. It is their nature.
                  They cannot help it. And yet tigers are very beautiful.*
                  
               
               
                  *The older I get the more toleration I have for healthy rascals—but a sickly
                     rogue I hate. 1879.
               
               The increase of general destitution around me in the State, and indeed over the
                  whole land, after I became rich, was something alarming. I was beset for charity
                  on all sides. For this I had provided years before when putting myself to sleep
                  with waking dreams of what I would do with my fifty millions. Accordingly I
                  selected Mr. Wm. E. Binford [a worthy, good man, still living. A useful citizen,
                  too. There are now said to be more Binfords than Smiths in Virginia—1901] as my
                  almoner for the males, and for the females, after patient inquiry and research, I
                  chose a powerful widow of Culpeper.†
                   My selections were well made. Both possessed the physical
                  
                     †Mrs. Elizabeth Bexley, relict of the late Shiflett Bexley, an able-bodied
                        and excellent woman. She died, much to my regret, in August last, and was
                        succeeded by Miss Parthenope Shanks, a raw-boned and athletic spinster, who
                        I fear is using my money to buy up some feeble widower for a husband. But
                        this I would not say openly, for I have learned to fear all women. 1883.
                  
                   strength, the natural benevolence, the equable
                  temperament, and the discretion indispensable to their trying offices. By saving
                  me a world of annoyance they earned my lasting gratitude, and so well and wisely
                  did they discharge their duties that they became the best-loved people in
                  Virginia. All minor charities were referred to them. Special cases, and they were
                  not a few, I reserved for myself.
               [Wealth acquaints one with a world of poverty which otherwise would never have
                  been known. Worse still, they seem to be poor who once appeared in easy
                  circumstances. It is very sad. And yet I love to be sad. I was always sad, very
                  sad. 1888.]
               My immediate kin, whether by blood or marriage, were amply provided for, perhaps
                  too amply. Little or no harm befell those of mature age, but in the second and
                  third generations I had much cause to repent my benevolence. Call it that, in the
                  sense of well-wishing, because I am not benevolent otherwise. Some of the girls
                  became the prey of fortune-hunters, and not a few of the boys went heels-over-head
                  to the devil. Anticipating this, I was well steeled against their troubles when
                  they came, but confess that the repeated applications for assistance from the
                  ne'er-do-weels fretted me so that I almost longed to regain the quietude of
                  poverty. Yet, what could I do? Upon occasion I could shut the purse-strings as
                  tight as any man, but if I didn't help them their parents or grandparents would;
                  and, as I was so much more able to bear the burden than they were, I signed many a
                  check with more of a snort than a sigh. Truly, "if riches increase, so do they
                  that consume them," as the Psalmist saith. My bed was not all of roses by any
                  means. The world went not as I would fain have made it go with my millions.
               That my own children did not share the fate of so many of their kinsfolk was due
                  to the good sense, the patient watchfulness and determination of their excellent
                  mother. No credit is due me, for the simple reason that my mind was so occupied
                  with other matters that household cares were left perforce to the dear, capable
                  hands which had always controlled them. My children were good children. When they
                  reached manhood and womanhood my affairs had assumed such a shape, and my schemes
                  were in a state of such forwardness, that I could devote myself, in a great
                  measure, to the heavenliest of delights-the doing of good where it was needed in a
                  way that made it appear to come suddenly from the skies. In this my children and
                  their mother aided me signally, each vying with the other in displaying tact,
                  delicacy, and wisdom. One of my granddaughters discovered unquestionable genius
                  for these "sky-surprises," as we called them, and so extraordinary were her
                  inventions, and so discreet her gifts, that I think it not immodest in me to say
                  that during her lifetime, which was all too brief, more good was done in a more
                  delighting and oftentimes enrapturing manner than in all the other years of my
                  life put together.
            
            
               THIRD INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Fits of Pride—How cured—A Sneaking Heart-Devil—The Pleasure of Giving—Some
                     Schoolmarms—Ham. Chamberlayne—Deacon Handy—"The Native Virginian"—Numerous
                     Widows—Colonel McDonald—Billy Christian—Trick on a Fat Doctor, etc.
               
               FITS of pride, more from the consciousness of power than the conceit of riches,
                  attacked me from time to time. These I could cure with the greatest ease and
                  certainty by promptly shutting up my business office and going out into the woods.
                  If the weather were not too bitter, I would go even in midwinter. What comes out
                  of the speechless trees, up from the bubbling waters, and down from the deep
                  heaven, I cannot tell; how the sweet influences of nature operate upon the
                  vanity-swollen spirit I cannot tell. But I do know, and it is all I can tell about
                  it, that on my return from the forest I was no more humble than a tree is humble,
                  and no more proud; simple, natural, healthful, and you may add helpful, as a tree
                  is helpful to give shade to the fawn or shelter to the birds; that I was, and that
                  is all I was. Try the forest for an hour or two, my opulent friend.
               
               Something very much more crafty, creeping, and villainous than the ordinary vanity
                  of wealth assailed me over and again. It was what the theologians, if I do not
                  misunderstand them, call spiritual pride—Pharisaism. Going along the street I
                  would have to haul myself short up, for while my heart would be floating in a
                  delicious warm-bath of self-love my heart would be saying, "You certainly are one
                  of the best men that ever lived in this world!"
               I wonder, as my pen traces this very word "world," if my readers will believe me
                  when I tell them that in my dream about riches I had foreseen and provided for
                  this cunningest and vilest of all the devils that sneak into the human soul? It
                  was even so, whether they believe it or not.
               "But why do you tell it but to make out that you are the best man in
                  the world?"
               Partly to show that the imagination, by carefully going over for years and years
                  the possibilities of a given situation, may realize even its most unpleasant
                  details, but more to remind you, my friend, that in a small way you have yourself
                  been plagued by this identical devil. Own up, now. Haven't you?
               Lest it be inferred, in spite of my disclaimer, that I was a "mighty good man,"
                  let me hasten to say that I was not one of those unpardonably excellent worthies
                  who do not permit their right hand to know what their left hand doeth. No, indeed!
                  Charles Lamb thought that the greatest pleasure in life was to do good by stealth,
                  and have it found out by accident. Well, there is something in that, provided the
                  party to whom the good is done is comparatively a stranger to you. But in the case
                  of friends, I always took care that they found out (not always by accident either)
                  that I was the fellow who had done the good deed. Not for the world would I have
                  missed the pleasure of seeing their pleasure, and of knowing that they knew I knew
                  the source from which their pleasure came. I wanted to see it in their eyes, and
                  feel it come back straight and warm into my own eyes and heart. In a word, I
                  wanted to be loved, and, above all, I wanted to be loved by those I loved best.
                  That was life in its fullness; that was the charm of wealth.
               To know that riches enabled my children to escape the myriad pangs that beset my
                  own clouded and poverty-stricken boyhood and early manhood, when one is most
                  capable of enjoying and giving enjoyment, was a great deal to me. But more, far
                  more, was it to know that they could feel the warmth and brilliancy of their
                  sunlit morning reflected back from the faces of those whom they had befriended and
                  made even happier than themselves; that is, if it be true that it is better to
                  give than to receive, which I much doubt, because the giver can never surprise
                  himself in giving, and the "sky-surprise," as I have already intimated, is as near
                  as can be the coining down from heaven of something direct from God. And what call
                  be better than that? Don't think me impious if I sometimes question myself as to
                  how it may be with Him who can never be surprised by receiving what He longed to
                  get, but never dreamed He would obtain, and to whom nothing, literally nothing,
                  can ever be given; since from the infinite wearisome beginning He hath had all
                  things.
               I have now, I believe, finished all my twaddle about matters purely personal, and,
                  after narrating a few specific donations which gave me unusual pleasure, will
                  proceed at once to detail those public benefactions which I may reasonably presume
                  to be of general interest.
               During our entire married life Mrs. Adams had manifested a strong fondness for a
                  half-dozen or so of Virginia schoolmarms. My yielding and obedient disposition
                  made me a meek participator in this fondness, and the consequence was a serious
                  injury to the youth of Virginia by robbing them of their teachers. But, to atone
                  for the loss, a number of middle-aged men, who had not hitherto been able to
                  perceive how closely their happiness was bound up with the aforesaid marms, became
                  the most radiant and bounding of husbands, bestowing on me whenever I chanced to
                  meet them a cataract of gratitude which made the back streets more than ever
                  desirable as a route to my office. On the part of the marms, truth compels me to
                  say there was not quite so copious a downpour of thankfulness. One of these went
                  so far as to tell me frankly that she wished I had kept my plaguey dollars to
                  myself, so that she might have opened a boarding-house house as soon as she got old and ugly enough, and
                  so have been free as the wild gazelle on Judah's hills. [I do not believe that
                  boarding-house keepers enjoy any large freedom.] But when I remembered how jaded
                  the poor souls had looked at the close of their sessions, and the evident pleasure
                  they took in new bonnets and in the coat-tailed thing, all their own, that dangled
                  behind them as they entered church, I could not repent me of the evil I had
                  done.
               Hampden Chamberlayne having a fondness, and not a little fitness, for the
                  editorial calling, I thought to surprise and please him by presenting him with a
                  couple of newspaper toys in New York (the Times and
                     World, if I remember aright, which I hoped he would consolidate
                  under the name of the Worldly Times), but he surprised and enraged
                  me, by promptly selling them out, and establishing a semi-weekly in Richmond, his
                  State and its capital being very dear to him. So successful was he, that some time
                  early in the 80's he was sent to the United States Senate, where, against my
                  earnest advice, he distinguished himself by his efforts against centralization,
                  already too far gone to admit of hopeful opposition.
               [A worthy, good man, talented beyond question. The War of the German Uprising in
                  '88 was no sooner begun than he joined the army at St. Louis, rose rapidly to the
                  rank of General of Division, was captured after the sacking of Philadelphia, and
                  instead of being shot, as a brave soldier should have been, was guillotined in
                  front of the Imperial Palace, and immediately under the eye of Ulysses II.*
                   A serious loss, not only to the army, but to the cause of liberty. 1895.]
                  [My mind is now being made up that the friends of liberty should have no
                  heads.]
               
                  *The true name of this person was Frederick Dent Grant. A Virginian named M.
                     was his Minister of War.
               
               No amount of money could keep me from scribbling, and no amount of money could
                  insure me against the rejection of my articles by editors who presumed to know
                  better than myself the style of articles best suited to their papers, and so being
                  obliged to have a scape-pipe for my foolishness, I, with extreme difficulty,
                  persuaded Stofer and Scott to part with the Piedmont Virginian and
                  the Gordonsville Gazette. Stofer did not consent until I bargained
                  to pay him one thousand dollars a year for his services, and agreed that he should
                  sleep at Orange Court-House every night, which he did, purchasing a neat horse and
                  buggy for that purpose. Consolidating the two journals under the name of the
                     Native Virginian, at Gordonsville (which had increased to four
                  thousand souls under the stimulus of the Chester Gap Railroad, and the unremitting
                  immigration exertion of Digges), Stofer and I published the paper there for a good
                  long time, affording, snack-buyers an abundance of cheap, but not very clean,
                  wrapping-paper, and annoying the editors throughout the State by incessant
                  personalities and political inconsistencies. Charging nothing for subscription, or
                  for advertisements, except in the case of patent medicines and circuses, we
                  gradually ran up our list to three hundred and fifty, including exchanges and
                  copies given to friends on the cars.
               The hearts of numerous widows, ay! and married women, and maids too, sang with joy
                  after I got my money. I went all the way to Kansas to find a widow of whom I had
                  long lost sight, but never for an instant forgotten. And lo! she was married, and
                  so were two of her daughters. But that circumstance did not daunt me a bit. I
                  hadn't come all that way to return with my finger in my mouth, I tell you. Help I
                  would, and did. There, too, I encountered a person named Christian, grizzled and
                  furrowed by plenteous hard knocks, but warm and true as of yore. In vain I tried
                  to win him and his back to old Virginia, so that we twain roam once more the
                  wooded hills above the James, as in the halcyon days agone. "No; he had outlived
                  that life. He could not bear to see the change in his dear native State. Please
                  God, he would teach his boys that a man could die clean-handed and upright-hearted
                  in the midst of roughs, villains, thieves, and dogs. "There, then, after a
                  charming two-months' visit, I left him with greenbacks enough to brighten his old
                  age and give his children a good go-off in life; and I saw him no more.
               Deacon Moses P. Handy, being the son of a most worthy Patriarch and Presbyterian preacher, and
                  having done me many a good turn, I did something in return for him.
               [NOTE.—For the matter of turn, all the editors and reporters in Virginia and
                  Maryland, and a good many in Tennessee, and others in other States (take them "by
                  and large," they are the best class of people in the world), had been kind to me,
                  and I remembered every one of them to the extent of one thousand dollars in gold,
                  a house and lot, a barrel of whisky, a box of cigars, a set of open-back shirts,
                  by Spence,*
                  and a basket of champagne for their wives, apiece.]
               
                  *Haberdasher of the period. Worthy good man. Remarkable man. At the age of
                     seventy-two he could turn a double-back somersault, shears in hand, and cut
                     out a swallow-tail coat before he lit upon the ground. Saw him do it with my
                     own eye two times hand-running immediately after dinner.
               
               Deacon Handy being enough of an old and new school Presbyterian, and also enough
                  of a Baptist and Methodist, for the purpose, I attempted to gather unto him all
                  the religious papers of Richmond, satisfied that he would so combine them as to
                  make out of them a colossal fortune. Sectarian influences easily thwarted me and
                  my money, and consequently the good deacon had to scuffle along with the combined
                  evening papers as best he could. Summoning Chesterman to his aid, he made so good
                  thing of it that he was able to bring all the boys under cover, including even
                  wild Moral Donater.†
               
               
                  †Geo. Wilde, a model reporter of the period,—most astonishing and
                     indescribable partly human being living at that time.
               
               Colonel James McDonald for twenty years had exhibited so persistent a purpose to
                  help me on to the full measure of his ability that I was bound by natural law to
                  hate him. I did not give him one single cent. But, on going to the bank one day,
                  Mr. Davenport said to him,—
               "Colonel, interest has been piling up here for three or four years. Are you going
                  to let it run on indefinitely?"
               "Interest! What interest?"
               Then for the first time he discovered that his three children had to their credit
                  rather more money than was good for them. They pulled through, though, thanks to
                  their excellent training, enjoying life, and making citizens of whom the
                  community, and especially the poor people, might well be proud.*
                
               
                  *The family removed to France in '84, and one of the sons, or grandsons,
                     named Dudley, I think, made such reputation in the horrible war of French
                     Vengeance, as it was very properly called, that he was elevated to the rank
                     of Marshal (recalling Macdonald of Wagram) and Duc de Berlin.
               
               There was an old doctor in Middleburg whose name and face were associated with
                  some of the most sorrowful and sacred memories of my life. Thirty or forty years
                  of arduous country practice had obtained for him the unbounded esteem and
                  affection of scores of people, who were too poor to compensate him, if, indeed,
                  monetary compensation could have repaid him for all he had done for them. Him I
                  placed upon his pins so firmly that there was no danger of his ever being shaken,
                  demanding only that he and his dear wife should make us a real old Virginia visit
                  once a year. This they unfailingly did, and the way in which I used to beat the
                  old man at backgammon was something for him to brood over in a mildly vengeful
                  fashion during the remaining eleven months of the year.
               There was another doctor, not quite so old as my Middleburg friend, but much more
                  rotund. He had placed me under such obligations that for a long time I had not
                  been able to look him straight in the face. It was imperatively incumbent upon me
                  to proceed for him, and for him I proceeded in my own style. One winter evening,
                  just as he had seated himself at his table, on which a superb dinner was served,
                  and had paved the way to a first-rate talk with the particular friends around him,
                  the door-bell rang.
               "Man want to see you."
               "Tell him I'm at dinner."
               "Say he 'bleest to see you."
               "Let him wait, then."
               "Say he 'bleest to see you right now."
               "Tell him I am—at—dinner!" thundered the doctor.
               
               'Say he don' keer if you is; he got a wheelbarrer full o' silver and gold out dar,
                  and it a rainin'; he bound to see you."
               "Burbage, hand me that stick!"
               His son having handed him the cane, the doctor was about to bring it down with all
                  the force of his massive frame upon his servant, when the guests, rising with one
                  accord, restrained him.
               "Fo' Gawd, sir, de man do say de money ar dar; I ain't a lyin', sir,
                  ef he ar."
               To shorten the story, the money was "dar," sure enough. Night had
                  fallen; it was raining; the banks were closed, and so were the brokers'
                  offices.
               The doctor was furious; dinner getting cold, and nowhere to put all that money.
                  For a moment his brain, large as it was, was utterly at fault—for a moment
                  only.
               "Here, boy, dump that stuff up on the floor of my office. My son, run and hire a
                  section of artillery to stay up all night and take care of it. Give them whatever
                  they ask; hang me if I'll miss my dinner for forty thousand wheelbarrows full of
                  silver!"
               It took half a decanter of the best sherry to quiet him down, but then he forgave
                  me (there was no mistaking the source of the annoying present), and his guests say
                  he never talked more charmingly in his whole life.*
               
               
                  *There was not much money after all, the amount by actual count, as I was
                     told, being only twenty-six thousand four hundred and twelve dollars. An odd
                     accident occurred. Just before day the fire-bell on Third Street rang, and
                     the men in charge of the cannon becoming alarmed; fired their pieces,
                     breaking all the panes of glass for several squares around. Of course I
                     settled the bill; the second time I had to pay for window-panes, the first
                     being in Prince Edward in 1841-2, or thereabouts.
               
            
            
               FOURTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Laura Park—Sneers at Jones and Adams—The Great Reservoir—New Market-House—Grand
                     Celebration—Arrival of Old Lynchburgers—Ballard Kidd and Harriet Rouse—Works at
                     Curdsville, etc.—Rage of a baffled Rich Man—College for Old Virginia Fiddlers,
                     etc.
               
               HAVING finished the outline of matters of a personal nature, I now proceed to
                  detail at some length the larger works of a public character in which myself and
                  my agents were engaged for so many years. And first for Lynchburg.
               The object of Calvin Jones's repeated horseback rides was to obtain a site for a
                  park. This, after much negotiation and not a little finesse, he secured in the
                  vicinity of the low range of mountains called Candler's, at a distance of several
                  miles from town. How many acres were embraced in the original purchase I do not
                  now recall, but with the additions made to it in after-years Laura Park*
                   (so I named it) contains, as is well known, within a fraction of four
                  thousand acres. Everybody cried out that the distance from town was an insuperable
                  obstacle; that poor people could never enjoy it; that only the owners of horses
                  and carriages would ever go there; omnibuses and other hired vehicles would impose
                  too great a tax; that Adams always was a fool, Jones was a fool, and that the
                  whole thing was a notable exhibition of the absurdities into which well-meaning
                  men were sure to fall whenever they undertook to execute work that required
                  practical sense. Jones went serenely on, year after year, clearing, grading,
                  grottoing, water-falling, laking, briding, and beautifying generally, until people
                  were amazed and almost ready to hang him because he did not formally open the park
                  to the public. Crowds went out on foot, on horseback, in buggies, hacks, etc., to
                  look at and admire the work as it progressed. Livery-stable men reaped
                  
                     *Named for Miss Laura N. D. Christian—my sweetheart.
                  
                   a rich harvest, and looked forward to a
                  harvest still richer when the park should be completed. Something was whispered
                  about the right of way which Jones had bought for a road of his own from town to
                  the park, and endless were the sneers and innuendoes.
               "Nice man, that Jones! Oh, he's sharp. He ought to be satisfied with his salary,
                  his commissions on contracts, his jobs of all kinds; but that ain't. Jones, you
                  know. He wants a snug income of his own after all his jobs are played out. He's a
                  keener, Jones is!"
               All of a sudden Jones, having made sufficient headway in the park, put several
                  thousand men at work, and in an incredibly short time a quadruple-track road, with
                  footways and perfectly macadamized drives on either side of the railways and
                  between the double, tracks, with elms and other shade-trees planted at suitable
                  intervals, was finished, and the announcement made in the daily papers that cars
                  drawn by dummy-engines and driven by compressed air would run every ten minutes to
                  the park free of charge.
               
               There was a change of tune instantly.
               "Don't you remember my telling you when Jones was a clerk in Robinson Stabler's
                  drug-store, and Adams was loafing around there doing nothing, that both of them
                  were remarkable men? Why, yes you do! I can tell you the very place where we were
                  standing when I told you. It just shows, though, how different men of genius are
                  from ordinary people. They never do things in the way you and I would do them. But
                  haven't we got a magnificent park? It beats Central Park all hollow. I just tell
                  you old Lynchburg has got something to be proud of."
               "Yes, the park will do very well as it is, and it will be a great deal better when
                  Jones has completed his improvements on the sides and tops of the mountains; but
                  that reservoir business strikes me as the craziest notion that ever entered Moses
                  Adams's head; and what he has bought all the land in and around Scuffletown for, I
                  can't imagine."
               I (or rather Jones for me) had bought the whole of Reservoir Square, and a large
                  force in addition to that employed at the park was engaged in laying a massive
                  granite foundation all around from Dr. Payne's corner to Mrs. Turner's, the
                  Methodist church and the dwelling-houses having been already demolished. Leaving
                  the old reservoir intact, Jones ran up his granite wall to the height of one
                  hundred feet, forming a grand structure of five stories, counting the floor of the
                  original reservoir as one, each story supported by arched masonry of the most
                  solid and perfect workmanship, and each floor being in fact an additional
                  reservoir ten feet in depth, extending, as did that at the bottom, over the entire
                  square, with the exception of some forty or fifty feet between the outer and inner
                  walls, which were filled in all the way to the top with arches, upon which the
                  stone flooring of the colonnades was placed. There were transverse walls and
                  arches wherever needed to give strength to the mighty structure. My knowledge of
                  architecture is far too limited to enable me to describe technically this
                  reservoir, or collection of reservoirs elevated one above the other, but from what
                  has been said the reader may form some idea of its appearance. By flights of steps
                  the successive floors were easily reached, each ascension giving a broader view of
                  the picturesque scenery around Lynchburg, until the battlemented summit was
                  attained, from which the panorama was as fine as well could be. Under the
                  colonnades the townspeople, and especially the lads and lasses and the children,
                  found a charming promenade in good and even bad weather, except when the wind
                  drove the rain far under the arches. To strangers and visitors the reservoir
                  constituted the chief attraction of the growing city, dividing honors with the
                  park, and generally eclipsing it, owing to its being within the corporate limits
                  and so accessible. The much more powerful machinery needed at the pump-house was
                  made under a special contract in Lynchburg, the house containing it was enlarged
                  and beautified, and the two made another attraction to the city.
               For a time after the water was pumped into the higher reservoirs (enough being
                  always kept in them to furnish an ample supply for the houses in the highest parts
                  of the city), the bad boys, who had not then ceased to abound in Lynchburg, amused
                  themselves by throwing sticks, stones, etc., into the water, and by sailing
                  miniature boats thereon, but this was
                  speedily ended by a couple of policemen, detailed to guard the place; after which
                  it became, and has ever since remained, a delightful resort. Much has been said
                  about the Roman baths, aqueducts, and amphitheatres, but I doubt if the world
                  contains better masonry than this same reservoir, the proportions of which are as
                  graceful as its workmanship is solid and enduring. Jones prided himself upon the
                  park, but for my part I shall always consider the reservoir as the true monument
                  of his taste and genius.
               In my youth, when engaged as local editor of the Lynchburg
                     Virginian, I had exerted my entire battery of derision against
                  the market-house,*
                   a hideous affair, which would long since have passed out of the memory of
                  men but for the large and very perfect photographs of it in its different aspects,
                  each more horrible, if possible, than the other, which I had taken, and which
                  remain to this day in the new market, as unimpeachable evidence of the crude
                  architecture of the early age of Lynchburg. The new market, in the form of a
                  cross, extends under Court-house Hill from Church Street to the foot of the hill
                  on which many years ago stood the residence of Mr. Charles L. Mosby, and from what
                  used to be called Tan-yard Alley to a point about a square beyond West or Cocke
                  Street. Its width is fifty feet, height twenty feet, except in the centre, where
                  the dome or rotunda rises to the height of sixty feet. Excavated throughout from
                  the naked rock, arched and cemented so admirably that not a drop of water ever
                  percolates the vaulted roof; not whitewashed, but painted from end to end with the
                  best quality of white zinc, and paneled in simple but elegant designs, brilliantly
                  illuminated day and night with gas, of an equable temperature nearly the year
                  round, it is at once the most commodious, convenient, comfortable, and useful
                  market-house in America. Large as the city became after the great iron-factories
                  were established, its size, its central location, and the fact of its not being in
                  the way of any above-ground improvements, gained for it such esteem among all
                  classes, that no other public market has been thought of, and but few
                  green-groceries or private markets have been started even upon the outskirts of
                  the city.
               
                  
                  *The old man seems to have been wholly ignorant that a lovely new
                     market-house was erected as early as 1873.—Ed. Whig.
                  
               
               [The inauguration of the New and the destruction of the Old Market-house was made
                  the occasion of a grand celebration. A vast procession of former residents of
                  coat, lantern, umbrella, and boots, who bore a large square banner, with the gilt
                  device, "WE COME!" arrived in a special train and marched in solid phalanx up
                  Bridge Street. Conspicuous among them were Colonels Shields, McDonald, and R. F.
                  Walker, of Richmond; Mr. Daniel H. London, of New York; Mr. W. H. Ryan, of
                  Baltimore; Mr. S. V. Reid, of Cincinnati; Judge D. A. Wilson, of New Orleans; Mr.
                  J. William Royall, of St. Louis; Mr. Mike Connell, of Memphis; and Senators
                  Withers, Thurman, and Allen, of Washington. President Grant was indisposed, and
                  could not come. At the head of Bridge Street the procession was met by Dr. H. Grey
                  Latham, clad in a complete suit of armor. Behind him were the clergy, the Knights
                  Templar, the schools, public and private, the fire companies, and the whole
                  populace. Dr. L.'s address of welcome was delivered in such tones of thunder that
                  it frightened the inhabitants of Amherst Court-House, who immediately dispatched a
                  company of volunteers to the city, thinking the Confederacy had broken out again.
                  Salvos of artillery pealed aloud, and several large sand-blasts were set off. Mr.
                  A. McDonald then read a beautiful poem written for the occasion by a distinguished
                  literary lady of the city. The proceedings closed with a memorial oration by
                  myself. When I recalled the touching circumstance that those revered citizens, B.
                  Kidd and R. Jones, had derived the greater part of their sustenance from the Old
                  Market-house, and that the maiden, Rouse, had drawn almost her entire stock of
                  haslets throughout a pure and prolonged life from the butcher-blocks of that same
                  market-house, the vast concourse was flooded with tears. At night the city was
                  illuminated, there were balls, fire-works, etc., etc., but no whisky or profane
                  language. A full account of everything appeared in the papers of the next morning,
                  and was subsequently sequently printed in
                  pamphlet form, copies of which were eagerly bought up by the New England
                  Historical Societies, who had agents on the spot. Cuthbert, of the New York
                     Herald, made an intensely interesting report of the affair.
                  Copies of the pamphlet are now exceedingly rare and valuable. I know of but one in
                  Virginia, and that is in the hands of Mr. Thomas H. Wynne. The Virginia Historical
                  Society has offered five hundred dollars for a duplicate, and an eminent Virginian
                  archæologist has decided to print two hundred fac-simile copies for exchange.
                  Market-House Memorial Day has been for many years a legal holiday in Lynchburg.
                  1900.]
               Simultaneously with the constructions in and near Lynchburg, other works were
                  carried on in Curdsville, at the Buckingham Female Institute, in Farmville,
                  Richmond, and elsewhere. To my lasting regret, Jones could not or would not take
                  charge of the more important of these works. I begged him to do so, but he said,
                  not without truth, that I had given him as much as he could properly attend to for
                  many years, and that, while he cared little for reputation as an architect,
                  engineer, and landscape gardener, he did desire it to be said after
                  his death that what he had undertaken to do he had done really well. It is a pity
                  that others in my employ did not share Jones's conscientiousness. I do not intend
                  to call names, nor is it necessary for me to do so (the works speak for
                  themselves), but I cannot refrain from saying that the pain I often experienced in
                  the failure of my schemes to insure the happiness of individuals was hardly ever
                  so great as that I continually felt when looking at some of the public edifices
                  which I shall shortly mention.*
                   Added to the mortification I could but feel in thinking over the folly of
                  my selection of this or that man as my agent, and to the rage which I never ceased
                  to experience whenever I was cheated or deceived, was the intolerable sense of
                  impotency at being balked in my plans in spite of all my millions. Though I had
                  counted upon all this, and though I had steeled myself against it as best I could
                  saying to myself, when I lay dreaming in bed about being rich, "Why, even
                  Omnipotence does not prevent the world from going incessantly awry; and what can
                  you do with your little driblets of money?"), I felt it much the same. Oftentimes
                  I was so incensed and outraged that I determined to abandon all my works just as
                  they stood, or to leave enough money to complete them after a fashion, and go away
                  where I could never see them more, but could live quietly and selfishly all to
                  myself. But, somehow, millions do not make a man free; he continues a slave to his
                  thought, his dream, his scheme, whatever it may be, hoping in spite of his better
                  sense for better things, and having put his hand to the plow goes trudging along,
                  miserably enough.
               
                  *I have concluded not to mention. Why hurt feelings when the hurting does not
                     tend in the least to remove the eye-sores alluded to?
               
               At Curdsville I bought Baldwin's big brick house with the farm attached to it,
                  and, moving the house away from the allurements of the main, plain road, set going
                  one of the sincerest and longest-cherished desires of my heart, to wit: a college
                  for the education of Old Virginia fiddlers. None but negroes and mulattoes were
                  admitted as students. At first, owing to the rapid decay of material after the
                  abolition of slavery, there was a good, deal of difficulty in finding a suitable
                  president and professors,—men who had never been contaminated by indulging in
                  operatic airs, but who understood thoroughly and enjoyed only the real Old
                  Virginia jigs, reels, breakdowns, and the like—men who could play them as they
                  ought to be played, with fervor, with spirit, and the proper accentuation—in fine,
                  men, nigger men, who could and habitually did sling, as we say, a nasty bow. And
                  by nasty I do not mean nasty, but every Virginian knows what I mean. George Walker
                  was the first president, and under him were three professors whose names entirely
                  escape me. Not that there was any real need for so many teachers where all taught
                  the same thing, but that, in case of sickness or death or the calling away of any
                  of the faculty to a big dance or frolic, the course of instruction might not be
                  interrupted. The number of students was limited to twenty; everything, including
                  food and clothing, was free, and no diploma was granted until the student had
                  completed his three-years' curriculum. The scholastic year ended on Christmas Eve, and the commencement exercises
                  (which wound up with a grand ball given to the young white people) gave rise to
                  the liveliest excitement in all the adjacent counties; tickets were sought for
                  with the greatest avidity, and the written accounts of the proceedings, published
                  exclusively in the Richmond Whig, were looked forward to with the
                  most intense anxiety, and read with profound interest not only in Virginia but
                  throughout the South and West. Ten thousand extra copies of the paper were always
                  struck off on such occasions, and often failed to meet the demand
            
            
               FIFTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Blessings of the Fiddlers' College—Dancing vs. Pure Hugging—Course
                     on Fife and Tobacco-Horn—Blind Billy—Buckingham Female Institute—"Chermany" and
                     "Ant'ny Over"—Langhorne's Tavern, Ça Ira, New Store, Raine's Tavern, etc.—Spout
                     Spring, Red House, Pamplin's, Tarwallet, etc.—College for Old Virginia
                     Cooks—Hampden Sydney College—Mosque and Shot-Tower at Burkeville.
               
               THE benefit to be derived from a college of Virginia fiddlers was at the outset
                  the subject of not a little fun.
               "Adams," it was said, "has got so much money he don't know what to do with it. The
                  thing will soon play out and be forgotten, or remembered only as another instance
                  of the foolishness of rich men. The money is his own, though, and if he chooses to
                  throw it away in that manner it is his own lookout. Pity he hasn't sense enough to
                  devote it to some charitable object."
               What is commonly known as charity found little favor in my eyes, and as for the
                  objections made by the wise men of that day, they had been foreseen and provided
                  for long before the college was founded.
               Unbelievers were cured in this way:
               After the college had been in operation for a sufficient time to perfect the
                  professors, as well as the students, in the true Virginia sling of the bow, I
                  caused tickets of invitation to the commencement exercises to be sent to a number
                  of Northern belles, who never in their lives had danced anything but the so-called
                  round dances,—waltzes, polkas, mazourkas, etc. They attended (their expenses being
                  paid, indeed, every outlay incident to the commencement was defrayed out of the
                  ample endowment), the novelty of the affair attracting them; but before they
                  returned home the fire, the life, the inspiration imparted to them by real
                  dancing, and by such fiddling as they had never dreamed of, carried them
                  completely away with enthusiasm, so much so that they went back to their Northern
                  homes only to order Virginia fiddlers whenever they could get them, and to
                  introduce Virginia dancing in all of the great cities. How popular that dancing
                  and the fiddling which inspires it, and without which it could not exist, has
                  become throughout the Empire, no one need now be told. True, the lovers of pure
                  hugging still insist upon having their persons grappled and tousled by any
                  two-legged animal in trousers they can find, but the better classes, who can be
                  merry and at the same time decent, much prefer the style disseminated by the
                  Curdsville College. And this I consider a great and permanent blessing to
                  mankind.
               Subsidiary to the regular Curdsville curriculum was a course on the fife, the
                  proper playing of which I vainly sought to revive. Never was there a more complete
                  failure. After a few years of earnest toil, fife-playing was dropped and never
                  resumed. The truth is, the art of performing on the fife died with Blind Billy. I
                  never knew a man but Billy who could do justice to the fife—a glorious instrument
                  (not for military, but for terpsichorean purposes) in the hands of a man of
                  genius. Such a man was Billy. I wish I knew his history.
               If I failed signally in the matter of the fife, my success in the course which I
                  substituted in place of it was equally signal. So early as 1870, the old original
                  tune played on the long tin-horn previous to the tobacco breaks in Lynchburg had
                  become garbled. It could readily be recognized as a sickly and adumbrated
                  simulacrum of its grand original (tobacco men never failing to respond to its
                  summons), but it had lost much of that wild, weird, and deadly unearthliness which
                  characterized it from 1820 to 1830, and
                  even later than that. It is, in my deliberate judgment, the most ghastly and
                  appalling chant that ever emanated from the musical imagination. The name of its
                  composer is lost in the night of oblivion. My opinion is that it is not the work
                  of any one man, not a single composition struck off in the heat of inspiration,
                  but is more likely a growth and the product of many minds. Be that as it may, in
                  1870, the decadence of Ethiopian life and art, which followed the liberation of
                  our Virginia slaves, was most painfully marked in the change that had taken place
                  in this astonishing old tune. Previous to his departure for Georgia, Jones had
                  often lamented with me over this sad change, and he had often promised to write
                  out for me, in full, the notes of the tune as it was blown in its prime.*
                   The establishment of the Curdsville Fiddlers' College enabled Jones and
                  myself to rescue this tune (far more peculiar and saddening in its effects than
                  the famous Miserere of the Sistine Chapel), and to restore it to its pristine
                  completeness. Jones not only wrote out the music, but, leaving his work on the
                  park and reservoir, came down in person to Curdsville, bringing with him a
                  tobacco-horn blower from Planter's or Martin's warehouse, and stayed with him
                  until he was thoroughly enough versed in the tune to teach it. His class was
                  small. Few cared to devote themselves assiduously to the study of the horn.
                  Hearing of this, I immediately instituted a Horn Prize of one hundred dollars in
                  gold, which soon brought an ample supply of aspirants, and I have now the
                  satisfaction of knowing that so long as the world stands and tobacco is sold in
                  Lynchburg, it will be sold to the sound of the most mournful and remarkable
                  combination of notes ever framed by the human mind.
               
                  *Kroitner also promised to do the same thing, but never fulfilled his
                     promise. Germans settling in Virginia soon get to be Virginians, even in the
                     matter of promises and procrastination.
               
               My object in buying the Buckingham Female Institute was not merely to save it from
                  the utter destruction which seemed to await it, but to establish there another
                  Fiddlers' College for white men exclusively. But remembering that the practice of
                  Virginia fiddling, beneficial and, indeed, ennobling to the black man, has a
                  tendency to encourage dissipation in the white man, I abandoned the original plan
                  and consecrated the Institute wholly to the instruction of able-bodied young men
                  in the ancient and manly games of "Chermany" and "Ant'ny Over," The etymology of
                  the former game is obscure. It may have been "Germany," though I have never known
                  a Dutchman to play it or even to be aware of its rules and regulations. My aim was
                  to supplant the vile pastimes of base-ball and billiards which befell the
                  Commonwealth as a part of the loathsome legacy bequeathed us by the war. I could
                  not, indeed, believe that these debilitating and abnormal sports would perpetually
                  exclude the time-honored and patriotic games to which Virginians had been
                  accustomed, but my fear was that after the base-ball business the awful thing
                  called cricket might follow, and that I could not have borne. Those silly wickets
                  and those absurd bats are to my mind execrable, inexcusable, and unfounded upon
                  reason and common sense.
               I am happy to say that the wholesome streams poured firth from the pellucid
                  fountain of Virginian sports at the Buckingham Institute permeated and percolated
                  the Commonwealth until base-ball disappeared entirely, and billiards were
                  relegated to the largest cities, where they will forever divide the honors with
                  bagatelle, which I take to be the last resource of manikins.
               My feelings toward Farmville and the whole region thence along the old stage road,
                  and the railroad too, up to Lynchburg, were of the warmest character. A portion of
                  Cumberland also was dear to me. There was nothing I would not have done for
                  Cartersville, for Oak Grove (formerly called Walton's Store when I went to school
                  there, some seventy-odd years ago, to Mr. Burns), for Tarwallet Church, Cumberland
                  Court-House, for Langhorne's Tavern, Ça Ira, Hard Bargain (Mr. Page taught me, and
                  I had the itch there), for Raine's Tavern, the New Store, the wild region once
                  called Algiers, for Walker's Store (my father and I once stayed all night there
                  with old Mr. McDearmon), for Prince Edward Court-House (to turn back a little,
                  where Mr. Ballantyne taught me, and I
                  learned to shoot the horse-pistol), for Appomattox Church, near which I spent in
                  boyhood many happy days at Dr. Merritt Allen's, for Pamplin's Depot, for the other
                  Raine's Tavern, which subsequently became Appomattox Court-House, for the Spout
                  Spring, for Concord, and every foot of the way thence to Lynchburg. There was
                  nothing, I say, that I would not have done for these places and others I could
                  name,—for example, the Red House Tavern, in Charlotte. Indeed, I wanted to do
                  something for the first lock below Lynchburg, for Bent Creek and Warminster, so
                  affectionate was my remembrance of them all, but many were past doing for, and
                  others needed little of my assistance; as, for instance, Farmville, which
                  prospered greatly after the lunatic asylum and the Mercury were
                  started there. All I could do for Farmville was to buy the place called Mountain
                  View, which my uncle, Mr. James Evans, rented for a number of years, and erect
                  upon it a foundation for the everlasting education of real old Virginia cooks, so
                  that as long as the human jaw continued to work in the Virginia countenance,
                  ash-cake, good loaf-bread, fried chicken, and a thousand other delicacies known
                  only to Virginians should exist for said jaw to play upon. It furnishes me
                  infinite happiness to be able to state what is well known to all the enlightened
                  natives, that the Evans foundation secured forever to Virginians the cooking and
                  the food without which they would long since have ceased to exist; and not only
                  that, but that from this invaluable institution (which I designed as a nursery for
                  Virginia cooks, partly of both sexes, but mostly fat females) there went forth so
                  large a supply of cooks that I was enabled within twenty years to establish in all
                  the principal cities of the world Virginia taverns, where a man could eat an
                  old-fashioned dinner of every variety of Virginia meat, vegetables, and dessert,
                  including pan-cakes and fritters, and afterwards retire to a real old Virginia
                  room with an open fire of hickory or pine, as he might prefer (or with fennel in
                  the fire-place in summer-time), and smoke Virginia tobacco in a Virginia pipe as
                  he leaned back in a split-bottom chair and cocked his feet on an Old Virginia
                  mantel-piece, duly ornamented with an oblong gilt mirror, divided into three
                  compartments, flanked by tall silver candlesticks (a candle-stand being in
                  readiness for them when desired), and surmounted with a picture of General
                  Washington crossing the Delaware, or commanding at Monmouth.
               I do believe that these Virginia taverns have done the world a great deal of good.
                  An archæological interest attaches to them. They carry forward into the new times
                  the very life and custom of a remote and glorious past, for they present in
                  addition to the furniture of a former era (for which those who are the least
                  curious about the customs of their ancestors have always the liveliest fondness)
                  the actual food and the manner of cooking it which obtained in the days long gone
                  by, and in that way they afford the historian precisely that information which in
                  regard to ages still more remote, fancifully called prehistoric or stone ages, is
                  left almost entirely to conjecture. Nor must I omit to notice the remarkable
                  circumstance that, notwithstanding the changes which are continually taking place
                  in the human constitution, unfitting it in general for the diet of previous times,
                  the Virginia eating has proved, after long trial, to be suited to all times and to
                  all modifications of the system. It is now admitted by the best physiologists that
                  Virginia ash-cake, streaked middling, etc., will probably be as welcome and as
                  wholesome to the last men who inhabit this planet as it was to Buck Farrar, of
                  Farmville, in 1811.
               [It was an immense relief to me when I learned that Hampden Sydney College had
                  raised three hundred thousand dollars, and that a sum still larger had been
                  obtained for the Union Theological Seminary. Long experience had taught me that
                  only very rich Yankee men can do much for colleges (Southern men being fine
                  promisers but poor payers), and I had so much to do and so little to do it with. I
                  thought it hard, too, that I had to build the perfect MacAdam road (the only one
                  in the State) from Farmville to the college, with shade-trees and sidewalks all
                  the way—hard, because I believed that the professors on College Hill maintained a
                  bad dirt-road because they did not want outsiders to obtrude into that delightful
                  little Republic of Letters. But I built the road for my own sake, and cannot say I
                  am sorry I did build it, though I now think it ought to have been a plank-road, for the benefit of
                  Evans's saw-mill and other saw-mills that needed employment.
               Everybody said I ought to have built a narrow-gauge railroad instead of a MacAdam
                  road. I could not so think. At that day there was a mania on the subject of
                  narrow-, as at an earlier day there had been a mania about broad-gauge roads, but
                  now no one doubts that many even of the latter ought not to have been built until
                  the country became more thickly settled: The same amount of money spent in
                  first-class turnpikes would have been productive of much more good, and given much
                  more comfort to country people. As soon as Virginia became an integral part of the
                  Empire, a moiety only of the former taxation being applied to the improvement of
                  country roads made the land habitable, and then, for the first time, immigrants
                  ceased to alight for a moment and depart the next, like so many wild pigeons.]
               I might, if space permitted, dwell at some length on this important subject, but
                  must hurry on to Richmond, saying only in passing that little favors, such as
                  drinking-fountains, equestrian statues, etc., were distributed freely to
                  Warminster, and other places heretofore named, the particulars of which I do not
                  recall, my memory being at fault, not so much because of age as on account of the
                  multitude of things done in various hamlets and cross-roads which were dear to
                  me.
               [Here it will be in place to say that the drinking-fountains were not
                  whisky-fountains. This is a specimen slander of the thousands gotten up against me
                  by the newspapers. The thing is absurd on its very face; for I suppose there is
                  not a man in the world, a man rich enough, to furnish free whisky to the places
                  named above even if they had desired it, which they did not, the love of it having
                  departed from them.
               As to the accusation that my taste presided over that parody of the Bunker Hill
                  monument, at Burkeville, that, too, is a vile slander. I did furnish the money to
                  build there a shot-tower two hundred feet high, and requested its shape should be
                  that of the Eddystone light-house. But the contractor, a violent Southern man,
                  would make it like the monument in question, painted it black and varnished it. As
                  a shot-tower it was not a success, though Mr. Hennipinkle, a worthy German,
                  managed it economically. I had a suit about it with the contractor, but was of
                  course, cast on account of my supposed wealth.
               It was cut up into stories of ten feet each, the first of which was a bar-room,
                  the second a tank, the third a job office, the fourth an  room, the
                  fifth a sumac mill, and the rest were  as lodging-rooms for artists and
                  poets who came to spend the summer and study the scenery. In
                  that  paid very well. On the top was a huge lantern  by
                  calcium lights, which proved useful to the railroads at night, especially after
                  the tracks were doubled. The great black tower looming up two hundred feet in air,
                  and flaming like a small sun made the night approach to Burkeville singularly fine
                  and novel.
               The superb mosque built by me not far from the town as a dancing-hall for the good
                  people of the vicinage, was much admired, but was burnt by a fanatical dervish,
                  who came through the James River and Kanawha Canal on the first packet-boat that
                  traversed its waters after its completion to the Ohio—a sad end to so pretty and
                  enjoyable an edifice. I could not rebuild it, being in reduced circumstances.]
            
            
               SIXTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Good Sidewalks in Richmond—Council of Cobblers and Ostlers—New Capitol
                     proposed—Intense Rage of the Legislature—Speeches of Indignant
                     Members—Appearance of Capitol in 1910—Strangers from Japan and North
                     Carolina—Deplorable Consequence of a Bank, etc.
               
               I CANNOT say that I loved Richmond as much as I did Lynchburg and Curdsville, but
                  it was the capital of my State, needed, I may say nearly everything, contained
                  males and females whom I liked far more than they liked me, and was a good field
                  for expenditures and experiments. Therefore, I spent money right freely for
                  it.
               In the first place, it was in 1878, when I commenced active operations, the worst-paved city, as to
                  sidewalks, in the civilized world, and, large as it was, it did not contain one of
                  several kinds of edifices much needed. The Great Moral Donator told me that a man
                  who could donate himself a hack-ride every hour in the day need not be concerned
                  about sidewalks or railroad stations; one good theatre would, in his opinion, be
                  of more use and comfort than anything else. But I had corns, many and grievous
                  corns, and loved to walk sometimes, much as it pleased me at other times to look
                  down from my own carriage at Jack ——, but I will not call his name. So I paved the
                  better part of the city, and thus made it a pleasure, not a pain, to walk the
                  streets.
               [I have just been informed that, for many years, the common council consisted
                  wholly of ostlers, who were in league with the cordwainers, cobblers, and boot and
                  shoe men of every description. The town of Lynn, I am assured, contributed
                  annually ten thousand dollars towards the maintenance of a perfect system of
                  detestable sidewalks. To the best of my recollection those sidewalks were not
                  touched from 1860 to 1878, say eighteen years; meanwhile, the streets were kept in
                  good condition, many of them being repaved, and many new and long streets built.
                  Thus the ostlers had the happiness of seeing their horses properly considered,
                  while the shoe men enjoyed an immense business obtained at a most trying expense
                  to the pockets and toes of the most patient and uncomplaining public in the world.
                  1892.]
               What I wanted to do, above all things, was to clear away every building, except
                  St. Paul's Church, from the Exchange Hotel to Eighth Street, and from Main to
                  Broad, so as to give me room enough for my new State Capitol. But this, like many
                  other projects dear to my heart, had to be given up. In my earlier dreamings I had
                  always intended to complete, on an improved design, the Washington Monument, in
                  Washington, and to erect on the vacant lot, between that monument and the
                  Smithsonian Institute, an Academy of Art (painting and sculpture) which should be
                  without an equal in the world. That idea had, of course, been long abandoned. The
                  little money I owned wasn't a hundredth part of what was needed in Virginia. But
                  it was hard to give up the design of that enlarged and splendid square in
                  Richmond, with its stately capitol, modeled upon the original, but far loftier,
                  more capacious, and imposing. How often I had seen and gloated over them in fancy!
                  My principal was untouched, but much was to be done, and the best I could do (in
                  fact, it was all I could do to that particular end) was to offer the State a gift
                  of one million of dollars on condition it would issue its bonds for a like amount,
                  the total of two millions to be devoted to the building of a capitol worthy of
                  Virginia and its history.
               Although I offered to take all the bonds myself, the proposition produced an
                  uproar in the legislature, and brought down upon me a shower of abuse.
               "This bloated capitalist, Adams," said the member from Zedville Court-House,
                  "offers a gross indignity to the Commonwealth. Sir, the State of Virginia is not a
                  pauper. She wants no capitol, and when she does, she'll build it herself out of
                  the surplus arising from the sale of the West Virginia certificates. In my humble
                  judgment this insidious capitalist has designs upon the virtue, integrity, and
                  manhood of this Commonwealth."
               "My learned and honorable friend," said the delegate from Xton Xroads, "does not
                  put the case too strongly. I, sir, consider that the great and mighty State of
                  Virginia is bound to uphold this building, and to cherish it forever as an
                  immortal, priceless legacy bequeathed from the fathers. This, sir, is a high hill.
                  From here down to the river is a matter of sixty or eighty feet, and if we want
                  more room, why, sir, we can dig down to any extent, and have as many basements as
                  we please. If we strike water we can pump it out, and if cement is needed, as good
                  cement, sir, can be had at Belcony Falls as thar is in this world—pure Old
                  Virginyar cement, sir. What does the bloated Adams say to that, sir?"
               "They tell me, sir," exclaimed the senator from Bullaningunsopolis, "that the
                  building is rotten. True, sir, for I myself have punched a hole in its heaviest
                  timbers with my little finger. But, sir, we can bind the dear edifice together
                  with competent hoop-iron, or better still, with resolute and unyielding
                  grape-vines from our native hills, and
                  so, sir, fondle, sir, and encourage it, sir, that, sir, it will not fall till it
                  crumbles into small, sacred dust. True, sir, that many have been killed in this
                  loved mansion of the mighty, departed dead. But, sir, what is human life compared
                  to this blessed and venerated old building? It is as the infinitesimal droplet of
                  the ordinary aqueous fluid in the bounding and boundless ocean of unfathomability.
                  Besides, sir, we need not assemble in these ancient old halls. Temporary and cheap
                  sheds should be erected for our accommodation against the railings of the Squarr,
                  to be used during the brief but economical session, and then took apart, sir, for
                  future reference. Once a day we could, in joint body, emerge from our sheds, and,
                  with locked hands, gaze in speechless joy, awe, and adoration upon this ancient,
                  old, and uninhabited (except by a few officials) contraption."
               I left my offer standing for a year or two, and then, by the advice of my friends,
                  withdrew it.
               [The capitol as it now appears with its grape-vines and bands of hoop-iron is
                  considered a curiosity. Many strangers from Japan and North Carolina come every
                  day to look at it. The four hundred large pine-trees, carefully whitewashed, with
                  which it is propped on every side, are specially admired. A collection of long
                  iron rods running through and through the building, and secured to the tail of the
                  horse of the equestrian statue of General George Washington, also attracts
                  attention. 1910*
                  ]
               
                  *Virginia did not build a New Capitol at that time, nor in any aftertime,
                     simply because a capitol was not needed in a petty Province that had ceased
                     to be a State.
               
               [No antiquarian can fail to applaud the large public spirit which incased the
                  Bell-house in massive walls of French plate-glass, so that it can readily be seen
                  with the naked eye, and, at the same time, be secure from the profane punching of
                  people whose business in life is to job things with walking-sticks. And while I
                  cordially indorsed the importation from Lynchburg of the old market-house and its
                  re-erection in the square as a unique monument of the past, I must be allowed to
                  say, with due humility, that it is not, perhaps, the fittest place for the storing
                  of public documents. 1912.]
               Considering the two millions refused by the State as so much clear gain, I could
                  no longer refuse my assent to a proposition of a practical turn which had been
                  urged upon me with great force by some of my business acquaintances. My opinion
                  had always been, and still is, that Richmond, before the war, was plenty large
                  enough and very nearly rich enough. It seemed to me then, as it does now, that
                  there is no more need for monstrous cities than for monstrous individuals. But in
                  this no Richmond person agreed with me, the universal opinion being that the
                  bigger the city became, the better off everybody would be. So I gave my consent to
                  the establishment of a bank, which should not be a side-show to some big
                  shaving-shop in New York, but should be conducted solely in the interest of
                  Richmond merchants, millers, manufacturers, and mechanics. The result was
                  astonishing even to me, with my astute and capacious business mind. New industries
                  in iron, cotton, pork, canned fruits and oysters, and a hundred other products
                  sprang up like magic, and each reacting upon the other caused so sudden and so
                  vast an increase of prosperity as to alarm calm men and to sadden me to the
                  uttermost, for to me the growing city meant growing wealth to the comparatively
                  few (no matter what their number might be), and growing poverty to the many, with
                  accompanying vice and crime. But the force had been put in motion, and the work
                  went on with ever-accelerated speed. Within five years we had wrested our coffee
                  trade from Baltimore and New Orleans, established a Birmingham reputation for our
                  wares in steel, started a fair rivalry with Lowell in cotton goods, and what is of
                  more importance than all of these put together, we had gained enough of common
                  sense to know that our flour ships could bring from Brazil not only coffee but
                  hides as well. Boston became scared, as indeed she could not help being, at our
                  shoe and leather business, which outstripped all our other businesses. Money
                  fairly rolled into Richmond.
               But I cannot dwell upon these practical matters. To recall them, brings nothing but pain. What earthly
                  right had a humorist to meddle with such things? Here is this great city
                  [numbering now fully half a million of souls, 1911], and here are all the evils
                  that belong to all such cities. One cannot go to see his friends without traveling
                  from two to ten miles on the street railways. [Rich as people say I am, it is out
                  of the question to consume an hour in my private carriage when the cars, drawn by
                  dummy engines, will carry me the same distance in a few minutes, and at a cost of
                  only a penny.]
               [Just here it is due to myself to say that the suggestion about hides, with its
                  dreadful results in the increase of business, wealth, and population, was not my
                  own. I disclaim it utterly, and am in no way whatsoever responsible for its
                  origin. The suggestion was made to me as far back as 1873, by Hon. James McDonald,
                  and he alone is to blame for all the deplorable consequences. For if my money
                  enabled Richmond men to carry it out, they could not have carried it out had no
                  such suggestion ever been made. I wash my hands of the whole business, which I
                  regard as deplorable in the highest degree. 1919.]
            
            
               SEVENTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Railroad Depots in Richmond—Improvements on Broad Street—Shields House—Virginia
                     Historical Society Building—Colonel T. H. Wynne and Dr. W. P. Palmer—Automaton
                     of Com. Porter—Brice Church—Free-Pew Question settled—Paganism of Adams—Pulpit
                     Propriety and Duck Guns—Rev. Dr. Broadus—Varlets, Cudgels, and
                     Assassins—Congregational Singing—Church of Spectroscope.
               
               IT is as natural for a rich man to build as for a beaver or a bird. I was pressed
                  almost beyond endurance to do something for Richmond in the way of public edifices
                  which should in some faint measure approximate the only really grand, substantial,
                  and tasteful structures of which the city could boast during the last quarter of
                  the nineteenth century. I mean the railroad depots. But this was clearly
                  impossible. Profuse as these depots were in number, each was much more unique,
                  stately, and wonderful than all the rest, including itself. The reproduction on
                  Broad Street, between Eighth and Ninth, of the Poecile Stoa, simple, pure, chaste,
                  and lovely, was not more thoroughly Greek and agreeable to the highly cultivated
                  eye than the colossal Aztec, Assyrian, Etruscan, and Congo constructions on Byrd,
                  Pearl, and the bottom of Broad Street, near the old market. Nor must the
                  prehistoric kjokkenmodding of the York River road be non-enumerated.
               [On a little scrap of paper attached to the outside of the bundle of the Adams MS.
                  were found the remarks below, from which it would appear that the old man
                  meditated great things for Broad Street, but whether before or after he became
                  satirical it is impossible to decide, there being no date to the scrap.—Ed.
                     Whig.]
               [One of my first investments in Richmond was the purchase of the Fredericksburg
                  depot property on Broad Street. Finding that the removal of the railroad track had
                  given a wonderful impetus to business, and that various palatial stores had
                  displaced the shanties and shackly houses which formerly flanked that street, I
                  determined to build a splendid hotel on my property, formerly the site of the
                  depot. The hotel was finished in 1881, and was named the "Shields House."*
                   It was the
                  
                     *Colonel John C. Shields, a warm-hearted, worthy man, after whom the hotel
                        was called. His real name, Lieutenant-Governor Gilman assures me, was
                        Porter, and he was the only son of Commodore Porter by his twelfth wife.
                        When his father got married a thirteenth and fourteenth time, young Porter
                        became indignant and assumed the name of his mother's family.
                     Commodore Porter's death, at a great age, left such a void in the community
                        that I engaged an ingenious mechanic to make for me an exact facsimile of
                        him in wood. A more perfect automaton was never constructed; it walked all
                        about the city, collected accounts, talked, and smoked, and could not be
                        told from the original commodore except by the closest inspection. It was
                        touching to see it going along, with its venerable beard and pipe. The bad
                        boys would sometimes tie him to a post, and the machinery being still at
                        work, his legs kept moving in the oddest manner, and he exhibited all the
                        signs of violent rage. At last they got to lighting their cigars by
                        scratching matches on his nose, and sending him around with profane and
                        indelicate verses written on his forehead. Out of all patience at this, I
                        gave him to Henry Eustace, who made a large fortune by exhibiting him
                        through the country. It is said that when General Richardson felt him and
                        found that he really was wooden, and not the genuine commodore in propria personæ, he just laughed himself to
                        death.
                  
                   most magnificent hotel
                  outside of Chicago. Ballard was the first lessee, and he seldom had a vacant room,
                  so great was the rush of visitors. As a grateful tribute to the "Broad Street
                  Association,"I appropriated one-half of the first year's rent of the hotel to the
                  purchase and erection of a bronze statue of James Lyons, the president of the
                  association. I always regretted that I did not buy several hundred acres of land
                  beyond the western confines of Richmond, for as soon as the Court of Appeals
                  decided that the ordinance prohibiting the use of locomotives on Broad Street was
                  valid, the owners of the street railway extended their tracks to the fair-grounds,
                  property in the vicinity of Richmond College jumped up one hundred per cent., and
                  such was the activity in building operations that the contractors of Richmond had
                  to bring at least five thousand mechanics here.]
               
               As I had not the means to cope with these prodigies of architecture, I contented
                  myself with the purchase of the three squares lying between Capitol and Broad and
                  extending from Ninth to what was called in old times Governor Street. After
                  sweeping away all the buildings which had not particularly adorned this space, I
                  erected on the square, between Ninth and Tenth, a proper building for the Virginia
                  Historical Society. I say "I erected," meaning by that only the money part of the
                  matter. The selection of the design, details, etc., etc., was left to the
                  executive committee, who intrusted the execution to Colonel Thomas H. Wynne.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *A most extraordinary man. The only thoroughly practical and at the same time
                     excessively antiquarian man I ever knew—good dinner-giver.
               
               [So great was the revival of trade and the increase of wealth in New Orleans after
                  '75 that the Southern Historical Society was carried back by acclamation and
                  endowed dowed with a million of dollars at the very first meeting held in that
                  city.]
               Who the architect was that Wynne engaged I do not now recollect, nor do I know how
                  much of the interior arrangement is due to him and how much to the architect, but
                  the building as a whole excites general approbation for its beauty, simplicity,
                  and durability. The interior could not be improved. I should myself have liked a
                  more elevated structure, but the limits of the lot forbade anything loftier. It is
                  a pleasant resort for the student and the lover of Virginia in the past. It is not
                  a museum for noisy boys and men, for giggling girls, or for open-mouthed
                  curiosity-mongers. For a great number of years it has been in charge of Dr.
                  William P. Palmer, who devotes his whole time to it, and each succeeding year
                  becomes more and more absorbed in devotion to the interests which the society was
                  designed to subserve. The fund, ample for all purposes, provides for what many
                  consider very expensive annual meetings, which have become, in fact, historical
                  festivals, lasting several days. These are looked forward to by our best people in
                  every part of the State not with interest merely, but with eagerness.
               Openly, and by indirection, I was made aware of the fact that Church This and
                  Church That would receive me as a member, and without too rigid an examination.
                  The hope was held out to me that my means were sufficient to justify me in the
                  indulgence of the expectation that I might one day anticipate becoming an elder or
                  vestryman, and might possibly at some time be allowed to hand around the basket if
                  I dressed becomingly and paid enough attention to my hair. But whilst in one sense
                  I was a Christian (an imperfect one, it is true), I was also a pagan and worshiper
                  of Pan, loving the woods and waters, and preferring to go to them (when my heart
                  was stirred thereto by that mysterious power which, as I conceive, cares little
                  for worship made statedly and to order on certain recurring calendar days) rather
                  than to most of the brick and mortar pens that are supposed to hold in some way
                  that which the visible universe no more contains than the works of his hands
                  contain the sculptor who makes them; for
                  I take it that the glittering show revealed by the mightiest telescope, or by the
                  hope mightier even than the imagination of the highest mind, is but as a parcel of
                  motes shining in a single, thin beam of the great sun unseen and hidden behind
                  shutters never to be wide opened. Howbeit, I do dearly love good preaching by an
                  umble, not hum-ble, man, who has thought and felt; and this tempted me to buy the
                  Rev. John A. Broadus for my own use and behoof. But that good man declined the
                  proposition, and an enthusiastic Baptist threatened to cane me for daring to make
                  it. (I was not afraid of the man, but business called me out of town that very
                  day!) I was forced, therefore, to build my own church and hire my own preachers.
                  It was placed on the lot next to Governor Street, was circular in form, seated
                  comfortably a very large congregation, and the pews rising one above the other in
                  amphitheatre form, gave great satisfaction to people who distressed themselves
                  very much on the free-pew question. The poor people chose the lower seats nearest
                  the preacher, whilst the rich, though but little farther off from the pulpit,
                  enjoyed looking down upon their neighbors. In this way all were gratified. For
                  myself, having plenty of money, pews gave me no trouble, and as for sects, my
                  Panness (not theism) enabled me to discern much that was admirable in all sects
                  and creeds from the Jew down (or up, as you will) to the Catholic and
                  Presbyterian. Dogma is to me a mere gustatory matter of the triflingest moment,
                  but freedom, the very essence and atmosphere of intellect—(this does not consist
                  with the previously expressed views of Adams about the will, but that is the old
                  man's lookout and not ours.—Ed. Whig)—is the all-important matter.
                  To an all-embracing mind like my own, dogma of any kind is the baldest absurdity.
                  For every thread,*
                   however minute, in the Web of Things (the capitals "W" and "T" are
                  important here) runs back and forth to infinity, and until you have grasped the
                  two endless ends you cannot possibly tell, or so much as guess, the connections
                  and meaning of any one fibre of thought or fact. And revelation, be it what you
                  claim for it, like all things else, must have all the lights of the eternal past
                  and the eternal future thrown full upon it before it is interpretable in terms of
                  the whole truth, less than which can never satisfy human craving or explain human
                  action. Nevertheless, if your tooth incline you to mustard of the best with
                  Methodism, go and be merry therewith, only do not grow hot against me because my
                  palate leads me inevitably to Episcopacy and the mild oil of the olive.
               
                  *Of course there is no thread and no web. A thread which at every point of
                     its extension should meet and intertwine with threads coming simultaneously
                     from all points of an infinite sphere, would be a better figure, but still a
                     clumsy one. No image can at all portray the complexity and coherence of
                     things material with things spiritual. Yet theologians and scientists
                     squabble about intrusion into their several domains, as if co-existencies
                     and inter-existencies (to coin a word intended to express life within life)
                     could by possibility be dissociated. It is child's play. "These toys are
                     mine and you sha'n't touch 'em." "These are mine and you sha'n't touch 'em
                     either." What folly! It is the ever-recurring and ever-beneficent struggle
                     between conservation and development. "Yet you say, what 'folly' and
                     'child's play.' I do. Folly has its uses, and child's play is beneficial.
                     The war between science and religion must go on forever. Reconciliation is
                     simply impossible. That proposed by Herbert Spencer is in effect an absolute
                     surrender on the part of theology. Let the Titans continue their unending
                     wrestle, satisfied that whichever falls will not long remain down, but,
                     Antæus-like, rise strengthened by his fall. For this universe is a large
                     concern, and the finding out of even the edge of it will occupy some
                     considerable time. Meanwhile the fight of "hold fast" and "go ahead" must
                     continue and ought to continue.
               
               (My pastor, the Rev. Dr. Asterisk, has not induced me materially to modify my
                  views, though I find with advancing years that fixedness of opinion is less
                  objectionable to me than it was aforetime. 1897.)
               By no means did I engage to attend regularly my own church. There was too much
                  disposition to make room for me, and to give me a seat, although my ear-trumpet
                  was a fine instrument, and the acoustics of the building were perfect. The sum set
                  apart for the minister—five hundred dollars a Sunday (and we had a new preacher
                  every week)—generally secured an excellent sermon and a very large attendance.
                  Collections were never taken up, nor were boxes placed at the door so that persons
                  might deposit their offerings without interrupting the services. Clergymen were
                  engaged of all denominations, care being
                  taken to get the best of each, and but a single restriction was placed upon them.
                  Under no pretext or disguise whatsoever was pulpit profanity for one instant
                  allowed. Familiarity and intimate personal acquaintance with Deity, His thoughts,
                  His ways, His dealings, and even His intentions more shocking to me than any
                  bar-room profanity), were sternly kept down by a man in the organ-loft armed with
                  a heavily-charged duck-gun, and instructed to shoot down the offender without
                  remorse the moment he offended. [Since my removal from Richmond, the killing of
                  one or two pulpit criminals (I am tempted, and mean nothing profane by it, to call
                  them boon companions of the Almighty, for that is what they would have the people
                  believe) has been reported to me, but the reporter being an editor I place not
                  over-much confidence in his report.] Better, far better, it always seemed to me,
                  was the awe and trembling of the Hebrew who dared not pronounce the name of the
                  Holy One, or who did it prone with his mouth in the dust. Reverence without
                  humility, there can be none; and, if the preacher be not reverent and humble from
                  the very inmost of his soul, never can he hope to make his congregation so. When
                  he assumes to know, as if by recent personal colloquial interview or chat, the
                  views and purposes of the Almighty, he forthwith and of necessity adopts a
                  dictatorial, vicegerential tone that is offensive and shocking in the last
                  extreme. The duck-gun, in connection with the congregational singing,*
                   which was encouraged in every conceivable way, and until the people
                  learned to join in it heart and soul, did good. I do not regret the round sum laid
                  out in this way, though it was altogether inconsonant with my original intention,
                  which was to give my money to deserving individuals, and not to edifices or
                  institutions of any kind. But he who undertakes to live two centuries and a half
                  ahead of his time, is much like a tadpole who tries to play humming-bird. He
                  simply don't do it.
               
                  
                  *There can never be thorough, hearty, and joyous congregational singing where
                     the attendance is large, as was the case in my church, which did not bear my
                     name, however (God forbid!), until competent leaders, male and female, are
                     distributed at proper and sufficiently numerous points in the body of the
                     church. This was done in Brice Church (named for Miss Nancy Brice, of
                     Lynchburg. one of the sweetest and purest old ladies that ever drew the
                     breath of life), and the effect was everything that could possibly be
                     desired. The plan has since been almost universally adopted.
               
               [Having reached a ripe old age, and seen much of the world, I am inclined to doubt
                  the value of free preaching. It was when the Gospel was heard at the risk of life
                  and limb that it was rightly appreciated. I begin seriously to think that if a
                  stout varlet provided with an oaken cudgel were stationed at the door of each of
                  the churches, and instructed not to admit any one who refused to pay half a dollar
                  on the spot and submit also to a sound drubbing, there would be a much fuller
                  attendance, and never any occasion to send round the hat, or to make appeals for
                  home or foreign missions. But here it is not only fitting but indispensable for me
                  to disclaim the charge recently made in the Bedford Sentinel that
                  it was through my instrumentality and my money that the
                  band of two hundred Italian and Spanish brigands who last year passed through the
                  country parts of Virginia, assassinating every member, young and old, of every
                  congregation whose minister had not been paid up in full, was brought to this
                  State. I solemnly declare that I did not do it—had no lot or part in it. At the
                  same time I am delighted that it was done. The places of the assassinated have
                  been filled mostly by devout, industrious, thrifty Scotchmen, and Virginia, in its
                  rural aspect, is a different and better thing. Presbyterianism, however, is
                  alarmingly on the increase. But I suppose we must put up with that. 1900.]
               [I have this day refused peremptorily to subscribe toward the completion of the
                  Church of the Spectroscope (on Foushee Street), with the Vibratory worship of the
                  Great First Cause (a sort of scientific Shaking Quakerism), and its sacred
                  readings from Hindu Vedas, Norse Sagas, Scandinavian Eddas, Emerson, and George
                  Sand, by a son of Moncure D. Conway. No; from the Vibratory standpoint I don't see
                  that there is any more occasion for a Great First Cause than for a Last Great
                  Effect. I much prefer to worship the Father who pitieth his children and
                  remembereth their infirmities. But very much more do I prefer to say that it is no
                  human being's business what, whom, when, where, how, or what for I worship, or
                  whether I worship at all. Whether I have
                  the right or not I leave it to Dr. Blank to determine; but I do most certainly
                  exercise the right (call it faculty, if you will) of being just as skeptical as I
                  please, and just as superstitious as I please, at one and the same time.
                  Impossible! For you, yes; for me, nothing more natural, and indeed, unavoidable. I
                  don't know, can't know, everything; and, as to rights, I think the greatest of
                  wrongs in this world is to dam up the thinking apparatus, or rather to close the
                  shutters, leaving open only a little chink, and to say, "Now I've got all the
                  light in the world, at least all that is good for me, and if I let in any more it
                  will damn my soul to all eternity."]
               It may be that my lowly birth and my early association with uncultured folk
                  incline me to sing by my lone self "How firm a foundation" rather than join young
                  Mr. Conway when he plays from the pulpit on a silver saxhorn what he calls the
                  "Holy Galop," (composed expressly for Mr. C. by Gungl, or Bungl, or Dungl, or some
                  other vibratory Dutchman); at all events, I do sing it with my whole heart,
                  whenever I feel like it, and intend to keep on singing it whenever I feel like it,
                  in spite of all the Conways and Spectroscopes in existence.
            
            
               EIGHTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Mr. Pigskin on Immigration—Adams Hints at Empire—Ten Thousand Dollars each to
                     Fifteen Hundred Girls—Bad Consequences of Good Intentions—Excitement in
                     Virginia—Adams Hated—Regarded as an Active Intransitive Fool—Gov.
                     Kemper—Expensive Joke on Wife—A Lesson to Husbands—Rev. Dr. Peterkin—Venom
                     without Spondulics.
               
               ABOUT this time—I think it was about this time (my memory is not failing me, but I
                  am much occupied of late, and besides, the chronological order of my benefactions
                  or non-benefactions is not so important after all)—I was approached by a large
                  delegation composed of some of the leading men of Richmond and, indeed, of the
                  whole State. I could see by the way they took off their hats that they wanted
                  money.
               "Gentlemen," said I, testily, without waiting for the spokesman to open his mouth,
                  "Gentlemen, you cannot be ignorant of the fact that Mr. Binford is the proper
                  person to apply to. My time is val—"
               "Strike, but hear us," pompously interrupted Mr. Felix Pigskin, principal citizen
                  of the period.
               "Say on," was my submissive answer, as I settled myself back in my arm-chair and
                  adjusted my trumpet.
               "You desire to do good to Virginia?" inquired Mr. P. I nodded assent.
               "And have been uniformly thankful for suggestions looking to that end. Your
                  patience and humility—"
               "Come to the point without compliment, Mr. P."
               "Well, then, sir, being for the time being the honored voice of Virginia, I am
                  requested, and in fact instructed, to say, that in no manner whatever can you so
                  well serve the State whose soil your birth has hon—"
               "Oh, pish!"
               "—ored, as by aiding and abetting with your ample means the cause of
                  immigration."
               "And that is the object of your visit?"
               "It is."
               "Then, gentlemen, let me say, in all kindness and frankness, that your mission is
                  a vain one. If Mr. Binford has a few thousands to spare, you are most heartily
                  welcome to them, but the matter rests absolutely with him, not with me. Anxious as
                  I have proved myself to be to serve the State—indeed, I have little else to live
                  for—I am still constrained to think that money will be wasted in the attempt to
                  transplant full-grown trees or men to wornout soil."
               "But the deep plowing of stalwart Yankee-British arms will bring up new soil."
               "True, quite true; but perfect candor compels me to say that the real Virginian,
                  being a product of slave society, and of slave society only, cannot be reproduced
                  under any other conditions whatsoever, and it is not my desire, however much it
                  may be to the interest of land-owners, to see the few remaining Virginians supplanted any quicker
                  than they would be and ought to be by the natural course of events. That another
                  and a very different race (perhaps very much better race, but not better to me)
                  will in time reclaim our lapsed lands, and that the day will come when the shores
                  of our American Mediterranean, the Chesapeake Bay, will teem with cities and
                  population I make no doubt, but the first indispensable step to that result is the
                  removal from the settler of an incubus that weighs down to the earth every
                  inhabitant, native or foreign-born, of Virginia. I mean the State debt. Get that
                  paid by the central government, accept the fact of empire with all its unpleasant
                  consequences to us of this generation, and then, but not till then, will it be
                  worth your while to incite immigration by solicitation—not the best way any way.
                  If you have so very good a thing in this climate, soil, latitude, proximity to the
                  sea, etc., the world, I should think, would not be slow to find it out. In this
                  day of telegraphs, light cannot be hid under a bushel. But until the debt is
                  assumed by the true debtor, and the only one able to pay it, money spent for
                  immigration purposes will be money thrown away. Good-morning, gentlemen."
               They withdrew, not in the best of humors.
               Binford, if I can be certain of the fact, gave them a trifle of ten or twenty
                  thousand dollars, but no one has yet told me that much good came of it.
               "Conceited old ass, he thinks because he's got money that he's got more sense than
                  all the world put together. By George! don't I remember the day, here in Richmond,
                  when, by universal acknowledgment, he was regarded as the most active,
                  intransitive fool in Virginia!"
               So said one of the delegates as they left my office; and his opinion, I had too
                  much reason to know, was for a long time the general opinion in the State. Men,
                  feeling the weight of my wealth, did not give open expression to their opinions,
                  but I could see it in their eyes; the newspapers had got after me, too, and I
                  suffered. Living, and desiring only to live in order to give pleasure to my
                  brother-Virginians, I could not bear their ill will, even when I knew that they
                  were wrong and I was right.
               But the delegate was not wrong in his assertion. I was conceited, and
                  my money had made me so in spite of myself. General deference to my opinions and
                  the power of carrying out my views at times elevated my self-esteem to an
                  inordinate degree, I doubt not. Very often I could not dispossess myself of the
                  belief that I had made my fifty millions with my own hands or by my own sagacity;
                  at any rate I felt that I deserved them, being such a good man, and that uplifted
                  me mightily in my own eyes. It took visit after visit to the woods to cure and
                  humble me. The measureless and inexhaustible force of nature, its utter
                  indifference (in the midst of great love) to what we call great or small, finally
                  brought me back again all safe, simple, and unconceited.
               [I now think I ought to have given a couple of hundred thousand towards
                  immigration; funds were getting low, considering what remained to be done, but I
                  could have better stood the loss of ten times that amount than the averted look of
                  one unfriendly eye. I care too much for public opinion.]
               As when the State declined to accept my proposition to build a new capitol, so
                  now, when I felt constrained to decline giving money to promote immigration, I
                  considered that I had added just that much more to my principal, and accordingly
                  proceeded to spend it with a good deal of glee, as a poor fellow often does when a
                  windfall of a few dollars comes to him. The scheme was not wholly my own, but was
                  suggested to me by one of my most trusted and sensible agents. It was, in a few
                  words, to give in fee simple ten thousand dollars cash to each of fifteen hundred
                  girls (so many to each county, city, and town) on the day they got married to some
                  strong, healthy, handsome, sensible, good-natured, sober, industrious young man,
                  who had proved himself to be a good son and brother—the girls to be just as
                  healthy, sweet, well formed, pretty, modest, and dutiful as the boys. The
                  proposition, as soon as its sincerity became known beyond all cavil, produced an
                  excitement the like of which was never, as I honestly believe, witnessed in any
                  part of the civilized world—no, not even in time of war. Words quite fail me to
                  describe it. "What is healthy?" "Who is pretty?" "What does he call good-natured?"
                     "Who is to decide about being well
                  formed?" etc., etc., etc., etc.
               In vain I protested that I had nothing on earth to do with defining or deciding
                  anything. The State was in an inconceivable ferment. I was bedeviled almost to
                  death, and finally had to run away to Canada to get rid of the clamor; and even
                  there I was beset. "Let the girls in each county call a convention, and leave it
                  to the county judge, a board of physicians, the overseers of the poor, the county
                  surveyor, anybody, anybody, Lord, for the sake of peace."
               No, they wouldn't hear to that—they wouldn't hear to anything, until at length
                  Governor Kemper,†
                   being appealed to, decided that there was but one way to settle it, and
                  that was by lottery in each county, etc. But then the money was not to be paid
                  till the day of marriage—how about that? It was even so—that was in the bond.
               
                  
                  †A good, honest, solid, upright, black-bearded, badly-by-Yankees-wounded,
                     Madison county man of the period.
               
               Well, such a demand for young men, such attention to even decently respectable
                  young men, on the part of impecunious parents, such beautiful eyes cast at young
                  men, such running away to distant States of young men who didn't want to marry
                  anybody, such indignation and drawing back of young ladies who wanted neither
                  money, nor husbands, but wanted to do just as they pleased and marry just when it
                  suited them, such fun, excitement, bickerings, jealousies, fights, and family
                  quarrels when the marriages did take place, were never seen, heard, or dreamed of.
                  Virginia was a most unhappy State until the thing played out and the money set
                  apart was expended to the very last dollar. It was a sad ending of what I thought
                  a good scheme. Old people sometimes allude to it as the run-mad scheme, but it has
                  been generally forgotten.
               I am glad, though, that I tried it. It satisfied me that the plan I had been
                  practicing, from the time I got my fifty millions, of helping deserving young
                  couples in the quietest possible manner, was the best, indeed the only practical
                  plan. But some of the wilder young fellows did have what they called a high old
                  time, and certainly if there is fun in excitement there was excitement enough in
                  Virginia for about two and a half years.
               [The State hasn't yet recovered from the furious family feuds occasioned by my
                  well-meant, but ill-judged, action in this matter, and never will in my day. The
                  worst-hated man in Virginia, by fully two-thirds of the people, is myself.]
               But to return to my building.
               My wife, the most sensible woman I ever knew (my acquaintance is limited), soon
                  after my good fortune came from heaven, said to me,—
               "Moses, because we are rich that's no reason we should be fools."
               "W-e-ll, I don't know about that."
               "Come, don't try to be sarcastic, or I'll say something presently that'll make you
                  wish you had never married—"
               "I often wish that."
               "a woman that isn't quite as big a ninny as you are. But what I mean is this: that
                  there is no sense in our building a huge brick advertisement of the fact that we
                  have money. Every rich man does that. My idea is to have two spare chambers for
                  our friends—I suspect we'll have a good many now—and that's all. Of course the
                  house will be as well furnished, tasteful, and comfortable as possible. A small,
                  perfectly equipped house, that's what we want. The more house the more servants
                  and trouble about cleaning and keeping clean—don't you think so?"
               "Yes'm," said I, meekly.
               "You are such a goose! But I certainly—no, Virginia says 'certainly' all the
                  time—I do really like you as much—as much—as much as you liked me the day cousin
                  Susan Brown sent me fifty dollars."
               The upshot of it, was that we bought the house that Rev. Dr. Minnegerode lived 
                     in in
                     in
                   1874—on Clay Street, I rather think (but the fact is, my memory for
                  names, dates, places, and things never was good), modernized and mansarded it
                  (Mrs. Johnson Jackson assured me that no respectable person from the upper ends of
                     Franklin and Grace would ever visit me
                  if I did not mansard it), and made it snug in every way. It became a pleasant
                  place to visit about dinner-time. I insisted on buying this particular house,
                  because I had often picked it out in my days of poverty as perhaps the only place
                  in which a man could find a home and at the same time repose from the women and
                  children. This I got by building a two-story office at the lower end of the
                  garden, where I could be out of the reach of feminine and juvenile jargon and
                  intrusion, and where I could have at any time what Dr. Howland (a scientific
                  lecturer of the period) would call "a general view of the valley"—the vale of
                  Butchertown to wit.
               We did have a good deal of company. People seemed, for some reason or other, to be
                  fond of us. Often, a little too often I thought, my wife and myself were forced to
                  ascend to the mansard and swelter there, which made me bless the mansard and wish
                  I could have my family to myself as in the days when, perhaps owing to my poverty,
                  people were not so fond of us. However, it was a great delight to have those we
                  really loved (my wife had a prodigious width as well as depth of affection) with
                  us, to make them as comfortable as kings and queens, and to give them dinners that
                  were fit for something a great deal better than gods. Jupiter never ate a good
                  dinner in his life, the truth being that J. was not born in Lynchburg. The dinners
                  were so delightful that I look back to them as the happiest hours of my life.
                  Happiest! no; I will tell, you ere long what hours were really the happiest of
                  all. To be sure, I could retreat to my office at night, when the house was full,
                  and enjoy the moonlit valley aforenamed to the full. But this was not being at
                  home. Finally, my wife bought a couple of houses in the neighborhood and placed
                  them at the service of surplus and not agreeable company. This was all very well;
                  it relieved the pressure without touching too deeply on my privy purse (Binford,
                  his female coadjutor, and my public enterprises having cut me down to less than
                  half a million a year for individual and household expenses), but when, day after
                  day, I came home only to find my house a livery-stable, as it were, or hack-stand,
                  my wife having ordered, in addition to our private vehicles, from six to eight
                  others daily, to be sent hither and thither for the use of this or that sick
                  friend, or for some friend who was not sick, but would "enjoy a ride so"——. When I
                  saw this I got mad, as husbands will do, and determined to make her sick of the
                  carriage business. Accordingly, I bolted off in hot haste, fully bent on buying
                  every carriage, hack, buggy, and thing of the kind in town; but as I walked on I
                  cooled down a little and contented myself with the purchase of one hundred and
                  seven hacks, carry-alls, rockaways, phætons, coupes, drags, buggies, gigs,
                  single-chairs, drays, tumbril carts, etc., etc., including sixteen omnibuses, four
                  furniture-wagons, a milk-cart, and two wheelbarrows, with horses and mules, to
                  match, goats also for the wheelbarrows, and ordered them, all to assemble
                  simultaneously at my front door the next day at twelve o'clock.
               "Now, old lady," thinks I, "if you don't get your digestive apparatus full of
                  wheeled vehicles for poor folks, then I'll agree to eat all the omnibuses, and
                  half the goats."
               The scene next day was a refreshing one. For several squares the street was
                  blocked up with carriages and things, and an immense crowd of wondering people
                  gathered immediately to see what the matter was.
               "It can't be a funeral," said the people, "for there is the milk-cart. Whoever
                  heard of a milk-cart at a funeral?"
               As driver after driver came up, knocked, and announced that his vehicle had been
                  bought and paid for, and ordered to come at twelve o'clock for Mrs. Adams's
                  commands (I poked my head out of a mansard room, where I had hid myself, and
                  watched the whole affair), the state of that good woman's mind may be imagined.
                  She sent for twenty policemen to disperse the vehicles and the mob, but the
                  policemen, finding that there had been a bona
                     fide purchase of the vehicles, and that the drivers had actually
                  received orders to assemble, could do nothing. Mrs. A. was in despair. She sent
                  for the Mayor, but he too was powerless. Made desperate by the frightful aspect of
                  affairs, for the mob had now increased
                  creased to many thousands, she said to the Mayor, "If these drivers have been
                  directed to obey my commands, will you see that my commands are executed to the
                  letter?"
               "Most assuredly, madam."
               "Then I command these drivers to drive their vehicles to the nearest auction
                  store, and there sell the vehicles, horses, etc., immediately to the highest
                  bidder, and you, Mr. Keiley, are to receive the proceeds of the sale, and turn
                  them over in full to Dr. Peterkin's*
                     fair, now being held at No. ——, Main street."
               
                  *Rev. Joshua Peterkin—a true Christian—a man of God, if ever I knew one. (The
                     joke is, that Dr. P. never countenanced fairs.—Ed. Whig.)
               
               It was done, and I never got mad with my wife any more—at least not to that tune.
                  I think she told me that the church realized some eleven thousand dollars from the
                  sale.
               Of all the vehicles, she reserved but one—a choice dray, thirty feet long, and
                  drawn by seven tomato-catsup-colored mules; so convenient, she said, for moving at
                  one haul all the furniture of any poor friend who wanted to move.
               And a shave-tail mule, from that day to this, gives me facial neuralgia,
                  accompanied by symptoms of trichina spiralis.
               [Other men have confessed to me that they, too, have often wished to pile bonnets,
                  boas, redingotes, or other special weaknesses of their wives, upon their heads
                  until they were suffocated, or nearly so. But being men of feeble feelings and
                  little money, they could not vent such rage as mine with the pecuniary violence
                  exhibited above. They have the venom, but not the spondulics. Perhaps it is
                  well.
            
            
               NINTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Sad Results of an Explosion—Drs. Cullen and McGuire—Happy Resection of a
                     Steeple—Burwell Music Hall—Great Fiddling Festival—A Treat for Pretty
                     Girls—Happiest Time of Old Adams's Life—Gen. Richardson and Col. Sherwin
                     McRae—Adams's Patent Lecture-Halls—Judge Waller Stapler—"Johnny Reb."
               
               [FROM this point onward the old man's style, rough at best, gets more and more
                  incoherent; he repeats himself, and is utterly regardless of the rules of
                  construction—his interpolations and foot-notes increase in number, and become
                  almost vexatious, indicating the inevitable decay of the powers of mind and
                     body.—Ed. Whig.]
               It was a well-timed thing in me to buy the City Hall, Dr. Preston's Church, etc.,
                  just when I did. The people had entertained much unamiable emotion in regard to
                  the edifice first named, which had been reported to be unsafe. Judge Guigon*
                   they said was inclined to be, not severe—that would be too strong a
                  word—but a little brash; the Common Council exhibited the usual, but not more than
                  the usual, defectiveness of common sense, and an odor approximating the job-stench
                  pervaded the atmosphere.
               
                  
                  *His first name was Alexander—a worthy, good man of the period, endowed with
                     a stout judicial spine. He wore a standing collar and a large black silk
                     cravat of the Ridgway pattern to the very last.
               
               When I attempted to pull down the walls of the said-to-be-unsound City Hall,
                  nitro-glycerine had to be used, and with most disastrous results. The Broad Street
                  Methodist Church steeple was completely skinned of its slate scales, and so badly
                  cracked that it was carried at a right-shoulder shift for nearly eighteen months.
                  Architects having given it up as a hopeless case, Drs. Cullen and McGuire were
                  called in, and after a vain attempt to reduce the luxation, flooded the body of
                  the building with chloroform, and performed the operation of resection with the
                  happiest results. The explosion also produced a violent irritation of the neck of
                  the pool or baptistery of Dr. Burrows's
                  church, which caused it to leak unhealthily until sugar-of-lead pipes were
                  introduced. A cure soon followed. Thereupon everybody admired his own wisdom, and
                  said, "Didn't I tell you so—didn't I? I knew what I was talking
                  about; and I always said that five thousand dollars would make the City Hall bran
                  new, and strong enough to last a thousand years." But as everybody had said that,
                  nobody, not even the councilmen, felt badly.
               It will be recollected that in the Valentine House Square the Virginia Historical
                  Society building stood, and Ford's Hotel Square was occupied by Brice Church,
                  enough space being left in both squares for green sward and a number of graceful
                  trees. In the Central Square, after the City Hall was blown down, and the other
                  buildings removed, rose the massive and beautiful Music Hall, also with its green
                  sward and trees. I did not call it an Academy of Music, because it was not, and
                  was never intended to be an academy. Music was not taught there, nor had the
                  building any connection near or remote with Academus, after whom so many Northern
                  musical shebangs were in my day strangely and unwittingly misnamed—a fact which
                  wholly escaped the notice of the Richmond Dispatch. There was
                  simply what its name implied, a hall for popular concerts of vocal and
                  instrumental music. In planning the hall, I was greatly aided by Mr. N. B. Clapp,
                  and a few other gentlemen of taste; in truth, after giving them an outline of my
                  ideas, I left the matter wholly in their charge. The public and myself were well
                  pleased with their work. The room is noble in the best sense of the term—lofty,
                  airy, frescoed with exquisite taste, ornamented with busts and statues of the
                  greatest composers, placed at appropriate intervals in niches, with abundant light
                  by day, and glorious at night with jets and chandeliers. No handsomer building,
                  until my cathedral was finished, ornamented the city. It was named Burwell Hall,
                  in honor of my friend, Miss Kate Burwell*
                   a charming musician. While the hall was in process of construction, I
                  entered into negotiations with Theodore Thomas with the view of engaging him and
                  his orchestra to reside permanently in Richmond, but this could not be done, the
                  field being too small for him. Nor would he agree to come more than twice during
                  the winter, that is to say, the first week in December and the last in February,
                  and even then he would not consent to remain more than three days each time,
                  although I was willing to pay him any sum within reason for doing so. But before
                  the hall was completed, arrangements had been made by which concerts, and
                  occasionally operas, of the first order of merit, should be given every fortnight
                  during the winter, all the expenses of which were paid out of the endowment. I
                  made but one stipulation with the management, and that was that the programmes
                  should invariably be so arranged as to please the audiences and gradually to
                  elevate their musical taste—the rule theretofore being to make out the programmes
                  in New York, with selections adapted to a very few well-educated musical people,
                  while the mass were compelled to sit by and pretend to enjoy what they could not
                  possibly comprehend. The sight of these anxious fools (of whom I was one) looking
                  into the faces of educated musicians to find when the time came to be in raptures,
                  had so often made me sick that I was determined to do away with it forever, at
                  Burwell Hall, anyhow.
               
                  
                  *Married a country doctor of the period, and I regard most country doctors so
                     far superior to the average preacher that there is no use of talking.
               
               [I recall now with grim delight the fury into which the virtuosi were thrown when the hall was inaugurated with a real
                  old-fashioned Virginia fiddling jubilee—not intended as any reflection upon the
                  Peace (accurately peace) Jubilee in Boston—which lasted five days. Curdsville
                  College came down in a body, President George Walker at the head; all the famous
                  white and black fiddlers in the State attended and made exhibition of their skill;
                  and such a riproarious time was had as was never had in Richmond before or since.
                  The people got blind drunk with jigs and reels and whisky. Many marriages occurred
                  soon afterwards. The solos by Mr. James A. Cowardin, Mr. Henry Lubbock, and Mr.
                  Arthur Gooch, were pronounced not inferior to the best Curdsville performances;
                  and the memorial ode to Ruffin's band,
                  recited by Mr. Henry Hudnall, set to music by Madison Chamberlayne, was sung
                  throughout the State for years afterwards. The inaugural address was made by Mayor
                     Keiley.*
                     ]
               
                  
                  *A worthy good man of the period, partly Irish, except as to his eyeglasses.
                     First name Anthony, afterwards called Ant'ny Over, or N'over, for short,
                     because he was elected mayor over and over again.
               
               Music being heaven itself, or the nearest thing to it, except, perhaps, a
                  sweetheart's first kiss, I always intended that the concerts at Burwell Hall
                  should be as free as heaven's air. But this I soon found would never do. The
                     vulgus had to be kept out. The price of
                  admission, therefore, was fixed at a sum sufficient to effect that end—say
                  seventy-five cents—and the money thus obtained was devoted to the education of
                  poor youth of both sexes who showed decided musical talent. But whenever there was
                  a pretty, sweet girl, or a girl that was sweet and not pretty, who wanted to go to
                  the concerts, and didn't have the seventy-five cents, you may be sure she not only
                  went but got one of the best seats in the house. And inasmuch as girls (until they
                  get married, after which they are apt to be a shade stingy to everybody but their
                  husbands and children) are naturally generous and do not like to be receiving all
                  the time, even from their beaux and fathers, I provided that they should always
                  select their own escorts, who went in free of charge also. The trouble was to
                  distribute the tickets so as not to give offense. Remembering the dowry business,
                  and unwilling to incur any more odium than I already endured, I intrusted the
                  distribution to two excellent old gentlemen, in whose generosity and discretion I
                  had all confidence, and whose uniform courtesy and uprightness (brought down from
                  a better age) I had long secretly but greatly admired—I mean General W. H.
                  Richardson and Col. Sherwin McRae. As it was a ticklish business, I paid them
                  largely for it. They did their duty faithfully and thoroughly well, avoiding the
                  breakers on which I had been wrecked in the matter of dowries. How the young girls
                  did love them! Unwilling to limit their tickets to the City of Richmond, they
                  requested permission to send them to the country, and that the editors of the
                  country papers should be the medium through which the tickets should go. I readily
                  accepted so sensible a proposition. An increase in the circulation of country
                  papers was soon observable, and we had at the concerts some such girls as grow in
                  no other part of this world, but in old Virginia—dear, gentle, sweet, pure
                  lily-buds and blush-roses of life, sinless as children or angels. Ah, my God! how
                  they enjoyed the music. Sitting at my place in the parquette, I would look up into
                  their faces glorified with delight, and—yes, these were the happiest hours of my
                  life. General R. and Colonel McR. never allowed one of them or their lovers or
                  attendants, whoever they might be, in coming to, staying in, or going from the
                  city, to pay a cent; everything was paid for them. Most of the editors sent down
                  delightful girls. But Sandy Garber; from time to time, by way of variety,
                  transmitted some mountain specimens that were—were—I be dog if I know how to tell
                  what they were. It was a treat, though, to the rest of the audience to behold them
                  and watch their bewilderment.
               The pleasure which General Richardson and Colonel McRae*
                   derived from their new occupation prolonged their lives to an indefinite
                  period. My memory is a little treacherous, and my books of reference not
                  accessible, and so I will not undertake to say precisely how long they lived.
                  Never before in the history of the world, I dare be sworn, were ticket agents so
                  universally beloved.
               
                  
                  *Colonel McRae never did die. As time went on he became quite unhefty, and
                     while attempting to reach the Capitol one March morning encountered a
                     northwest wind that blew him over into the wilderness of Manchester, which
                     made the pursuit and recovery of him unavailing. Transient gleams of him are
                     reported to have been seen as he shot through Isle of Wight, and afterwards
                     went out to sea off Currituck Sound, and it is believed by many that he is
                     still thistling it around the globe in a short cloak and gum shoes, with a
                     small dusty package of State papers in his hand.
               
               About this time Judge Staples,†
                     of the Court of Appeals, came to me and said,—
               
                  
                  †First name Waller. A fine, sensible strongfaced Montgomery man of the
                     period—very dear to me because he had given me during the war some of the
                     best apple brandy that ever entered the mouth of man.
               
               "Moses, it does seem hard that with all your money and your lavish generosity, you have never thought
                  of doing anything for the Court of Appeals."
               "Judge," said I, "you are out of your reckoning. I have thought about
                  the Court of Appeals, thought a great deal—thought so much that I am inclined to
                  say outright that the court ought to have the whole capitol to itself."
               "What!" exclaimed the judge, opening his eyes wide, "what do you mean
                  by that?"
               "I'll tell you fifty years hence." [His opinion seems to have been that the
                  legislature should be abolished, and the affairs of the State intrusted solely to
                  the courts—all legislation for Virginia and the other States, especially of the
                  South, being transferred to Washington.—Ed. Whig.] "All I can now
                  say is that, much as the legislature has abused me for offering to build a new
                  capitol, there are too many good and sensible fellows in that body to refuse to
                  put at no distant day you, the Circuit Court, and the two libraries in the
                  enlarged, mansarded, fire-proof, and glass-domed governor's house."
               "Ah, my dear boy," said the judge, with a sigh, "that is a long time off, I fear.
                  Come, plank down twenty or twenty-five thousand."
               "No, judge; I've literally not one dollar to spare, nor has Binford. But you'll
                  get your new court-room sooner than you fancy."
               [So it turned out. Before the fall of 1877, on the site of the old executive
                  mansion, there was a very admirable edifice containing the Supreme and Circuit
                  Courts, the law and literary libraries, a room for the Virginia Historical
                  Society, etc., etc., which was a comfort and convenience to everybody in and out
                  of the General Assembly, and a most elegant addition to the architectural beauties
                  of the Capitol Square.]
               Underneath Burwell Hall was another hall nearly as large, which I devoted to the
                  use of wandering lecturers and readers who had neither the means of paying rent
                  nor the reputation to insure paying audiences. Although there were not many of
                  these creatures left (a fortunate thing for the human race), I regarded them as a
                  greatly afflicted and afflicting set, and peculiarly in need of my care. Therefore
                  I caused to be made a most ingenious series of screens, which, being touched with
                  a spring, moved swiftly and silently up to and around the audience, so that no
                  matter how small it might be, even if it consisted of only two people, the house
                  should appear to be crowded to suffocation. This proved to be a great comfort to
                  me and my fellow-lecturers and readers. Letters of thanks poured in upon me from
                  all parts of the civilized world, Richmond was never without a lecture or a
                  reading even in midsummer, and I felt that I had done a good thing.
               So excellent was the screen scheme that I caused similar lecture-halls to be
                  erected in all the cities, towns, and county court-houses, and places where there
                  seemed to be any apprehension of a lecture or like infliction. These halls were
                  built mostly for the benefit of Johnny Reb*
                   and myself, particularly of the latter, who had gradually played himself
                  out to the finest dead-head point. By not charging anything for admission, not
                  having anything to pay for rent, lights, or fuel, and by allowing ourselves (out
                  of a fund for that purpose) fifty cents a head for every fellow who could be
                  induced or bullied into coming in, Johnny and I, and others managed to make
                  lecturing pay fairly well. [I remember to have cleared four dollars and a half on
                  one occasion in the village of Izzardville, but that great success was due in part
                  to the fact that the lecture was for a charitable or religious purpose.]
               
                  
                  *Real name Farrar—Fernando R. Farrar—county judge of the period; full of fun
                     as Jim Cowardin, if not fuller; played well on fiddle; Amelia man; good,
                     sharp, smart fellow, in short.
               
            
            
               
               TENTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Cremation of Piano Advertisers—Wisdom of Roman Catholics—The Addie Deane
                     House—University of Virginia—Judge William Robertson, Dr. Maupin,
                     etc.—Editorial Academy—Asylum for Worthless Young Men—Parke Park—Richmond
                     Boulevard—Matthews & Matthews—Life's Appomattox—Semi-Phalansterian Squares,
                     etc.
               
               [A scrap of paper which was overlooked when the last installment was printed
                  contained the following regulation in regard to the management of Burwell Music
                  Hall. It is out of place here, but ought not to be omitted.—Ed.
                     Whig.]
               When concert troupes insisted upon having their own pianos, and displaying the
                  name of the piano-maker in large letters, as Chickering, Steinway,
                  Knabe, etc, no opposition whatever was made or even meditated, but as soon as the
                  performer had hitched up his stool, adjusted his coat-tail, twiddled his
                  preparatory twiddle, and banged his preliminary bang, a tall man in a black visor
                  walked quietly out from behind the scenes with a sledge-hammer, brained the
                  performer, smashed the piano, threw the pieces out of the window, and burnt player
                  and pieces up together; and the performance went on without further
                  interruption.
               [What these people will do when they get to a world where there is no chance, and
                  will not be through all eternity, of advertising themselves and their wares, I do
                  not know. It distresses me, but I don't know, and am afraid I never will
                  know.]
               It should be borne in mind that the appearance of Richmond in the vicinity of the
                  Capitol Square was pretty much this: a dilapidated Capitol, bound together with
                  grapevines and hoop-iron, and propped by long, North Carolina whitewashed
                  pine-trees. But on the three squares extending from Ninth to Twelfth, that is to
                  say from Bob Scammell's oyster saloon to Judge Crump's, on what was once called
                  Governor Street, was first, on the Valentine Square, the Virginia Historical
                  Society building, a noble structure; next, on the City Hall Square, Burwell Music
                  Hall, a superb edifice (far finer, architecturally, than any academy of music in
                  the country), with its flexible screen lecture-room beneath; and third, on Ford's
                  Hotel Square, the massive and imposing, though not beautiful, circular walls of
                  Brice Church.
               The environment of these noble buildings was not in keeping—more money, of
                  course—more money everywhere and all the time. And yet I was not so loath to spend
                  as you might suppose. Old Dodson,*
                   when I was sick in 1872 at the Monumental Hotel, had been kind to me
                  (indeed, the poor man had no better sense than to be kind to everybody), and
                  accordingly I determined to do something for Dodson, and for somebody I liked even
                  better than Dodson; I mean myself. Fact is, I tried to please myself generally,
                  almost alwaysly; it gave me much pleasure to please myself.
               
                  
                  *Hotel-keeper of the period; good-hearted soul: fed better for the money than
                     any of his contemporaries, and had twins at an advanced time of life.
               
               Not to digress a bit.
               The Catholics are a wise people. Their priests I like prodigiously, their tenets I
                  don't. But for all that, they are wise enough, I tell you; i.e., when
                  they have got a good thing they know it just about as well as you or any other man
                  knows it. What is more, they find out the good thing, get hold of it and keep it,
                  long before you, with your weak, Protestant mind, have any idea of it.
               Monumental Hotel Square was the place for a hotel—better, much
                  better, I thought, than the site of the Shields House, admirable as that
                  undoubtedly was. But the Catholics wouldn't sell their church, their bishop's
                  house, or the Virginia House—which was mean of them, in my humble opinion. So I
                  did the best I could. On all the space I could purchase, from Grace to Broad,
                  including Blair's†
                   drug store on the latter street, I built the most
                  
                     
                     †Presbyterian pill-maker of the period; first name Hugh—honest, good man.
                        Sensible folk loved to gather in his back shop—Major Smith, Dr. Rawlings,
                        Colonel Bell, etc., and a practical plumber (did you ever see or hear of an
                        unpractical plumber?) named O'Donnell. Had a spectacled clerk of the name of
                        Nat. Sheppard, and a handsome brother named Jim Blair.
                  
                   magnificent granite hotel, ten stories high, that
                  is in this world. I challenge all comparison. A minute description of the house
                  will be found in the twenty-fifth thousand of Græme's*
                   Handbook of Richmond. Outside and inside it is as near perfection as one
                  could expect. Some of its peculiar features will be given in my forthcoming work
                  on the American Hotel. Dodson has been keeping it for the last ten years, and
                  keeping it well, although people said Dodson couldn't keep a house as big as that.
                  It is a superb ornament to the city, and makes St. Paul's Church look rather
                  small-potatoish. I doubt if there is on the globe a pleasanter home for the
                  traveler than Deane†
                   House.
               
                  *A tall, Scottish sort of gray-haired Whig—Office person of
                     the period. Best statistician in the city at the time.
               
               
                  †Named for Miss Addie Deane, the splendid daughter of that most excellent
                     man, Dr. Francis D. Deane. The hotel belonged to her.
               
               "Doctor"—
               In my time the Southern people had a ridiculous habit of putting a handle to
                  everybody's name—clerks were colonels or majors, and corn-cutters professors. This
                  habit, silly as it was, was due, I think, to the innate hatred of the Southern
                  people for the word "Mister," which is abominable, in spite of Mrs. Browning's
                  effort to make it otherwise. Of course a man of my wealth could not remain a plain
                  Mister, and inasmuch as an academy in East Tennessee had conferred upon me the
                  title of LL.D (in return for which I endowed the institution with a postal order
                  for ten dollars), I was generally called Doctor, and got to feel badly if
                  everybody didn't call me Doctor.
               "Doctor," said Judge Robertson,Dagger
                   "your money is going fast. Have you forgotten the University of
                   Virginia?"
               
                  DaggerJudge William of that name. Had the finest and youngest black eye of his
                     day. In general I don't like black, but I literally feed on a true blue eye
                     in man or woman. Judge R. married the belle of Virginia (she deserved to be)
                     when Virginia was Virginia.
               
               "Why, Judge, what am I to do? The whole world wants me to do something for
                  everything. Here is John Tinsley contending that I ought to do something to
                  commemorate Mann Page, Mont. Miller, Lyttleton Tazewell, and all the bright
                  fellows that boarded at Mrs. Mosby's, corner of Ninth and Franklin, before the
                  war; my Academy for Editors, my Asylum for Worthless Young Men, my Cathedral, my
                  Richmond Park, my semi-Phalansterian Square, etc., haven't even been begun—just
                  put yourself in my place, Judge."
               "Well, well," said the judge, "I give up; I let you off."
               "Strikes me, Judge, that the Miller fund ought to have gone to the
                  University."
               "Too late, now; too late. That's long past; we look to the present and the
                  future—have to look to them."
               "Yes; but did it never occur to you that if the people of the South and of
                  Virginia really did want to build up the University they would be sure to find a
                  way; would go earnestly to work about it, as Washington and Lee has done, and that
                  if they do not ardently desire to build it up, it ought not to be built up?"
               "Right enough; but have you forgotten Dr. Maupin?"
               "No," said I warmly, "and never will or can. Neither have I forgotten Stephen
                  Southall (how I enjoyed his editorials in the Whig in Ridgway's
                  time!), nor Prof. Gildersleeve (of the Bema), nor Prof. Minor, nor any of
                  them."
               The allusion to Dr. Maupin overcame me. I handed the judge a check for half a
                  million, and away he went.
               My Academy for Editors was established at Stanardsville, in the county of Greene.
                  Its main object was to teach editors to kneel down and pray for some sense, some
                  diminution of self-sufficiency, some ability to see both sides of a subject; in a
                  word, some wisdom from on high, before they wrote their editorials. Particulars
                  will be found in the paper marked Z. [No such paper is discerned in the bundle of
                     MSS.—Ed. Whig.]
               My Asylum for Wuthless Yung Menn was built on a beautiful plot of ground of five
                  acres, about half-way between Richmond and Ashland. Its object was to rescue
                  society from the Wuthless Yung Mann, and no one was sent there who was not an
                  incurably Wuthless*
                   Yung
                  
                     *[Observe the value, in integers of contempt, of this spelling. Put "o" into
                        "worth" and it becomes "u" inevitably, but the terminal consonants "rt" in "
                        worth" give the word something of the venomous strength of the serpent;
                        whereas the "th" in "wuth" impart a lisping littleness to it. There is more
                        sense in bad spelling and pronouncing than gerund-guiders dream
                        of.—Ed. Whig.]
                  
                   Mann—a person much more
                  deserving of protection and tender isolation from the vain world than the
                  worthless old man. (Particulars will be found in the paper marked ZZ.) [Greatly to
                  our regret, this paper is also missing.—Ed. Whig.]
               A suggestion thrown out in the Dispatch some time in 1873
                  materially modified my views about a park for Richmond. My first idea was to buy
                  ten thousand acres of land on both sides of the river, above the city, and to have
                  a park surpassing Laura Park in Lynchburg. This was done in part only, as will be
                  told.
               As a rule, parks are built on this or that side of a city, accessible enough to
                  some, but out of the reach of the bulk of the population, except at a cost either
                  of time or money, or both, which few, if any, of the poorer classes can afford.
                  Why not have a park accessible to everybody? This was that great work which my
                  agents, Williams & Apperson (Grubbs having retired on a huge fortune),
                  accomplished for me within six months,—the most signal real-estate triumph ever
                  achieved.
               They bought for me a strip of ground varying from an eighth to a quarter, and in
                  some places half a mile in width, and extending entirely around the city,
                  including Manchester, which had been consolidated with Richmond. At the upper end
                  of the city, above the reservoir, it swelled out into a park proper, presenting in
                  bird's-eye view the appearance of an irregular ring with a large set on the
                  southwestern side. A good broad street ran through the centre of the ring, and at
                  suitable intervals, not too close together, a few public and private houses, with
                  gardens attached, were allowed to be built. From the Capitol to the Boulevard, as
                  it was called, the distance varied from a mile to a mile and a half, or two
                  miles—the city extending a goodly distance beyond the Boulevard. This arrangement
                  secured to the children of all classes easy access at any time to fresh air,
                  grass, flowers, trees, fountains, birds, squirrels, deer (these last protected
                  from dogs by reason of the growing common sense of the people, who ordered all
                  dogs not properly trained, to be shot by policemen), and a thousand other
                  pleasures (aquaria here and there and the like) and health-insurements for the
                  little people, ay, and for the big ones, too.
               The loss of so much good building-ground was a terrific blow to land-owners. When
                  they saw the city progressing square after square beyond the Boulevard, and
                  remembered the comparatively trifling price they had received for their property,
                  they cursed Apperson, and Williams, and myself till we would have been black in
                  the face if we had only heard them. Suit after suit was instituted to set aside,
                  recover, what not. No use. My agents were not slouches by a long ways. They knew
                  their business. The infernal gods alone know the amount of litigation that ensued,
                  and has been kept up to this day. My attorneys, Matthews & Matthews,*
                   who have been worked nearly to death, tell me they see no end to the
                  trouble. As it doesn't trouble me, and gives them some fifty thousand dollars each
                  a year, I don't care how long the suits continue.
               
                  *The elder Matthews, a worthy good man, married the only daughter of an
                     honest, pious old New School Presbyterian in Lynchburg. What was the old
                     gentleman's name? Surely my memory is not failing me? Anyhow, that old
                     gentleman was as kind to me as if he had been my own father—educated me to
                     be a missionary, which I am. For his daughter, an estimable woman with a
                     nose, I had much respect.
               
               The park proper is called Parke† Park. It contains only three thousand acres, but is as highly and
                  beautifully ornamented as it is possible for landscape gardening to go. With the
                  islet-studded river, crossed by numbers of elegant bridges, running through its
                  midst, its scenic surprises at almost every turn, its statues,‡
                   its bowers,
                  
                     †So called in honor of Miss Parke Chamberlayne, a friend of mine. She
                        married, greatly to my regret, a little black Bagby of the period, after
                        which I ceased to take much interest in her. But, as you will find out when
                        you wed, women never marry the man they ought to have married. I retained
                        the name, though, because she was the daughter of that true gentleman and
                        first-rate physician, Dr. Lewis W. Chamberlayne.
                  
                  
                     ‡Prominent among them were two bronze groups representing Pocahontas, not on
                        the club occasion, but on some other, and Captain John Smith quelling
                        insurrection; designs by W. P. Palmer, modeled by Valentine, and executed in
                        Germany,—a tardy recognition, so far as Smith is concerned, on the part of
                        Virginia of the greatest of all Virginians, Washington, Lee, and Jackson,
                        not excepted.
                  
                   kiosks,
                  conservatories, etc., etc., many think it equal to Chatsworth, and very much
                  superior to Laura Park, in Lynchburg. I cannot think so. The little mountains
                  embraced in the latter park, and the admirable advantage taken of them by Jones,
                  who made every inch tell in art effects, and, above all, the magnificent views
                  obtainable from the mountain roadways and towers, make it, in my candid
                  estimation, superior to any park in this country or in Europe. Both are good
                  enough and beautiful enough, in all conscience. Their relative merits afford a
                  subject of continued amicable quarrels between the Lynchburg and Richmond
                  papers.
               Life, as it is known to most of us, is like the upper part of the Appomattox
                  River,—a narrow stream, muddy more than half the time, full of snags, hammocks,
                  and sand-bars, with only here and there a good fishing-hole. When the boys come
                  back from the academic and collegiate ridges, provided, as they and their fond,
                  foolish parents (who, being in business, ought to have more sense) fancy, with the
                  best tackle in the world, they find Tom, Dick, and Harry, who have been raised to
                  the work on the spot, and never quitted it, already squatted down by the holes,
                  with the plainest poles, and the meanest-looking cymlins, and the morest fish, and
                  with no more idea of quitting "them holes" in favor of the college boys till death
                  do them dislodge, than they have of going to heaven to cook the fish or spend the
                  money they acquire in this earthly vale. [By the way, I wish I had told Judge
                  Robertson that one good primary school, based upon a proper knowledge of human
                  nature and the human mind, and in which the knowledge that is of most immediate
                  use to most people (there was not such a school, nay, not the approach to it, in
                  Virginia in my time) should alone be taught, would, in my judgment, outweigh all
                  the universities on earth. How many parents know and feel restive under this, and
                  yet sit quiet! Poor parents! But, after all, the practical school of the shop, the
                  factory, the store, the printing-office, etc., is and must long remain the best
                  school. How to make money honorably and to save it, in other words, how to support
                  yourself and family, that is the best, the indispensable education (for how can
                  you and family so much as live if you do not acquire a knowledge of
                  self-maintenance?), to which even reading and writing are secondary.]
               A consequence of this false system of education is that as civilization advances
                  there is a continuous increase of educated men and women with refined tastes who
                  do not know how to get along, or, if they do, find all the fishing-holes in life's
                  Appomattox full,—Rob and Tom having learned how to make money while Edward and
                  Fitzhugh were grubbing up Greek roots. This being the case, the educated men and
                  women sink into clerkships and secondary places, with salaries of from five
                  hundred to two thousand dollars—there being a limit and a decennially lessening
                  limit to the relative numbers of doctors, lawyers, and preachers. No provision is
                  made for these clerks and minus quantities in the sum of social life. They ought
                  to be content to live as cheaply as mechanics who earn double their salary, but
                  they are not. They cannot be; the education which ought never to have been given
                  to nine-tenths of them has unfitted them for cheap living. Little builders,
                  grog-shop and corner-grocery sharks, whose greed for money is ravenous and cruel
                  as the grave, build for the multitude who are content to live anyhow, and the big
                  builders build for the rich merchants, eminent doctors, great lawyers, and
                  fashionable preachers. The educated, cultivated incapable no human being
                  considers.
               I, being better than a human being, and having no desire to "git my rent," did
                  consider him, and built in the upper part of the city a dozen or two squares of
                  houses for him and his kind. They were built with every conceivable labor-saving
                  convenience, required little fuel to heat them, were inexpensively lighted, and
                  needed scarcely any furniture,—wardrobes, bureaus, presses, etc., being in the
                  very structure of the houses themselves. (I was sick unto death of seeing my
                  wife's thirty-feet dray running ning like
                  mad from end to end of the city.) The rent for each house covered the taxes (they
                  were high—taxes are always high) and repaired the annual wear and tear—that was
                  all. Mr. R. D. Ward *
                   attended faithfully to this business for me. The houses were not crammed
                  down upon the ground as close as they could set, but were separated by a space of
                  twelve to fifteen feet, and in the middle of each side of each square was a house
                  built expressly for the accommodation of young men and bachelors,—my object being
                  to give them better quarters than they got in the down-town dens, and to have them
                  so close to the neighboring families as to offer them every incentive to visit the
                  ladies, brighten up the evening (so often so dull for the want of young company),
                  fall in love with the girls, marry early, help the minus-quantity fathers, and so
                  help society onward. I also encouraged many polished gentlemen to remain
                  bachelors, but at the same time to be true to their social duties, and to make
                  themselves (what they can do, and the worn-down husbands, too often
                  cannot) the very life and charm of the households that are happy enough to call
                  them friends. I doubt if I ever did a better or a wiser thing than the building of
                  these same squares. They were not all lumped together in a single district of the
                  city, but were interspersed among other squares, and gave to the town a tone which
                  otherwise it could never have had. The houses were eagerly rented by clerks,
                  accountants, editors, and insurance agents, and the rooms in the bachelors' homes
                  were just as eagerly sought by unmarried men. To be sure there were certain young
                  men who preferred to remain down-town, as near as possible to their beloved
                  bar-rooms and bagnios, but this could not be helped. No one, not even their own
                  mothers, could wish such beasts turned loose in a decent man's family. A snug
                  wing-room in each of the bachelor's homes was set apart for the matron, a sort of
                     concierge who kept the house in order and
                  attended to the sewing of the young men, or matronized the young ladies of the
                  vicinity whenever the former gave a party, dancing or other, to the latter. From
                  time to time some one or other of these old widows or maids destroyed the peace of
                  mind of some of their old bachelor tenants, an infliction which, however deserved,
                  would soon have driven the bachelors away but for the timely interference of the
                  married ladies of the neighborhood. After all, things regulated themselves pretty
                  well, without the aid of police. A great point was gained in giving numerous old
                  ladies the occupation they most delight in—keeping house, their own house, as it
                  were, and in ministering exclusively to male tenants; and another great point was
                  the putting of bachelors old and young in close proximity to the ladies. You may
                  love all the ladies in the world with the maddest devotion, but if they live so
                  far away from you that you can never lay eyes on them or have their pretty palms
                  in yours, the chances are that you will marry very few of them at one time.
                  Proximity is the great thing; it is next to certainty in matters of the
                  matrimonial kind. I forgot to say that little by little the bachelors learned that
                  nothing sweetened and enlivened their parties half so much as a fine sprinkling of
                  married ladies. Occasionally the bachelors took breakfast and tea at home, but
                  they were so often invited out to these meals that the matrons seldom had the
                  opportunity of turning an additional honest penny by feeding them,—which made them
                  indignant quite frequently. Women past the marrying point, and without daughters
                  or female pets of their own, soon take a proprietary interest in their masculine
                  tenants, and object to their marrying anybody. It is hard, but I have found that
                  there is no way of making everybody happy all the time,—not even old bachelors,
                  old widows, or old maids.*
               
               
                  *Noble, red-haired tipstaff of the time, who, for ninety years or more,
                     carried a vestal fire upon his worthy head. Richmond gas being bad, this
                     invaluable man did yeoman service by lighting people home from balls,
                     parties, and the like. To avert a glare he wore a ground-glass hat that came
                     well down over his brows and around the back of his neck, and if the eyes of
                     his customers still pained them he reversed the ordinary process, and
                     diminished the illumination by trimming the wick—that is, by cutting his
                     hair.
               
               
                  *No mention is made of widowers in connection with the bachelors' homes,
                     because they flit into marriage so quickly that you can't count them. They
                     are evanescenses, ghosts of a transitory and incomputable condition.
               
               
               Auxiliary to the family squares were the semi-phalansterian squares, based upon
                  Chas. Fourier's excellent but excessively-carried-out idea, and designed to rescue
                  decent people from the fangs of ruthless cooks, maids, and other domestic
                  servants, black or white, who had long ruled the roast in a savagely tyrannical
                  manner. They were built precisely like the family square, the houses twelve to
                  thirteen feet apart, with a bachelor's home in the middle of each side of the
                  square, only the lots were not so deep; leaving a large quadrangle in the centre
                  of the square, on which was erected a large building containing all the appliances
                  for cooking, washing, ironing, etc., for all the families residing in that square;
                  also servants' rooms in abundance. Except in case of sickness, or when there were
                  very young children, servants were wholly dispensed with; kitchens and laundries
                  were unknown; marketing was unknown, groceries even were supplied by the man in
                  charge of the central hall, who, getting things by wholesale, and having but one
                  fire to keep up, fed his customers more cheaply than they could have fed
                  themselves, hired servants and furnished them just when they were needed and no
                  longer, and in fine carried out the idea of the Fourierite phalanstery in such a
                  way that the families who patronized him were enabled to live hotel-fashion in
                  their private houses—an admirable good thing, I promise you. I built twelve dozen
                  of these squares in various parts of Richmond, and now the Semi-Phalanstery is the
                  rule rather than the exception in all the great cities of Christendom, and in many
                  small ones also.
            
            
               ELEVENTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Black Crook Club Monument—Dr. Leigh Burton—Nat. Sturdivant Terrace—Hermann
                     Garden—Louis Euker—Cornelia Cathedral—Worship Purely Musical—Leo Wheat—Major
                     Burr Noland—Diseased Germans—Midnight New Year Services—Our Saviour—Mary
                     Davidson—General Mahone—Elder, Fisher, and Sheppard—G. Watson James, etc.
               
               IN order to quiet the public mind and to relieve the city from a task too onerous
                  for its weak exchequer, I swept away all the houses from Gamble's Hill and
                  converted it into one of the prettiest little terraced parks imaginable. Near the
                  centre of the grounds, a little to the west of the former site of Pratt's Castle,
                  and on the highest point of the hill, arose an immense monument to the Black Crook
                  Club: Jonah White, in the costume of a Roman Senator, on top, and beneath and
                  around him all the members of the club, life-size and accurate likenesses every
                  one, grouped together, hand in hand, with their mouths wide open and singing at
                  the full pitch of their voices,— 
                     
                        "We will do thee no harm,
                        We will do thee no harm;
                        Says the rag man
                        To the bag man,
                        We will do thee no harm."
                     
                  
               
               At a little distance from the main group (the figures were carefully cast of
                  hematite iron at Tanner's foundry) stood my friend Dr. W. Leigh Burton,*
                   attired as Orpheus, with a fiddle in one hand and a forceps in the other,
                  leading the chorus. The little park, known as Nat. Sturdivant Terrace, was a great
                  place of resort for strangers and for nurses with babies in baby-carriages.
                  Strangers always burst into roars of laughter, and complained that looking at the
                  monument made them thirsty.
               
                  *Skillful dentist of the day and date. Could pull any named tooth in a
                     circular saw while in full buzz. Handy man on elephants and sharks.
               
               
               This reminds me of a fact which I had entirely overlooked, viz., the completion of
                  the Hermann Garden by Louis Euker*
                   and myself simultaneously with the completion of the Shields House. The
                  square between Seventh and Eighth on Broad was equally divided between the hotel
                  and the garden. The latter was beautifully laid out, the fine holly-tree on Dr.
                  Trent's lot being religiously preserved, other trees, shrubs, vines, etc., being
                  added, together with two fountains as graceful in design as any I ever saw;
                  indeed, the whole place was made as attractive as possible. My object in
                  establishing the garden was to prepare the way for that excellent European custom
                  of associating the sexes in all enjoyments whatsoever, even in conviviality. Why
                  male human animals cannot get along without drinking I simply do not know, but the
                  majority of them either cannot or will not; at all events they do not, and the
                  only method yet discovered of toning them down, of stopping them from swilling,
                  boozing, and guzzling to excess is to associate the female animal with them, so
                  that even in their cups her benign influence is exerted over them. "But this
                  lowers the female animal." I don't know about that. In Holland, Germany, France,
                  and Italy the plan seems to have worked well, made races eminently temperate and
                  healthy as compared with the English and American, and substituted mild for strong
                  drinks—the entering wedge to no drinks at all, if that time is ever to come. I am
                  told that the plan succeeded so well at Hermann Garden that in the course of a few
                  years cold tea in summer and hot coffee in the winter became the favorite drinks.
                  "But surely the ladies did not go there in winter?" Yes, they did. By a simple
                  arrangement of iron columns, ribs, etc., which could be quickly put up and taken
                  down, Louis converted his garden about the first of December into a crystal
                  palace, more attractive in some respects than it had been during the summer.
               
                  *Gentlemanly beer man of the period. Can't say that he was a better fellow
                     than Otto Morgenstern or old man Manly, but the land was convenient to his
                     establishment, and that was why I helped him and not the others.
               
               No sooner had I announced my intention of building my Cathedral on the southeast
                  corner of Fifth and Main Streets, than there was a general outcry,—
               "Why, man, you might as well build the house down at Rocketts; if you want a
                  really appropriate site for it, Union Hill is the place; that's where the city
                  ought to have been built originally, anyway, and would have been built but for the
                  folly of some old curmudgeon or other, whose name has gone into merited oblivion.
                  Don't you see that the city has extended already a mile beyond Monroe Park?
                  There's no telling where it will go in that direction. Come, reconsider the
                  matter."
               "Too late, my friends; the purchase money has been paid, the deed signed and
                  delivered. Besides, I know what I'm about."
               There is no more perfect specimen of Gothic architecture on earth than
                     Cornelia*
                   Cathedral. Interior and exterior alike are as near perfection as it is in
                  the power of human hands to make a house for the worship of God. It is large
                  enough, but not too large; it is dim enough, without being too dim; the elevation
                  of nave and transept lifts the soul, but does not crush it into insignificance, as
                  in St. Peter's, and there is about the inner atmosphere a hush and a charm
                  peculiar to this house. At least I fancy so. There is no pulpit, nor will there
                  ever be one. No voice of preacher or of public prayer will ever be heard there.
                  The service is wholly musical—an organ of great power and sweetness, and a choir
                  trained thoroughly to render devotional music in a manner truly and unaffectedly
                  devotional. As a rule, the organ is the only instrument used, but at fit times and
                  seasons every instrument that can increase and intensify religious emotion is
                  introduced. The choir of men, women and boys, is paid by the year, and
                  sufficiently well paid to devote their whole time to the service of the Cathedral.
                  There are three services daily, an hour each in length, at morning, noon, and
                  evening,—the matins, nones, and vespers of the
                  
                     *Frances Cornelia Chaplin—the first, sweetest, dearest friend I had on
                        earth.
                  
                   Catholics*
                   a little altered. In the summer the matin service occurs while it is yet
                  cool, but in winter not until ten o'clock, after people have had their breakfasts.
                  Worship on an empty stomach does not suit civilization and dyspepsia. Nones in
                  winter are at three P.M., as the bulk of the better classes (six o'clock dinners
                  are still the exception in Richmond) are on their way to dine, and vespers at
                  eight or half-past eight, after tea has been comfortably taken.
               
                  *The Roman Catholics are verve wise. I do not wonder that in Europe they
                     reconquered so much that Protestantism once owned, and that, under the guise
                     of Ritualism, they are gaining ground so rapidly in England and America.
                     Their rites and services are based not merely upon human but upon universal
                     nature. Birds have not only their matins and vespers, but their mid-day
                     service as well. At noon, or a little thereafter, the deep stillness of the
                     forest is broken by a choral service, brief but intensely sweet and
                     mournful.
               
               The backs of the pews are very high—no temptation to peep at bonnets and pretty
                  faces being possible—and most of them are provided with keys, so that the
                  worshiper may lock himself in. All the pews for one person, of which there are a
                  great number, are under lock and key. The organ-loft at the rear of the church,
                  where the pulpit usually is, may be looked into, but a screen of bronze open-work
                  bides organist†
                   and choir from the public gaze. Absolute silence is demanded of every one
                  who enters, and is rigidly enforced. Locked in his pew, the worshiper listens and
                  adores. His soul goes to heaven on the wings of music. Doctrine, dogma, creed of
                  any kind, vain babbling of always fallible interpretations of the Uninterpretable,
                  of Him whose ways are past finding out, there is none to disturb him. "My son,
                  give me thine heart." And his heart cries out, and up, and on to his Father, "I
                  know not what to believe—do not believe—I love. Slay me if Thou wilt for my want
                  of faith, but this love, this joy beyond all words, all thoughts, shall lift me
                  into life again. I adore so much I cannot fear!" And if with streaming eyes and
                  bent knees he wishes to give way to his emotion, and to stretch appealing hands to
                  Him that heareth, prayer,—he is alone in his locked pew, let him do what he
                  will.
               
                  †Mr. Leo P. Wheat, a man of genius and a master of his instrument.
               
               Tell me nothing about the debilitations of music. I know its power and I know its
                  perversions. But, my good friend, subtract from religious exercises the element of
                  music, and what have you left? Only the intellect, argument, reason for the faith,
                  etc. Ah! that is what those wretched scientists demand, and little else but
                  that.
               One stern exaction was enforced upon the organist and every member of the choir,
                  viz., that under no circumstances whatever should there be the least approach to
                  trapeze-work, ground and lofty tumbling upon the keyboards, wild hullaballooing
                  and cattle-stampeding along the octaves, alternations of peacock-screamings and
                  sick-kitten sorrowings, pounding the chords in the mortar of self-conceit and
                  fancying it inspiration—in a word, no showing off, no exhibition of purely
                  personal skill in instrumentation or vocalization. Immediate and hopeless loss of
                  situation followed every violation of this rule. To present the compositions
                  really worthy to be called sacred of the best German*
                   masters, and of the earlier and in some respects still better Italian
                  school (Palestrina and Allegri, for example), when profound faith and profound
                  feeling went hand in hand, and to present them in the spirit as nearly as possible
                  in which they were first delivered by the inspired composers, that was the duty of
                  the choir, and that was their whole duty. Nor were the hymns and psalms to which
                  the mass of hearers had been accustomed from childhood by any means neglected. A
                  standing, reward of five thousand dollars for a first-rate devotional composition
                  failed, after ten years' trial, to produce anything worthy of the name, the
                  committee withholding the reward all that time, after which it was withdrawn. I
                  suppose the scientific spirit had killed the sacred spirit [Some contradiction
                  here of views before given. But between diction and contradiction somewhere lies
                  the truth most likely], or else that mankind in general, out-evolving the
                  musicians, got so far ahead that the
                  
                     *I like these Germans. They are a fearfully diseased people, but still I like
                        them. Their disease is an incurable honesty. Now, there is Mr. Lisfeldt. I
                        regard Mr. Lisfeldt as the best man in the world, except Maj. Burr P.
                        Noland.
                  
                  
                  latter could never catch up, so that even the "music of the future" failed to
                  satisfy the cravings of the people of the present, who thereupon fell back
                  perforce upon the good old music of the past.
               At first there was a large attendance of the curious; afterwards the excellence of
                  the music drew crowds of women and children, and music-lovers of the male sex; but
                  by degrees the men of business who contemned Cornelia Cathedral and the mode of
                  its worship, dropped in on their way to or from their offices and shops to rest
                  awhile, and "just to look, you know." It was so cool within the thick stone walls
                  in summer and so comfortable in winter. Then the high vaulted roof—yes, the whole
                  interior was so beautiful, and the solemn stillness so refreshing after the bustle
                  and worry of work, after the dirty, soul-dirtying work of making money. And ere
                  long these men of business contrived to get to the Cathedral in time to hear a
                  little music. Bashful enough in the beginning, ashamed indeed to be caught, they
                  slipped in slyly; but a year had not passed before they went in boldly, in couples
                  often, and in groups. They found it to be a good thing to go down-town with some
                  motet, fugue, or anthem warming their hearts, or to return home after a voiceless
                  prayer in the Cathedral.
               My point was gained. My object in building so low down in the city and so close to
                  its business haunts was fully explained, and, in the eyes of all but the bigots,
                  justified.
               The Cathedral was never closed day or night the whole year round. It was not a
                  refuge, though, for vagrants and tramps, or for fashionable loungers of either
                  sex. The tramps were kindly turned away to some place where needed assistance
                  could be had; the fops and their giggling females were simply not admitted at all.
                  The organist and his best pupils were permitted to play whenever the spirit moved
                  them—a privilege seldom abused, but much coveted by the more gifted and spiritual
                  scholars, who desired to breathe out their deepest and most devout thoughts; and
                  so it often happened that business and professional men and strangers, dropping in
                  at odd hours, heard the best music. Far into the night, sometimes, the belated
                  worker or the reveler, passing the Cathedral and feeling the pavement trembling
                  under his feet, would go in and have his heart lifted unto God by the mighty
                  organ, touched by the hand of one who could not find sleep until his inspired
                  thought had found expression. The vergers and watchmen told me that the men who
                  came in most frequently late at night and who appeared to be most moved to
                  penitence, were journalists and artists recovering from some bout at drinking. The
                  overwhelming effect of the music upon their sin-stricken souls, when they thought
                  no one observed them, was said to be affecting in the extreme. That a thorough
                  reformation from their unfortunate habits was ever accomplished may be doubted,
                  because the outward intoxication by which they occasionally disgrace themselves is
                  but the reflex of that inward intoxication, more or less habitual with men of
                  their temperament, which has in it something almost divine. I have been told,
                  moreover, that drinking men never get really penitent until they get sick of
                  liquor, that what appears to be remorse is only nausea, and that penitence darts
                  away as soon as the tone of the stomach and nerves is restored. I don't think this
                  is altogether true; on the contrary, I think somewhat of the penitence lingers and
                  abides, is remembered in the soberest intervals, provokes a shudder of horror at
                  past sin, and many a heartfelt prayer against a relapse. For all that, I can
                  readily believe that a man with an absolutely gin-proof stomach might keep on a
                  continuous spree during the whole of his lifetime.
               The midnight services on the days set apart for the celebration of the birth of
                  our Saviour*
                  and the incoming of
                        *Our Saviour? Yes, a thousand times yes. The most besotted skeptic and
                        scientist who counts his unbelief as righteousness (which it might be, but
                        not too often is) must admit that millions have been saved in this life by
                        faith in the Nazarene-and if in this life, in the next as well, we may be
                        sure. Nevertheless, let me say boldly that I have a good deal of hope for
                        honest unbelievers. Hell, I take it, is a sparsely-settled country—much like
                        that between Richmond and Tappahannock, or between Barksdale depot and
                        Milton, N. C., in 1874. Here and there will be found a worldly-minded
                        preacher sitting apart on a tussock of broom-straw, feeling a little chilly
                        and lonesome, thinking himself an ill-used person, and wondering where the
                        devil Darwin is. But the bulk of the inhabitants is made up of ingrained
                        hypocrites, sellers of mean liquor, and the beaters of wives and other dumb
                        beasts
                   
                   the New Year
                  were as sublime as the art at my command enabled me to make them. If I should say
                  that the crush on these occasions equaled that at St. Peter's when the Miserere is
                  sung during Holy Week, I would be accused of exaggeration; therefore I will simply
                  say that it was very great, and that many persons came from distant States, and
                  some from over the sea, to enjoy the music. I do wish that I knew thorough bass
                  from counterpoint, etc., sufficiently well to enable me to describe the
                  soul-moving harmonies of the great composers as rendered by the Cornelia Cathedral
                  choir. [I had laid away a newspaper scrap, in which the description is finely and
                  technically done by a critic of the highest order, a Jewish gentleman of Hamburg
                  as I was told; but like many other things it is laid away so carefully that it
                  might as well have been laid in the grave. If any one finds it after I am gone he
                  will do me a great favor by inserting it just here. If not found the reader must
                  trust to his imagination, or better still go to the Cathedral and hear for
                  himself.]
               In '98 or thereabouts, my granddaughter, Mary Davidson, was born, in the county of
                  Rockbridge, and in her eighteenth year appeared as the leading soprano singer in
                  our choir. She was as beautiful a woman as ever lived, fair, blue-eyed and
                  golden-haired, as pure as light itself, and sweet as charity. A Sabbath peace and
                  sanctity ("the Sabbaths of eternity, one Sabbath deep and wide") seemed to have
                  passed into her being at birth, and her whole life was in accord with that
                  holiness. No nun was ever more devoutly or wholly religious. Her piety and her
                  existence were one. God was with her, in her, and about her ever; she was in this
                  world and above it in some supernatural way, of which every one who saw her became
                  instantly conscious. Her voice was literally the voice of a seraph—clear and
                  sweet, but infinitely more than that—so thrilling and penetrating that all who
                  heard it were at once awed as by a sound coming immediately from the heavens. She
                  sang sacred music as it ought to be sung. She gave all its meaning, all its power,
                  all its pathos, without that constant tremor (tremolo) which from Tamberlik's day to the present has been so
                  overdone as to disfigure figure and impair the effect of church-music everywhere.
                  Some of her sustained notes, pure and unbroken as a sunray, went to the heart and
                  soul with a force that transcends language. One felt as if touched by the wing of
                  the angel of death—as if the other world was to be opened on the instant, and the
                  whole nature and being shuddered and gasped to take in the larger life that was
                  coming. But why attempt to tell about it? They who listened remember and know all
                  about it; those who did not can never know.
               By unanimous request the choir screen was taken down, so that all might see this
                  beautiful woman while she was singing the holiest music. She did not object. A
                  true woman, she loved to be loved and admired, but no man dared ever to address
                  her. Her life was far beyond and above that. For two years she sang twice a day
                  and sometimes oftener at the Cathedral; the intervals between the choir services
                  were spent in good works. She it was who so aided me in the "sky-surprises"
                  heretofore alluded to. She died without sickness and without pain, and the
                  mightiest concourse that ever went to Hollywood accompanied her to her grave. Such
                  passionate grief I never saw exhibited by a whole people as was exhibited then.
                  Her tomb, by far the most beautiful in Hollywood, attests the love the people bore
                  her. For myself, I was glad that she died. My own end was near, my work was
                  drawing to a close, and I did not wish to be long parted from her.
               Not the least of Mahone's*
                   many titles to distinction was the fact that in my time he was almost the
                  only man in Virginia, so far as my large acquaintance went, who really cared to
                  patronize (no, not patronize, but to encourage) Virginia artists. Virginia was
                  then passing through that phase of folly, long before sneered out of Great Britain
                  and the North, which is marked by the purchase of copies of so-called "old
                  masters," wretched in conception and
                  
                     *His first name was William. I am informed that he took some part in some war
                        or other at some time or other, but what war, and at what time, I have been
                        unable to ascertain. It is said that long years ago there were railroad
                        wars, but what railroad wars are, no newspaper-reporter, lawyer, or member
                        of the legislature, can now tell, although I have offered money for the
                        information.
                  
                  
                  execution, and the utter neglect of works of merit done at home by native artists.
                  I employed Elder, Fisher, and Sheppard, at twenty thousand dollars per annum each
                  (and would have employed Myers at the same, had he not gone to a better land), to
                  work exclusively for me. The scenes, the life, public and private, of the blacks
                  and whites of Virginia as it was in the days of slavery, at least all that was
                  left of that rapidly-disappearing life, I had put upon canvas. Woodward painted
                  for me a dozen or so of charming landscapes, but was so sought after by Northern
                  publishers that I could seldom get him to work for me. In addition to the genre pictures, executed for me by the artists named
                  above, there were a number of historical paintings by the same, which I presented
                  to the Virginia Historical Society. Nearly every one of these pictures commanded
                  the approval of Mr. G. Watson James,*
                   but other critics, including myself, were not so lenient. I soon found
                  that fixed work, done to order, however highly paid for, trammeled the free spirit
                  of art, and palsied the genius of my friends. What comes unprompted into their own
                  heads and hearts, what is given them from the mysterious original font of
                  power,—that is what artists want, and at which they can work more, I let them off,
                  pensioned them on ten thousand dollars a year, and allowed them to paint exactly
                  what they pleased. They did better then. And meeting them one day in Jack's
                  studio, I said to them,—
               
                  *Art-critic of the period, the only man connected with the Richmond press who
                     could be induced to take any real interest in the works of our Virginia
                     artists. This bold and, indeed, desperate young man, fell at the head of his
                     command as Captain of Hussars in the ill-starred attack upon the imperial
                     city. I opposed the assault at the time as a piece of the most consummate
                     folly; but it was fitting that the rebellion should have ended just when and
                     where it did.
               
            
            
               TWELFTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Tour with Artist-Friends—Suggestive Summering—Badly Apple-Brandied—Judge
                     Crump—John R. Thompson's Tomb—Yankees—"The Fast of Pea Time"—Squirted out of
                     Town—Peter Mayo and Alexander Cameron—Valentine's Colossal Statue—Dr. W. Hand
                     Browne—Adams's "Folly," Eleven Hundred Feet High—Gala Day all around the
                     Globe—Excitement in Lynchburg—Jack Slaughter and Robin Terry—Trash Green—Death
                     of Wife—Badly Kicked—Home near Pamlin's Depot.
               
               "BOYS, now that we are all pretty well off, suppose we teach these rich people
                  that there are other ways of summering than by going to mountain-resorts,
                  seasides, Saratogas, Europes and things."
               "Good!" said they; "what shall we do?"
               We took our wives and children (Fisher's family was immense, and Elder's little
                  smaller), plenty of large, clean, well-made tents, cooks, ostlers, washerwomen,
                  nurses, and other servants, with dead loads of cooking utensils, fowling-pieces,
                  fishing-rods, etc., and no end of all sorts of the best provisions and the finest
                  wines, and leisurely made our way up through the Southside counties, encamping at
                  night, or on rainy days, in the most charming nooks, dells, glades, and forest
                  places we could find, and we found them in abundance, and more beautiful than we
                  dreamed could be found. The children were wild with joy at this free life; the
                  boys and girls who were nearly grown found a fascination in this nomadic existence
                  that quite enraptured them, and the elders—upon my soul, I believe they enjoyed it
                  even more than the young people!
               We intended originally to "do" the mountains of Southwest Virginia, but concluded
                  to go for a while into Patrick and Henry, a field little known to artists and
                  tourists, and which we enjoyed very much. Then turning, we traveled by easy stages
                  through Pittsylvania, Halifax, Mecklenburg, Lunenburg, Brunswick, Greenesville,
                  Southampton, etc., keeping as far from railroads as possible, and saw the last, the very last, of
                  Old Virginia life. The pictures of negroes, old and young; of dilapidated farms
                  and farm-houses of every kind; the interiors of homesteads, humble and proud (once
                  proud), which had not been touched by war, and but little by time, and the
                  descriptions accompanying them, done by my own hand, are (I make bold to say it)
                  by odds the best that ever were done by anybody, and, taken as a whole, make an
                  invaluable compendium for the historian and antiquary.*
                
               
                  *It was published in folio under the title of "The Last of Pea Time." A few
                     "large-paper" copies are now in the hands of Dr. Barney, and Randolph and
                     English.
               
               Reaching home about the last of October, delighted, without ague, although we had
                  been badly apple-brandied at points, our account of our travels so ravished our
                  friends that for many years afterwards tent-life in Southside Virginia became
                  extremely fashionable, and, with various modifications, has been more or less
                  adopted in all parts of the United States—especially by the wealthier classes, and
                  by hardy young men who despise the foolery of springs and seasides. Judge W. W.
                  Crump took the lead in this wholesome reform.†
               
               
                    †Prominent, Roman nosed lawyer of the period. Hospitable man—champagned
                     thirteen Seventh New York Regiment men to death. Treated me to breakfast on
                     the Great Eastern, and I never forgot him for it. His son, Edward, was also
                     good to me in North Carolina, and I never forgot him either.
               
               Soon after my return, I walked out one day to Hollywood. There, to my excessive
                  mortification, I found that a Northern admirer of John R. Thompson had erected a
                  handsome tomb over the poet—a gentle soul, that loved above all things to do a
                  kind deed for foes as well as friends. Although I had predicted that Virginians
                  would no more build a monument to Thompson than Americans to Washington, and that
                  the work in Hollywood, if done at all, would be done by a Yankee,‡
                   I was mortified none the less. I had plenty of money—there was no earthly
                  excuse for me; but, Virginian like, I kept putting it off and off,
                  and off. I am ashamed of myself.
               
                  ‡If anybody has a more vitriolic feeling against bad Yankees than I have, I
                     pity him. But if a Yankee is a good Yankee (there are such), I like him all
                     the better for being a Yankee. It is like falling out with a fellow at
                     school, stopping speaking to him, and then making up again. Few things are
                     more pleasant.
               
               Here I am reminded that I encouraged as much as possible the erecting by wealthy
                  and public-spirited citizens of single figures and groups in bronze or marble,
                  commemorative of incidents and characters in Virginia history, at various points
                  along the boulevard that encircled Richmond, and in Parke Park allowed a few
                  beautiful tombs to be built in suitable situations. Amid the beauties, natural and
                  artificial, of the park, these tombs fitted in admirably, serving, by contrast,
                  and a certain tenderness of suggestion, to impart an increased and hallowing charm
                  to the scenery-much like the undertone of sadness that one sometimes finds in the
                  liveliest music.*
               
               
                  *In childhood, when the sensibilities are keen, there is a foretelling of the
                     coming and inevitable sorrow and care of mature life in all music,
                     particularly in that of the piano.
               
               In a moment of vanity I determined to reprint everything I had ever written—every
                  editorial, magazine-article, letter, communication, all the correspondence of
                  "Zed," "Hermes," "Malou"†
                   etc., etc., all the squibs of every kind contributed to the Lynchburg,
                  Richmond, Petersburg, Orange Court—House, Baltimore, New York, Louisville,
                  Nashville, Knoxville, and Gordonsville papers, and to have every solitary thing
                  down to the puns and conundrums illustrated. This was the life-work of my friend,
                  that excellent man and accomplished draughtsman, W. L. Sheppard. Willie got along
                  finely until he got to the loathsome and disgusting article on "Spit;"‡
                   in attempting to illustrate that he was attacked with such incessant
                  retching and persistent nausea that he fled to Italy for relief, and had to stay
                  there and in the Alps for three years before he was cured. For a time he was (Dr.
                  Brown-Séquard assured me) as badly off as Sumner—had
                  
                     †Letters to Richmond Dispatch, Charleston (S. C.)
                        Mercury, and New Orleans Crescent—a great
                        many of them—ought to be among my papers now.
                  
                  
                     ‡Maddened by this horrible article, the tobacconists of Richmond, led by my
                        quondam friends, Mr. Peter Mayo and Mr. Alexander Cameron, filled a
                        fire-engine with ambeer and actually squirted me out of town. I never dared
                        to return.
                  
                   to have the moxa,
                  actual cautery, Vienna paste, hypodermics, etc., to spine—but did eventually get
                  well without going to the United States Senate.
               The remaining illustrations were done by Randolph Mason, a rising young artist,
                  and my books, "Adams's Complete Works," in twenty-six volumes, octavo, were
                  finally published, had no sale except in odd volumes, adorned the library of every
                  friend to whom I presented them, and afforded me during my declining years most
                  delicious reading. I can say with perfect truth that I never enjoyed any author
                  half so much, and for many years never read any other.
               In another moment of much more vanity I allowed my friends to induce Valentine to
                  persuade me to sit for my statue. At first it was decided to have the statue of
                  bronze, quadruple life-size, in a sitting posture, under Mr. Exall's lovely
                     duomo, with Hart's sweet little Henry Clay
                  standing up in my lap, with my hands about his waist and under his coat-tail,
                  dandling him. But this, though neat and suggestive, it was thought would be a
                  reflection upon the "Great American System," and to my regret was abandoned. Then
                  it was unanimously concluded best to build me in the attitude of the Colossus of
                  Rhodes, forty feet high, straddling the City Springs,*
                   in copperas-colored pants, and long-tail, bob-tail coat, striped white and
                  red vest, oznaburg shirt with open collar, no cravat, and a straw hat, playing
                  upon a pumpkin-vine horn with both hands, after the manner of the antique
                  performer upon the fistula or flute. It was so established, and the remains of it
                  remain to this day. The material used was an appropriate clay from the county of
                  Powhatan, the same that the world-famous pipes†
                   are made of. Naughty boys soon snow-balled the pumpkin-vine out of my
                  hands, and by dint of large pebbles obtained from the adjacent gullies were not
                  long in ridding me of my entire head; but the magnificent torso still stands, and is much sought after and admired by
                  Hellenists from Heidelberg and Bonn. Dr. William Hand Browne has devoted an entire
                  "Green Table" in the Southern Magazine to a discussion of its great
                  and growing merits. In revenge for this ill treatment on the part of the boys, I
                  directed Valentine to fill me an order for seven hundred busts of the finest and
                  prettiest women of my 
                     acquantance
                     acquaintance
                  , which he did; they now adorn my house in Appomattox.
               
                  *A pretty little lot, or might have been if the city had had any sense,
                     between Seventh and Eighth Streets, back of the Mills property. In 1874 it
                     was used for the storage of old bricks, which were tenderly sheltered there
                     by the leafless trees from the fierce rays of the midwinter sun.
               
               
                  †The largest factory of tobacco pipes in the world is mine in Powhatan
                     County. It is one thousand two hundred feet long and seven stories high.
                     with a capacity of four hundred thousand pipes per diem. They are the best
                     pipes in the world, and are superseding all others.
               
               To the end that I might die with the reputation of being the best loved man in
                  Virginia, I had done a great many good and wise deeds—at least I thought so. But
                  before I started to do anything at all, I tried to impress upon myself the fact
                  which I had long known—that there is the other side to everything—that existence,
                  life itself, is a balance of opposing qualities, *
                   and that no wholly and lastingly good thing can ever be done. Flowers rot,
                  beauty rots, religions rot, and the rottenness reappears in beauty again forever
                  and forever. Life rests on incessant putrescence. Though these facts were
                  ingrained in me, I was not satisfied. I wanted to be honored of Virginia men and
                  to be hurrahed over. I would walk whole squares in Richmond without having a hat
                  lifted to me or a small boy to follow me and to say, not without agitation,
                  "that's him." This would never do.
               
                  *So that if there be no hell there can be no heaven. The thing is as long as
                     it is broad. Annihilation is your only hope, Messrs. Skeptic and
                     Scientist.
               
               Therefore and because I had all along been intent upon it, I builded my Folly,
                  Adams's Folly. It stands in Scuffletown to this day, upon a hill carved around
                  clean down to its base to receive it and be its pedestal, to be seen and to be
                  seen a very great distance, of all men. It is an octagonal mass of rough-hewn
                  siennite that rises some one thousand one hundred (counting from the river level,
                  one thousand three hundred and fifty) feet in air. Upon its top there is a bell,
                  compared to which the big bell at Moscow is but an infant's thimble, This bell
                  rings of itself on stormy nights, and its mournful sound is heard in Philadelphia. [By the way, I had intended to
                  stop the Folly at the height of one thousand feet, but a Philadelphia centennial
                  creature having built a tower that high, I went one hundred feet higher, exclusive
                  of the cliff on which the Folly stands.] Houses in Richmond shake under the
                  vibrations of this bell, nobody sleeps in many counties around Lynchburg, and all
                  the Tobacco Row mountain neighborhood goes to prayers at sundown and ceases not
                  till day breaks and the bell stops ringing. It is a fearful thing, that bell
                  lifted up upon that huge, rough tower, above the clouds oftentimes. There are
                  steps inside, but everybody prefers to ride up in the steam elevator at a charge
                  of twenty-five cents. Myriads of people come to see it. It is one of the wonders
                  of the world. The annual revenue from sight-seers is a quarter of a million, which
                  goes into the Lynchburg treasury for the support of the poor and the improvement
                  of street grades. People have ceased to be bow-legged, sway-backed, and
                  knock-kneed in that city. A splendid bridge for foot-passengers, carriages and
                  railway trains runs from the foot of the Folly tower to the adjacent hill-top in
                  Lynchburg, is much resorted to by industrious burghers with long fishing-lines (to
                  fish in the river for mud-kittens two hundred and fifty feet below), and is of
                  great service to through travel on the Washington City, Virginia Midland, and
                  Great Southern Railroad. I do not remember what the thing cost. Mr. A. Y. Lee*
                   was the architect. I had speculated in West Virginia coal lands, made one
                  hundred millions in addition to my original fifty millions, and didn't care what
                  it cost. It was finished quicker than the great pyramid. Five hundred thousand men
                  did the work within ten years.
               
                  *An able man in his calling, but his resemblance to myself produced in him a
                     mental inquietude that ended in incurable dyspepsia; which I hope will be a
                     wholesome warning to others not to look like me if they can possibly avoid
                     it.
               
               Goodness knows I was honored enough when the Folly was completed. I thought I
                  would be. The inauguration day was a gala day all around the globe. Men thought
                  the tower of Babel theory was overthrown, as if that were any comfort. I happened
                  to be in New York arranging with my publishers when I was telegraphed for in hot
                  haste. Many brass bands, Gesangveriens, photographers, several yoke of
                  strong-minded women, historical societies, a herd of reporters, and three
                  Schutzenfests accompanied me. It was a triumphal march the whole way. I was
                  transported through Washington in a palanquin, toted by four members of the
                  cabinet, the Emperor in front and on foot, clearing the way with a black
                  wagon-whip with brass nails in the handle. The train, drawn by six to ten
                  locomotives, stretched from Alexandria to Fairfax Station nearly. All Orange
                  Court-House, Gordonsville, and 
                     Charlotteville
                     Charlottesville
                   fell down in the red dust before me as the train went by. Not a living
                  soul was left in the Ragged Mountains. The keeper of the Miller Orphan Asylum*
                   set fire to the institution, and went along with the rest on foot before
                  day. I disembarked on the Amherst side, descended the gulch into which the old
                  toll bridge leads, and in a linen duster commenced the ascent of a grand staircase
                  (hewn out of the living rock) which begins precisely on the spot where old Aunt
                  Sally Taylor†
                   used to live. All Virginia seemed to be around me. Although the world
                  claimed the Folly as a boon to humanity, Virginia claimed it as her own. Now this
                  great State would be settled up; now our unrivaled natural resources would be
                  developed, and now, beyond all shadow or possibility of peradventure, Norfolk
                  would become the greatest seaport of the earth, and New York and Baltimore would
                  be nowhere. The big bell tolled. The people (the landscape was black with them)
                  hollered. I detected the voice of Trash Green‡
                   It was a great time.
               
                  *Unfortunately, most of the orphans were too badly charred to be of future
                     use, but the enterprising negroes of Gordonsville got the remainder (about
                     two hundred and fifty), kept them on ice in Dr. Cadmus's wine-cellar, and
                     for eighteen months orphan sandwiches, called chicken breast for short, were
                     disposed of at great profit and much relished along with Jim Scott's
                     grapes.
               
               
                  †Kept a little tavern there. When John Brown, nephew of Boss Cauthorn, lived
                     at Dr. Seay's drug store, we used to go over there and get breakfast on
                     Sunday mornings—good breakfasts they were, too.
               
               
                  ‡Lynchburg fishmonger of the period. Worthy, good temperance man; dressed
                     nicely—breastpin and gloves.
               
               
               At the head of the grand staircase, Mr. Robin Terry*
                   (in the attitude of Virginia or the Goddess of Liberty, in a bell-crowned
                  hat with curved brim, and trampling on the prostrate form of Mr. Jack
                     Slaughter†
                  ) received me. Over their heads, Mr. Tom Stabler‡
                   on the one side and Mr. Bob Latham on the other held aloft the great motto
                  in golden letters, Sic Semper Tyrannis. Mr.
                  Terry's speech was a noble effort. When he let up, Jack Slaughter and the latter
                  put off the robes of the tyrant, and donned his own sack-coat, and proclaimed that
                  the days. of the grinding oppression of poverty in Virginia were ended, to return
                  no more while time lasted, there went up a shout that shook the hills, and made
                  the Folly wabble from base to summit. My reply to these admirable addresses was a
                  feeble one,—I wanted to go to Peter Wren's, and take a nip of plain whisky and
                  water—but all the Lynchburg papers, all the Virginia papers, and all the papers
                  all over the world said it was a sublime effort. I doubt it. Then the people went
                  delirious with excitement and delight, and I went to the Washington House and went
                  to bed. Scoville said he thought I was sick. It was a great time.
               
                  *New London academy pedagogue of the period. Good teacher and fine
                     fellow.
               
               
                  †Lynchburg double-barreled banker of the period. I liked Jack in spite of his
                     money. He and Bob Broadnax, myself, and somebody else, used to play whist
                     together, and have very good times.
               
               
                  ‡Husband of one of the finest women in Virginia. Early-rising tobacco
                     warehouse-man of the day and date above mentioned. Brother-in-law of the
                     best brothers and sisters in-law going at that time, and for some time
                     previous and afterwards.
               
               Sated with human applause, and conscious that my Folly, not my sense or my
                  goodness, had won it, my parks, banks, factories, churches, cathedrals,
                  music-halls, colleges, and lecture-rooms all running more or less successfully,
                  naught much [N. M. is respectfully submitted to the
                     Dispatch—Ed. Whig] for me to do—time was for me
                  to depart. We all do fade as a leaf. Moreover, between the tens and twenties [of
                  1900, doubtless—Whig], my dear, good wife went from me. What she
                  was to me—her forbearance, her long-suffering, her uncomplaining patience, her
                  devotion to our children, and, above all, her clear understanding of the whimsies
                  incident to my peculiar temperament, and of those who preceded me and gave me my
                  temperament,—why tell of these, or who cares to bear them? She it was who ennoble
                  womankind (always loveable before I knew her) and humanity in my eyes. I cannot
                  praise her as Stuart Mill praised his wife,—a woman no whit the superior of mine
                  in moral if in mental (which I doubt) nature, but this I will say of her—that a
                  more thoroughly truthful soul, a more loyal and steadfast friend, never dwelt on
                  this planet. The man or woman who had her friendship (not that it was hard to get)
                  had that which was above price, and which only persistent crime, meanness, or
                  lying could take away. That I shall be worthy to draw nigh unto her in the other
                  life I very much question, but this I hope—that on some celestial morning two
                  bright sinless boys will take the poor newly-come sinner between them and, leading
                  him to her sweet presence, say,—
               "Mother, receive him for our sake."
               She died before she was seventy, in the prime of the strength which came to her
                  late in life, when the cares, griefs, and toils of her clouded youth and early
                  womanhood were ended; and I mourned her truly, as a man mourns who has no other
                  friend this side the grave. *
                   Ah, me! how many, many friends there are now on the other side! I hope
                  they all are still my friends, for often, and often, and often my heart goes out
                  how warmly to them. I do not forget them. They are with
                  
                     *This estimable woman came to her death in a singular and affecting way. Her
                        maiden name was Ellen F. Glennan, the daughter of a Protestant Irish
                        curate—see letter from Washington City, 1858, or thereabouts. From the time
                        of our marriage she had a passion for second-hand wooden presses, equalled
                        only by S. Jackson's craze for Yankee baggage-wagons. She preferred cheap
                        green, but would take cheaper red presses whenever she could find them, and
                        never got enough of them. Late in life she conceived the idea of a
                        three-story much complicated pine press in as many several sections, had it
                        made to order, and while putting it up herself (she would never let any one
                        do for her what she herself could do) the upper section toppled over upon
                        her, mashed her flat as a flounder, and the poor, tired, hard-working hands
                        were at rest. Her maiden name was Ellen F. Glennan, the daughter of, etc.
                        [the poor old gentleman forgets that he has already told us this.—Ed.
                           Whig.]
                  
                   me now more than are my living friends—far more. I
                  feel their presence, their veritable existence. They live in me.
               No man knows, not even the widower himself, how much he suffers. Cleave frail man
                  smoothly from calvarium to os coccygis, and it
                  is but natural that he should desire to find his lost if not better half, and not
                  go single-legged and with only one eye on the world all his days. It is for this
                  cause that widowers walk lop-sided and hip-shot, and are so anxious to get married
                  again. Not that they want to marry for the mere sake of marrying—well they know
                  that is not what it is cracked up to be—but they feel a-cold on one side, and
                  yearn to pour out their grief on some friendly and sympathetic bosom. Thus the
                  early courting of widowers, which is so much decried, is, if we did but know it, a
                  secret commingling of tears for the loved and lost one—and as the commingling is
                  all done and over by the time the new marriage comes off, it is but fit and proper
                  that the two grief-relieved souls should be a trifle gay and cheerful. But they
                  often cry together afterwards—especially the lady.
               Being a lad of a little upwards of a century, and maintaining, as widowers all do,
                  that I was unfazed by time and as good as ever stuck axe in a tree, which I was
                  not and never had been, it was natural and becoming that I should want to get
                  married again without indecorous and heartless delay; but that I should make such
                  a poop and rancid old ass of myself as to court a mischievous little miss of
                  six-and-twenty, or thereabouts, I could not have believed. I did, though. There
                  was a blue-eyed, red-faced, yellow-haired girl at 
                     Ca
                     Ça
                   Ira (I moved to the country soon after my wife died), that wound me
                  around her finger, trotted me around, showed me off, made a laughing-stock of me,
                  and then kicked me into the infinite void*
                   with the full and unrelenting power of a very ponderous limb. That woman
                  lied to me in every conceivable way. She lied with her eyes, she lied with her
                  smiles, she lied with her gestures, with a thousand undulations of her graceful
                  body; her life, for six months, was a continuous and unbroken lie, only she did
                  not tell me in actual words that she loved me. And so, with a conscience void of
                  offense, she went off and married a Pikelin or some such creature. But what a
                  conscience! A cambric thread of the finest fibre would cover it like a
                  counterpane. And yet nature, in her ample indifference (I can't call it economy),
                  has a place for myriads of such immoral nits. The good of them at any time, past,
                  present, and to come, is not apparent to me. To Pikelins and such they may be
                  blessing, possibly. But as for me, I am done with women. We all do fade as a
                  leaf.
               
                  *Lifted at the acute toe-point into The Inane, I found there a little mud-god
                     named Carlyle, in the arms of Frederick the Great, and Dr. Francia standing
                     by, feeding him with gobs of disjointed German text, done up in oatmeal, out
                     of a spoon.
               
               When my mind was made up to move finally into the country (my summers having
                  heretofore been spent in various rural retreats, so called, which I had purchased
                  from time to time), I did not set to work with my abundant money to re-create the
                  Domain of Arnheim on Poe's plan, the cottage of Landor, a villa in the Italian
                  style, or anything of the kind. My highest ambition was to rebuild Captain Grigg's
                  house just as it was in the olden time, and this I would certainly have done had
                  not all or nearly all the trees between there and the Knob been cut down. The
                  place was too open and exposed. I bought Evans's mill and all the land, I could
                  get in the neighborhood, divided it up into farms, with snug farm-houses, etc. and
                  portioned them out to the children of William Gannaway and William Anderson, my
                  cousins. For myself I found no resting place for the sole of my foot until I got
                  into the wooded country near Pamplin's Depot. There I built an exact fac simile of Captain Grigg's—a little dormer-storied
                  house, with a cool basement dining-room and cellar adjoining, a front porch with
                  saddle-closet cut off from it, big outside chimneys (to encourage the friends of
                  my childhood—toads), a covered brick passage for the wind to blow through, the
                  water-pail, and the wood ready chopped for the fire, to set in, and then a tail of
                  little rooms on different levels running down. the hill—so that you had to step up
                  or down to get into any room in the house. I had a barn, stable, corn-house,
                  kitchen, quarters, dairy with F-like lattice-work under the eaves, a well, a glorious well, with well-house over it,
                  a carriage-house, horse-block and rack, spring and spring-house fifty yards or so
                  from the dwelling, a damson tree or two, with some greengage plums in the yard,
                  oaks, aspens, and locusts, a regular ley-hopper, big biscuit-block and great open
                  fireplace in the kitchen, hen-hovels, duck-troughs, meat-house, weaving-room,
                  loom, vast gobbler, an authoritative rumpless rooster, devoted to the society of
                  the ladies, and a square-shouldered, deliberate drake, very affable to his family,
                  flax-hackles, reel, wool-cards, spinning-wheels, everything, including peacock,
                  and chatty guinea chickens. Other people might live as they pleased, I intended to
                  live like a Virginian. I had money and money "in a plenty;" why not? In my garden
                  were lilacs and hollyhocks, gooseberries, raspberries, currants, etc., a fig bush
                  or two, some hazelnut bushes, artichokes and grass-nuts; a patch for broomcorn,
                  and reeds for fishing-poles, gourds along the fence and cymlins at intervals; I
                  had besides, a nice pond with abundant bullfrogs, a dam and mill-pond full of chub
                  and silver perch, and an old-fashioned saw-mill, with a saw that worked up and
                  down like a distracted man in a jump-jacket. This for company when I felt
                  lonesome; and as I took good care not to cultivate much of my land, there was
                  never wanting gullies and galls, with a pretence of bresh and corn-stalks to cure
                  them—I wouldn't have cured 'em for the world—great store of mulleins, hen-nest
                  grass, sassafras, thorn-bushes, Cherokee plums in detached squads, isolated
                  persimmon-trees, brier patches, dewberry vines, old fields with and without old
                  field pines-good for setting-turkeys and old hares—a right sharp chance of sour,
                  sobby, crawfishy land, some puffy land, some places where the water seeped out,
                  some old gray not quite dead cherry-trees, a lost and rather bony Lombardy poplar
                  or so, some huge high pines not far from the house for the sake of woodpeckers,
                  low grounds for kildees and watermelons, a good-sized creek with three or four
                  regularly baited fishing-places, a collection of tall naked sycamores for buzzards
                  to roost in, four mules, three yoke of oxen, twelve caws to the pail, a jinny and
                  a hinny, an amiable sleepy-headed horse for my own riding, and a milk and cider
                  filly, with a side-saddle; nankeen riding-skirt, and sun-bonnet for any lady who
                  might happen to pay me a visit.
               I had also not quite a gross of hounds, beagles, pointers, setters, bulldogs, and
                  bench-leg fice, all to keep company, and a sociable but exasperating cat, that
                  would sit and doze, and blink by the fire, and see a mouse run up my breeches leg,
                  and blink and doze and look up in my face like an insensate, hairy, slit-eyed
                  Chinese simpleton, until I didn't know what I was ready to do to that cat if I
                  hadn't been superstitious and afraid. A cat like that is a bad cat. I had me also
                  a convenient wood-pile (nothing but wood was burnt in my house), with plenty of
                  oak and hickory, plenty of pine too, and lots of chips and light-wood knots, with
                  a white-oak basket (not a big, new white white-oak basket, but a little old black
                  white-oak basket, with a hole burnt in one side, jagged edges, and a swinging
                  handle, loose at one end), to hold my chips and corn husses.
            
            
               THIRTEENTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  A Lonely Old Age—Dark and Bitter Thoughts—Arrival of the Commodore—Throwing
                     Mexican Dollars—A Negro Killed—A Stormy Night—Trouble of Life's Ending—Misery
                     of this World—Hallucinations—In the Fodder-stack—A Voice
               
               AND yet I was not happy.*
                   For a time, indeed, all went well. My negroes (the men dressed in nappy
                  cotton and the women in striped homespun) behaved very well. People came to see
                  me, dined with me, and talked politics. My Curdsville fiddler was always ready to
                  entertain them, a negro boy was never wanting to fetch a pail or can of fresh
                  water (I had a cocoanut rimmed with silver and a real, regular sweet old gourd to
                  drink out of), or to
                  
                     *In my time it was thought to be very funny to say "and yet I am not happy."
                        The oftener it was said the funnier it was thought to be. I consider people
                        as amongst the most curious human beings I ever saw. Mules and members of
                        the legislature come next.
                  
                   bring a coal of
                  fire between two chips from the kitchen in summer-time to light our pipes with, or
                  to get some mint from the mint bed. In a word, I led the life of an old Virginian
                  with plenty of money, and enjoyed it. But times changed; settlers from all parts
                  of the world began to crowd up to and around my plantation; no wages could tempt
                  the negroes from going to the negro districts of the South; people ceased to come
                  to me except for money (my Folly had left me but a few millions and I got tired of
                  everlasting giving); my Curdsville fiddler, getting lonesome, left me never to
                  return, and finally I was left alone with an old negro cook (women stick to men to
                  the last), her grand-daughter, and one or two great grand-sons. With them I got
                  along after a fashion, but it was a mournful fashion. The garden and a few outside
                  acres under cultivation supplied me with roasting cars and turnip greens. I had
                  generally a roast shoat in season, sometimes a lamb, a full supply of chickens,
                  and you may be sure the negroes took good care not to let me get out of hog
                  meat.
               I grew morbid. Fishing palled on me, jogging about on my sway-back mare became
                  tiresome, sitting under my favorite pine and listening to its soughing brought
                  recollections no longer tender but only sad and full of vain longing for the
                  friends that had gone before me; trimming the knots on a hickory stick brought no
                  comfort, my eyesight failed as my hearing had long before, appetite failed, and
                  even the reading of my books, when I could read at all, and the wondering
                  admiration of myself in my better days*
                   served but to irritate me. One of the greatest of calamities—a lonely old
                   age—had befallen me.
               
                  *"My God, what genius I had then!" Swift in his dotage
               
               My thoughts grew dark and bitter, darker and more bitter day by day, as the
                  lonesome months went by. Oh for the sight of the face of a single friend of my
                  youth and early manhood! But they were gone—my children and grandchildren, the
                  children and grandchildren of the thousands I had befriended, were scattered and
                  gone. I was forgotten by the human race. Desire had failed, the possibility of
                  enjoyment was forever past. Aches and pains were not lacking to fill up the
                  measure of my misery. I had outlived life—the saddest of all the evil things of
                  which this sad, bad world is full. I could not think a bright or cheering thought;
                  no one wanted me now to do a good deed. I was unremembered, yet alive and
                  suffering. All the low, vile, underhand, over-reaching, treacherous, mean, and
                  contemptible actions and transactions of all the men I had ever known came back to
                  me with terrific force, and abode with me. I could not get rid of them. Recalling
                  all I had done for my State and its people, seeing how neglected and steeped in
                  solitary woe and pain I was, I hated and despised my race with the hatred and
                  despite of a soured and impotent old age. My soul was full of gall and desire to
                  do harm.
               I forgot the torrents of crime, wave after wave, world-wide and high in volume
                  (committed? no! I only not committed for want of opportunity) that had passed
                  through me time and again, oh! so often; and I forgot (God help me) the myriads of
                  kindnesses that had been done to me and mine; to me by my uncle James, his family
                  and my other kin; to me by hundreds of newspaper men, other men too, to my dear
                  wife during her long, long sickness; to my dear old father by black and white in
                  Tappahannock. I forgot the love and the prayers, so undeserved, the forgiving and
                  forgetting that had followed all through my life. I forgot these things. I
                  remembered only, thought only of the meanness, the misery and the wickedness
                  (there is plenty of all three) of this wretched existence.
               Fortunately for me I retained enough sense to know that action, action is the only
                  cure for the crime of over-contemplation and brooding. It was but little I could
                  do, but that little I did with all my small remaining strength. I plodded around
                  my plantation, trying to study annual and vegetable nature, and running the risk
                  daily of tumbling into some ditch, gully or branch, and so drowning myself. I
                  would have rather liked that. It was of no use; still I trudged, and still I
                  brooded over the ills of life and the vileness of human nature. How long this
                  would have lasted it is useless to conjecture, but one day as I was toiling slowly
                  up a hill a strange, very strange
                  apparition on the top attracted my attention. Amazed and very much frightened,
                  too, I stood still in my tracks, and the thing, whatever it was, came on. I was
                  unarmed and greatly scared.
               To my intense relief it proved to be the automaton of Commodore Porter. Eustace,
                  having made a fortune out of him, had sold him to a subsidiary side-showman, from
                  whom the Commodore, indignant, had escaped in the night. Wandering indefinitely
                  about the country, various Vandal malignants had evilly entreated him, and he
                  appeared before me in a clash, a cavalry sword and boots, a hoop-skirt and bustle,
                  no other clothes; and his machinery inside working visibly and violently. One hand
                  was tied behind him, in the other he held the tall staff of Terrill of Bath, that
                  resembled an exaggerated parasol-handle of the period, and his mind, or rather the
                  mechanism of it, was excited, for the evil entreaters had broken off a part of his
                  tongue, and strapped the rest of it down, so that he could not make himself
                  intelligible at all.
               "Commodore," said I, "they seem to have served thee badly."
               He made no reply—gritted his teeth in wrath, and glared at me. I could not laugh
                  at so hapless a being, but was both distressed and delighted to see him, and he
                  was so glad at last to meet a friend that he shed a few kerosene tears (his eyes,
                  his joints and journals were greased with that excellent unguent) of relief, and
                  we went joyfully home together. In a day or two I had him dressed nicely in a suit
                  of my old clothes, a little too short in the arms and legs for him, but
                  comfortable; his tongue untied, his slides, hinges and wheels all freshly oiled,
                  and the whole man in elegant running order. He was fine company for me for awhile,
                  but, as old men will do, we gradually grew morose, and longed for some excitement.
                  Action, action was what we wanted; we were tired of smoking. My faculty of
                  invention had not altogether deserted me so I sent for several salt-sacks full of
                  silver Mexican dollars, and amused myself for days by throwing them at the bodies
                  and faces of poor men of the vicinage, allowing them to take every dollar that hit
                  them, the Commodore picking up the dollars that missed and bringing them back to
                  me, and relishing the sport hugely. After a fellow had an eye, or two or three
                  teeth knocked out, he generally went home; but one wretched man, with the worst
                  face I ever saw, allowed both eyes, all of his upper and lower front teeth to be
                  knocked out, his nose mashed flat, and cut in two, and his forehead to be
                  completely skinned before he gave up.
               "There, Commodore," said I, "that is the natural human greed for money; did you
                  ever see the like of it; would you, could you have believed it?"
               The Commodore merely laughed. But when I learned that the poor man had stood all
                  this for the sake of an afflicted wife and children, it nearly killed me, although
                  I gave him a sack of silver to ease my conscience.*
               
               
                  *He proved to be a tailor of the neighborhood—an excellent, sensible, good
                     man, much like my old friend Benson, the grandfather of E. B. Spence, of
                     Richmond. Mr. B. had but one defect; he could not tell cabbage from
                     cribbage.
               
               The Commodore had often begged me to let him try his hand, but he was so powerful
                  I was afraid; one day, however, I consented. He threw the first dollar smack
                  through a stalwart negro, back-bone and all, and it took the rest of our silver to
                  buy off judge and jury, and to save ourselves from being hanged. This put an end
                  to our sport.
               We grew more and more melancholy and savage, and I got more and more afraid of the
                  Commodore. I couldn't bear to let him run down completely, for that would be
                  depriving myself of all society; but he became so ill-natured and dangerous, that
                  I had to keep him only partially wound up—which made him madder than ever. He had
                  a hole in his back, and a key, kept in a box under his ribs, with which he was set
                  going; and, his springs being tremendous., it took all my strength to wind him
                  thoroughly. Unluckily for me, he discovered that by inserting a door-knob in the
                  hole in his back and by whirling himself around he could wind himself up, which he
                  did, and came down stairs to my room a good many times, and whaled me very
                  cruelly. The wonder is that he didn't kill me. I wish he had, for now life was but a constant terror. Finally, I hit
                  upon the plan of greasing the door-knobs (strange he never found it out!), and
                  that, and that alone, prolonged my days. It was a frightful strain upon my failing
                  memory not to forget to grease my knobs, every one of them. My cook and the other
                  servants wouldn't have done it for the world—they had a mortal terror of the
                  Commodore, and ran for their lives at the very sight of him. A sad, sad time I
                  had.
               There came a night—well do I remember it—a wild night, towards the end of
                  December, a night of tempest and thick darkness. A lean and very aged man, full of
                  pain and troublous thoughts, lay in his bed. For him there was but one sentience,
                  and one sufferer in the universe. Outside, the fierce wind poured its flood,
                  pausing, ever and anon only to gain added strength and fierceness. What cared the
                  wind for the aching and mind-tormented centenarian? The house shuddered from end
                  to end; there were whisperings under doors and through key-holes; challenges and
                  replies anear and afar, rustlings and passings outside the shaking casements,
                  noiseless goings to and fro, and tellings of unknown things in inarticulate
                  tongues of those without to those within; unusual and great business and bustle in
                  ghostland. Terrors were about and abroad—strange work, God wot, to be done. My
                  poor friend, automaton as he was, came down in abject affright, crouched close to
                  my bedside beside the, hearth, almost emberless now, and said no word. The trouble
                  of life's ending was upon me. I could not sleep. I arose, dressed myself, paid no
                  heed to the out-stretched supplicating wooden band of the Commodore, and,
                  uncloaked and bareheaded, went out into the storm. Brain and heart were afire; I
                  felt no cold. In a fodderstack near the stable I had made on the leeward side a
                  deep hole into which I would often go late at night to watch the stars, and worry
                  my poor limited mind, until astronomy became a numbing pain. I laid down there
                  awhile and looked at the tree-arms tossing helplessly, and the tall spectral tops
                  of the pines in the distant wood bowed in submission to the storm. I felt the
                  pitilessness of the wind. I could see all the oceans with the waves tumbling
                  horizon after horizon away, the world round, and I felt the strength and the
                  unmercifulness of water. The force of volcanoes that know not that mankind inhabit
                  the world; the throes of earthquakes that swallow cities of men, women and
                  children, and do not consider, but go on. I heard the rush of monstrous fish under
                  the waters, the crash of flesh-eating beasts through jungles, the faint, slimy
                  sound of venomous reptiles crawling to their prey, the cracking of the crunched
                  bones of innocent victims, the yells and cries, never heard by man, of the
                  fighting saurians of the, fore-world; I felt as with the hand the remorseless
                  power of famines, and listened with ears other than mine own to the march of
                  pestilences that look not back nor remember. Diseases took shape, and in hideous
                  personation came before me—cancer, carbuncle, fungus, abscess, deformities,
                  insanities, rheums, neuralgias, ulcers, pains unnamed and innumerable—a horrid
                  throng. The dolors too terrible to be told, of mind, body and heart, that pious
                  men, guileless women and sinless children suffer; the shame and remorse of guilty
                  men; the hardness, worse than shame or remorse, of those who feel neither—all came
                  to me, all the misery and wickedness of this perplexing world, all that was
                  suffered in the endless past, and all that is to be endured (and for what?) in the
                  endless future, one vast, wide, undivided, solid, black mass of ever-enduring
                  agony, pressed down and in upon me.
               I rose up. This was too much. As I went out of the stack, the thick, ragged clouds
                  that had been hurrying all night long to some rendezvous on the other side of the
                  globe fled clear away—the crescent moon, white and cold, and sharp and hard as a
                  saddler's knife, came out and shed a ghostly light on the scene. The wind died;
                  the trees stood still; a great frost set in. There was peace—the peace of
                  frost—that, too, was pitiless, and of death. I walked to the horse-block, and sat
                  down. Mine hour was come. I felt it, knew it, and was glad. No one ever came to
                  ride my horses. The side-saddle and sunbonnet were unused, had never been used. I
                  was deserted. The fair, fond face of woman had been blotted wholly out of my life,
                  almost out of my memory.
               
               "So much motion awhile ago," said I, "and now go much rest, blessed rest. What am
                  I but motion, and why not now cease, be not no more forever, and mingle with the
                  infinite sources of motion that lie among the stars?"
               On a sudden I felt the earth rise up out of its orbit. The movement was swift,
                  inconceivably so, but not hurried. By a finer sense than sight I saw that the
                  stars were not falling, but that I was going up to them. Their steely fires grew
                  brighter momently, and presently I knew that the splendor of countless flaming
                  suns would fall fill upon me. A great awe and expectation came over me.*
                     Just then I heard a voice,—
               
                  *Awe is to the mind somewhat like gravity to the muscles, the weight of the
                     incomprehensible. The inability to hold, or to take up, oppresses, and so
                     does the inability to take in or understand. A ball of fire some eight
                     hundred thousand miles across, like the sun, might well impress the mind
                     with a sense of awe, and yet it is but a ball of fire. Once understood, it
                     will appear what it really is, no more wonderful than the flame of the
                     commonest hydrocarbon-that of a tallow dip, for example, Curious! that the
                     human intellect, measuring, as it were, the universe, regards solar and
                     sidereal systems as but shining motes, and yet that same intellect is awed
                     and amazed by a tall mountain, a lofty interior, or a high tower, like my
                     Folly.
               
            
            
               FOURTEENTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  Aunt Polly Waddy—Cavalry Comin'—Ned Gregory, Barron Hope, V. Dabney and
                     others—Slugs and Gulgers—Col. T. F. Owens—An Old Virginia Breakfast—The
                     Commodore Breaks Loose—A Terrible Time—Cremation—Loose Again—Earthquakes,
                     Cholera, etc,—Grand Dinner—Royal Ashcake—Toasts, Speeches, and Perfect
                     Bliss—Asleep at His Own Table.
               
               "LOOK h'yer, ole marster, ef you don't git off dat hoss-block, you gwine freeze
                  spang to it, and me and little Billy will have to come and prize you off wid a
                  crow-bar."
               It was the voice of my cook, Aunt Polly Waddy, the last slave-born woman living in
                  America. She had belonged to Colonel Bondurant.
               "Go away, Aunt Polly," said I; "I am concerned about higher matters than these
                  material particles you call my body—go away."
               "I won't budge a inch twell you git up from dar. I don't want to hear none of yo'
                  foolosophy 'bout potticals—git up from dar, ole marster; don't you hear me? You's
                  a pritty man—so old dat yo' bones rattles in yo' skin like cinders in a tin-pan—to
                  be settin' out here and de frost gethrin' on you like dried rozum on a pine
                  log—git up from dar, day's breakin'—git up. Lemme heist you down."
               "Be it so, Aunt Polly," said I, mournfully, coming back from the stars with great
                  anguish. "But what have I to do with life?"
               "Monsus little," was her reply; "and darfo you mout be mo' keerful."
               "Heish!" she cried suddenly; "heish! kelvery comin'."
               Sure enough, the trampling of many hoofs was heard in the distance. A squadron of
                  imperial cuirassiers had gone up some days before to suppress a disturbance at
                  Concord depot, and their return did not surprise me. Presently the cavalcade
                  halted under the gigantic oaks that shaded the road in front of my house, and the
                  officer in command saluted me in a strangely quavering voice.
               "Give you good-morrow, fair sir," said he.
               "Give it to me, then," I replied gruffly, for I was in no humor to receive
                  visitors; "give it to me and pass on—this ain't no tavern."
               "Fur de Lord's sake, ole marster, don't sen' um away. We's had no comp'ny fur de
                  longist, and my fingers farly eeches to be doin' somethin'."
               "Methinks, most ancient codger," said the officer, "that your lingo is even more
                  unclassical than inhospitable."
               "Ned Gregory," said I, "if you and Jim Hope and the rest of you have nothing
                  better to do at your time of death (I knew they were all dead), you'd better go
                  back to the graves where you belong."
               
               No man, no living man, would or could have believed it; but besides E. S. Gregory
                  and James Barron Hope, there were Alex. McDonald, Jim Booker, Ham
                     Chamberlayne,*
                   V. Dabney, Gordon McCabe, Phil. Haxall, John Reeve, Legh Page, Nathan
                  Clapp, John Meredith and Mel. Cardoza, and a good many more, some twenty in
                  number, all on horseback except Mel, who was mounted upon a little lame Shetland
                  pony with big black eyes. All had beards, white as the driven snow, hanging down
                  to their waists, except Gordon McCabe, who looked to be about seventeen years of
                  age till you got close to him and saw that there were at least ten thousand
                  wrinkles in his face.
               
                  *[A clear case of resurrection. Chamberlayne was killed in battle in the
                     third or fourth installment.—Ed. Whig.]
               
               "Have you got any cold sperrits?" they cried.
               "Did y'all know Woody Latham?" said I.
               And they answered and said they did. "We desire some pizen," they added.
               "Did y'all know Judge Semple?" said I.
               They answered yes, and most of them lied.
               "And did y'all know Jim McDonald and Bob Ridgway and Chas. Irving and Marcellus
                  Anderson and Philander McCorkle and Gallatin Paxton and Bob Glass and Gray and Bob
                  Latham and Roger A. Pryor and Sam Paul and Joe Mayo and A. D. Banks and Wm. E.
                  Cameron and George and Abe Venable and Chas. W. Button and Billy Mosby and Nat
                  Meade and Geo. Wedderburn and Nebuchadnezzar and Peter Francisco and Dr. Henry C.
                  Alexander and old Mr. Osborne of Petersburg and Melchisedek and Mr. J. P. Cowardin
                  and Capt. O'Bannon and Uncle Alex. Moseley and Caesar and Maurice and Squire of
                  the Whig office and Heliogabalus and Bennett of the
                     Enquirer and Peter B. Prentis of Nansemond and Col. Walter
                  Taylor and the Dismal Swamp and the two Barhams of Petersburg and Dr. Pleasants
                  and the fourth book of Euclid and Senator Ro. E. Withers?"
               [In the original MS. the list embraces the names of nearly half the population,
                  male and female, of Lynchburg, Farmville, Richmond, Petersburg, and Norfolk, a
                  large number of heathen gods, and old Virginia negroes of good families.]
               And they answered, and said they pintedly did—which for the most part was a
                  falsity on their part.
               Then, turning to my handmaiden, I inquired:
               "Aunt Polly, can you cook up a little something for these gentlemen?"
               The old woman was a Virginian to the interior of her backbone. Her eyes literally
                  flashed—
               "Cook! Kin I cook? for dem few? I kin cook for all creashun, ef you
                  gimme de lard."
               "Well," said I, "you've had the keys these ten years, and I reckon you ought to
                  know where the lard is."
               The old woman hurried off, overjoyed.
               I, too, was overjoyed. My eyes filled with tears of unspeakable thankfulness for
                  the gift of friendship and human sympathy that had come to me so unexpectedly on
                  the very edge of life. I felt that I could live ever so much longer.
               "'Light, 'light, you blessed, blessed, blessed old hellions," I cried (no such
                  relief for affection as an oath-edged benediction), "and come in."
               The old, half-frozen fellows scrabbled down from their horses as quickly as they
                  could, shook me warmly by the hand, and we hurried into the house, for it was very
                  cold.
               It always made the Commodore mad for company to come. Scared as he had been by the
                  horror that was in the air during the night, he was not half so scared as I was
                  lest he should intrude upon my guests; but, luckily for us all, he retired in the
                  sulks to his room and there remained. A grand, old-fashioned fire was soon set
                  going in the wide hearth of the dining-room—some of the logs were rammed end-wise
                  up the chimney—and we began to warm our shrivelled hands; but before we could get
                  comfortable the demand for antifogmatics became vociferous.
               "Boys," said I (not one of them was a day under a hundred), "boys, I've got here
                  all the 'heimers, wassers, cognacs, London docks, schnapps, rums, clarets,
                  sherries, madeiras, S. T. 1860 Xs, treble Xs, stouts, Bass's and Bowler's pale
                  ales, lagers, Kissingens, etc., etc.; also a barrel or two of Ned Lafong's Clemmer
                  and a few runlets of Bob Burke's choice Hanger: what do you say?"
               
               "Whisky! Whisky!" unanimously.
               We took about a dozen four-finger slugs apiece and at least eight bald-face
                  gulgers, plumb to the brim every pop. We were none of your tender-gizzarded spring
                  chickens; besides, the weather was deucedly cold.
               By the time we were fairly warmed up inside and out, Aunt Polly brought in
                  breakfast.
               We had in the first place a regular old-time Montrose loaf, a high fellow, like a
                  Martello tower. Gordon McCabe got as mad as fire because he couldn't tip-toe and
                  shake his fist over it in the face of Phil Haxall—the boys were all a good deal
                  excited. Then we had spare-ribs, broiled ham and eggs, beefsteak and onions,
                  corned shad, and chitlins on toast. We had also some batter-bread, some
                  batter-cakes, some buckwheat cakes, some flannel-cakes, some hominy, some
                  turn-overs, some griddle-cakes, some beat-biscuit, some muffins, and some heavenly
                  waffles. Last, but not least, we had some coffee, some open fire-placed,
                  trivet-hotted coffee, just such coffee as Mrs. Chamberlayne's Laura used to
                  make—coffee that goes to the soul—in a megatherial pot.
               As we were about to sit down, in comes Col. Thomas F. Owens,*
                   who had been detained all night at Spout Spring. He was received with a
                     feu de joie, in decidedly cracked accents,
                  asked a Masonic blessing, and we all fell to. When the Arabian elixir began to
                  penetrate to their remotest capillaries, and the gums (there wasn't the half of a
                  tooth in the whole crowd) of these old cocks began to sink through the crisp,
                  brown crust down into the very marrow of the hot waffles, they sobbed aloud and
                  with one voice said, "This, this is Old Virginia!"
               
                  *A ruddy, clean, nicely-dressed, always good-natured, always courteous,
                     obliging, and "excellent well, I give you thanks" Aid-de-Camp to Governor
                     Walker of the 1870-74 period. If Governor Walker had run a horse-shoe magnet
                     smoothly smack round the world, he could not have attracted a better man for
                     the office he filled.
               
               It did me good to hear them say so. I thought so myself.
               Never did I see people eat so; never did I eat so in all ny life. It was eleven
                  o'clock and after before breakfast was over.
               I had all sorts of all sorts of cigars in the known world; I had every named pipe,
                  with reed, reed-root, fig, cherry, and other stems, also some noble cobs, wrought
                  by the genius of Franklin Mosby and handed down to me by Alexander Mosely,
                  together with a lot of long ti-ti stems, sloped
                  off at the tip like the mouth-piece of a clarionet. We were smoking like twenty
                  old tar-kilns, when an ominous rumbling and rattling was heard upon the staircase.
                  My worst fears were realized; it was the Commodore, freshly wound up and in a
                  perfect frenzy at the intrusion of my guests. In an instant I had locked and
                  bolted the parlor door. As well have opposed so much pasteboard to his progress;
                  he smashed the door down with a single blow, leaped into the crowd and laid about
                  him with the staff of old Terrill, of Bath, in a most alarming and indeed
                  dangerous style. The rattling of that staff upon our old skulls reminded me of a
                  hogshead full of gourds rolling down a rocky hill. It was an awful state of
                  affairs. We were twenty-one in all, but no match for that terrible automaton with
                  his huge stick; black eyes, bloody noses, and skinned sconces became the order of
                  the day in less than fifteen minutes. He soon cleared out the parlor, and such a
                  chase up-stairs and down-stairs ensued as was never seen before. Of all the lively
                  old men that ever were on this planet we were the liveliest. I haven't a doubt
                  that he would have killed the last one of us if John Meredith, who had learned the
                  art in California, had not blinded him by throwing a bed-quilt over his head, and
                  then lassoed him; after which it was comparatively an easy matter (not such an
                  easy matter either, for he fought like a demon to the last) to bind him hand and
                  foot. What to do with him, was then the question. A violent discussion followed.
                  "To destroy such a marvelous bit of mechanism would be a sin and a shame," said
                  some. "We will have no peace of our lives—he may get loose at any moment—until we
                  put an end to him," said the others. After two hours' talk, interspersed with
                  numerous nips, it was put to the vote and decided by a large majority to burn him.
                  Accordingly, he was doubled up, tied with plow-lines, his feet to his head and his
                  arms around his legs, and thrown upon the great brass andirons of the dining-room
                     fire-place, the only one large
                  enough to receive him. We ought to have known better; but, what with the various
                  gulgers, slugs and nips that we had taken, we did not. No sooner were the
                  plow-lines burnt through, than the old man came out of the fire-place with a
                  demoniac bound and scream, scattering the coals in all directions, setting the
                  house on fire in a dozen different places, smashing half my crockery (the table
                  was set for dinner) and playing hob generally. A stampede followed, of course. Ham
                  Chamberlayne tripped him up, seized one leg, old Kelley, of the Fredericksburg
                     Herald, seized the other, and away they both went out of
                  different windows, carrying the sashes with them and landing twenty feet out in
                  the yard. The Commodore, leaping after them, gave chase to the first men he saw,
                  who chanced to be Bishop Gibbons and Dr. Erasmus Powell, the greatest
                  pile-ointmenter of the age. Off they sped through the well-house, the Commodore
                  not two feet behind them. Blind with rage, the Commodore missed the gate (a happy
                  circumstance), and smash went the well-house, down went the Commodore, kicking and
                  fighting as he fell, knocking out the stones and destroying the well forever but
                  entombing himself at the same time. He kept kicking, though, and at last accounts
                  was gradually working his way through to the other side of the earth, producing
                  earthquakes, eclipses, tidal-waves, and Asiatic cholera at various points as he
                  went along.*
                  
               
               
                  *The terrestrial eructations at Bald Mountain immediately after this event
                     were peculiarly severe, distilling ceased, and many Hard-shell, Tarheel
                     souls were saved for a few days, and it is to be hoped permanently.
               
               Order was soon restored, and dinner was served without delay, for the sun was
                  setting, and we were as hungry as silkworms. As I entered the dining-room that
                  capital major-domo, Charley B. Oliver, came in
                  with a big bowl of superb egg-nog. John Dabney, through another door, brought a
                  bowl of apple-toddy (Tom Wynne's pattern), and Gerot followed with some other
                  delicious mixed French something or other. In one corner Bishop Cummings and Mr.
                  Latane were discussing pedobaptism with Innes Randolph and Jimmy Pegram (Jim was
                  fat), while in the other Mr. Sprigg and Dr. Staples were presenting copies of the
                  Bible to T. W. McMahon and Horace Greeley. Just then Mosby, Wirt Harrison, Lorentz
                  and Kellam, of the Auditor's office, came in with four or five scuttles (they were
                  sweet and clean) of smoking Tom and Jerry. Dr. Bastian, Huxley, and J. C.
                  Southall, protested that a cold protoplasmic smash was the thing, and Lubbock (Sir
                  John), a little tipsy I thought, called vociferously for a prehistoric
                  stone-fence, but their voices were lost in the general uproar of talk. People
                  continued to come; some I knew intimately, others not so well, but all were warmly
                  welcomed. I could hear the clatter of the swingletrees and the clink of the
                  trace-chains of arriving vehicles on all sides of the yard.
               It was a dinner indeed-such a dinner—Aunt Polly's supreme triumph. We had a Royal
                  Bengal ashcake, as big as the head of a flour-barrel, no collard leaf about it,
                  the print of the cook's fingers still there, and a few cinders clinging to the
                  crust in spite of careful washing. We had a sublime turkey and a ham that quieted
                  all longings for immortality—all present longings, I mean. We had some pot-liquor
                  with dumplings, a cotopaxic Brunswick stew, vegetables of various degrees, 'coon
                  cutlets, some bread—also forks—some eggs, many numerous eggs—and knives—some eggs,
                  and a joint of conic sections garnished with Greek roots, for the benefit of Harry
                  Estell and Tom Price—and eggs, plenty of knives and gravy—with the fif'-finest
                  wuh, wuh, wuh-ine, wine (I said wine) sent me from Oscar Jones's by
                  Cha'—Charles Cranz—and eggs.
               A fine—good—elegant—fuf'—fine dinner.
               I sat at the foot of the table, with my cousin Billy Ivvins (when did he come?)
                  and George Eliot on my right, and E. S. Gregory and Bill M. Thackeray on my left.
                  Herbert Spencer sat at the head, with Tarquin the Proud on one side and George
                  Dabney Wooten on the other—a supp'-lendid comp'ny. I could hear the swingletrees
                  of more a coming, and I was glad. I had plenty.
               They toasted me. Everybody was kind, and toasted. "Dear, good, generous old
                  Moses—we'll never leave you—we wo-won't go ho'."
               My dry old heart was suffused with bliss. At last I had what I wanted—love, affection good fellowship,
                  people that really cared for me and enjoyed being with me. was very happy.
               I stood tip to reply. The last rays of the setting sun shone through the windows
                  (we had pasted foolscap over the broken panes) and shed a glory over the scene.
                  The room was warm and rather close—too much wood on the fire. I stood up to
                  respond. They were all dead men—they could not fool me—and if there was one thing
                  I wanted to see in this world more than another it was a dead man, and here they
                  were by the score, and more coming, kept coming. I could hear my big gate slamming
                  as they drove through.
               And they all looked at me with the look I had seen in the eyes of the friends of
                  my childhood, and they had promised to stay with me and look at me that way all
                  the time. It was great joy, exceeding great. I stood up to second the—to reply. I
                  was in heaven, a lowly corner or sub-cellar of heaven it was true, but delightful,
                  and I knew that when this foolishness was past, friends still nearer and dearer,
                  male and female, were close at hand without, waiting to welcome me. I was so
                  happy.
               As I rose up to reply and looked into the beaming and affectionate eyes of my
                  friends, a rosy mist filled the room, the table (Spiro Zetelle, sitting on a
                  piano-stool in the middle in place of the pyramid of candied oranges, directed the
                  feast with a silver-mounted baton borrowed from Ambold) the table stretched out,
                  Herbert Spencer and Dabney Wooton receded in the dim sweet distance, I could hear
                  my muffled voice following them as they vanished—and—I pledge you my word (as
                  William Waller used to say in Lynchburg, with his coat sleeves pushed back and
                  showing his cuffs) I pledge you my word, I went fast asleep standing up at my own
                  table!
               [Poor old Moses! Tight is not the word—it is too harsh—much too harsh.—Ed.
                     Whig.]
            
            
               FIFTEENTH INSTALLMENT.
               
                  In Gordonsville—Grand Triangular Bob Sully Hotel—Fried Chicken and Hard-boiled
                     Eggs in Effigy—Vast Gongs—Stofers, Frys, Scotts, Chapmans, Kincheloes, etc.—The
                     Sphinx—Adams a Nuisance—Sent to Poor-House—Death—Burial and Obituary—The
                     End
               
               WHEN I came to myself I was in Gordonsville. How I got there nobody would ever
                  tell me. I had done a great deal for that place. By paring down Smith's mountain I
                  managed to elevate the general level of the town, so that a man could go down into
                  his cellar to get his little frosted turnip and his little withered carrot without
                  wading up to his neck in water. Whereupon the place grew wonderfully. I had the
                  satisfaction of seeing the streets stretch out almost to Mr. Haxall's, and a
                  succession of palatial stores with large pane windows and occupied by a relay of
                  solid firms of Brotherton, Bros. & Bro., Cousinton, Cousins & Co.,
                  Nephewson, Nephews & No. (abb. for nobody else), all disposing of full lines
                  of goods, bads, and indifferents to the people of Madison and Greene. Also, there
                  was a tobacco factory and a patent plow-belve-handle studio. I fitted up the
                  railroad junction or Y, and erected thereupon a mighty triangular hotel, covering
                  the whole space of the Y and twelve stories high, with four mansard roofs, and
                  surmounted by a tower higher than that of the Tribune building, on
                  the top of which stood a prodigious figure of Mercury, like that on the
                  custom-house at Venice, resting on tip-toe, holding a big Hard-boiled egg in one
                  band and a huge fried chicken-leg in the other. It was an interesting tower, and
                  was noticed a good deal. People came up from the Pizenfeels in ox-carts and on
                  water barrels, in sledges drawn by fiercely tail-twisted and pepper-podded
                  yearlings, and camped over against it to admire it.
               From Green Springs, from far Cobham, from distant Pittsylvania, and remote
                  Fluvanna came wanderers, who stayed till the indolentest flies built webs in their
                     gaping mouths. In junks, dug-outs,
                  and double canoes many Chinese and Cannibals arrived to enjoy the grandeur and
                  repose of the Bob Sully hotel, as it was called. South Americans sailed up from
                  the tops of the Andes on the backs of condors, fifteen feet from tip to tip.
                  Pardigon came up on a fresh bicycle or velocipede without drawing rein or halting
                  for water. It was so large a house that the three sides had to be kept by three
                  different people. Tip Jennings kept one side, Snowden Yates kept the other, and
                  Colonel C. T. Crittenden kept the third. The rivalry was so great that, they had
                  to be kept well, and they were kept well, yea, splendidly. Lovers of good eating
                  and good drinking (Jimmy Keagy had, three barrooms on each side, or nine in all,
                  and all large) rushed from every car to get a meal there. The roar of trains and
                  the shriek of locomotives never ceased day or night. Each landlord kept a gong
                  twelve feet in diameter and run by steam going all the time. This excited the
                  atmosphere and refreshed the arriving passengers. Many of the largest negroes
                  amiably solicited your patronage and praised his side of the triangle. Digges had
                  forty odd wheat fans which blew out his land circulars by the one hundred
                  thousand. Gordonsville was a lively place. A great many people came there to get
                  something good to, eat. The Sphynx, got up out of the sand, flirted farewell with
                  her tail to the Pyramid of Cheops, crossed the seas, landed at Only near Onancock,
                  inquired for Henry A. Wise, waded Chesapeake bay, cut her feet with oyster shells,
                  came up to Gordonsville by way of Centre-Cross and Milford on four stilts, called
                  for two dozen griddled riddles, couldn't get them, died of inanition, died on the
                  platform near the ticket office, was quarried on the spot and her remains turned
                  into a poor-house.
               I was absolutely penniless,*
                   but a descendant of Fatty Dunn generously took care of me. From side to
                  side of the triangular hotel I pottered with my cane from early dawn till dark,
                  worrying everybody by telling what I had done for Virginia, and especially for the
                  County of Orange. Being a small and very pretty county, I had, at not very great
                  cost, made throughout its length and breadth a perfect system of macadamized
                  roads, so admirably built that for very many years, indeed up to the time of my
                  death, they did not need one dollar's worth of repairs. Population flowed in
                  immediately, the major part of the newcomers being men of wealth from England and
                  the North, who filled the whole county with most beautiful residences. Every farm
                  was a picture, every turn of the landscape a delight. All of my friends joined Tom
                  Wallace in land speculation, and prospered immensely. Their families increased.
                  There were Burgesses on every hill-top, A. F. Stofers in every valley, a profusion
                  of Phil Frys and Phil Barbours, a world of William Henry Chapmans, cords of W. W.
                  and Wick Scotts, Abe Houseworths in abundance, Kincheloes in quantity, and
                  Eckloffs without end; say nothing of all the other families, especially Dr.
                  Grymes's and Mrs. Bull's. And yet none of these people would believe that I had
                  ever lifted a finger for Virginia or Orange County. They did not so much as know
                  my name—had never heard of me. At last I became such a nuisance on the platform,
                  button-holed people so and spluttered in their faces so that they sent me to the
                  poor-house, and put me in the care of a bad-tempered old pauper woman, who abused
                  me, and scratched me until my face resembled the old American flag at half-mast in
                  a calm. And there one day I died of a surfeit of cornfield peas.
               
                  *A great change had come to pass. The earth had passed through the tail of
                     Dill's comet (discovered by Mr. Joseph Dill, tobacco manufacturer and
                     astronomer of Richmond), producing strange effects. Among others, the
                     appetite for stimulants and narcotics of every kind had been absolutely
                     destroyed—men drank water only, and the need of most medicines ceased. A
                     terrible shrinkage in values followed, involving the financial world in the
                     greatest disasters. My investments were in opium plantations in India. Of
                     course I was irretrievably ruined.
               
               The only notice made of me in the Gordonsville Gazette, edited by
                     Drinkard,*
                     was this:
               
                  *Great grandson of W. F. Drinkard, a powerful and uncompassionate
                     etymological, meteorological Richmond Dispatchist of a long
                     previous period.
               
               "Moses Adams, a pauper, died at the poor-house yesterday soon after dinner. He was
                  very old—said to be upwards of one hundred—and labored under the delusion that he had been
                  enormously rich. His knowledge of grammar was defective."
               At my request they buried me in the middle of the road. It was a good road, and I
                  had the satisfaction of knowing that every day some jolly party would pass over my
                  head on the way to a good eating-place—the place they call Phil Jones's.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            POPULAR WORKS PUBLISHED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. PHILADELPHIA.
            Will be sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of the price.
            
               Gideon's Rock. A Novel. By Katherine Saunders, author of "The High Mills," etc.
                  With a Frontispiece. 16mo. Extra cloth. $1. 
                     "A simple, touching story, that goes straight to the heart of the
                           reader."—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
                     "It is a masterpiece."—London Times.
                  
               
               The High Mills. A Novel. By Katherine Saunders, author of "Gideon's Rock."
                  Illustrated. 8vo. Paper. 75 cents. Extra cloth. $1.25. 
                     "In all the portraiture, description, dialogue and incident of the book
                        there is a fresh originality, a vivid dramatic power, a knowledge of the
                        mystery of life, that few possess. Here is a writer who will be, perhaps, as
                        great as George Eliot."—New York Evening Mail.
                     "In many respects one of the best and most powerful works of fiction that
                        have been lately issued."—Boston Journal.
                     
                  
               
               Hester Kirton. A Novel. By Katherine S. MacQuoid, author of "Rookstone," "A Bad
                  Beginning," "Chesterford," etc. A new edition. 16 mo. Ornamented cloth. $1.25. 
                     "It is altogether one of the best publications of the
                           day."—Philadelphia Press.
                     "By far one of the best novels that have been sent to us this
                           season."—New Orleans Times.
                  
               
               Rookstone. A Novel. By Katherine S. MacQuoid, author of "Forgotten by the
                  World," "Hester Kirton," "Patty," etc. Illustrated. 8vo. Paper cover. 75 cents.
                  Extra cloth. $1.25. 
                     "Well constructed and clearly told. We recommend it to novel
                           readers."—Philadelphia Press.
                     
                     "It is admirably written and excellent in tone."—New York Evening
                           Mail.
                     
                  
               
               
               Seed-Time and Harvest; or, During my Apprenticeship. From the Platt-Deutsch of
                  Fritz Reuter. 8vo Paper cover. $1. Extra cloth $1.50. 
                     No German author of the present time is more popular in his own country
                        than REUTER. He is pronounced by a competent German critic to be deservedly
                        "the most popular German writer of the last half century."
                     REUTER is especially noted as the rare humanist, the genuine poet
                           and the fascinating delineator of the lives of his Platt Deutsch neighbors, and as such is probably
                        more beloved than any other German author of the day. the tale in question
                        in one of his best and most important works, giving its readers, with its
                        other entertainment and profit, a charming acquaintance with the quaint,
                        interesting Platt-Deutsch people.
                     "Fritz Reuter is one of the most popular writers in Germany.... The charm
                        of his stories lies in their simplicity and exquisite truth to Nature. He
                        has 'the loving heart' which Carlyle tells us is the secret of writing; and
                        Reuter is not graphic merely, he is photographic. His characters impress one
                        so forcibly with their reality that one need not to be told they are
                        portraits from life. Even the villains must have been old acquaintances ...
                        It ('During my Apprenticeship') is one of the best of Reuter's stories,
                        exhibiting his turn for the pathetic as well as for the
                           humorous."—New York Evening Post.
                     
                     "It has a freshness and novelty that are rare in these
                           times."—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
                     
                  
               
               The Sylvestres; or, The Outcasts. A Novel. By M. DE BETHAM-EDWARDS, author of
                  "Kitty," "Dr. Jacob," etc. Illustrated. 8vo. Paper. 75 cents. Extra cloth. $1.25. 
                     "It is an exceptionally vigorous and healthy as well as happy
                           tale."—Philadelphia North American.
                     
                     "It is one of the author's best."—New York Home Journal.
                     
                     "A capital novel."—Pittsburgh Gazette.
                     
                     "The story is well constructed, and the descriptive passages with which
                        the work abounds are worth of the highest praise. The sketches of scenery
                        are painted with the touch of an artist."—Philadelphia Ev.
                           Bulletin.
                     
                  
               
               Myself. A Romance of New England Life. 12mo. Extra cloth. $2. 
                     "This really is a capital story. The characters are drawn with a free and
                        sharp pen, the style is fresh and lively and the plot quite
                           unhackneyed."—Boston Courier.
                     
                  
               
               How will it End? A Romance. By J. C. Heywood, author of "Herodias," "Antonius,"
                  etc. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.50. 
                     "It is a fascinating novel, which must exert a good influence, and one
                        that should be widely read."—Wilkes's Spirit of the Times.
                     
                  
               
               Doings in Maryland; or, Matilda Douglas. "TRUTH STRANGER THAN FICTION." 12mo.
                  Extra cloth. $1.75. 
                     "It is a very perfect story—simple, noble, and without that straining for
                        literary effect which constitutes the best attainable definition of the
                           sensational."—New York Home Journal.
                     
                  
               
               Dorothy Fox. A novel. by Louisa Parr, author of "How it all Happened," etc.
                  With numerous Illustrations. 8vo. Paper cover. 75 cents. Extra cloth. $1.25. 
                     "The Quaker character, though its quaintness and simplicity may seem easy
                        enough to catch, requires a delicate workman to do it justice. Such an
                        artist is the author of 'Dorothy Fox,' and we must thank her for a charming
                        novel. The story is dramatically interesting, and the characters are drawn
                        with a firm and graceful hand. The styles is fresh and natural, vigorous
                        without vulgarity, simple without mawkishness. Dorothy herself is
                        represented as charming all hearts, and she will charm all readers ... We
                        wish 'Dorothy Fox' many editions."—London Times.
                     
                     "One of the best novels of the season."—Philadelphia
                           Press.
                     
                     "The characters are brought out in life-like style, and cannot fail to
                        attract the closest attention."—Pittsburgh Gazette.
                     
                     "It is admirably told, and will establish the reputation of the author
                        among novelists."—Albany Argus.
                     
                  
               
               How it all Happened. By Louisa Parr, author of "Dorothy Fox," etc. 12mo. Paper
                  cover. 25 cents. 
                     "It is not often that one finds so much pleasure in reading a love story,
                        charmingly told in a few pages."—Charleston Courier.
                     
                     "Is a well-written little love story, in which a great deal is said in a
                        very few words."—Philadelphia Evening Telegraph.
                     
                     "A remarkably clever story."—Boston Saturday Evening
                           Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               John Thompson, Blockhead, and Companion Portraits. By LOUISA PARR, author of
                  "Dorothy Fox." 12mo. With Frontispiece. Extra cloth. $1.75. 
                     "Extremely well-told stories, interesting in characters and incidents,
                        and pure and wholesome in sentiment."—Boston Watchman and
                           Reflector.
                     
                     "These are racy sketches, and belong to that delightful class in which
                        the end comes before the reader is ready for it. "The style throughout is
                        very simple and fresh, abounding in strong, vivid, idiomatic
                           English."—Home Journal.
                     
                     "They are quite brilliant narrative sketches, worthy of the reputation
                        established by the writer."—Philadelphia Inquirer.
                     
                     "Very presentable, very readable."—New York Times.
                     
                  
               
               The Quiet Miss Godolphin, by Ruth Garrett; and A CHANCE CHILD, by EDWARD
                  GARRETT, joint authors of "Occupations of a Retired Life" and "White as Snow."
                  With Six Illustrations by Townley Green. 16mo. Cloth. 75 cents. Paper cover. 50
                  cents. 
                     "These stories are characterized by great strength and beauty of thought,
                        with a singularly attractive style. Their influence will not fail to improve
                        and delight."—Philadelphia Age.
                     
                  
               
               St. Cecilia. A Modern Tale from Real Life. Part I. ADVERSITY. 12 mo. Extra
                  cloth. $1.50. 
                     "It is carefully and beautifully written."—Washington
                           Chronicle.
                     
                     "A tale that we can cheerfully recommend as fresh, entertaining and well
                           written."—Louisville Courier Journal.
                     
                  
               
               
               Blanche Gilroy. A Girl's Story. A Novel. By MARGARET HOSMER, author of "The
                  Morrisons," "Ten Years of a Lifetime," etc. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.50. 
                     "Its tone is excellent."—Philadelphia Age.
                     
                     "It is a love-story of the intense and tragical sort, with a deep plot
                        and any amount of stirring incident. The characters are drawn with much
                        distinctness and vigor, and the story sweeps on to its end amid a rushing
                        whirl of cross-purposes with decoying fascination. It must be said, too,
                        that the secret of the interest is in the characters and their destinies,
                        since the language of the narrative is neither florid nor
                           exaggerated."—Boston Advertiser.
                     
                  
               
               The Holcombes. A Story of Virginia Home-Life. by MARY TUCKER MAGILL. 12mo.
                  Extra cloth. $1.50. 
                     "The subject is a charming one."—Winchester Times.
                     
                     "This book is written from an elevated point of view, both as to its
                        society and scenery.... We find it an interesting story.... The tone of this
                        work is admirable, and we shall be glad to hear again from the
                           author."—Philadelphia Age.
                     
                  
               
               Left to Herself. A Novel. By Jennie Woodville. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.50. 
                     Such as spicy mixture of ingredients as this book contains cannot fail to
                        make an exciting story; and as the plot is well conceived, the characters
                        well drawn and the interests well sustained to the end, without degenerating
                        into the melo-dramatic, we are disposed to recommend to others a book which
                        we ourselves have found captivating enough to burn the midnight gas
                           over."—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
                     
                     "Amid the flood of mediocrity and trash that is poured upon the public in
                        the shape of novels, it is the pleasantest duty of this critic to discern
                        real merit, and this we recognize in 'Left to Herself.'"—The
                           Philadelphia Age.
                     
                     "We predict for it a large sale in this section, and anticipate that it
                        will be favorably received by the reading public of the whole
                           country."—Lynchburg Republican.
                     
                  
               
               Was She Engaged? A Novel. By "Jonquil." 12mo Extra cloth. $1.50. 
                     "A pleasant, bright and sparkling story."—Baltimore
                           Gazette.
                     
                     "This entertaining love story comes to us fresh from the pen and the
                        press, in clear, readable type that would make a far less enticing work
                        pleasurable. We feel assured that those who are fond of the purely emotional
                        in character or literature will find ample entertainment from its pages. The
                        story is written in the first person, and is a narrative vastly superior to
                        a great mass of so-called novels. There is not a particle of rant from cover
                        to cover. No passion is 'torn to tatters.' No impossible incidents are
                        introduced, and yet the interest is maintained throughout. The pure, sweet
                        character of Lucy, so well displayed against the more energetic but less
                        poetical Rosamond; the sunlight and shadow of these two, enhanced by the
                        dark and designing character of Sarah, combine to produce prominent
                           impressions."—Philadelphia Press.
                     
                  
               
               Lost and Saved. A Novel. By Hon. Mrs. Norton. New Edition. 12mo. Cloth. $1.25. 
                     "Remarkably well written;... very readable."—Philadelphia
                           Press.
                     
                     "The best novel that Mrs. Norton has written."—Baltimore
                           Gazette.
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
