
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). The Fair Rebel .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5792 wright2-0273
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               PRICE 25 CENTS.
               THE FAIR REBEL:
               A TALE OF COLONIAL TIMES.
               By
               EMERSON BENNETT,
               AUTHOR OF "PRAIRIE FLOWER," "LENI LEOTI," "FOREST ROSE," "MIKE FINK," "ELLA BARNWELL," "FEMALE SPY," "ROSALIE DU PONT,"
               CINCINNATI:
               PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES, 167 WALNUT STREET.
            
         
         
         
            
            Books Published by U. P. James, Cincinnati.
            
               
                  Kentucky Tragedy! A history of the Bloody Renconters, Street
                  Fights, Battles, etc., extending through a number of years, in which many persons
                  were killed, and others seriously wounded, known as the "Hill and
                  Evans's Feud," in Garrard county, Ky, By LIEUT. J. J. THOMPSON. 8vo, paper cover.
                  Price 25 cents.
               
                  Knowlson's Farrier. The Complete Farrier, or Horse-Doctor. A
                  Treatise on the Diseases of Horses; written in plain language, which those who can
                  read may easily understand. The whole being the result of seventy years' extensive
                  practice of the author, JOHN C. KNOWLSON. Many of the recipes in this book are
                  worth one hundred dollars each, and the whole are new to the world. 8vo, paper
                  cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Life of Rinaldo Rinaldini, the celebrated Captain of Banditti. 8vo,
                  paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Life of Murel. A History of the Detection, Conviction, Life, and
                  Designs of John A. Murel, the Great Western Land Pirate; together with his system
                  of villainy, and plan of exciting a Negro Rebellion. Also, a Catalogue of the
                  names of 455 of his Mystic Clan Fellows and Followers, and a
                  statement of their efforts for the destruction of Virgil A. Stewart, the young man
                  who detected Murel. To which is added a Biographical Sketch of V. A. Stewart.
                  Illustrated. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Life of Dr. Richard Jennings, the Great Victimizer—giving a History
                  of his Robberies, Poisonings, etc., etc.; accounting for many strange and
                  inexplicable disappearances, robberies, etc., which have taken place in various
                  sections of the country. 8vo, paper cover. Price 35 cents.
               
                  Morgan's Masonry. Masonry Revealed and Illustrated by ELEVEN
                  SECEDING MEMBERS, showing the Origin, History, and Nature of Freemasonry; its
                  Effects on Government and the Christian Religion. With a Sketch of the Life,
                  Abduction, and Murder of William Morgan. And a Key to all the Degrees of
                  Freemasonry. By ONE OF THE CRAFT. 8vo, paper cover. Price 35 cents.
               
                  Melodeon, The: A choice selection of Songs, Duets, Quartettes,
                  Rounds, and Marches, with a History of Music and Musical Instruments. Imperial
                  8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents. The historical part of this work is illustrated
                  by many engravings, mostly of ancient musical instruments, showing the manner of
                  using them, etc. And it contains 46 pieces of popular music, which
                  would cost over five dollars at the sheet music stores.
               
                  Mock Marriage, The; or, The Libertine's Victim; being a Faithful
                  Delineation of the Mysteries and Miseries of the Queen City. By CHARLES P.
                  BICKLEY. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Miller, The, and his Men; or, The Secret Robbers of Bohemia. 8vo,
                  paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Mystic Vial, The; or, The Last Demoiselle of Charrebourg, and Other
                  Tales. By the author of "The Heirs of Randolph Abbey" etc. 8vo, paper cover. Price
                  25 cents.
               
                  Oakshaw; or, The Victims of Avarice; a Tale of Intrigue. By WM. T.
                  COGGESHALL. Paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Oswyn Dudley; or, The Bandits of Italy. By MRS. MARY E. HERNDON.
                  8vo, paper cover. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Rebel Scout, The, a Romance of the Revolution. By ARLA ASHLAND.
                  8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Sketches of Incidents and Adventures in the West. With numerous
                  fine engravings. Imperial 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Smuggler's Daughter, The, and Other Interesting Tales. By T. S.
                  ARTHUR, CAPT. MARRYAT, MRS. S. C. HALL, MAXWELL, CHAS. LAMB, MISS MITFORD, and
                  other popular writers. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Swedes in Prague; or, The Signal Rocket, a Romance of the Thirty
                  Years' War. Translated from the German of Caroline Pilcher, the celebrated
                  authoress and traveler. By JAMES H. HAAS. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  The Trapper's Bride; or, Spirit of Adventure. By the author of "The
                  Prairie Bird." 8vo, paper cover. Price 50 cents.
               
                  The Tor Hill. By HORACE SMITH, author of "Brambletye House," etc.,
                  etc. 8vo, paper cover. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Will Crittenden; or, The Lone-Star of Cuba. A Romance. By EDWARD J.
                  HANDIBOE. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Zingra, the Gipsy. By ANNETTE MARIE MAILLARD. 8vo, paper cover.
                  Price 50 cents. One of the most entertaining works of fiction. The interest
                  excited in events narrated is never allowed to flag, being sustained by constant
                  action.
            
            
               DIME BOOKS.
               
                  Complete Fortune-Teller and Dream-Book; or, an Infallible Guide to
                  the Hidden Decrees of Fate; by MADAME CONNOISSEUR, first of the Seven Wise
                  Mistresses of Rome. Being a new and regular system of foretelling Future Events by
                  Dreams, Moles, etc. Price 10 cents.
               
                  The Bravo of Perth; or, Voorn, the Robber; containing the
                  surprising Adventures, Depredations, and Miraculous Escapes of a bold and resolute
                  Scotch Outlaw of the sixteenth century. Price 10 cents.
            
            Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price.
         
         
            
               THE FAIR REBEL:
               A TALE OF COLONIAL TIMES.
            
            By EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "FEMALE SPY," "ROSALIE DU
               PONT," "PRAIRIE FLOWER," "LENI LEOTI," "MIKE FINK," "FOREST ROSE," "ELLA BARNWELL,"
               ETC., ETC.
            
               CINCINNATI:
               PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES, 167 WALNUT STREET.
            
         
         
         
            
               THE FAIR REBEL:         
               
               A TALE OF COLONIAL TIMES.
               By
               EMERSON BENNETT,
               AUTHOR OF "PRAIRIE FLOWER," "LENI LEOTI," "FOREST ROSE," "MIKE FINK," "ELLA BARNWELL," "FEMALE SPY," "ROSALIE DU PONT,"
               CINCINNATI:
               PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES, 167 WALNUT STREET.
            
            
         
            
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1853, By
                  EMERSON BENNETT, In the Clerk's Office of District Court of the United States, in and
                  for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
            
         
      
      
         
            The fair rebel
            THE FAIR REBEL.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               FAIRVIEW.
               IN the Colony of Virginia, on the north bank of the James river, and near the site
                  of the present flourishing city of Richmond, stood the dwelling of a planter as
                  early as the year of our Lord, 1676, or a hundred years before the American
                  Revolution. The house in question was of the better class, large in circumference,
                  two stories in hight, and built of stone. Its shape was sex-angular, and its
                  windows long and narrow. It was located about a stone's throw from the James, and
                  close beside a little run, or creek, which poured its waters into the larger
                  stream. From the mansion to the river, stretched a green, sloping lawn, through
                  the center of which ran a graveled walk, with rows of transplanted trees on either
                  hand, and, in the summer season, very beautiful flowers. Where this walk
                  terminated on the river, was a rude-fashioned quay, to which was chained an
                  anchored sloop.
               The view from the mansion was very fine. A long stretch of the James, with the
                  rich and fertile valley through which it flowed, with hills in the back-ground,
                  gradually rising into lofty mountains in the distance, rendered the scene both
                  delightful and picturesque. The valley, too, was under cultivation, and here and
                  there could be seen the dwelling of a neighboring planter, and, far in the
                  distance, on the river's bank, a large stockade fort, garrisoned by English
                  soldiers, above which floated the proud flag of England.
               The mansion referred to, beside being built of stone—which would render it, if
                  defended with even a small force, almost or quite impregnable to the assaults of a
                  large body of Indians, who could not of course bring artillery or any thing more
                  formidable than arrows, hatchets and fire to bear upon it—was also further
                  protected by a heavy palisade, which completely surrounded it, but at a distance
                  sufficient to inclose the lawn before mentioned, a large garden, an orchard of
                  young trees, recently set out, and some two or three out-buildings, constructed of
                  logs. The entrance into the inclosure was by four gates, one of which opened upon
                  the river, and the others, one upon each of the three remaining sides of the
                  square.
               The view already mentioned as being so delightful from the mansion, was toward the
                  south, with the eye sweeping the landscape from west to cast; but looking
                  northward, the vision terminated upon a jagged, precipitous hill, just beyond the
                  inclosure. Crossing the little creek—which ran near the stone mansion within the
                  palisades—and passing through the western gate, you found a foot-path, which led
                  partly up and partly around the northern hill, and brought you to a position
                  whence you could look down upon a large tobacco field, and upon a small cluster of
                  log huts, which were also inclosed by a stockade. This field, broad and long, and
                  these huts, tenanted by the negroes who labored upon the soil, were each and all
                     the property of the proprietor of
                  FAIRVIEW, as the owner of the stone mansion denominated his place of
                  residence.
               Having thus hastily sketched the external appearance of Fairview, and given the
                  reader a mere glimpse of the adjacent scenery, but enough for our purpose, let us
                  now enter the dwelling, and introduce to his notice the occupants, two of whom at
                  least are destined to figure conspicuously in our historical narrative.
               In a large apartment, on the first or ground floor, which partook to some extent
                  of the peculiar angles of the building—and which, in the style of the period, was
                  furnished in a manner to contrast most strikingly with the rich and almost
                  gorgeous appearance of similar apartments in the mansions of the opulent of our
                  day—two females were seated, in carved, ponderous and high-backed chairs, drawn up
                  near one of the narrow windows. At the moment we present them to the reader's
                  notice, their attention was divided between some fanciful needlework which each
                  held in her hand, and the excited appearance of a third individual, who, with long
                  and rapid strides, was pacing up and down the rush covered floor, sometimes
                  gesticulating furiously, and ever and anon muttering words to himself, which,
                  though inaudible to the females, seemed of dark and serious import, and, taken in
                  connection with his half-crazed manner, indicated a mind now volcanic with the
                  fiercest passions.
               This personage was a man in the prime of life, of a figure tall, commanding,
                  well-formed and comely, and with features which, in repose, were decidedly
                  handsome. His whole countenance bore the impress of an intellect of no common
                  order. The forehead was high and broad; the eyes black, and full of expression;
                  the nose something of the Roman type; the mouth well cut, if we may use a term
                  which best conveys our meaning; the lips neither thick nor thin; and the chin just
                  sufficiently curved and rounded to give a classic profile. His beard showed no
                  tonsorial interference, but was allowed to grow where nature intended, being kept
                  of a reasonable length by judicious trimming. This gave him a black, heavy
                  mustache, and added to the fierceness of his look, as, with knit brows and
                  flashing eyes, he strode to and fro, wildly gesticulating, as before remarked, and
                  muttering savagely to himself.
               Yet, notwithstanding his appearance at this moment was not so prepossessing as it
                  might have been under other circumstances, a close observer, a keen physiognomist,
                  seeing him for the first time, would not have failed to perceive that this
                  ebullition of passion sprung less from a base, evil heart, than from a bold,
                  fearless, noble spirit, who felt that a great wrong and injustice had been done
                  him. You looked in vain in that face for any evidence that the man possessed a
                  soul of guile, deceit, treachery, low cunning, base intrigue, or fawning
                  sycophancy. On the contrary, even while disfigured with fierce, contending
                  passions, you felt that a frank, open, high-souled and generous nature had been
                  deeply insulted and wronged by a wanton exhibition of those very meannesses in
                  another, or others, that he did not himself possess; and that having been so
                  insulted, he was one likely to retaliate in a manner consonant with his bold,
                  fearless nature. Of a personal appearance to command respect—possessing an
                  intellect of a high order—with firmness, decision and energy stamped on every
                  lineament—of a manner naturally affable and winning—he was just the individual to
                  be popular with the people in a crisis arising from unjust taxation, and other
                  irksome and arbitrary measures of a tyrannical and oppressive government.
               And once placed at the head of affairs for the redressing of grievances, you saw
                  in that proud eye and lofty bearing one who would not vacillate in a moment of
                  emergency, trial and peril; but who, boldly taking the responsibility upon his own
                  shoulders, would push forward to success, fearlessly daring extremes, if such
                  should be necessary to the accomplishment of his purpose.
               Such was Nathaniel Bacon—well known in the Colonial History of Virginia as the
                  during leader in what has been termed Bacon's Rebellion—at heart a true patriot, a
                  lover of his country, and one who was animated mated by the same lofty feelings
                  and principles which were exhibited a hundred years later, by men whose memories
                  will ever be kept green in the hearts of all true lovers of the liberty and
                  independence which their firmness, integrity and wisdom achieved.
               Of Bacon's early history, we deem it only necessary to say, that he came of a
                  family of high standing and influence—that he had received a classic education in
                  England—and that since the completion of his studies, a space of about three years
                  at the date of our story, he had married an interesting and accomplished lady, had
                  bought a plantation on the James river, near the present site of Richmond, and was
                  in the enjoyment of competence and honors—being a member of the Governor's
                  Council, and holding the rank of Colonel in the Colonial militia. As the causes
                  leading to his rebellion—as it was and is still termed—will be fully set forth in
                  the progress of our story, we need not pause here to chronicle them. The costume
                  of Bacon, being somewhat peculiar to the period in which he lived, should not be
                  passed over without notice. He wore breeches, and long stockings reaching to the
                  knees, where they were fastened to the leg by ribbons. His shoes, somewhat open at
                  the sides, but coming up high before and behind, were tied with ribbons also. A
                  long waistcoat was buttoned close up to the throat, as was his outer garment, or
                  doublet, which in shape and extent was not unlike the hunting frock worn by the
                  backwoodsman of a later period. It was of dark silk velvet, thickly studded, so as
                  to be full on the breast and stand out at the skirts. It had a falling collar and
                  loose sleeves, and around the waist was a leathern belt, to which was attached a
                  sword, a weapon indispensable even to the civil gentleman of that day. His hair,
                  long and black, fell in ringlets down to, and rested upon, his shoulders. A white
                  cravat, of Brussel's lace, passed once around the neck, where it was secured by a
                  ribbon—while the ends, long and square, were allowed to fall carelessly on his
                  bosom, outside of his doublet. A low-crowned beaver hat, looped up on one side,
                  and ornamented with a gay feather, completed his attire. This was his general
                  style of dress—subject, of course, to such changes, both of fashion and material,
                  as his occupation at different times rendered necessary.
               The costume of the two females already mentioned, being not unlike that of females
                  of the present day, needs no description. As to their personal appearance, one,
                  the younger, was very beautiful. She seemed about twenty years of age, and was in
                  size above medium. Her face, which is the only tree index of the soul, was in
                  expression highly intellectual. From her broad, smooth forehead, her raven hair
                  was brushed back and gathered on the back of her head, after the fashion of the
                  time (or perhaps we should say of a period somewhat earlier), and then being
                  brought forward, so as to cover the temples, was allowed to fall adown the sides
                  of her face and around her neck in clustering ringlets. Her eyes were large, dark
                  and bright; and were capable of all expressions from the melting gleam of
                  tenderness, to the fiery glow of angry scorn and hate—from the merry sparkle of
                  exhilerating gayety, to the mournful look of heart-felt grief and misery.
               And be it remarked here, that whatever the eyes of an individual are capable of
                  expressing, the soul of that individual is capable of feeling; for it is the
                  action of the mind upon the eyes that gives to them the many and oft times rapid
                  and striking changes, in which consists a power of fascination that all, brought
                  within their influence, are made to feel in a greater or less degree.
               Pride, energy, decision and firmness, were traits of character whose impress was
                  easily to be discerned in the countenance of the lady we are describing; and yet
                  you saw nothing harsh and masculine; but, on the contrary, every feature was
                  softened and refined to a high degree of feminine beauty. The cheeks were full and
                  round, and as delicately soft as the down of a peach. The nose was slightly
                  angular—the lips plump—and, when parted, displayed two rows of white, even teeth.
                  In fact, the whole face had an artistic
                  beauty in the combination of features, aside from the expression of an intellect
                  of no common order, which frequently shone forth in such rapid and varied
                  changes-caused by different emotions, as to render it peculiarly fascinating.
               Such was Flora Monteith, cousin in the first degree to the lady who sat beside
                  her, who was none other than the wife of the gentleman already described.
               Between these two ladies, however, though cousins by blood, there was little
                  resemblance Mrs. Bacon was about twenty-seven years of age, small in stature, less
                  rotund than her kinswoman, and had the complexion of one in delicate health. Her
                  pale features had a sweet, winning expression, which was just enough tinged with
                  melancholy—particularly when she smiled—to at once make her an object of interest
                  to the most casual observer. In looking at the two together, you would naturally
                  remark the contrast of one to the other—a contrast not confined to physical
                  proportions and appearance merely, but extending to all the mental faculties. In
                  Flora you saw one who, under circumstances of wrong and oppression, would
                  unhesitatingly dare, and do, and uphold herself by a proud, strong self-reliance,
                  and a consciousness of right; while, under the same circumstances, her cousin
                  would meekly bear, and patiently suffer; and failing of support from another,
                  would be overborne and crushed; and, like a blighted flower, would gradually,
                  quietly, sink uncomplaining into her grave. Her features, like her person, were
                  all delicately formed, fine and regular, and the general expression of her soft
                  gray eyes was one of confiding tenderness. In drawing a comparison between the
                  two, you would probably accord the palm to Flora for strength of mind and physical
                  beauty, and at the same time acknowledge that her gentle cousin outrivaled her in
                  the charm of sweet and irresistible loveliness.
               A little more than two years previous to the date of our story, Colonel Bacon had
                  built the dwelling wherein we find him; and having furnished it handsomely, in the
                  style peculiar to the period, with articles imported from the mother country, had
                  removed hither with his wife and servants, intending to pass his days here in
                  domestic tranquility, and in the calm enjoyment of a moderate income, derived from
                  his plantation, which was worked by negroes under charge of a hired overseer.
               About the time he took up his abode here, intelligence was received from England,
                  that an aunt of his wife, a certain widow Monteith, had recently died, leaving an
                  only child, a daughter, some eighteen years of age, alone in the world, with the
                  small portion of a hundred pounds, and that the latter had expressed a desire to
                  come to America, and make her home among her relatives, several of whom were here,
                  provided such a step should meet with their approbation. Without waiting to
                  consult others on the matter, but acting wholly from the impulse of a noble,
                  generous heart, Colonel Bacon immediately wrote a warm affectionate letter to
                  Flora, condoling with her on her bereavement, and inviting her to come and take up
                  her residence with her cousin, and be as one of his family—adding, that so long as
                  kind Heaven should give him a roof over his own head, she should not want
                  shelter—and so long as he might have an arm to wield a sword, she should not lack
                  protection.
               On the receipt of an invitation so warmly expressed, Flora made haste to embark
                  for the New World; and in due time landed at Jamestown, where the Colonel and his
                  lady met and gave her a cordial reception. At the date of our story, she had been
                  a resident at Fairview about a year, and between her and her new-found kinsfolk,
                  there had sprung up, and now existed, a very warm attachment. They regarded her as
                  one of the family, and claimed her rather as a sister than a more distant
                  relative, and this affection she felt and returned in kind. And perhaps, her heart
                  was beginning, or had begun at this time, to secretly acknowledge an interest in
                  another quarter, and for one who bore no relationship to her, either by blood or
                  marriage. If not, then report promulgated an error, and the frequent visits to
                  Fairview of a certain young gentleman, of good standing and irreproachable
                  character, were attributed to a wrong motive.
               Whether Dame Rumor, with her hundred tongues—some of them greatly given to
                  lying—spake truth or falsehood in this particular case, we will not assert here,
                  but advise all who are curious in the matter, to follow the thread of our story,
                  and judge for themselves from what we shall lay before them. We will only add in
                  this connection, that Flora Monteith had received what was considered an excellent
                  education for a lady in the seventeenth century.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               TROUBLE BREWING.
               WE have said that the attention of Flora and her married cousin was divided
                  between the needle-work which each held in her hand, and the excited appearance of
                  the Colonel, who continued to pace up and down the apartment, gesticulating
                  wildly, and muttering to himself, without taking any notice of those present, or
                  even of external objects. The mild eyes of the wife were turned upon him from time
                  to time, and each time with a look of increasing anxiety, till at last, apparently
                  unable to wait longer to be first addressed, she gently laid aside her work,
                  arose, and approaching him with an air of profound respect, almost amounting to
                  timidity, placed her soft white hand on his shoulder, and, in a sweet, melodious
                  tone, uttered a single word of endearment.
               On feeling the touch, and hearing the sound of her voice, he stopped abruptly,
                  looked hurriedly around, as one suddenly aroused from a disagreeable dream; and
                  then letting his dark eyes rest tenderly upon hers, while his harsh look gradually
                  softened to an affectionate smile, he said, in a gentle tone:
               "What would my lily? my lovely and loving Edith?"
               "Why are you so agitated, dear Nathan?"
               He drew her fondly to him, imprinting a kiss upon her pale forehead, and
                  replied:
               "I have cause, dear Edith—great cause; and it should be great cause, to make me
                  forget her I love best;" and again he drew her fondly to him, and this time his
                  lips met hers. "I crave your pardon, my gentle coz," he continued, turning to
                  Flora; but I have heard that within the hour, that has put me in a humor to let
                  the bad blood of half the aristocracy at Jamestown."
               "Dear Nathan!" murmured his gentle wife, with a blended look of surprise, warning,
                  and reproach.
               "I can not help it, my lily!" he replied, the frown gathering on his brow, as his
                  mind recurred to the cause of his recent excitement. "That old fool of a Governor
                  seems determined to force me to act without a commission, end all his promises are
                  air. 'Fore Heaven! may his lies choke him! The Indians will have a fine time of it
                  under his management; and out of pure gratitude, they ought to bury Jamestown
                  under a pile of beaver skins, as presents to their knightly protector
                  rather than his country's.
               "What can he mean by dallying in this unbecoming manner," pursued the young
                  Colonel, growing more and more excited as he went on, his black eyes now flashing
                  indignant fire at every word, "while the lives of good citizens, whom he is in
                  duty bound to protect by every means in his power, are daily sacrificed by roving
                  bands of bloodthirsty savages, who are scouring the country north, south, east and
                  west, without even so much as an attempt being made to check their infernal
                  progress? What, in the name of humanity, can the avaricious, heavy-headed old man
                  be thinking about, to turn a deaf ear to the cries and lamentations that now
                  resound from all quarters?—fathers mourning the loss of their children—wives
                  shrieking over the mangled corses of their husbands—children bewailing the absence
                  of fond parents, who will nevermore return—all butchered in cold blood by these
                  half-naked human beasts of the forest! And all this for the want of prompt and
                  proper action in the only man in the Colony who in invested with authority to act
                  in the matter—Sir William Berkeley! 'Fore Heaven it is a thousand pities that the
                  sword which gave him knighthood, let not
                  out his heart's blood an hour after!"
               "Nathan! Nathan! dear Nathan!" chided Mrs. Bacon, clinging to him and
                  trembling.
               "You think me harsh, my little wife, no doubt; but I mean what I say. What is old
                  Sir William's life more than another man's? If he had died years ago, and some
                  gentleman, possessed of a soul, had governed in his stead, it is more than
                  probable that many valuable lives had been saved to the country, and that other
                  grievances, under which the citizens are every where groaning, would never have
                  had an existence."
               "This may all be true, my dear husband," mildly replied the wife; "but I tremble
                  lest some interference on your part may get you into difficulty."
               "Well, I know not how that may be," he answered, with a serious air; "but I do
                  know, that it is not in my nature to sit quietly down and fold my hands, while my
                  countrymen are every where calling upon me to lead them forth to the redressing of
                  these wrongs, at least so far as these wrongs may be redressed by a proper
                  chastisement of a few miserable hordes of savages, who are now murdering good
                  citizens in every quarter, and laying waste the country in every direction. Nobody
                  is now safe; we are not safe even here; for there is no knowing what moment we may
                  be assailed and perhaps slaughtered.
               "And this has now been going on for nearly a year, and every day getting worse.
                  Petition on petition has been sent to Governor Berkeley, praying him to raise a
                  force and march against the Indians, drive them back to where they belong, and
                  protect the frontiers.
               "And the people have a legitimate claim on the government for this protection—the
                  same claim which a buyer has on an article he has bought and paid for. The whole
                  country is burdened with an onerous tax to support forts and garrisons in a time
                  of peace—which are of the same practical use as so many heaps of rubbish in a
                  hay-field—a curse rather than a blessing. They absorb the hard earnings of the
                  honest, industrious working class, and add to the wealth of a few pampered fools,
                  favorites of the old Governor, who return no equivalent. When the country needs
                  their aid, as it does now, they turn a deaf ear to petition and remonstrance, and
                  exhibit their craven natures, by obstinately remaining in their fortresses,
                  skulking behind their ramparts, and doing nothing. And the old Governor, their
                  chief ruler, connives at their baseness, and at the same time hypocritically
                  pretends to be on the side of the people.
               "How many times has he promised the people redress for the wrongs of which they
                  complain, and then broken his promise! How many times has he solemnly declared to
                  the petitioners, that he would immediately raise a force and send against the
                  Indians? and yet has not done it. But once, and only once, has he even made a
                     show of redeeming his plighted word. And what did he do then? He
                  raised a force of five hundred men, who stood in readiness to march at a moment's
                  notice; and while the people were every where rejoicing that at last protection
                  and security were about to be accorded them, this smooth-tongued, double-faced old
                  knight disbanded them, and sent them home, and has never even condescended to give
                  a reason for this unlooked-for, unmanly proceeding.
               "Well, what next? Tired and disgusted with this mummery, this mockery, this
                  willful disregard of their petitions and complaints—and standing in deadly fear of
                  the reeking knife and burning brand of their ruthless foes—the citizens meet, and
                  in solemn council, resolve to arm themselves, at their own expense, and at their
                  own expense to march against their murderous enemies, punish them for their
                  aggressions, drive them beyond the borders, overawe them, subdue them, and
                  establish a peace which may be lasting. As you know, they saw fit to choose me as
                  their leader—a post of honor and peril which I unhesitatingly accepted; not
                  because of the honor—not because of a love of danger—but because some one must be
                  head—and because I was unanimously elected, and felt it my duty to perform the
                  part required of me.
               "Well, again, what next? Why, we knew it to be unlawful for us to proceed against
                  the Indians, without the sanction, without the authority of the Governor; and
                  therefore, unwilling to violate any law, and lay ourselves open to censure, and,
                  perhaps, prosecution, we drew up a statement of the whole matter, and sent to him,
                  asking him for—what? Not for men, not for moneys, not for munitions of war; but
                  simply for a commission—a bit of parchment drawn up in legal form, with his
                  signature attached, empowering me with governmental authority to lead these men
                  against our common foe.
               "Well, what was his reply? Did he refuse us this commission? No! if he had, we
                  should long ere this have been on our way without it; far better to incur the
                  displeasure of the government, by a bold defense of our lives, than sit quietly
                  down, and have our throats cut, or see those we love butchered in cold blood
                  before our eyes.
               "No! the old hypocrite did not refuse us the required commission; but, on the
                  contrary, pledged his word that we should have it immediately. It did not come,
                  however, and we sent again; and again we got a similar answer. We sent the third
                  time—ay, the fourth—and the last reply of this scheming old knight was delivered
                  to me not an hour ago."
               "Then Regi—a—Mr. Beauchamp—has returned?" 
                     interupted
                     interrupted
                   Flora, while a deep crimson flush mantled her dark features.
               A h! you need not blush, Flora," replied the Colonel, pointedly; "for if I guess
                  your secret—and one need not be deeply skilled in affairs of the heart to do that,
                  I think—your choice has fallen upon one worthy of you."
               The crimson deepened on Flora's face, as she turned it aside; but the Colonel
                  appeared to take no further notice of it, and continued:
               "Yes, he has returned, and gone again; for I requested him to bear a message to
                  Squire Bristow, to have a meeting called for an early hour to-morrow; and without
                  getting off his horse, though he was doubtless much fatigued, he instantly put
                  spurs to him, and dashed away."
               "And what was the Governor's answer to your forth request?" inquired Mrs.
                  Bacon.
               "Ay, what was it?" he cried, with flashing eyes. "What do you think, my gentle
                  one? Why, he sends me special word, that he considers me a young man of promising
                  talents, which, if properly directed, may be of service to me hereafter; but, that
                  I should guard against misplaced ambition, and not illegally meddle with such
                  affairs as are legally controlled and managed by older and wiser heads. In other
                  words, he tells me that I had better mind my own business, and let the savages out
                  as many throats as they like, my own among the number, if they see proper."
               "Well, and what are you going to do?" inquired his wife, anxiously.
               "Do?" cried Bacon, fiercely, "by St. George! I will do what every man
                  of spirit should—I will march against the savages, though I go alone, and I will
                  show this hoary-headed old Governor, and his knavish Council, that there is at
                  least one man in the country, who has the courage to resist authority
                  of all who dare to set the laws of humanity aside, and exercise a
                  tyranny worthy of the dark ages!"
               "But will you not involve yourself in difficulty with the government, my dear
                  husband?" was the anxious inquiry.
               "All laws, my dear wife, justify self-defense; and I will put in that plea, and
                  appeal to the King."
               "Right, cousin!" interposed Flora, lifting her head proudly, with glowing cheeks
                  and flashing eyes: "You have a right to self-defense, and the laws of God and man
                  will both bear you out in exercising it! Why, what can the Governor mean, by
                  sending you such a message, with the Indian's tomahawk and scalping knife uplifted
                  over our very heads? Go on, say I. It is death to stand still—it can be no more to
                  go forward. Would that I were a man, that I might be one of the first to step to
                  your side, and swear to dare all in support and defense of the right!"
               "Bravely spoken, my noble-spirited cousin!" returned Bacon, with an expression
                     of surprise blended with admiration.
                  "I knew you to be a maiden intellectually strong above your sex—but I expected
                  your language to combat, rather than encourage, my resolution. But you can render
                  me more effectual aid as you are, than if of my sex, my brave coz."
               "In what manner?" inquired Flora.
               "In being the support of her who leans most upon me;" and the Colonel pointed to
                  his fair partner, who had now resumed her seat, but who still kept her eyes fixed
                  upon him, with a subdued, yet anxious and troubled look. "In being the support of
                  my gentle Edith," he continued; "for without the counsel of one of your strong
                  mind, she will droop and fade; and that may unnerve me, and make me weak in an
                  hour when strength will most be needed."
               "Ah! my deaf Nathan," sighed Mrs. Bacon, sadly, shaking her head, "I fear you are
                  about to act rashly, and do that which may cause you bitter repentance when too
                  late. Rather let us seek security, in some fortified settlement, till these
                  troublesome matters shall be settled by the proper authorities."
               "What!" replied the other; "shrink from my duty? desert my friends in such time of
                  need? prove myself as craven-hearted, as selfish, and unmanly as the titled things
                  who govern? Never! death before dishonor. No, Edith, if you would have me love
                  you, do not counsel thus! for to follow such counsel would make me loathe and hate
                  myself. No, love, teach your faint heart courage; and believe that all will yet be
                  well; and that though there be obstacles in my path, I shall soon surmount them
                  all and achieve a glorious triumph. Remember, my word is passed, my honor pledged;
                  and regard me as one whose foot is upon the plow-share, and who must pass the
                  fiery ordeal."
               "Mrs. Bacon heaved a long, deep sigh; and as her gentle eyes sunk to the ground,
                  her vision became dimmed with tears, which she in vain struggled to repress. For a
                  few moments Colonel Bacon gazed upon her sorrowfully; and then making Flora a
                  signal to try and give her comfort, and revive her drooping spirits, he turned
                  away, and, with slow step and a thoughtful air, quitted the apartment.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE LOVERS.
               IT was a clear, serene moonlight night—the one succeeding the day chosen for the
                  opening of our narrative—and, taking a line from the eye toward the nocturnal
                  green, where the James rolled between the stretch of vision, the mild rays of Luna
                  were seen to rest on the calm, dark bosom of the gently flowing river like a
                  bright belt of silver. The air was soft and balmy, for it was in the genial month
                  of May, and every breeze that floated over the teeming earth was quickly loaded
                  with the freshness of green blade and leaf, and the perfume of flowers, which
                  exhaled sweet odors while they drank of the falling dew. The stone mansion of
                  Fairview, where the silvery moonbeams fell upon it, standing out in bold and
                  bright relief from the dark back-ground of the hill behind; the sloping grounds in
                  front. checkered by the trees with light and shade; the calmly flowing river, with
                  the tapering spars of the anchored sloop clearly defined against the azure sky;
                  the dimly seen landscape, stretching far away in different directions—all, taken
                  together, produced a scene picturesquely beautiful.
               But there were two figures prominent in this picture, with whom, in all
                  probability, the reader will be more interested than in all we have described.
                  These were standing on the foot-path, or avenue, before mentioned as running from
                  the mansion to the river, and were facing toward the south, so that the moonbeams
                  fell full and clear upon their features and persons. One was a young man, some
                  three or four and twenty years of age, of a fine, large, commanding figure, and a
                  clear, open countenance, stamped with intelligence and a true nobility of soul.
                  His features, regular, manly and prepossessing, were marked with a sedate,
                  thoughtful expression, rarely seen in one of his years and as he turned his face
                  upward, for a moment, so that the soft moonlight streamed full upon it, one could
                  not but admire its classic contour, with its handsomely curved and rounded chin,
                  its beautifully chiseled lips, straight nose, large, expressive gray eyes, and
                  high, broad, smooth forehead. From beneath his Cavalier hat, which was ornamented
                  with a gay feather, as was the fashion of the period, his long brown locks fell in
                  graceful curls down the sides of his face, and rested upon his broad shoulders. A
                  small, dark mustache graced his short upper lip, and a tuft of hair, trimmed to a
                  downward point, depended from his chin. With these exceptions, his beard was
                  cleanly shaved; and even that portion of his skin brought under tonsorial
                  operations, was soft, smooth, and of a feminine texture.
               His costume, in the style of the period, without being in the extreme mode of the
                  fashionable profligates who formed the licentious court of the reigning sovereign,
                  Charles the Second, was not unlike that of Colonel Bacon's, which we have
                  described. His doublet, of dark purple velvet, was padded and embroidered, but not
                  furbelowed; and his sword-belt was worn around his waist, instead of over his
                  shoulder. His gold-hilted rapier, studded with diamonds, seemed to denote that he
                  was a young man of wealth; and his easy, dignified manner, and his seemingly
                  unstudied, but peculiarly graceful attitudes, as he now and then changed his
                  position, further indicated that he had been educated in the refined school of
                  polished gentlemen.
               Such in appearance was Reginald Beauchamp, a gentleman more than once alluded to
                  in the foregoing pages; and his companion, as the reader has doubtless
                  anticipated, was none other than Flora Monteith. Though the raven tresses of the
                  latter were now concealed under a silk hood, and the undulating outline of an
                  exquisitely molded form was hid under a thin mantle, which she had wrapped around
                  her as a protection against the falling dews—yet no one who had looked upon that
                  noble and intellectual face, as a flood of silver moonlight poured full upon it,
                  and seen those dark, expressive eyes, which indeed seemed the bright gates of no
                  ordinary soul, would have thought any thing wanting to the completion of beauty of
                  the very highest order.
               And here, perhaps, ere we enter upon more exciting matters, it may be well to give
                  a few words of explanation, that the reader may better understand what is to
                  follow. Reginald Beauchamp, at the time we have chosen for the opening of our
                  story, was, comparatively speaking, a stranger in the Colony of Virginia; or, to
                  speak more directly to the point, he had come over in the same vessel with Flora
                  Monteith, and had then for the first time placed his foot upon the soil of
                  America. He had no relations in this country; and what motive he had in coming,
                  beside that of mere adventure, none could say. He brought letters of introduction
                  to Governor Berkeley and other personages of distinction, from men of distinction
                  in England; and by means of these was at once, and without any questions being
                  asked, received into the best society of which the Colony at that time could
                  boast. His manners were those of a gentleman of the highest breeding; and his
                  dress, if not strictly fashionable, was ever of the richest material, and always
                  in excellent taste. He made no pretensions to wealth, though he strewed gold about
                  with a lavish hand; and though he made no display of learning, it was easily to be
                  perceived, even in his ordinary conversation, that he had received a fine
                  education. He never spoke of his family or connections, though it was generally
                  believed that he could name them with pride. Modest and unassuming, without
                  diffidence—polite-and affable, without obsequiousness—equally at home with the
                  titled aristocrat, or the citizen in humble life—he was, as a consequence, every
                  where respected, and most esteemed by those who knew him best. Fathers spoke well
                  of him, mothers lauded him, and daughters were proud to stand high in his
                  regard.
               But though, so far, Reginald Beauchamp might be said to be in the good graces of
                  all who knew him, yet the very fewest number could lay claim to any thing more
                  than mere acquaintance with him. Without being what might properly be termed reserved in his
                  manners, there was about him an air of polite dignity, that held in check
                  whatsoever tended to familiarity; and though there were many who prided themselves
                  on knowing him there were not half a dozen persons in the Colony who could name
                  him as an intimate associate and friend—and three of these exceptions were Colonel
                  Bacon, his gentle wife, and Flora Monteith.
               With Flora Monteith he had formed an acquaintance while on the voyage to America;
                  a mutual liking had sprung up between them; and this liking, having subsequently
                  increased to a warm friendship, now bade fair to ripen into a still dearer
                  attachment. For the first few months after his arrival in Virginia, he had called
                  upon her, at Fairview, as often as once in two weeks; then the intervals of his
                  absence had begun to grow shorter; and recently his visits might be said to be
                  frequent. Between him and Colonel Bacon there had ever been a good understanding—a
                  cordiality of feeling—and, latterly, a fraternal intimacy. It is needless to say
                  more concerning him in this connection, for our narrative will gradually develop
                  all that will be of any interest to the reader.
               At the moment we have chosen to introduce Reginald Beauchamp into our story,
                     in propria personæ, he was addressing his
                  companion.
               "Yes, Flora," he said, in continuation of some remarks previously made, "I
                  apprehend this will prove a serious business for all parties."
               "But you do not think Colonel Bacon to blame for what he has done, and is about to
                  do?" returned Flora, inquiringly.
               "No! on the contrary, I think the Governor and his Council have so far acted
                  unwisely, tyrannically. I look upon Colonel Bacon's movement in the same light you
                  do—as having sprung from pure motives; and if he may be said to be ambitious at
                  all, it is to do right rather than wrong. And in his case the right of the cause
                  is self-evident—for no one in his senses can conscientiously deny that to all men
                  belongs the right of self-defense, and certainly no one can gainsay that this
                  rising of the people is for mutual protection. Never did citizens act in a more
                  becoming manner than they have so far done; and if, through the short-sightedness,
                  stubborness, willfulness, maliciousness, or what you will, of their rulers, they
                  be forced into extreme measures—be compelled by surrounding circumstances to act
                  illegally—then should the blame rest upon the King's 
                     vice-gerent
                     vice-regent
                  , Sir William Berkeley, and a petition he laid before the Throne, to have
                  him recalled as unfit to govern."
               "I am glad to hear you speak so, Mr. Beauchamp—"
               "You have more than once called me Reginald," interrupted the other; "and from
                  your lips, Flora, it sounds more pleasant to my ear than the other."
               A slight glow was perceptible by the moon light on the features of the maiden, as
                  these words were uttered by her companion; but she made no reply to his remarks,
                  though she complied with his request.
               "I am glad, Reginald, to hear you speak this," she pursued; "for however strong
                  one's convictions may be, that one's judgment is right upon a certain point, it is
                  always agreeable to find those convictions strengthened by the opinion of one
                  older, wiser, and more experienced."
               "Older I am certainly—more experienced I am probably—but as to my being wiser—why,
                  I will consider that a mere ipse dixit, and at
                  the same time acknowledge myself your debtor for a very pretty compliment, very
                  ingeniously concealed, under a grave remark, like a sweet-scented love-note hid
                  under sage leaves," he rejoined, with a light laugh. "But with regard to this
                  matter, which so seriously concerns us both, I regret to say that all the little
                  influence I possess was exerted in vain upon the Governor, to induce him to send
                  the Colonel a commission."
               "Yet he did not absolutely refuse?" said Flora, inquiringly.
               "Not in so many words," replied the other; "but he might as well—for grant the
                  commission he never will—at least such is my opinion."
               "And why is he thus obstinate do you think? what can be his motive?"
               "A base one, if what is whispered of him be true."
               "And what says rumor on the subject?"
               "Why, it says that on his heart is inscribed two mottoes—videlicit—Dead Indians kill no beavers: Rebel forfeitures are loyal
                  inheritances."
               "I can not say I fully comprehend the meaning of these phrases, Reginald."
               "Well, then, for the first, be it known to you, that the Governor speculates
                  largely in beaver skins, which he procures from the Indians at a small price, and
                  from which he realizes a large profit by shipping to Europe. Now these skins,
                  being for the most part supplied by the Indians, would not be supplied should the
                  latter become involved in war; and consequently, should the Governor do justice to
                  the country, by protecting it against their depredations, he fancies he would be a
                  loser in a pecuniary point of view. And for the second, which explains itself, you
                  will readily perceive that he keeps speculation prominently in consideration—for
                  if, by his base and artful management, good citizens be driven to take up arms
                  illegally, or without his sanction, he can, he deems, proclaim them rebels,
                  confiscate their property, and divide the latter between himself and a few of his
                  favorites."
               "O! how base must be the heart of the man who can thus set aside every honorable
                  principle—every feeling of humanity—merely for the sake of paltry gain!" cried
                  Flora, with flashing eyes.
               "Ay, base indeed!" returned the other; "but such a man, I have every reason to
                  believe, is Sir William Berkeley."
               "But is there no way to force him to do right, Reginald?" inquired Flora,
                  excitedly.
               "No legal method that the citizens can adopt, except it be to appeal to the King;
                  and every man can not come at the King—more especially when he is three thousand
                  miles away."
               "But could not a petition, signed by all the citizens who feel aggrieved, be sent
                  to his Majesty?"
               "It could be done, Flora; but only consider how long it would take to reach him,
                  and get redress, even if redress should be granted, which is by no means certain!
                  and in the meantime the whole country might be laid waste, and every man, woman
                  and child be butchered."
               "There is but one course then!"
               "No! if the Governor persists in his present obstinacy, there is but one course;
                  and that is, to arm and defend ourselves, be the consequences what they may."
               "And you, Reginald?"
               "My sword shall be one of the first drawn," he replied, quietly, but firmly,
                  tapping the hilt lightly and gracefully.
               "And you will stand by Colonel Bacon?"
               "To the death, Flora. I know him to be in the right—I love him as a brother—and by
                  him I will stand or fall."
               "Heaven bless you, Reginald!" rejoined Flora, in a voice tremulous with emotion.
                  "I too love him as a brother—for he has been more than a brother to me. A lonely
                  orphan, homeless, and almost friendless, he bade me come to him, and find a home,
                  a friend, and protector; and it is needless to tell you, I have found all he
                  promised me, and more. I am truly sorry this business is likely to involve him in
                  difficulty—for should any thing serious befall him, it would not only be a
                  terrible blow to me, but would kill dear Edith, whose whole existence seems bound
                  up in his—loving him as only woman can love, with that concentrated oneness of
                  affection which can alone be found in a pure and undivided heart. But whatever may
                  be the consequences—to him, to Edith, to me, or others—he can not, as a man of
                  honor, shrink from the performance of his duty; and that duty bids him take at
                  once a bold, determined stand for the defense of the frontiers."
               "So think I, Flora; and so I told the Governor."
               "And what said he?"
               "That I was too young, and too little acquainted with the government of the
                  Colony, to know what I was talking about; that he had been Governor here for
                  thirty years, and had every reason to suppose that he himself was a person of all
                  others the least fitted to give countenance to any such treasonable sonable remarks. He further said that, until now, I
                  had stood well in his regard; but if I could so boldly espouse the cause of the
                  ambitious young Bacon, as he termed him, without knowing any thing of the matter,
                  beyond what the latter and some disaffected persons might have told me, I must
                  sink greatly in his esteem, as being hot-headed and wanting in judgment; and then,
                  to conclude, bade me bear to Colonel Bacon the message which I delivered to him,
                  and which you subsequently heard from his own lips."
               "Thus adding insult to injury!" cried Flora, with flashing eyes.
               "Even so."
               "And think you, if Colonel Bacon proceeds on the expedition he has in
                  contemplation, the Governor will venture to denounce him as a rebel and traitor,
                  and endeavor to confiscate his property?"
               "It would not surprise me, to learn of his proceeding even to such extremes."
               "But still you think the Colonel should not shrink from his duty?"
               "I would not if I were in his place."
               "And what, Reginald, will be the final result?"
               "Heaven only knows! but Heaven is on the side of the right, and therefore I do not
                  fear. It may be the old Governor will find, when too late, that the wisdom he now
                  flatters himself he possesses, is only another name for folly. If we are able to
                  raise a force and protect ourselves against a savage foe, we may be able to teach
                  those who would oppress us that there is a limit to the abuse of all law and
                  authority."
               "Ha! Reginald—what do you hint at?" inquired his fair companion, turning upon him
                  an anxious look.
               "Why, in plain words, Flora, if it so be that Governor Berkeley and his infamous
                  Council shall dare to proclaim us rebels and traitors, for standing up for and
                  defending our rights as true, honest men, and shall attempt, on this ground, to
                  wrench from the honest citizen his property, he and they must be taught their
                  place, even though it be done at the point of the sword."
               "This indeed sounds of rebellion," rejoined the other.
               "To me it sounds of right, standing up for right, against oppression and wrong,"
                  returned Beauchamp, proudly. "Call it rebellion, if you will—or by what other name
                  you will—but blame the cause and not the issue. I for one have seen enough of
                  tyranny, at home and here; and I have been and ever shall be, ready to oppose it
                  with my poor life, and all I have else to lose. The worm that is trod upon, will
                  turn upon the foot that crushes it; the veriest coward beast will fight at bay:
                  shall man—immortal, thinking, reasoning, feeling man—be the only thing to meekly
                  suffer, and patiently endure, the wrongs inflicted by his fellow man?"
               "No! no!" cried Flora; "I would not counsel aught so abjectly base!—my own too
                  daring heart swells proudly against all such cringing servility! Made in the image
                  of Jehovah, above the beasts that perish, let us at least have as much freedom as
                  they, which own no masters of their kind. If we, for our better government, have
                  need of men in authority to execute the laws, let them not dare to make laws and
                  seek to enforce them, which rest not on the basis of justice. When they overstep
                  the limits which from subjects makes us slaves, then let us rise and be their
                  lords, teaching them they can be governed as well as govern! Go on, Reginald! go
                  on with the good work! and God aid the right!"
               "I see you are as much of a rebel as I," returned Beauchamp, smiling; "for by this
                  term we shall ere long be known, or I presage not rightly from the signs of the
                  times."
               "Well, rebel or patriot, it matters little what the term, if the heart be right
                  and the cause be just!" cried Flora, enthusiastically. "If I were of your sex, my
                  sword should not rust in its scabbard; and had I an only brother, I would bid him
                  go, and take with him a sister's hopes and prayers!"
               "And may I dare to hope, dear Flora, that as much shall go with me?" inquired
                  Reginald, in a low, gentle tone.
               Flora was looking up, every feature clearly defined in the moonlight, and her
                  whole countenance radiant with a lofty enthusiasm, at the moment these words of
                  her companion fell upon her ear. She was evidently not prepared for the turn which
                  he gave to her language; for instantly a deep color mounted ed to her very
                  temples, her eyes sought the ground, and she appeared greatly co fused and
                  embarrassed—the more so, probably, that the question, so gently put, and which was
                  fraught with so much meaning, took her so much by surprise.
               Reginald let his gaze rest upon her beautiful face for a few moments, with an
                  expression of blended love and admiration; and then gently taking her soft, white
                  hand—which, slightly trembling, remained passively in his—he, in a low, musical
                  tone, well suited to the scene and the subject, resumed:
               "I trust, dear Flora," he said, "I have known you long enough, and well enough,
                  not to give offense in speaking as I did?"
               He paused, as if for his companion to reply; and after a moment's hesitation, she
                  made answer in a voice that betrayed no little agitation.
               "No offense, Reginald—certes, no offence. You ask that my prayers for your safety
                  and success go with you—and wherefore could such request offend?"
               "Nay, Flora, perchance I meant more than I uttered," he rejoined,
                  earnestly. He felt the hand, still held in his, tremble; but there was no other
                  reply, and he went on: "It is more than a year, dear Flora, since first we met;
                  and within that period we have been much together; and, on my part, I can truly
                  say that the hours spent in your society have been among the happiest of my life.
                  That you regard me as a friend—a warm, true friend—I have every reason to believe;
                  but Flora (and his voice trembled), I would be to you something more than a
                  friend—I would have you esteem me as something more than a brother. You are an
                  orphan, though not now a homeless and friendless one; but in this changeful world,
                  there is no knowing how soon you may be; and I would have the right to protect
                  you, by that sacred claim which only by you can be given to one."
               He paused a moment, and tenderly regarded his companion, whose gaze was still
                  averted and whose beautiful features, so recently of a crimson hue, he now saw had
                  the paleness of marble.
               "I have never spoken to you of love, dear Flora," he pursued; "I have never knelt
                  at your feet, as is the Cavalier mode at the profligate and licentious court of
                  our reigning Monarch, and, in a passionate, rhapsodical strain, poured into your
                  ear the mental poison of flattery—calling you my life, my light, my soul, my hope,
                  my angel, my idol—swearing that never world held, or eyes saw so beautiful, so
                  divine so celestial a being—telling you that, without you, life would be a blank,
                  and earth be a waste, a desert; but, with you, would be a paradise, a heaven, a
                  place of eternal joy and happiness: never, I say, dear Flora, have I knelt at your
                  feet, and in such manner abused the gifts which God has given me; nor do I believe
                  that any man, who ever truly loved, ever so made it known to her who held first
                  place in his heart. And believe me, dear Flora, in my heart you do hold first
                  place; and if you will consent to be mine, it shall be the study of my life to
                  make you happy, and afford you that protection which I can then give without fear
                  of scandal.
               "I foresee," continued Reginald, that troublesome times are approaching—for this
                  matter, of which we have been speaking, will not end in words—and, ere long, I
                  presage, blood will be shed between opposing factions, and the Colony of Virginia
                  will be rent, from seacoast to border, with the strife of civil war. If you will
                  consent to be mine, dear Flora, and have the sacred ceremony, which shall make us
                  one, performed without delay, I can, whatever may be my fate, place you in a
                  condition above dependence. I have never made any boast of wealth—nor do I now;
                  yet it seems no more than right, that I should tell you I have enough to keep your
                  from ever feeling the stings of want. I have never said aught to you concerning my
                  family and connections; but I may now venture to observe, that all are respectable
                  and in good standing, and that I am on friendly terms with my nearest kin. But,
                  Flora, in coming to a decision on this matter, which lays so near my heart. I
                  would not have you influenced by any thing beyond your own feelings, as they
                  concern myself. I have, from various circumstances, been led to think that you do
                  not regard me with indifference; nay more, that my attachment for you has been met
                  with correspondent pondent feelings; but
                  if I have erred—if I am mistaken—there is but one answer (a fatal one to my
                  hopes), which you, as a true woman, can give; for though I loved you as never one
                  of your sex was loved by man, I would not take your hand without your heart.
                  There, Flora, I have said my say; and, as I am, whatever I am, I offer you what
                  can be given to one only. Speak, lady, and say if you accept or reject my
                  offer?"
               A momentary silence ensued, after Reginald had ceased speaking; and then, without
                  lifting her eyes, in a low, tremulous tone, Flora said:
               "There is one thing I fear, Reginald."
               "And what do you fear, dear Flora?" cried he, quickly and eagerly.
               "That you are bending from your station—that your suit is to one not your
                  equal."
               "Nay, then, hear me vow that, in every respect, Flora Monteith is the equal of
                  Reginald Beauchamp!" he rejoined, in a tender tone, at the same time casting an
                  arm around her graceful form, and drawing her fondly to him.
               Flora now raised her dark eyes, beaming with pure affection, till they met his,
                  where they rested for a brief space; and then slowly her head sunk against his
                  manly breast, and a gentle sigh came up from her own. He stooped slightly down,
                  and, under the excitement of strange, but most delightful emotions, his lips, for
                  the first time in his life, were pressed to hers. She had not answered him in the
                  language of the tongue—but yet he was answered to his wish—for heart spake to
                  heart, and he felt and knew that she was his.
               The broad, round moon went sailing through the clear blue ether, pouring her
                  silvery flood down upon many and varied scenes, but upon none where two hearts
                  beat happier than within the guarded precincts of Fairview.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE MEETING.
               AT an early hour, on the morning following the opening of our story, Colonel Bacon
                  and Reginald Beauchamp, accompanied by two black servants, as a kind of body
                  guard, all well-mounted and armed, rode through the eastern gate of the inclosure
                  of Fairview, and pursuing a well-trodden horse-path, took their way across the
                  country at a fast trot. It was a beautiful day, the sky serene and cloudless, and
                  the air just of the right temperature to be agreeable, and give one a pleasant
                  feeling of animation. It was, as we have previously remarked, in the month of May,
                  and nature was robed in the most fascinating costume of the four seasons. Every
                  thing had a look of newness, and a fragrance of freshness. The trees had every
                  where put forth their leaves, and many of them were covered with blossoms, which,
                  collectively, of various bright hues, gave to the wood, through which our
                  travelers rode, a charming variegation. Across their path, as they hurried along,
                  darted squirrels and rabbit, and occasionally other small game with which the
                  forest abounded; while the whole air seemed vocal with the
                  melodious notes of the winged choristers, which continually flew around and above
                  them, and fluttered among the green leaves, on either hand, both near and afar.
                  The sun, too, occasionally streamed his bright rays across their path, and thus
                  contributed that infinite variety of light and shade which so delights the lover
                  of the picturesque, and forms a never-ending study to the true artist.
               But though Bacon and Beauchamp were both, to some considerable degree, possessed
                  of that poetical temperament which renders one susceptible of the beautiful, yet
                  neither appeared to take any notice of the scene around them, but rode along in
                  thoughtful silence, showing that their minds were now occupied with matters of
                  grave and serious import. About ten paces behind them rode the two blacks; and it
                  was evident, from the expression of their features, as they turned their faces
                  from side to side—now with a broad grin, as something occurred to amuse them, and
                  now with a look of alarm, whenever there happened to be a quick rustling of the
                  bushes—that the opposite emotions of delight and terror had a strong hold upon
                  them, and would be likely to render their short ride any thing but monotonous.
               The wood, through which our equestrians were passing at a fast trot, had been
                  entered about a quarter of a mile from the inclosure of Fairview; and, at the
                  distance of a mile and a half, terminated upon a clearing, which embraced some two
                  or three hundred acres in its extent, most of which was under cultivation. Off to
                  the left was a large field, in which some twenty negroes were at work, under the
                  eye of an overseer, who sat upon a high rock, with a whip in his hand, and who
                  appeared to find sufficient amusement, for the time being, in snapping off, with
                  the lash, the heads of a few tall weeds that grew within his reach. To the right
                  of the road, and about central way of the clearing, was the dwelling of the
                  planter—a large, cumbrous, and ungainly stone structure, which had evidently been
                  built with a view to roominess and security, rather than architectural beauty. In
                  the rear of this was a large, wooden storehouse, or barn, with a couple of smaller
                  buildings adjoining; and, further on, a cluster of cabins, which were exclusively
                  devoted to the negroes.
               As Colonel Bacon came opposite the planter's dwelling, which stood back some ten
                  or fifteen rods from the road, he for the first time, since leaving home, checked
                  the speed of his horse; and walking him slowly along, he kept his eyes fixed upon
                  the building, till the doing so required him to turn in his saddle. Then he
                  withdrew his gaze, and said to his companion:
               "'Squire 
                     Briston
                     Bristow
                   is evidently bestirring himself—for I see no signs of his being at
                  home."
               "He said he should set off at daybreak," replied Reginald, mechanically.
               "If he did, then has he had a good three hours' ride," rejoined Bacon, looking at
                  the sun, which was at least two hours above the horizon.
                  "Credit me, we shall find them gathering;" and he was about to quicken the pace of
                  his horse, when the other said:
               "Nay, why this haste, Colonel? we shall be in time this two hours to come; and I
                  have something to say to you, for which I may not find a more fitting
                  opportunity."
               "Ah! I knew not that; we will ride slowly; there is no need of haste. it is true
                  Say on, Reginald!"
               The latter hesitated, and seemed not a little embarrassed, as if about to touch on
                  a delicate subject; but when he saw the Colonel turn upon him an inquiring look,
                  he forced a light laugh, and said, quickly:
               "By the Rood! I were no fit gallant for Charles's Court; where every one, from
                  King to Page, will name you his love, with the same unblushing freedom that he
                  will the color of his newest doublet!"
               "Aha!" returned Bacon, smiling: "sits the wind in that quarter? Well, go on, my
                  young friend—out with your secret: tell me you love a certain Flora Monteith—that
                  you have long thought her the most beautiful, intellectual, and fascinating of her
                  sex—and, when you have done, I will tell you you have told me nothing that I knew
                  not before."
               "Is it so?" rejoined the other, with a light laugh, and coloring deeply. "But I
                     can tell you something new, I'll lay a wager."
               "Quick! out with it! or perchance I'll learn it from the next man I meet."
               "Without circumlocution, then, know that my hand and heart are pledged to her you
                  wot of."
               "Which proves me no bad prophet," laughed the Colonel; "for when, last night. I
                  saw two figures standing on the lawn, and all above so clear, and all around so
                  bright, I said to Edith—'You moon is in a love-phase; and if, ere long, we have
                  not tidings of her influence this night, then write me down no soothsayer.' But to
                  speak seriously—and Heaven be witness this is no time for jesting—I rejoice at
                  what you tell me, Reginald and congratulate you on your choice; for if ever warm
                  heart and noble spirit existed in woman, then shall you find them in the breast of
                  Flora Monteith."
               "Of that is no one better satisfied than I," replied Beauchamp. "But the matter
                     on which I desire your counsel,
                  Colonel, is in respect to speedy marriage. You and I, at least, can not shut our
                  eyes to the fact, that this dogged obstinacy, on the part of Berkeley, to
                  affording the citizens that protection which they have rightfully demanded, will,
                  if he persists in it, lead to something serious; and it would not surprise me to
                  find civil war one of the consequences. In that case—and we can not foresee what
                  will be our own fates—Flora Monteith might be left dependent on her own resources,
                  which are limited; and on the hospitality of her kins people, who, saving yourself
                  and lady, I much fear are indifferent to her welfare. But as my lawful wife—as
                  Flora Beauchamp—this would not be; for the marriage would insure her against
                  pecuniary want; and should she return to England, as my widow, she would there
                  find warm, devoted friends among my nearest relatives."
               "I have never heard you speak of your family," said the Colonel; "and really know
                  nothing of your history. May I venture to inquire—"
               "Nay," interrupted the other, "make no inquiries, unless you consider such
                  absolutely necessary to establish me in your regard as a gentleman by birth. But
                  if you have doubts—"
               "Now hold you there!" interrupted Bacon in turn. "I have no doubts, Reginald—not
                  I—and I take blame for my inquisitiveness, and cry you pardon!"
               "Good sooth! 'tis I should ask pardon, for withholding what you, as a friend, have
                  fair right to know," rejoined Reginald. "But humor me in my whim for the present,
                  and I trust some time, if we live, to satisfy you on every point."
               "As touching this matter of speedy marriage," returned Bacon, recurring to the
                  main subject—"what says Flora herself?"
               "I scarce know what her mind is on that point," replied Reginald; "for she was too
                  much agitated, last night, to give me answer without further consideration."
               "Well, settle it between yourselves; and whatsoever you decide upon shall have my
                  approbation."
               With this the Colonel quickened the pace of his horse, and the subject was
                  dropped. Our friends now entered another wood, and soon began to ascend a steep
                  hill, which was perhaps a half mile from base to summit. On gaining its highest
                  elevation, the James lay in full view before them: and, on its near bank,
                  immediately at the foot of the eminence, was a small settlement—consisting of some
                  fifteen or twenty dwellings—with a courthouse, church, several storehouses, and
                  other building—and the whole inclosed with palisades, similar to Fairview, though
                  on a much larger scale—the empalement extending far back, and comprising within
                  its limits several hundred acres.
               This place, which we shall term Henrico, now seemed thronged
                  with people, both mounted and afoot; and at the moment our friends came in sight
                  of it, four, horsemen were seen to enter it by the eastern gate.
               "A goodly meeting we shall have, by mine honor!" remarked Bacon. "The people are
                  waking up to this business, and Berkeley had better have a care."
               Descending the hill, our party rode into the town, through the western gate, and
                  drew rein before a large, quaintly-fashioned building, known as the Rugged Bear,
                  where more than a hundred men were already congregated, who greeted the Colonel
                  with three lusty cheers, and, crowding around him, shook his hand, one after
                  another with that heartiness of grasp which snows that the
                  action is not for the sake of mere form, but is prompted by the heart. Beauchamp
                  as the companion and friend of Bacon was received cordially by those who knew him;
                  but he was regarded, politically, merely as a friend to the cause; while the
                  Colonel was looked upon as the "head and front" of the undertaking.
               Dismounting, and giving their horses in charge of the servants, our friends
                  mingled with the crowd—Bacon speaking familiarly to all who approached him,
                  calling each by name, inquiring after their families, and so conducting himself as
                  to still rise in the estimation of those who had before esteemed him most highly.
                  After some half an hour spent in this way, he entered the Rugged Bear, and was for
                  an hour closeted with some half a dozen gentlemen, of influence and standing, who
                  were also his warmest personal friends
               Meantime, there continued to be fresh arrivals rivals from adjacent plantations;
                  and long before the mid-day hour, the assemblage comprised nearly three hundred
                  citizens of Henrico county, all armed, and most of them strong, robust, determined
                  looking men.
               Colonel Bacon now repaired to the court-house—which stood opposite the church,
                  with a large space in front—and mounting a platform, which had been erected for
                  public speaking, addressed his anxious listeners in a style of impassioned and
                  forcible eloquence which has scarcely been surpassed by the patriotic orators who
                  spoke to the people of wrongs and oppressions a hundred years later, and whose
                  names we venerate as the founders of that glorious Independence which is the proud
                  heritage 
                     sf
                     of
                   the sons and daughters of America.
               "Gentlemen of Virginia," he began, "you are this day assembled, at the request of
                  him who addresses you, to take into serious consideration a matter of vital
                  importance—not only to the safety and well-being of yourselves, individually, but
                  of the whole Colony in which you live. A crisis has arrived in the affairs of
                  State, which must terminate in your submission to be governed as slaves, or in
                  your determination to henceforth govern as freemen—as men born with rights, which
                  must be respected, which shall be maintained. Between the points at issue, slavery
                  and freedom, it is for you to choose. Which shall it be? I do not stand before you
                  as a vile demagogue, seeking personal notoriety and advancement at the expense of
                  right and honor! I do not stand here as a mere brawler, a base partisan, a
                  stirrer-up of sedition, an inciter to rebellion! No, Heaven forbid! I stand here
                  as a true patriot, a lover of my country, a respecter of her laws and
                  institutions, and, from my inmost soul, I abjure all that is treasonable. I stand
                  here as an Englishman, born on English soil, brought up on English domain,
                  educated in English schools, and as a man having an inalienable right to English
                  protection, whether on foreign shore or within the sound of London bells. And you,
                  gentlemen of Virginia, as subjects of Great Britain, as contributors to the
                  support of her government, have the same right to her protection as I. And we
                  together ask for that protection, demand that protection, which
                  lies in the power of English law and rule to grant; and to secure such protection,
                  by fair and honorable means, have we this day met; and for this purpose do I stand
                  before you, and appeal to every sense of right, and to every principle of honor,
                  and beyond 
                     hese
                     these
                   do not appeal.
               "All governments," pursued the Colonel, "are morally and legally bound to protect
                  their subjects in all lawful occupations, and more especially against a foreign
                  foe. The vital principle of all general law is security—security to prince,
                  security to peasant—to each and every grade and class of society. Unless it were
                  so, of what use were governments and laws? and who would be found to support
                  them?
               "I need not ask you, gentlemen and fellow citizens, if you feel that security
                  which you should feel on English soil—for your presence here at this time, and the
                  presence of your wives and children within these palisades, without which you dare
                  not let them sleep of nights, renders such question unnecessary. But I would ask
                  you whose fault it is that you are not secure on your own plantations, some of
                  which lie at a distance? Is it the fault of English law—English government—of King
                  and Parliament? No! it is the fault of a grasping, avaricious old gentleman, who,
                  in his better days, and when he was more worthy, received the appointment of
                  Governor of this Colony; and who, for the bad use he now makes of his authority,
                  will doubtless soon be recalled and reprimanded. But, in the meantime, if we yield
                  obedience to his crazy whims, we may all be butchered; and therefore, to oppose
                  his authority, so far as it conflicts with law, justice, and honor, I assert is
                  neither treason nor misdemeanor. He seeks to tie our hands,
                  while he gives permission to our savage foes to rush upon us, armed with weapons
                  reeking with the blood of our friends. Shall we quietly submit to such injustice?
                  If we be men, we can not—and I am proud to say we are men. What then
                  shall we do? Why, arm and pursue our blood-thirsty enemies, and punish them with
                  death and banishment! There is no other course for us, if we would live upon the
                  lands of our purchase—if we would not forsake our happy homes,
                  leaving them to sure destruction, and fly
                  like fugitives, and become wanderers and exiles.
               "I need not now recapitulate the many other causes we have for complaint: they
                  have ere this been laid before you, and you have acted upon them in a becoming
                  manner: at present my business is to tell you that Governor Berkeley will not
                  grant me a commission, as your lawfully elected leader, to go against the
                  Indians—his last answer plainly says so in insulting language—and now the question
                  for your consideration is, shall we go, commission or no commission? I for one
                  reply in the affirmative; and I, probably, have as much to risk in such a venture
                  as the most of you. We have sought, sincerely sought, to act legally in this
                  matter; and if we be compelled to act without authority, the blame for such
                  proceedings can not right-fully be laid to our charge; and so in the end it will
                  appear, when the transactions of all parties shall come up for examination and
                  judgment before the proper authorities of England."
               Bacon spoke for nearly an hour, and was often interrupted with hearty cheers, and
                  other manifestations of approbation. Among other things, he drew a picture of the
                  Colony as it should be, as it might be, and as it now was. He pointed out defects
                  in the recent legislation of a corrupt Assembly; but said the people must blame
                  themselves if this continued—for the election was in their own hands—they, and
                  they alone, could create the House of Burgesses. He referred in a particular
                  manner to recent Indian outrages, named several persons who had been killed. and
                  said that no one's life was secure outside of a fortified settlement; that matters
                  were daily growing worse instead of better; that the savages were every where
                  prowling about, in small parties, seeking defenseless victims; that soon,
                  emboldened by success, they would commence operations on a larger scale; that many
                  plantations were now deserted, the owners having sought security elsewhere,
                  leaving their lands to waste; that such a course must ere long impoverish the
                  country and lead to the most serious consequences not to speak
                  of famine; and that, in his view, all were bound, as good and loyal citizens, to
                  take up arms and strive to establish a lasting peace
               
               "Four times," he said, in conclusion, "since I have been honored by your choice as
                  your leader, have earnest appeals been made to Governor Berkeley, to grant me a
                  legal right to do the will of my constituents; and four times have these appeals
                  been made in vain; and the insulting language which he the last time used to my
                  messenger, clearly shows that all his former promises were only so many
                  subterfuges, to cause delay in our proceedings—but a delay for what purpose is
                  best known to himself—perhaps to better prepare himself to ultimately give a flat
                  refusal to all we have so earnestly prayed for. Now, for myself, I am firmly
                  resolved upon my course of action; and if there are twenty men who will stand by
                  me, I will march into the wilderness, and give battle to the heathen wherever I
                  may find them. Can I count on twenty volunteers among you gentlemen who now stand
                  before me?"
               "Yes! yes! twice twenty! A hundred! You may rely upon us all!" were the several
                  responses from at least fifty voices.
               "Thank you, gentlemen," resumed Bacon: "I now know and feel my strength; and with
                  you to stand by me, I can honestly say, I fear neither the foe before, nor the foe
                  behind. But that we may not be censured by one honest, well-meaning man—for acting
                  too hastily, too rashly, in this matter—one more effort shall be made to procure a
                  commission, and that by me in propria personæ.
                  Yes, gentlemen, I will myself to the Governor, and fairly and honestly lay our
                  case before him, and respectfully and earnestly solicit him to grant us authority
                  to proceed against the Indians. If this effort fail of success, then farewell to
                  all further dalliance. I will forthwith lead all who dare follow me; and, come
                  what come may, none shall have cause to write on my tomb-stone—'He
                  shrunk from his duty.'"
               As Bacon concluded, nine hearty cheers were given him—so great was the excitement,
                  and so popular the speaker.
               At this moment, just as Bacon was about to descend from the stand, a mounted
                  negro, his horse fairly foaming from the speed at which he had been ridden, dashed
                  up to the crowd, where the animal was instantly seized by the bit, by some two or
                  three persons, who must otherwise have been injured, and forced back upon his
                  haunches. The negro—his eyes showing a complete circle of white, his nostrils
                  expanded, and his whole form shaking as with the ague—looked around him with a
                  terrified and bewildered air. Before the persons who had hold of the horse, had
                  time to inflict upon the rider the chastisement which his carelessness seemed to
                  merit, Bacon exclaimed, in an agitated tone:
               "Harm him not, gentlemen! harm him not, He is my house-servant—and, from his look
                  brings fearful tidings. Well, well, Dick—what is it? what is it?"
               "Indians!" gasped the quaking black.
               "Great Heaven!" cried the Colonel, growing deadly pale. "My wife? my cousin?
                  Edith? Flora? Are they—are they—"
               He could not finish the sentence.
               "No! no! Massa George—and—and—and Ceasar," rejoined Dick, his teeth chattering
                  with terror.
               "Well, well—out with it! what of them?"
               "Killed, Massa—Injens kill 'em—and—and Missus Flora sent me here to tell you."
               "Dead?" groaned Bacon: "dead?—my overseer, and the best servant I had—Ceasar—a
                  noble fellow, true and faithful—dead?—butchered by the accursed heathen, whom
                  Berkeley lets loose upon us? What say you to this, gentlemen?"
               "Vengeance! vengeance!" shouted more than a hundred voices. "Lead on, Colonel—we
                  will follow; and if old Berkeley dares to grumble, we'll send him to live among
                  his savage allies."
               Such was in substance what was uttered by many speakers, in reply to Bacon; and
                  great excitement and confusion began to prevail throughout the assemblage.
               Meantime Bacon called to him the terrified negro—who even yet trembled at the
                  recollection of what he had seen, and what he had expected to see, on his lonely
                  ride through the wood; and, after much questioning, got from him the facts of the
                  latest known murders, which were in brief as follows:
               George Browning; Colonel Bacon's overseer, had come over to Bacon's residence,
                  from the negro quarters, soon after the Colonel's departure, and had requested
                  Mrs. Bacon's permission for Ceasar and Dick to accompany him to the wood behind
                  the mansion, for what purpose Dick did not know. In ascending the hill, just back
                  of Fairview, which has more than once been mentioned, Dick hurt his foot, which
                  caused him to linger behind a few paces, and probably saved his life; for, hearing
                  a sudden yell, he looked up, and saw four Indians tomahawking Browning and Ceasar.
                  He remembered running away with a cry of terror; but he was so scared, that this
                  was all he did remember, with the exception that somebody, he thought it was
                  Flora, made him mount a horse and ride hither to inform the Colonel.
               Bacon, on the conclusion of Dick's tale, grew fearfully excited; and clenching and
                  unclenching his hands, and grinding together his teeth, swore a terrible oath,
                  that no earthly consideration should prevent him revenging the murders of his
                  overseer and servant, to the extent of ten lives for each.
               The excitement among the assemblage, caused by the intelligence brought by Dick,
                  soon rose to a very high pitch—and, with some, stopped but little short of actual
                  frenzy. To talk of remaining quiet and peaceable, was now out of the question; no
                  one could say whose turn it might be next to fall a victim to the remorseless
                  savage; and more than fifty at once volunteered to escort Bacon home, and set off
                  in pursuit of the Indians without further delay.
               But the more prudent, fearing the consequences of rashness, advised that Bacon
                  should remove his family to a place of security—see the Governor, according to
                  promise, immediately—lay before him the startling facts, and thus show the
                  necessity for a prompt compliance with their wishes in granting the
                  commission.
               "If this effort fail," said they, "we'll ask no more; but take up our arms, and do
                  what may be requisite to insure peace and safety."
               "Very well, gentlemen," replied Bacon; I will adhere to my promise, and see the
                  Governor forthwith; and, as soon as I return, you shall hear from me."
               Shortly after, he mounted his horse and quitted the settlement, accompanied by
                  Beauchamp and some twenty of his friends, who escorted him safely home.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THE INTERVIEW.
               JAMESTOWN, founded by John Smith, as early as 1607, or thirteen years before the
                  landing of the Puritans on the shores of New England, was, at the date of our
                  story, the capital or seat of government for the Colony of Virginia. It was built
                  on a low, flat, marshy, insalubrious peninsula, formed by a point of land
                  projecting into the James. This peninsula was only joined to the main land by a
                  neck not over ten paces in breadth, and, being so nearly surrounded by water, was
                  generally denominated an island by those who resided upon it. Its extreme length
                  was about two miles, east and west; and its widest part about half that distance,
                  north and south. As before remarked, it was full of swamps and marshes—its water
                  had a muddy look, brackish taste, and not infrequently an offensive smell—and it
                  was generally conceded to be one of the most unhealthy localities in the whole
                  Colony.
               In consequence of all this, the town never flourished in its most prosperous days;
                  and already many settlements had sprung up, which surpassed it in size, beauty,
                  and all that was most desirable for a residence. At the date of our story, the
                  town consisted of a single street, containing some eighteen dwellings, mostly
                  built of brick, with a state or government house, and a large stone church, the
                  latter a really imposing and stately edifice. This street, about three quarters of
                  a mile in length, extended along the southern shore of the island, or peninsula,
                  and near the main body of the waters of the James, which, having begun, a few
                  miles above, to widen into a kind of arm of the ocean, was here some three miles
                  across.
               Of these eighteen dwellings, only some ten or twelve were tenanted and the
                  occupants of these depended for a living upon the keeping of ordinaries, which
                  were patronized by persons whose business called them to town during the sessions
                  of the Assembly, or House of Burgesses, and the Council of State.
               Over the latter the Governor presided in person, and was invested with power to
                  select its members—as also to summon, dismiss, and dissolve both branches of the
                  Legislature—but once he had formally dissolved the Assembly, he could not create a
                  new one, only by an issuing of writs to the sheriffs of the different counties, to
                  have two members from each returned by a proper election, at which election every
                  citizen-landholder was entitled to vote.
               Thus it may be seen, that in the reign of Charles the Second—ay, and even as far
                  back as the reign of his father, Char 'es the First—two centuries ago—more than a
                  hundred years before the American Revolution—the citizens of Virginia enjoyed the
                  freedom of electing the members of the lower House, in a manner not unlike what is
                  still practiced in some of the States of the present National Confederacy.
               True, they had no control over the Governor and his Council—the former of whom
                  received his authority directly from, and was only answerable to, the Crown—and
                  the latter of whom derived their office directly from, and were only answerable to
                  the Governor; but it was something, in those days of tyrannical rule, for the
                  ordinary citizen to have any voice in legislative proceedings; and he
                  felt a certain degree of security and pride in the reflection, that the Assembly,
                  chosen by the people, could countercheck whatever movement of the Governor and his
                  Cabinet would be likely to prove obnoxious and oppressive to the country at large.
                  That the Assembly had not always done so—had not always used their power as they
                  should have done—the present growing crisis was a witness; but this, without in
                  the least impairing the principle, only showed that representatives of the people
                  then, as in our own time, were not always immaculate, incorruptible, and
                  undefiled.
               The government house—or state-house, as we find it most convenient to term
                  it—stood about central way of the village, a little back from the main street,
                     on ground, and fronted toward the river. It was built of
                  brick, two stories in hight, with a chimney at either end, a double portico in
                  front, and a large hall running straight through the center. On one side of this
                  hall was the Council chamber, and directly over it the apartment occupied by the
                  Assembly when in session. On the other side of the hall, opposite the Council
                  chamber, was the Governor's office, or private room, where, when in town—for he
                  spent a portion of his time at his residence, a few miles distant in the
                  country—he could be seen at certain hours, by such persons as had business with
                  him of a secret or personal nature.
               In this office, about nine o'clock in the morning, on the third or fourth day
                  after the events related in the previous chapter, a man was seated, in a large
                  arm-chair, which stood between a table, covered with books and papers, and a wide,
                  deep fire-place, wherein a wood fire was burning and crackling—for though in the
                  month of May, as previously remarked, the last night had been damp and foggy; and
                  the air of Jamestown was, even in the summer, never dry and pure, but such as to
                  predispose one to fever and ague, to say nothing worse.
               The personage alluded to, was a man hard verging upon seventy
                  winters, of a stoutish build, with a full, rubicund countenance, that seemed to
                  bear tokens of one who had all his life been a good liver, and who had used
                  stimulants freely, though probably seldom to excess. The features were regular,
                  but were strongly marked by lines of both age and passion. The expression of the
                  face, in repose, was that of one who felt his own self-importance, and in whom
                  courage, caution and cunning were combined to a somewhat remarkable degree. The
                  eye was clear and bold; but if you looked at it closely, you fancied you saw in it
                  something crafty and sinister, and yet felt that it could be rendered very
                  fascinating. A noble generosity, a kind benevolence, and that charity which can
                  view the faults of others in a softened light, all seemed to be wanting; and in
                  place of these, was a certain harshness of aspect, a lurking vindictiveness, which
                  might easily be roused into something almost demoniac. The face, therefore, was
                  not noble, and not prepossessing; and yet the man seemed not wholly base. Good and
                  evil appeared so mingled in his nature, that he might consistently do a noble
                  action or a mean one; and he could show one side to a friend, and another to a
                  foe, as opposite almost as light and darkness. He had, moreover, the look of one
                  who had long been used to dictate and domineer, and have his decision regarded as
                  a judgment from which there was no appeal.
               His costume was a mingling of the fashions in vogue in the reigns of Charles the
                  First and Charles the Second. He wore a long, loose doublet of silk, with slashed
                  sleeves, and a broad, falling collar of point lace, which, from being so generally
                  represented in the portraits of Vandyke, has come to be termed after this great
                  master, the Vandyke collar. He also wore breeches and stockings, of different
                  colored silk, looped at the knee with ribbons; and high-heeled, broad-toed shoes,
                  ornamented with ribbons also. His rapier was suspended by a broad, loose belt,
                  richly wrought, which passed over his right shoulder, and fell transversely across
                  his back. A short velvet cloak depended from the right shoulder, and a low-crowned
                  beaver hat, looped up on one side, and ornamented with a gay feather, disposed
                  along the broad brim, completed his attire. His hat now lay on the table beside
                  him; and in consequence his head was uncovered—exposing a few long locks of thin,
                  gray hair; and a forehead broad and intellectual, but not high—and seamed with
                  age, thought, care, and even trouble.
               The room in which this personage sat, was not large, and was only furnished with
                  the aforementioned table, some half a dozen chairs, and a small book-case,
                  partially concealed by silk hangings. At the moment we introduce the occupant to
                  the reader's notice, he was thoughtfully perusing a paper which he held in his
                  hand, and which bore evidence of having been received through a postal channel.
                  While thus engaged, a sharp quick rap was heard on the door; and hastily putting
                  the paper aside, he said, in a rather
                  gruff tone, as if angry at being thus interrupted:
               "Come in! come in!"
               The door opened, ere the words were fairly out of his mouth, and Colonel Bacon
                  stood in the presence of Sir William Berkeley—for, as the reader has doubtless
                  anticipated, the occupant of that apartment was no other than the Governor of
                  Virginia. The look of Bacon, as his eye fell upon Sir William's, was serious even
                  to sternness; and the latter, perceiving who was his visitor, changed color, and
                  seemed for the moment not a little embarrassed.
               "Good morning, Governor," said Bacon, in a bland tone, forcing a smile, and at the
                  same time advancing to the other and offering his hand, which the Governor seized
                  with a great show of cordiality. "I trust I see your honor well the day?"
               "Ah! well, yes—as well as may be—as well as may be, my friend," replied Sir
                  William, doubling his words, as was his habit, and seeming no longer embarrassed,
                  but speaking in a frank, off-hand tone, which he could assume at will, even when
                  in his heart he hated the person he so addressed, by which means many were
                  deceived and overreached during his administration. "As well as may be, my dear
                  Bacon, considering that the gout is my worst enemy, and seldom lays down his arms.
                  Odd's blood, man! but you look woefully serious—woefully serious. What's the
                  matter? what's the news? Sit down, Colonel, and let us have it."
               "I have cause to be serious, your honor," replied 
                     Baacon
                     Bacon
                  , seating himself near the Governor. "Your honor has never sent me a
                  commission to go against the Indians, and they repay your generous forbearance by
                  butchering all they can get their hands on."
               "Indeed! indeed! this must be looked to," replied Sir William, hastily; "must be
                  looked to, indeed, sir!"
               "The last victims I have to name to your honor," pursued Bacon, in a pointed tone,
                  that gave his words a kind of sarcastic force, "are one of my house-servants, whom
                  I prized beyond money, and my overseer."
               "Ha! say you so?" cried the Governor "The audacious heathens! I will annihilate
                  them, sir—annihilate them!"
               "Words are well, but actions better," was the sententious rejoinder.
               "Well, sir well, sir—the last shall follow quickly on the first!" replied the
                  Governor, reddening, and seeming a little nettled.
               "I trust it may be so, your honor," said Bacon, drily. "Were I Governor, however,
                  the two should go together in this case—or, if there were any difference, the
                  latter should have precedence: I would act first, and talk afterward."
               "One must never be too hasty, my young friend—never be too hasty," said Berkeley,
                  fidgeting.
               "If the assassin's knife were at your honor's throat, would you think any action,
                  that saved your life, too hasty?" asked the other, quietly.
               "That's a different case, Mr. Bacon—a different case, sir."
               "Yes," returned Bacon, ironically, with a slightly sneering expression, which the
                  Governor did not fail to perceive—"in so much is it different, that your honor
                  would be in danger of having blood let, and not the people."
               "I don't understand such insinuations, Mr. Bacon," replied Sir William, flushing
                  with anger, and beginning to grow much excited. "If you have come here, sir—"
               "I have come here, your honor," interrupted the other, looking Berkeley full in
                  the eye, "to tell you that the savages are busy on the borders, murdering my
                  countrymen and yours; that they are laying waste the country; that there is no
                  security beyond a fortification; that good citizens are leaving their plantations
                  and seeking protection elsewhere; that the time has come for action; that I have
                  been chosen leader of a body of determined men; and, finally, that I am here to
                  beseech your honor, in the name of the good and loyal citizens of Henrico, to
                  grant me a commission to proceed against the Indians without further delay."
               "Well, well, Mr. Bacon, I will see to it—I will see to it, sir."
               "Will your honor see to it at once?"
               "Very soon—very soon."
               "But why not now, your honor? It will take you but a few minutes to
                  fill out and sign a document, which may be the means of saving many lives, and
                  which shall lay your humble servant under the deepest obligations."
               "Why," hesitated the wily old Knight, "I would do so with pleasure, if the matter
                  were merely a personal concern; but this being of great political importance—great
                  political importance, Mr. Bacon—I must needs lay it before my Council, and take
                  their advice. In a few days now, sir, the Council and Assembly will both be in
                  session; and then, sir, action shall be had upon the matter—at once—at once, sir,
                  believe me."
               "Governor Berkeley," rejoined Bacon, fixing his dark, penetrating eye full upon
                  the other, and speaking in a slow, deliberate, emphatic tone—"I believe you have
                  sworn in your heart that I shall not have a commission on any consideration
                  whatever."
               "Odd's life, sir! what reasons have you for thinking so?"
               "This is the fifth time you have been asked; and since first asked, days—ay, your
                  honor, even weeks—have elapsed, and yet you seem as far now as then from granting
                  what you have never had the manly boldness to peremptorily refuse. You have even
                  promised the commission—but not, like a man of honor, kept your promise."
               "'Sdeath, sir!" cried Berkeley, starting up and striking his sword-hilt, "I'll not
                  suffer any man to address such language to me!"
               Bacon smiled—but his smile was dark and almost sinister; and calmly rising, he
                  stepped to the door, opened it, drew the key from the other side, shut and locked
                  it, and again withdrew the key, ere the Governor had fairly
                  comprehended what was his purpose.
               "Now then, Sir William," he said, again fixing his dark, penetrating eye upon the
                  other, who instantly turned pale and seemed alarmed, "we are alone, man to man,
                  and need fear no intrusion."
               "What do you intend to do, sir? murder me?" cried the old Knight, rallying.
               "No! I neither intend to cut your honor's throat, nor let your honor cut mine,"
                  replied the Colonel. "The most serious intent I have, is to speak to your honor
                  such words as best suit my humor: wherefore I pray your honor to again be
                  seated."
               "By my knighthood, sir, I like not this—I like not this, Mr. Bacon, I assure you,"
                  returned Sir William.
               "Nor do I like the manner in which I have been treated," replied the Colonel,
                  deliberately reseating himself. The Governor likewise resumed his seat, and Bacon
                  went on. "Four times," he continued, "have I sent to your honor the most civil of
                  messages, praying you to do what your own sense of right, and the state of the
                  country should have led you to do voluntarily. Twice did you promise fairly to
                  grant my request—and not only mine, but that of hundreds of others; the third time
                  you equivocated; and the fourth you saw proper, not only to insult my messenger,
                  but sent me by him an insulting answer."
               "The young man, sir—Beauchamp I suppose you allude to—was too forward—too bold,"
                  rejoined Berkeley, hastily.
               "Well, I am here myself, on the same errand, Governor; and probably your honor
                  will think me too bold also!"
               "I do, Mr. Bacon—candidly, I do: I think you have forgotten your station and mine,
                  sir."
               "No, Sir William, I have not forgotten either," rejoined the other, with a
                  peculiar smile. "I know your honor is the Governor of this Colony, and therefore
                  the head of its government; and I know also that I am a citizen of this Colony,
                  and therefore entitled to the protection of its government; and that protection I,
                  as a good and loyal citizen, demand of the government, through you, its chief
                  ruler."
               "And in good time, sir, the protection you ask shall be granted, Mr. Bacon."
               "I am at a loss to know what you esteem a good time, Governor,'
                  replied Bacon, pointedly—"unless it be when all who are dissatisfied with the
                  present state of affairs, shall have been butchered in cold blood."
               
               "I can not act without my Council," rejoined Sir William, evasively.
               "Then let your Council be summoned at once, and have the matter decided
                  immediately. The members are all in town, for I saw each this morning. I myself,
                  being one of your honor's Council, will boldly stand champion for my own cause;
                  and if I lay not before the others such weighty reasons as shall induce them to a
                  unanimous assent that I receive from your honor the commission I require,
                  forthwith, I will return to my constituents, and report your honor no more in
                  fault than your advisers."
               "You delight in being sarcastic, sir; but you will gain nothing by it, Mr.
                  Bacon—nothing, sir—nothing—absolutely nothing," said the Governor, in an angry
                  tone.
               "You refuse then to have the Council summoned?"
               "All are not in town, sir; you are mistaken; one is absent—the most important
                  member, sir, for this conference—your cousin."
               "It is your honor that is mistaken," returned the young Colonel. "My cousin,
                  Nathaniel Bacon, is in town, for I spoke with him not an hour since.
                  Come, Governor, what is your next excuse? out with it!"
               "In short, sir," replied Berkeley, much nettled, "I am not ready for this business
                  today. I have just received intelligence from England that requires my immediate
                  attention, sir—my immediate attention."
               Bacon looked the old Knight steadily in the face for some moments; and then, his
                  lip curling with a sneer, said, in a tone of cutting irony.
               "Were you ever ready to do justice, Sir William?"
               "Odd's blood, sir!" cried the fiery old Knight, bounding from his seat, and
                  striking the hilt of his sword so that the steel rung in the scabbard: "were I
                  forty years younger, sir, you should answer for such insults with your blood—your
                  heart's blood, sir! But, sir, by the dragon's teeth! were forty years off of these
                  aged limbs, you would not dare, sir—mark! I say dare—you
                  would not dare, Mr. Bacon, to utter in my presence the words that
                  have passed your lips during this interview!"
               A fiery light gleamed from Bacon's dark eye, as he fixed it with penetrating
                  intensity upon Berkeley's while he was speaking; but he moved not in his seat; and
                  when the other had done, he rejoined, with a slight curl of his lip:
               "Dare is a bold word and strong, for any man forty years younger than Governor
                  Berkeley to use to my father's son; and I hesitate not to say, that were Sir
                  William Berkeley forty years younger, he should not have laid his hand twice upon
                  his sword, as he has done in my presence, to say nothing of other provocation, and
                  lived to boast of is. You very sensibly remind me of your age, Governor; and that
                  shall serve you better than youth and coat of mail. Unless you become assailant, I
                  will not cross swords with you, Sir William. So pray be seated again, and bear in
                  mind that, sometimes, 'discretion is the better part of valor.' And
                  now that fighting is out of the question, will your honor condescend to inform me
                  what motive influences you to refuse me a commission?"
               For some moments Berkeley made no reply—but paced up and down the room in a very
                  excited manner—Bacon the while keeping his black, piercing eye steadily fixed upon
                  him. At length the fiery old Knight paused, confronted his unwelcome visitor, and
                  answered sharply:
               "Your own ungentlemanly conduct, Mr. Bacon, should be motive sufficient for
                  refusing you a commission, if I had no other. But aside from this,
                  sir, the Indians have been shamefully treated—shamefully treated—and, 'fore
                  Heaven! they ought to retaliate. Soon after hostilities commenced, they sent six
                  of their great men, their chiefs, to sue for peace. How were they received by the
                  whites, sir?—how were they received, I ask? They were slain, sir—slain—butchered
                  in cold blood—murdered, sir, with the olive branch in their hands. Odd's life! it
                  was outrageous—outrageous, sir, beyond precedent. If they had killed my
                  grandfather and grandmother, my father and mother, and all my friends, yet if they
                  had come to treat of peace, they should have gone in peace."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *This sentence, verbatim, was uttered by Sir William Berkeley.
               
               "And according to your honor's notions of justice, the remainder of the accursed
                  heathen should now, I suppose, have the privilege of laying waste the whole
                  Colony, murdering all the whites, in order to obtain revenge for the loss of six
                     innocent barbarians, of as many tribes, who began the strife, and
                  only sued for peace when they found their own throats in danger of being cut by
                  their justly exasperated foes!" replied Bacon, with sarcastic bitterness. "This is
                  the justice of Virginia's Governor, is it? Heaven deliver the people
                  from such a ruler!"
               "Go!" cried Berkeley, foaming with rage—"I'll hold no further converse with
                  you!"
               "I go," returned Bacon, rising and approaching the door. "My mission here is
                  ended. Words no more—but deeds, Sir William—deeds!" and the young
                  Colonel tapped the hilt of his sword in a significant manner.
               "Have a care, Mr. Bacon! have a care, sir, what you do!" cried the Governor,
                  menacingly.
               "I throw back the implied threat in your honor's teeth—Have a care, Sir William!
                  have a care!" and with these words Bacon opened the door and quitted the presence
                  of the Governor of Virginia.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               CONFEDERATES.
               IT was in no enviable state of mind that Colonel Bacon crossed the state-house
                  green and took his way along the single street of Jamestown already mentioned.
                  With his hands clenched, and his eyes bent on the ground, he was hurrying forward,
                  regardless of every thing around him, when a tall man, some forty-five or fifty
                  years of age, of a kindly, benevolent look, but grave aspect, crossed over from
                  the other side of the street, and, laying his hand on his shoulder, said:
               "Well, Nathaniel?"
               "Ah! cousin, is it you?" returned young Bacon, looking up with a start. "Pardon
                  me! I did not perceive you."
               "You seem excited," rejoined the other, mildly.
               "And I have cause.'
               "You have seen the Governor, then?"
               "Yes! and he willfully refuses me the commission. I would that his old neck lay at
                  the mercy of the dear savages whom he thinks have been so shamefully abused!"
               "Come, come—this is not proper language, Nathaniel," said the elder Bacon,
                  seriously, "to use of Virginia's chief ruler. Sir William has his faults—"
               "No one need tell me that, cousin," interrupted the other, sneeringly. "A blind
                  man could see that; but the best-sighted might look long for his virtues."
               "Not so, young man—not so. You are hasty, passionate, and rash; and are not likely
                  to perceive virtues in any one who may thwart a design on which you have set your
                  heart."
               "Be it so, cousin, and a good morning to you. I am in no humor to argue the
                  matter."
               "Stay, kinsman," returned the elder. Bacon, kindly, as the fiery young Colonel was
                  about to move away. "Is this a way to treat the cousin of your father, and your
                  best friend?" he added, in a tone of reproach.
               "Your pardon, sir, for my rudeness and unkindness to one to whom I owe so
                  much!—but when you would use my bad qualities as a foil to set off old Berkeley's
                  virtues, I must beg to be excused any part in the conversation."
               "Nathaniel," rejoined the other, gravely—"whatever may be Sir William's failings,
                  you should not speak so disrespectfully of one so much your senior. It looks not
                  well in one of your years to forget the reverence due to age."
               "To virtuous age, I grant you," replied the younger Bacon, hastily; "but I
                  acknowledge no reverence for any hoary-headed old sinner, no matter what his
                  station. As to Governor Berkeley, I say nothing behind his back that I would not
                  just as freely say to his face. For that matter, cousin, I have told him, to his
                  very teeth, what would greatly shock you to hear me repeat."
               "I am sorry, Nathaniel, to hear you say so—for he is one who does not easily
                  forgive an insult."
               "What! not with all his many virtues?" returned the other, smiling
                  disdainfully.
               
               "I have said, sir," was the rather sharp response, "that Sir William has his
                  failings, And you also have yours, which I would were less glaring. You are
                  willful, stubborn, hot headed, rash—"
               "That will do, sir," interrupted the other. quickly. "These will do for the
                  present. You can name the others some other time, when I have more leisure. At
                  present, I have weighty considerations on my mind; and with your good leave, will
                  bid you good morning."
               "But what course do you intend to pursue with regard to this Indian business?"
               "The course that leads to the wilderness," was the sententious reply.
               "But you will not venture without a commission?" cried the other, with a look of
                  alarm.
               "Most assuredly, unless the Governor sends one after me."
               "Nay, nay, Nathaniel—do not be so rash! You will certainly get into
                  difficulty."
               "You mean me well, dear cousin, I know; but were you my father, instead of my
                  father's kinsman, it were useless for you to plead against my fixed determination.
                  You are Berkeley's counselor and friend reason him into doing right,
                  and my deeds will not be wrong. I go to serve my country—to protect
                  my fellow citizens—and I go with a true and loyal spirit. If Governor Berkeley
                  shall seek to thwart my purpose, let him look to it! Fare you well, dear sir, till
                  we meet again—and Heaven's choicest blessings be upon you!"
               Colonel Bacon the elder, looked sadly after his departing kinsman; and then, as he
                  withdrew his gaze, and turned his steps toward the state-house, he murmured,
                  shaking his head dubiously:
               "Imprudent, imprudent, imprudent young man! He will ruin himself, and all my
                  hopes; and I shall yet live to die wealthy, childless, and without an heir."
               Colonel Bacon the younger continued his course along the main thoroughfare of
                  Jamestown, till he came to a building of rather better appearance than its
                  neighbors, with a sign swinging in front, which proclaimed it to be an inn.
                  Walking straight to the math entrance, he opened the door, and entered a large,
                  cheerful-looking apartment, which served both as a bar and general sitting-room.
                  Here were congregated several gentlemen, who were sitting or lounging about, and,
                  in distinct groups, were conversing on various topics. To some of these Bacon
                  nodded familiarly; but the moment he caught the eye of the host—a hale, good
                  looking, middle-aged gentleman—the two exchanged significant glances; and the
                  latter coming forward, said, in a careless tone:
               "If you have time, Colonel Bacon, I will now show you what we were speaking of
                  this morning. And Mr. Drummond (turning to a tall, spare built personage, of about
                  his own age, whose high cheek bones, rugged features, and other distinguishing
                  marks, proclaimed him of Scotch extraction), if you have leisure, you may step
                  this way also."
               Colonel Lawrence, the host, led the way, and the persons named followed him. The
                  trio passed out of the room by a side door, and ascending a flight of stairs,
                  entered a small apartment, plainly but neatly furnished.
               "Here," said Colonel Lawrence, closing the door, and pointing his guests to seats,
                  "we can safely speak on matters which most concern us. Well, Bacon, have you seen
                  the Governor? and to what purpose?"
               "Yes, I have seen the old fool," replied Bacon, angrily; "and you may readily
                  guess to what purpose."
               "He refuses you the commission, of course?"
               Bacon nodded, and shut his teeth hard.
               "Point blank?" inquired Drummond.
               "A cask of wine against a pound of tobacco—no!" rejoined Lawrence. "He
                  equivocated: said he would grant the commission—or would see about it shortly—eh!
                  Bacon?"
               "Words to that effect," replied the latter.
               "I knew it," cried Lawrence, laughing. "He refuse point blank, with
                  Bacon facing him! Pshaw! the thing is not in his hypocritical nature. Unless," he
                  added, a moment after, "our young friend here made him very angry—in which case he
                     might speak out, in the heat of his excitement."
               "I perceive you know him well," rejoined Bacon, with a grim smile.
               "Too well," returned Lawrence, emphatically: "too well, Colonel."
               "Well, let us hear what passed between you?" said Drummond.
               Bacon proceeded to give the particulars of his interview with Governor Berkeley.
                  His hearers both listened with intense interest to the details; and when he had
                  concluded, Drummond exclaimed, excitedly:
               "Bravely done, sir! bravely done! By the martyr's bones! I would I had been an
                  unseen looker-on! You told him some plain truths, without garnish; and it were
                  better for the old Knight if he heard the truth a little oftener. But it's not to
                  be supposed he will, while he keeps about him such a set of lying sycophants."
               "You need hope for no other favor in that quarter, Colonel Bacon," said Lawrence.
                  "There is not a more vindictive man living than Sir William; and you may rest
                  assured he will seek, by every underhanded means, to revenge himself upon you. But
                  so long as you stand well with the people, you may boldly defy him; and at
                  present, I do not say it to flatter you, there is no man more popular with all
                  classes, Berkeley's clique excepted, than yourself. All seem to look to you as
                     the man for the crisis; and it is boldly predicted that you will
                  go against the Indians, whether you get a commission or net."
               "If I live, that prediction will be verified," replied Bacon, firmly.
               "And the country will sustain you," pursued Lawrence. "I know the minds of the
                  people in all sections—for my business, as an inn-keeper, gives me rare
                  opportunities for gathering public opinion—and I pledge you my honor, as a
                  gentleman, that the whole country will sustain you in this course. Berkeley will
                  undoubtedly fume, and swear, and rave, and threaten —but you must not mind all
                  that. If he stops there, well and good; but should he be so foolish as to attempt
                  any thing serious, I tell you, Colonel, he will soon find that he carries a
                  lighted torch in a powder magazine—that he is firing the train of a mine that may
                  scatter his old bones to the four winds of heaven!"
               "Ay, Bacon," chimed in Drummond—"the country looks to you as its savior from great
                  oppression in various forms; and only go forward and do your duty boldly, justly,
                  and faithfully, and you need have no fear of the result. Colonel Lawrence and
                  myself are pledged to your support; and it is not too much to say, we have many
                  friends whom Berkeley is foolish enough to believe are among his warmest
                  adherents. The truth is, he is unfit for the station he occupies, and every
                  sensible gentleman knows it. Why, when I was Governor of Carolina, I would just as
                  soon have thought of sheathing my sword in my own body, as of resisting such an
                  appeal, for redress of grievances, as has been made to Sir William. The man is
                  made evidently: he has lost his foresight, if he ever had any: and, my word for
                  it, if he lives to return to England, it will be in disgrace."
               In like manner the conversation proceeded, for an hour, when Bacon rose and
                  declared that he must immediately set out for Henrico.
               "My friends, to the number of three hundred and more, are there, armed and ready,
                  and only await my return to set off to the wilderness," he said. "Depend upon it,
                  gentlemen, you shall hear a good account of us ere many days."
               The party then descended to one of the lower apartments, where Bacon partook of
                  some refreshments, and drank a bottle of wine with his friends, to the success of
                  his contemplated undertaking; and soon after, mounting his steed, he rode out of
                  Jamestown, across the neck, followed by two mounted servants in livery.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE OVERT ACT.
               IN an upper apartment of one of the best dwellings of Henrico,
                  whither he had removed his family for security, Colonel Bacon stood beside his
                  gentle wife, on the third morning after his departure from Jamestown. She was
                  seated beside a small table on which her arms rested, with her face bowed upon
                  them and was weeping and sobbing as if her heart would break. Colonel Bacon stood
                  leaning over her, with a tear in his eye,
                  and on his countenance an expression of deep, affectionate anxiety.
               "Come, come, my lily, cheer up!" he said, tenderly: "this is no fit mood for a
                  soldier's wife. How can I go forward with a stout heart, if I know the dearest
                  heart on earth is breaking for my absence?"
               But the poor wife only sobbed the harder, and made no effort to reply.
               "It is no pleasant task for me, dearest Edith, to withdraw myself from your sweet
                  presence. believe me; and nothing but my honest conviction that such is my duty,
                  should induce me to quit your side for a moment but every one should nerve himself
                  to do his duty, be it what it may. Come, come, love—look up—cheer up, and let me,
                  ere I go, behold the sunshine of a smile on that dear face, where so long have
                  rested the shadows of the clouds of gloom."
               "How can I smile to look upon you for the last time?" sobbed Mrs. Bacon, with her
                  face still hid from his view.
               "The last time, my little trembler! Pooh! this is nonsense—sheer nonsense. I shall
                  return in a few days in glorious triumph; and your now little faint heart shall
                  then swell with pride to hear what men shall say of him you love."
               "Ah! Nathan, Nathan—my dear, dear husband," returned Mrs. Bacon, raising her eyes
                  to his, and struggling to speak calmly, though her voice trembled and her lips
                  quivered; "do not attempt to deceive yourself, nor me. Men will praise you,
                  perhaps, so long as you serve them well, and they find it to their interest to do
                  so; but the moment they see you encompassed by such perils as shall peril them to
                  stand steadfastly your friends, then will you see them withdraw, with a cold,
                  freezing, if not scornful air, leaving you to do battle alone against the dangers
                  created by an over zeal in their behalf. O, my dear husband, it is fearful enough
                  for a weak, simple creature like myself to contemplate the danger of your
                  proceeding against the savages; but when I bear in mind, that you may only escape
                  the perils of the wilderness to suffer for the transgression of law on your
                  return, I sicken with terror at the idea."
               Bacon endeavored to soothe her and calm her troubled mind. He told her there was
                  nothing to fear; that so far from taking any steps against him, for doing his
                  country a service, Berkeley would yet approve of his course, and shower upon him
                  new honors. He then pressed his lips to hers in the most affectionate
                  manner—strained her trembling form to his heart and, with the tender words,
                  "Good-bye, dearest wife—may God send us a speedy and happy meeting!" was about to
                  tear himself hastily from her dear presence, when, to his dismay, he found she had
                  swooned in his embrace.
               Gently 
                     lfting
                     lifting
                   her in his arms, he bore her into an adjoining apartment, laid her on a
                  bed, and, with quivering lips, murmured:
               "Alas! poor little flower! But perhaps it is better thus." And hastily summoning a
                  female domestic, he bade the latter call Mistress Flora, and say to her, her
                  cousin had fainted.
               While this scene was taking place above stairs, Flora Monteith stood in the
                  embrazure of a window, screened from the observation of any one without by a
                  crimson curtain, which partly cut off the view of the street into which the window
                  looked. Be side her stood Reginald Beauchamp, with one of her soft, white hands
                  clasped in his. Her beautiful features, alternately flushing and paling with
                  strong and contending emotions, were partly turned from him, and her black,
                  speaking eyes were resting on the ground.
               "I will not admit, dear Flora," he went on, in connection with something that had
                  gone before, "that I have any 
                     presntiment
                     presentiment
                   of coming evil; but, on the contrary, believe that we shall return from
                  our expedition in triumph: yet, as I have before remarked, I most sincerely regret
                  that you have not thought proper to allow me to provide for you, pecuniarily,
                  against whatever may chance to myself, by a bond of union over which death has no
                  further power than earthly separation, and which would, in any event, give you
                  legal possession of a competence. Still, as this design on my part conflicts with
                  your ideas of propriety, I will not further urge you to compliance with my wishes,
                  but trust that fate has in store great happiness for both."
               "I know," replied Flora, in a tremulous voice, "that your design, dear Reginald,
                  is noble, and in the highest degree unselfish—and, so far as you are
                  concerned, the world might so view it; but, at the same time, as I have before
                  told you, slanderous tongues might attribute to me a motive directly opposite; and
                  I should be rendered most unhappy, by even so much as a whisper that aught but
                  sincere regard, true affection—nay, love if you will, deep and pure—had influenced
                  me in the bestowal of my hand."
               "Heaven bless you, dearest Flora! Heaven bless you!" cried the other, rapturously.
                  "If ever you become mine, by the most sacred of ties, I pray this heart may cease
                  to beat ere it ceases to prize you beyond every thing earthly. Ha! I hear
                  steps—doubtless they are our leader's—and therefore I must away. Heaven send our
                  meeting may be soon! There—adieu! adieu!—may God guard, protect, and preserve
                  you!" And the prayer that came from the heart was sealed upon the lips of the
                  trembling maiden.
               At this moment the door of the apartment was opened hastily, and a mulatto
                  serving-woman exclaimed, in a voice of alarm:
               "Quick! Missus Flora—hurry up stairs! Missus Edith has fainted, Master says—but I
                  think she's dying."
               With a cry of surprise and horror, Flora sprang forward; and, almost flying up the
                  stairs, was quickly in the presence of her unconscious cousin."
               "Our parting interview has proved too much for her weak nerves," said Colonel
                  Bacon, in an agitated voice. "Comfort her, console her, Flora! Heaven bless you
                  both! and a brief farewell to each. I will tear myself away while she remains
                  unconscious of the separation. Adieu! adieu! adieu!" and snatching a hasty kiss
                  from the pale lips of the dear partner of his bosom, who now began to show signs
                  of returning animation, Colonel Bacon hurried out of the room, down the stairs,
                  and, with a "Come, my friend, come!" to Beauchamp, who met him on the way, rushed
                  forth from the house in no enviable state of mind.
               Hastening to the court-house green, he there placed himself at the head of some
                  three hundred men; and soon after the whole body filed out through the impalement
                  before described, and began their toilsome and perilous march into the wilderness,
                  in quest of their savage foes, accompanied by the blessings and prayers of weeping
                  mothers, sisters, wives, and children, who remained behind.
               Into the wilderness we do not purpose to follow them—at least with the intention
                  of placing before the reader any thing like a detail of their daily progress and
                  daily events. Suffice it to say, that they shaped their course westward and
                  northward, toward the Blue Ridge mountains and the head-waters of those streams,
                  which, after devious wanderings through rich and fertile valleys, discharge
                  themselves into that arm of the ocean known as Chesapeake Bay.
               For several days no incidents occurred worthy of record. The hostile savages, who
                  scoured the country in small parties of from six to twenty, were too alert to
                  permit themselves to be surprised by a foe who left so broad a trail and moved not
                  so light and stealthy as a cat. At length, convinced that this mode of warfare was
                  likely to be more fatiguing than effective, Bacon held a consultation with a few
                  of his friends—Beauchamp among the number—regarding the expediency of dividing
                  into parties of fifty—which, if thought proper, might be subdivided—and each and
                  every division have a leader, and be assigned a certain section of country, with a
                  general rendezvous for an appointed time, and all be under the control of the
                  leader of the expedition.
               One day, about the mid hour, while encamped in the forest, with this proposition
                  of Bacon's under consideration, all were surprised at hearing the trampling of a
                  horse, and presently a rider was seen urging forward his weary beast. On nearing
                  the camp, he was stopped and surrounded by a large number of the men, who, with
                  anxious faces, eagerly demanded his news—for that something of great consequence
                  had happened, all believed.
               "I wish to communicate with Colonel Bacon," said the messenger, who seemed greatly
                  fatigued from his long ride.
               
               "I am he you seek," said Bacon, approaching the horseman, who instantly dismounted
                  and drew him aside; when he said, in a low tone:
               "My name is Forsyth, at your service, and I bring you important intelligence from
                  Jamestown. This letter, from Colonel Lawrence, will explain.
               Bacon seized the letter, cut the ribbon which bound it, and, opening it eagerly,
                  read as follows:
               "To the Hon. Nathaniel Bacon, Jr., Colonel of the Militia, and Commander of the
                  Henrico Volunteers: These: 
                     "MY DEAR FRIEND!
                     "Inclosed you will see the Proclamation of the Governor, declaring you, and
                        all with you concerned, rebels and traitors to king and country. The old fox
                        has been drawing on the lion's skin; but it fits him so loosely that nobody
                        is deceived; and he is still regarded as an old fox, much hampered by very
                        awkward toggery. In other words, Berkeley, having received news of your
                        departure for the wilderness, has been influenced, by his own vindictive
                        nature and the advice of some of his Council—who, jealous of your great and
                        growing popularity, wish to have you disgraced—to issue the aforesaid
                        Proclamation; and is now actively raising forces, on both sides of the
                        river, for the purpose, I believe, of marching against you. But have so
                        fear. We know here what we know; and Sir William will ere long know much
                        that he don't know now. I tell you the truth when I say, that Berkeley will
                        not go far, ere he will hear such news, of what is taking place behind him,
                        as shall bring him, for very fear, back to Jamestown with all speed. I say,
                        my dear Bacon, fear not—fear not—you are not alone in this business. Press
                        on! do your duty like a man! and, when you return, you shall have good
                        tidings. I dare not be more explicit in a communication which may possibly
                        be intercepted. I repeat, go forward—do your duty—and fear not!
                     "And believe me, I have the honor to be, my dear Colonel,
                     "YOUR SINCERE FRIEND."
                  
               
               There was no date to this epistle, which was signed in this anonymous manner; but
                  Bacon knew, from the messenger, that it came from Colonel Lawrence. He then read
                  the accompanying Proclamation; which, in due form, set forth himself and followers
                  as rebels and traitors—threatening each and all with the severest visitation of
                  the injured law, in the confiscation of all real estate and other property,
                  together with imprisonment, and even death—unless, before a certain day named,
                  they should throw down their arms, and disperse to their several homes—which it
                  entreated them, as good and loyal citizens, to do—promising them, for such
                  compliance, free and ample pardon for all past offenses. This bore date, May the
                  29th, 1676, and the signatures of Sir William Berkeley, as Governor of the Colony,
                  and Sir Henry Chicheley as Secretary.
               On perusing it, Bacon became almost frantic with passion—stormed and swore in the
                  most vehement manner—and boldly declared that, sooner than lay down his arms, he
                  would march to Jamestown, kill Governor and Council, and assume the reins of
                  government himself. When he had become a little more composed, he mounted the
                  trunk of a fallen tree, and read the Proclamation to his men.
               But, to his surprise and chagrin, it was not received, by the majority, with that
                  air of indignation and defiance which he had anticipated. On the contrary, the
                  countenances of three-fourths of his followers showed that they were really
                  alarmed for the consequences of a proceeding which they knew to be illegal; and
                  Bacon saw, with deep mortification, that but few, and scarcely one of these
                  land-holders; would be likely to give him steadfast support in his rash
                  undertaking. He made them a speech, calculated to inspire them with confidence in
                  the cause they were pursuing—avowing his own determination of never shrinking from
                  what he conceived to be a patriotic duty; and asserting for a fact, that if they
                  would remain firm, Berkeley would retract his words and concede to all their
                  demands.
               But he talked to men who lacked his bold unquailing spirit—to men who owned
                  property and had families—from which and whom the possibility of an immediate and
                  eternal separation being effected, by an open defiance of the laws of the land,
                  was an idea too fearful to harbor; and they suddenly became lukewarm in a cause
                  which they had espoused with such great ardor. A few of Bacon's warmest
                  adherents—men without property—adventurers—persons who had more to gain than
                  lose—cheered him enthusiastically; but the majority remained coldly silent.
               After his speech, the matter was discussed in groups; and the different parties
                  were occupied the most of the day in settling upon their proper course of action
                  under the circumstances.
               Bacon, finding the larger number were determined to return home forthwith, in
                  spite of all remonstrance, became very indignant; told them their courage was
                  questionable; that their patriotism was diluted with self-interest and fear; and
                  that they were just such men as Berkeley liked to govern, and should ever be
                  governed by just such men as Berkeley.
               "Yes, gentlemen," he exclaimed, vehemently; his black eyes flashing, and his proud
                  lip curling with a kind of lofty scorn; "go home, and protect your wives and
                  children; while we—that is, myself and the few noble spirits who have the courage
                  to follow me—remain in the wilderness to protect you. Go home, lay
                  down your arms, bend your necks to the yoke of tyranny, and thus save your
                  valuable lives, and, what is more valuable still, your property; and when you see
                  me returned, stained with the blood of your dear country's foes, join your voices
                  with your master's, and make the welkin ring with cries of 'Rebel! Traitor!' and
                  then, if you have leisure, come and see me hanged, like good and loyal citizens.
                  For myself, be the consequences what they may, I set my feet not homeward till I
                  have revenged the foul murders of my overseer and servant."
               On the following morning the separation took place between the parties who had
                  resolved to remain with Bacon, and the parties who had resolved to turn back. On
                  counting his present followers, Bacon found he had fifty-seven out of the three
                  hundred; and as these were, as a matter of course, bold, during fellows, the
                  Colonel expressed himself satisfied; and said that he would rather proceed against
                  the Indians with fifty true men, on whom he could rely in the hour of danger, than
                  three hundred of such doubtful courage as those who were going home.
               For several days Bacon and his gallant little band made fatiguing marches through
                  the wilderness without coming in contact with the foe they sought. This, to men of
                  such ardent, fiery temperaments, was exceedingly vexatious and disheartening.
                  Their clothes became torn—their persons uncleanly—their feet sore; and, to add to
                  their discomfort, they found that the provisions, which they had supposed would
                  last till their return, were now nearly all exhausted.
               Such was their condition, when, one day, late in the afternoon, they reached a
                  tributary of the James river, far back toward the mountains, and on the opposite
                  side beheld a strong fort, surrounded by palisades and garrisoned by friendly
                  Indians. The water of the stream was here about four feet deep, and consequently
                  could be waded; and Bacon immediately dispatched a messenger to the fort, to say
                  that he was short of provisions and his men weary; and that if they could be
                  allowed to rest for a day or two within the fortress, and be supplied with food, a
                  reasonable compensation should be given. To this the Indians replied, that as the
                  party of whites were total strangers to them, they did not think it would be
                  politic to admit them into the fort; but that they should be furnished with food
                  on the morrow, to whatever amount they required.
               "The suspicious dogs of heathen!" muttered Bacon, who was far from being pleased
                  with this answer. "Refuse shelter to their Christian friends? By St. George! I am
                  half a mind to tumble their old shanty about their ears. But perhaps they are
                  right," he added, after a little reflection: "they do not know us; and, to say
                  truth, we are, just at this time, rather suspicious-looking objects; and beside,
                  treachery among even Christian whitemen, is not of so rare an occurrence as some
                  good, honest, meanly-mounted hypocrites affect to believe."
               Our adventurers encamped that night on the bank of the stream before mentioned,
                  and nothing occurred worthy of note. The next day Bacon sent over to the fort to
                  obtain the promised supplies. The Indians
                  made some excuse, but said the food should be sent before night. It was not sent,
                  however, but most positively promised for the following day. This procrastination
                  on the part of the savages caused Bacon and his men no little displeasure and
                  uneasiness—more especially as their provisions were by this time all consumed but
                  two rations, and they knew that unless food could be obtained from the fort, they
                  must suffer greatly, if not actually starve, ere they could reach the nearest
                  white settlement. Beside, they began to grow suspicious that
                  the Indians were dallying for a sinister purpose; and this enraged them to a
                  fearful degree, and at the same time caused them no little alarm; so that, on the
                  second night, they posted six sentinels, slept on their arms, and took other
                  precautions to guard against a fatal surprise.
               The night, however, passed off quietly; and on the third day Bacon again sent to
                  the fort, reminding the Indians of their solemn promise, stating that his
                  provisions were now all exhausted, and entreating them to send food without delay
                  at their own price. The same answer was returned—namely—that before night he
                  should be supplied with every thing that he required.
               "The false-hearted, treacherous scoundrels!" cried the Colonel, furious with rage:
                  "what do they mean? This smells of Berkeley's villainy! Can it be that one of his
                  vile tools has been tampering with them? giving them secret instructions against
                  us?—or do they meditate forming a league with their heathen brethren, who are our
                  acknowledged foes? By the soul of my father! if they dally much longer, they shall
                  learn it is not safe to tease the hungry lion."
               Satisfied at last, beyond all doubt, that the Indians of the fort harbored evil
                  intentions toward himself and men, Bacon conducted the latter about half a mile up
                  the stream—where they crossed—and then, coming down to the fortress, took up his
                  position close under the palisades, where he made another effort to obtain what he
                  wanted without resort to violence.
               A half-breed, who acted as interpreter, in answer to his inquiry concerning the
                  cause of the Indians' delay to fulfill even one of their many promises, stated
                  that they had no provisions in the fort to spare—that they had sent out for some,
                  which were hourly expected—and that in anticipation of a plentiful supply, they
                  had promised as they did, is order that the whites might not depart without
                  effecting a trade which would be advantageous to both parties.
               With this reply Bacon pretended to be satisfied; but he ordered his men to keep
                  close together—to be wary—to see that their arms were in a condition to do good
                  service at a moment's notice. Then he and Beauchamp, his second in command,
                  reconnoitered the fort, and fixed upon the point easiest to be carried, in the
                  event of an assault being rendered necessary—which he declared would be the case,
                  unless his demands were complied with ere night set in.
               The shadows of evening were just beginning to steal over the earth; and Bacon was
                  in the act of telling his men, who were grouped around him, on the river side of
                  the fort, that he would make one more appeal to the Indians for succor—which, if
                  made in vain, should be the prelude to the storming of their strong-hold—when all
                  were startled by the report of fire-arms, discharged on the opposite side of the
                  river; and a young man, standing 
                     dirictly
                     directly
                   in front of the speaker, reeled forward and fell dead at his very
                  feet.
               "Treachery! treachery! We know their game now!" shouted Bacon, drawing his sword.
                  "Follow me, men! and let not one escape our vengeance!"
               He darted forward to the vulnerable part of the fort—his men, fairly howling with
                  rage, lagged not behind—and almost in the time is has taken us to record the fact,
                  the barriers were forced, and the terrible work of slaughter begun.
               The terror-struck Indians made but a feeble resistance, and were slaughtered
                  wherever found. The whites gave no quarter. Mercy was not in their hearts now.
                  They had suddenly become transformed from men to demons. Their battle shout was.
                  "Blood, and vengeance, and death to all!" None were spared. Old and young—men,
                  women; and children, alike fell victims to their fury; and within an hour from the
                  commencement of the assault, a hundred and fifty savages had perished by their
                  hands; while their own loss was only three killed, with as many more wounded.
               The butchery over, the work of plunder began; and having loaded themselves with
                  the spoils of victory—and secured as much of provisions, of which there was no
                  scarcity, as would take them a month to consume—they set fire to citadel and
                  cabins; and, by the light of the conflagration, withdrew into the forest, where
                  they awaited the grand catastrophe; which took place the moment the flames reached
                  the magazine—containing, as Bacon afterward asserted, not less than four thousand
                  pounds of powder—the explosion of which tore the whole fortification into a
                  million of fragments, scattered the bodies of the dead to the four winds of
                  heaven, and made the very earth tremble for miles around.
               "There!" said Bacon, coolly, wiping the blood from his sword, and returning it to
                  its scabbard: "we have done something at last; and now, my gallant fellows, we
                  will go home, and hear what our friend the Governor has to say to us. I trust we
                  may be able to bear his eulogiums as becometh gentlemen of our cloth and
                  calling."
               On his return to Henrico, the Colonel found, greatly to his surprise, that he was
                  more popular now than ever. Those of his party who had turned back on receiving
                  the Governor's Proclamation, instead of bearing malice and seeking to disparage
                  him, were loudest in his praise. Old and young—male and female—persons of all
                  classes and conditions—came forth to greet him, and hail him as the savior of his
                  country.
               And, still more to his surprise, he learned that Berkeley had dissolved the old
                  Assembly during his absence; and that writs having come up for a new election,
                  Squire Bristow and himself had been duly returned as the unanimous choice of the
                  citizens of Henrico county. He further learned that the Governor had actually made
                  a demonstration against him—having raised forces and marched from Middle
                  Plantations (now Williamsburg) some thirty or forty miles; when he had heard such
                  news of a rising behind him, in Jamestown and vicinity, as had caused him to
                  disband his men and hasten back with all speed, that his own presence and
                     peaceable protestations might allay the factions tumult ere
                  the first blood of civil war should be drawn.
               This intelligence, together with the announcement of his election to a membership
                  of the House of Burgesses, and the warm reception he every where met with on his
                  return from the perils of the wilderness, gave Bacon renewed confidence in
                  himself, she justness of his cause, and the resources at his command; and he
                  forthwith determined to repair to Jamestown, and beard the lien in his den.
                  Lawrence, he saw, had not deceived him in any particular; and taking every thing
                  into consideration, he now felt that he was secure from the machinations of
                  Governor Berkeley and his parasitical advisers.
               "I will go down," he said, "report my doings, and have a friendly talk with the
                  fiery old gentleman; who has doubtless learned by this time, that authority
                  without justice is a broken reed to lean upon."
               But the storm, which Bacon fancied had blown over, was even now gathering blacker,
                  heavier, and more terrible, as we shall see anon.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE CAPTURE.
               IT was a beautiful day in June, that a sloop, on board of which were Colonel
                  Bacon, his gentle wife, Flora Monteith, Reginald Beauchamp, and several others,
                  including servants, numbering in all some twenty individuals, was gliding over the
                  tranquil bosom of the James, about twenty miles above Jamestown. The day we have
                  said was beautiful, the air clear and serene, with a soft, light breeze, that
                  partly filled and flapped the white sails of the little vessel, and came most
                  refreshingly to those who inhaled it from the deck. Beneath a silken canopy, which
                  protects them from the rays of the sun, while it allowed the breeze ample play in
                  every direction, sat the Colonel, Edith, Flora and Reginald,
                  engaged in conversation, while a few
                  gentlemen, friends of Bacon, were differently disposed along the decks; some
                  sitting, some standing in lounging attitudes, and some slowly pacing to and fro,
                  but all in that careless, listless mood, which indicates an absence from the mind
                  of any very serious reflections.
               The scenery of the James, on either hand, was, without being remarkable for any
                  thing peculiar or striking, very pleasant to the eye. There were woodlands, and
                  glades, and hills, and valleys, all richly clothed in the garb of early summer,
                  with here and there the large, fine dwelling and out-buildings of some opulent
                  planter, to give variety to the view, and the charm of civilized life to what had,
                  within the memory of many then living, been a dark wilderness of savage beasts and
                  savage men.
               As the little craft moved slowly along, impelled onward by the current and the
                  breeze, it soon turned a sharp bend of the stream, and a long stretch of the river
                  came into view at the point where it first begins to widen in its progress toward
                  the ocean.
               Bacon now rose up, and applying a short telescope to his eye, for a moment or two,
                  turned to his wife, and said:
               "Here, my lily! you can now see your present destination."
               "I care not to see it," she replied, sadly—"since it is the point where I am to
                  separate from you."
               "O, what a faint little heart!" he returned, with an affectionate smile. "Separate
                  from me, love? yes, separate for a day or two."
               "If it were only for a day or two," sighed the other.
               "And why, my gentle Edith, do you think it will be longer ere I come to tell you
                  all is well?"
               "As I told you, my dear husband, I have strange forebodings that some evil is
                  about to befall you."
               "So you had before I went into the wilderness; and yet you see, I came back
                  safe."
               "It was what might follow your return, I most feared, even then; and bear in mind,
                  you came back bran led as a rebel and traitor; which stigma is not yet removed;
                  and treason is a fearful accusation to be brought against one, by men who have the
                  power to try, condemn, and execute."
               "Poh! my little wife—you must not let yourself be scared by Sir William's bombast
                  I tell you his proclamation was only issued to convince himself and his parasites
                  that he was still Governor of the Colony. Nay, I will even grant you that, at the
                  time, he might have had some serious but very indefinite intentions of doing
                  something, sometime, somewhere, to somebody; but having made a Quixotic attempt
                  and failed, he is now ready, believe me, to fall back upon his dignity, and
                  graciously grant pardon to all offenders."
               "Nathaniel," said Mrs. Bacon, fixing her eye steadily and earnestly upon his, "do
                  you seriously and honestly believe that Governor Berkeley will pardon you, without
                  bringing you to trial?"
               "I would I were as certain of living ten years, love," he replied.
               "Then why will you not permit me to go to Jamestown with you?"
               "Why, my love, you know you promised Mrs. Parker a visit, and she is expecting
                  you; and beside, your health is delicate, and the air and water of Jamestown are
                  both deleterious."
               Mrs. Bacon shook her head sadly, and sighed heavily, but made no other reply.
               "Ah! cousin," said Flora, breaking off her conversation with Reginald, and turning
                  to her fair kinswoman—"I would I could infuse into your spirit a little of my own,
                  and cause you to see with my eyes."
               "You are happy in being able to see all things couleur de
                     rose, Flora," returned the other, quietly, with a pensive air.
               "Nay, Edith," said Flora, "I see not all things so; but when a thing has two
                  sides—a bright and dark—I let my gaze rest upon the former, and try to think there
                  are no shades to mar its beauty."
               "We differ in this," rejoined Mrs. Bacon, "that you can find a bright side to
                  almost every thing; and where you see sunlight, I see only shadows."
               At this moment a man, in a sailor dress—a bluff, seaman-like fellow, who had
                  whilom been one of a merchantman's crew, and thus made more than one voyage across
                  the ocean, but who now, having charge of Bacon's sloop, was sometimes honored with
                  the title of Captain—came shuffling along, with a salt-sea roll, till catching the
                  eye of the Colonel, he stopped, and made a sign for the latter to approach.
               "I seen your honor's lady along side your honor," he said, as Bacon came up, at
                  the same time clearing his mouth, of a goodly quantity of tobacco juice, and
                  rolling the quid with a sort of knowing and mysterious air—"I seen that pretty
                  little craft along side your honor, I say, and, remembering secret orders, I
                  ventured to telegraph your honor to sheer off and lay to here-a-ways, that your
                  honor might have my news in private."
               "Well, well, Captain Gill, rest your apology where it is, and out with your news!"
                  returned Bacon, with an anxious look.
               "Why, if your honor will just kind o' carelessly cast the glass to your eye, and
                  sweep the horizon, as if without particular motive, that none of the land-craft
                  may get wind of your honor's purpose, I think away Jamestown-way your honor will
                  spy a sail that has a suspicious look."
               The Colonel did as directed; and after looking for nearly a minute at the vessel
                  in question, which was almost invisible to the naked eye of any one less practiced
                  in farseeing than the old seaman, he handed the glass to the latter, and asked him
                  what he really thought of her.
               "Why, your honor," replied Captain Gill, with what seemed a casual glance through
                  the telescope, "my mind was pretty much made up about her afore I called your
                  honor aside. She's Gardiner's brig; and her business in beating up this way,
                  considering the little difference atween your honor and the Governor, is easily
                  guessed at."
               "You think, then, her object is to capture me?"
               "Why, yes, your honor, that's what I think. I may be wrong—hope I am—but no doubt
                  the Governor knows your honor's coming down on the Sarah Jane; and so I thought it
                  best to give your honor a hint—seeing as mayhap your honor might take a whim to
                  steer clear of Jamestown, for the present, and so keep off the breakers."
               "How long," inquired Bacon, compressing his lips, "will it take for the two
                  vessels to meet, at the rate both are now sailing?"
               "Well, a matter of two or three hours—say two," replied Gill.
               "And how long for us to reach the mouth of the Chickahoming yonder.
               "About half an hour, your honor."
               "Very well—say nothing—my wife lands there—and her spirits are sufficiently
                  depressed already. Be discreet, Gill—not a word to any one."
               "Your honor can trust me," replied the old sailor, shutting one eye, giving his
                  big quid an extra turn, and once more clearing his mouth. And then, as Bacon moved
                  thoughtfully away, he muttered to himself: "His honor's all pluck; but if my
                  sea-knowledge is good for any thing, he's steering dead upon the rocks; and unless
                  he alters his course, will surely strike and go to pieces. Well, well—that's his
                  business, poor fellow not mine—though I'll mayhap lose an easy berth;" and with
                  this Gill went aft and entered into conversation with the man at the helm.
               Bacon drew Reginald aside, and the two conversed together, in low tones, for some
                  quarter of an hour; and on separating, the former repaired to his wife, and
                  informed her that Beauchamp would land with her.
               "Why this alteration in your plan?" she inquired, with a look of some anxiety.
               Bacon affected not to hear her; but pointing to a fine-looking stone mansion;
                  which stood about two hundred yards back from the point where the Chickahoming
                  unites its waters with the James, said, handing her the telescope:
               "Look, Edith, and say if that be not Mrs Parker standing in the doorway?"
               Mrs. Bacon put the glass to her eye, and replied:
               "It is."
               "She is expecting you; and seed there are two of her servants coming down to the
                  landing. Let every thing be get ready.
                  Edith—for we must not be detained, as I with to reach Jamestown before
                  sunset."
               Mrs. Bacon immediately arose, without reply, and descended to the cabin. As she
                  turned away, a deep sigh escaped her, which the Colonel heard. It went to his
                  heart.
               "Poor little flower!" he said, gazing sorrowfully after her. "If she lives to see
                  herself a widow, she will live to see a day of such anguish and misery as death
                  only can alleviate—a grief for which time has no care."
               In a few minutes the Sarah Jane ran along side of a rude log pier, and Mrs. Bacon
                  took leave of her husband as if she thought it might be for the last time. The
                  voice and look of Flora, at parting, betrayed unusual anxiety, as she said, in a
                  low, earnest tone, glancing down the river to the vessel, which was now plainly
                  visible, though still far distant:
               "Be prudent, my dear friend—my more than brother: I need not add, be firm! God
                  guard and protect you, is my constant prayer."
               "Reginald has told you all?" said the Colonel, inquiringly, in a tone that
                  betrayed deep feeling.
               "He has."
               "Should evil befall me, Flora—. But enough! I need not advise one of so good a
                  judgment; you will do what the time will show the most befitting. Adieu!"
               "In parting with Beauchamp, Bacon said:
               "My spirits are much depressed, my friend; there seems to be a weight upon them.
                  As you hope for eternal life, O, guard and cherish my gentle Edith! Should aught
                  happen. But pshaw! I am foolish. You know what I apprehend, and what I require—and
                  to repeat is to show doubt. There, Heaven bless you!
               In something less than two hours after this the brig and sloop drew near together.
                  The former, a man-of-war, with guns bristling on deck, hailed the Sarah Jane,
                  ordered her to heave to, and demanded to know if Nathaniel Bacon was on board.
               "Ay, ay," replied Gill, who had received instructions from the Colonel to answer
                  in the affirmative.
               His Majesty's vessel soon ran along side of the Sarah Jane, and Bacon was
                  commanded to come on board. He complied with the order without a word; and the
                  moment he set foot on the deck of the man-of-war, a gentleman, in the official
                  dress of the high sheriff, stepped up to him, and placing his hand on his
                  shoulder, said:
               "Nathaniel Bacon, I arrest you, in the King's name, for high treason. Your sword,
                  sir!"
               "I trust, Major Howe," replied the Colonel, in a calm, even tone of voice, though
                  his features were deadly pale, "that your orders are not such as to prevent my
                  being treated as a gentleman of honor."
               "My orders," answered Major Howe, rather sternly, as he received Bacon's sword,
                  "are to bring you before his honor, Governor Berkeley, and to use such means for
                  this purpose as I should judge expedient. But as, so far, you have made no
                  resistance—and do not, I think, intend to make any—if you will pledge me your word
                  not to attempt escape, I will neither put you in irons not close confinement."
               "I give you my word of honor, I will not attempt escape," replied the Colonel.
               "For those with you, I can promise no such lenity," rejoined the sheriff. "They
                  must be ironed immediately, and imprisoned till the day of trial."
               In fact, while he was yet speaking with Bacon, the adherents of the latter were
                  receiving rather rough treatment; for the moment the brig ran along side of the
                  sloop, some twenty or thirty marines leaped on board of the Sarah Jane, and
                  commenced seizing and handcuffing, indiscriminately, all with whom they came in
                  contact. The greater portion of Bacon's men submitted quietly—but a few of the
                  more daring made some show of resistance. It was bad policy, however, and availed
                  them nothing; for they were instantly knocked down and secured, and some of them
                  rather seriously injured. The whole number were then placed under the hatches of
                  the Duke of York (for so was named the sloop-of-war), and sail was made for
                  Jamestown; which place was reached just as the last rays of the setting sun were
                  streaming across the broad bosom of the noble river, making its little wavelets
                  look like tiny billows of gold.
               "If agreeable to you, Major Howe," said Bacon to the sheriff, as the Duke of York
                  same to anchor directly before the town, within a stone's throw of the King's
                  Arms, the inn kept by Lawrence, whom he espied standing on the beach, together
                  with a great many others of both sexes, comprising in fact nearly all of the
                  citizens of Jamestown and strangers therein, who had thus been drawn to one spot
                  by the rumor of his capture, some from mere curiosity and many from deep interest
                  in the result of the Governor's proceedings; "If agreeable to you, Major Howe, I
                  would have speech with Sir William immediately."
               "Doubtless you will soon have your wish," replied the sheriff: "for unless I
                  mistake, yonder he comes;" and he pointed to a small boat, some little distance
                  lower down the stream, which, containing four persons, was just in the act of
                  pushing off from the sandy beach.
               The surmise of the Sheriff proved correct; and a few minutes later, Sir William
                  Berkeley and Colonel Bacon stood confronted on the deck of the Duke of York.
               "So, sirrah!" cried Sir William, swelling with importance: "so, sir! you are here,
                  I perceive."
               "Your honor's sight is still good," was the curt and dry reply.
               "Which is more than can be said of your foresight, sir—which is very bad, Mr.
                  Bacon—very bad, sir—or you would not be here in disgrace, to answer a charge that
                  may cost you your life—your life, my Hotspur—your life!"
               "Very likely, your honor, since my accusers will probably be my judges," returned
                  Bacon, with a proud curl of his lip. And then suddenly changing his look to one of
                  angry fierceness, and fixing his black, piercing eyes full upon the other, who
                  almost quailed beneath their fiery glance, he added, lifting his forefinger
                  warningly: "And yet not likely, Sir William Berkeley—for you
                     dare not condemn and execute me for doing my duty to my
                  country."
               "Not for doing your duty, scape-grace—not for doing your duty; but for rebellion,
                  sir—rebellion; treason—high treason!"
               "Will your honor be kind enough to define what you consider high
                  treason?" said Bacon.
               "A rising in arms, or even plotting, against lawfully constituted authority, is
                  high treason, sir."
               "Then am I innocent of the charge against me," replied the Colonel; for I have
                  neither taken up arms, nor plotted, against the government of this Colony; but, on
                  the contrary, have proceeded against the enemies of the State."
               "That is a mere ipse dixit of your own, Mr.
                  Bacon, which I think you will lack proof te establish when put upon your trial.
                  There is more than one witness who will swear to a very different thing—a very
                  different thing, sir. Did you not assail and put to death a great many Indians,
                  who were at the time in covenant with the Government, and consequently subjects;
                  or, if not subjects, at least allies; of His Majesty?"
               "They had broken their covenant, by refusing to be friends to the whites," replied
                  Bacon. "I asked for food, offering pay, and that food I was obliged to have or
                  starve. They kept me before their fortress, by false promises, while they sent off
                  and arranged with my enemies to come up and take me by surprise. I had altered my
                  position, and they were foiled; but one of my men fell a victim to their
                  treachery; and, Sir William, that's man death was fearfully avenged."
               "Odd's blood, sir! I should think it was: think it was, indeed. Well, well, it is
                  useless to go over this matter here; at a proper time and place you will have an
                  opportunity to defend your proceedings; when you will need all that can be said in
                  your favor—all. I assure you."
               "If I am to be tried for high 
                     teason
                     treason
                  ; a crime of which, in my heart, I call Heaven to witness, I am as
                  innocent as your honor's self; I would ask, as a favor, that the day of trial may
                  not be distant, and that I may not be treated with undue severity."
               For some moments Berkeley stood gazing upon Bacon, with a thoughtful expression;
                  and then he exclaimed:
               "Mr. Bacon, have you forgotten to be a gentleman?"
               
               "I trust not, your honor," replied the other, in a bland
                  tone.
               "Then, sir, give me your parole, that you will not quit Jamestown previous to your
                  trial, and you are at liberty to go ashore—to go ashore, Mr. Bacon."
               "I pledge my word, as a gentleman, and humbly thank your honor for this leniency!"
                  returned the Colonel, bowing. "We were friends once, Sir William," he added, with
                  some feeling; "and I would to Heaven there had never occurred aught to put a
                  difference between us!"
               "So do I, Bacon—so do I," replied the other, hastily. And turning to the sheriff,
                  he added: "I release Bacon from your custody, on parole; but keep the others in
                  close confinement, aboard this ship, till further orders, Come, Bacon, you shall
                  go ashore with me."
               The spectators on shore that evening saw what they considered a strange sight—the
                  Governor of the Colony, arm-in-arm, and in friendly converse with the man he had
                  just proclaimed a rebel and a traitor; and on whose trial for his life, as they
                  understood the matter, he was soon to sit as the presiding magistrate.
               But the Virginians of 1676 were destined to see still stranger sights than
                  this—sights, too, of a startling character—ere many moons had filled and
                  waned.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE PARDON AND FLIGHT.
               BEAUCHAMP, before going ashore with Mrs. Bacon and Flora, at the mouth of the
                  Chickahoming, had received instructions from the Colonel, to be active in raising
                  a large force, which he was to conduct to Jamestown, in the event of his getting
                  news that his friend had been made prisoner, The intelligence of Bacon's capture
                  he received the same night, by a private messenger sent from Lawrence. This he
                  communicated to Flora; but bade her keep it as long as possible from reaching the
                  ear of the anxious wife; and at daylight the next morning, having procured a horse
                  from Colonel Parker, he set off to raise the country in support of his personal
                  friend, and the man who had put his life in jeopardy by a patriotic resistance of
                  tyrannical measures.
               Reginald was successful. It required no eloquent appeal to the feelings of the
                  citizens, in behalf of Bacon, to induce them to take up arms in his defense. It
                  was only necessary to let them know that he was now a prisoner, and that the
                  Governor intended to put him on trial for his life, for acting against his
                  authority for the safety and well-being of the Colony. They every where left their
                  peaceful occupations, their homes, their families; and, with arms in their hands
                  and true valor in their hearts, repaired to a general rendezvous, where they
                  awaited the full gathering and further instructions.
               When some three or four hundred had thus assembled, Beauchamp put himself at their
                  head, and led them down to within a few miles of the capital. Here he ordered a
                  halt, and sent a special messenger to Lawrence, informing him of what he had done,
                  and asking advice concerning his next proceedings—whether to enter the town in a
                  body, prepared for sanguinary strife, or singly, with the appearance of mere
                  spectators and persons on business.
               The answer, returned in the course of a few hours, was, that for the present it
                  had been thought best to make no show of contemplated violence; but let the men
                  leave all but their side-arms in a place of security, and enter Jamestown a few at
                  a time, and let the gathering there appear peaceful, and in some degree
                  accidental.
               Beauchamp followed these instructions; and the night of the same day had an inters
                  view with Colonel Bacon at the inn kept by Lawrence. The Colonel was in good
                  spirits; and, in the course of conversation, said to his young friend:
               "Reginald, I owe you a world of thanks, for the manner in which you have executed
                  my instructions; and my gratitude to these men, for the promptness with which they
                  have responded to my call, is boundless; but, I thank Heaven! there is a prospect
                  that their services will not be needed. My cousin—who, as you know, is one of the
                  Governor's Council—most positively assures me that, by a severe humbling of my
                  pride, a reconciliation can be brought about between Sir William and myself, by
                  which the transactions of the past will be canceled, and the prospects of the
                  future brightened. In other words, he says the Governor is aware he has done
                  wrong, yet can not overlook, without such confession on my part, that I have done
                  wrong also; but if I will make such confession, publicly, in writing, he will
                  pardon me, and all concerned with me, and give me a commission to prosecute the
                  Indian war till the savages shall be glad to sue for peace.
               "Now, you well know, Reginald," pursued Bacon, "that the good of my country—the
                  protection of my fellow-citizens against the inroads of a barbarous foe, and not a
                  desire to create civil discord and factious contention—has been my sole motive in
                  doing as I have done; and, therefore, if my object can be effected, with
                  governmental sanction, through or by any sacrifice on my part, that does not touch
                  my honor or my life, however humbling it may be to my proud nature, I am ready to
                  make it."
               "And what say Lawrence and Drummond to this?" inquired Reginald.
               "That it is only a trick of the old fox, meaning Berkeley, to get himself quietly
                  out of a rather perplexing predicament; and that it will amount to nothing beyond
                  pardon for past transgressions—and, it may be, not even that."
               "They do not think, then, you will get the commission?"
               "No! but my cousin does; and I am resolved to make the trial; and a trial it will
                  be, to one of my nature and temperament, believe me."
               "And when is this to be?"
               "The new Assembly meet to-morrow; and, as soon as organized, I shall probably
                  know."
               On the following day, Governor Berkeley, in his scarlet robe of office, was
                  seated, on the bench, in the council chamber, as chief magistrate of the Colony,
                  surrounded by his Council and the members of the Assembly. After making the latter
                  a brief speech—informing them of their duty, and urging upon them a speedy
                  consideration of the vexed Indian question, which, with further delay in settling
                  to the satisfaction of all parties, might embroil the country in civil war—he sat
                  down; but soon started up again, and exclaimed:
               "If there be joy in the presence of angels over one sinner that repenteth, there
                  is joy now; for we have a penitent sinner come before us. Call Mr. Bacon!"
               "Nathaniel Bacon, junior, come into court! Nathaniel Bacon, junior, come into
                  court!" sung out the crier, at the top of his voice.
               Bacon, who had quietly entered the chamber while the Governor was speaking,
                  unperceived by any but the latter, now hastily advanced to the bar, and, dropping
                  upon one knee, presented a paper, saying, in a quick, excited tone, his face
                  crimson with the blush of shame:
               "I hereby publicly acknowledge myself guilty of the offenses whereof I am accused;
                  and do, in this presence, humbly and penitently beg pardon of my God, my King, and
                  Governor."
               To which Berkeley, after a momentary pause, rising and holding the paper in his
                  hand, responded:
               "God forgive you! I forgive you!" repeating the same three times.
               "And all that were with him," suggested one of the Council.
               "Yea, and all that were with him," pursued the Governor. And calling to him the
                  sheriff, he continued: "Major Howe, see that all of Bacon's men, imprisoned on the
                  Duke of York, be instantly released—instantly, sir!"
               Not to proceed in detail here, let it suffice that, greatly to the surprise of
                  both his friends and enemies, Bacon was the same day restored to his seat as one
                  of the Governor's council, with the promise that he should forthwith receive the
                  commission of General of the forces about to be raised to prosecute the Indian
                  war; which, contrary to authority, he had so 
                     valiently
                     valiantly
                   begun.
               As soon as this was made known to the yeomanry, who had assembled at the call of
                  Beauchamp to protect Bacon against any unfair treatment, they gradually dropped
                  off to their several homes, under the belief that Berkeley would now do what was right, and that
                  Bacon would no longer need their services.
               But the wiley Governor was playing a deep and treacherous game. His apparent
                  friendship for Bacon was all seeming, not real. In his heart he hated him; and,
                  jealous of his great and growing popularity, had determined to destroy him. He was
                  shrewd enough to know that such a large body of yeomanry, as he saw collected in
                  the Capital, were not there by accident, or on ordinary business; and he knew if
                  he ventured on violent measures, Bacon would be rescued from his hands, and
                  perhaps his own life be sacrificed to the fury of the mob. Therefore he pardoned
                  Bacon, and all concerned with him, and promised him the commission required.
               And to make it better appear that all differences were settled, and no shade of
                  rancor harbored in his bosom against the man he had so recently proclaimed guilty
                  of the highest political crime known to the law, and also to keep him out of the
                  Assembly, in which body, by the late election, he was entitled to a seat, 
                     Berkley
                     Berkeley
                   had invited Bacon, with great show of cordiality, to retain bis place as
                  one of his Council. Bacon, an open friend and open foe, had too little of deceit
                  in his own composition to lead him for a moment to suppose that Sir William was
                  playing a game of the meanest duplicity; and he accepted his pardon, the proffered
                  seat, and the promise of a commission, with feelings of gratitude; and
                     had Sir William proved as honorable as he was in reality
                  treacherous, he could ever have retained him as one of his warmest friends and
                  most stead-fast supporters.
               A something perhaps may be said in extenuation of Berkeley's duplicity. The fact
                  was, his advisors were continually representing Bacon to him as a dangerous man—a
                  man without any moral principle, or principle of honor—a man who was himself
                  playing a double game—who was secretly plotting an insurrection to overthrow the
                  present government, and who, at the first favorable opportunity, would probably
                  seize and put to death all who might be considered as standing between him and the
                  consummation of his mad desire. Therefore, Berkeley, looking upon Bacon as a
                  secret and wiley foe—a foe too much after his own vile heart in baseness and
                  treachery—might have reasoned with himself, that he would be justified in
                  overreaching and crushing him by any means.
               It is possible that some of Berkeley's advisers might have believed their own
                  assertions; but whether they did or not, being intriguing, ambitions men
                  themselves, they were just the persons not to be prevented by so uncourtly a thing
                  as truth, from defaming a man who stood so high in the regards of the people, and
                  who might yet prove a stumbling block to their own individual advancement, by
                  himself reaching the highest post of honor.
               For a short time Bacon was completely deceived and lulled into a feeling of
                  security, notwithstanding both Lawrence and Drummond were continually warning him
                  to be wary of the lion's teeth, into whose mouth he had so recklessly and
                  confidently thrust his own head.
               At length some little matters transpired which tended to open his eyes and awaken
                  his suspicion; and when he found that the promised commission was not forthcoming
                  within a reasonable time, and learned that secret orders had been issued to
                  collect the militia of the adjoining counties at Jamestown, he thought it best to
                  put a few leagues between him and his treacherous foes,
               Accordingly one night, after writing a note to Governor Berkeley—saying that he
                  had just received news that his wife was ill, and begging to be excused from
                  attendance at the Council table for a few days, till he could pay her a visit—he
                  procured a horse of Lawrence, and quitted Jamestown some eight or ten hours in
                  advance of its delivery.
               When, on the following morning, Berkeley received Bacon's missive, he grew violent
                  with rage, stormed and swore in the most vehement manner, and ordered the sheriff
                  to head the guard and search the house of Lawrence, where Bacon had his quarters,
                  in the faint hope that, not having yet departed, he might be secured. When,
                  however, he found that Bacon had really fled, he became somewhat what alarmed, but
                  not aware that the young Colonel knew of his meditated treachery—so well had the
                  latter dissembled in his turn—he thought it possible the note might contain
                  nothing but truth; in which case, by making no further public demonstration of
                  having any fear, and appearing unconcerned, the flown bird might be lured back
                  into the net spread for him.
               He took care, withal, to secretly dispatch a few individuals, to act as spies on
                  Bacon's movements, and give him timely warning in case the latter should be found
                  instigating the citizens to take up arms. For two or three days after this, the
                  Governor heard nothing to excite uneasiness. Then entered Jamestown a messenger,
                  whose disordered dress and general appearance betokened one who had made a long
                  and hurried journey, and reported that Bacon was already at the head of some five
                  hundred armed men, collected on the borders, and was now in full march for the
                  Capital. This news alarmed the Governor and his Council greatly; and while they
                  were discussing it, and the necessity of immediately sending out for train-bands
                  to reinforce the guard and put the town in a complete state of defence, another
                  messenger appeared, confirming all the first had stated, and adding that Bacon,
                  looking more like a mad than a sane man, was last drawing near by forced marches.
                  There was no time to discuss a matter so serious—to debate upon a danger so
                  imminent: action was required—prompt, vigorous action; and instantly orders were
                  dispatched to the nearest military commanders, to assemble their forces at
                  Jamestown in the shortest possible time. Alarm and consternation spread throughout
                  the capital. Men gathered in groups, with pale, anxious faces, and conversed in
                  mysterious tones, as if they believed some terrible calamity were impending. Few
                  closed their eyes in sleep the night following; and among those few Sir William
                  Berkeley could not be numbered.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               IN THE COUNCIL CHAMBER.
               AT an early hour on the morning following the reception of the startling
                  intelligence recorded at the close of the previous chapter, the loud roll of a
                  drum (Jamestown could not then boast of a bell) called together the members of the
                  two Houses of the Colonial Legislature of Virginia. As the Governor—dressed in his
                  official costume of scarlet velvet, embroidered with lace of gold, and preceded by
                  four halberdiers, carrying halberds, and wearing caps and back and breast-plates,
                  and acting as a body guard—quitted his dwelling, and took his way to the
                  state-house across the green, many anxious citizens lined his path, to gather if
                  possible from his looks what they had to fear. They saw that his features were
                  paler and sterner than usual; but they saw nothing else to indicate that he had
                  received such news as would make many a man in his position, all things
                  considered, tremble for his own safety. He carried his head erect, his step was
                  firm, and in his every movement there was the grace of the polished gentleman, and
                  the dignity of a proud, imperious and courageous old Cavalier of his time.
                  Whatever Sir William Berkeley lacked in the way of moral rectitude—however much he
                  might tyrannize, dissemble, and play the game of treachery—he was not wanting in
                  that valor which enables one to face danger with a bold, unshrinking firmness and
                  an unquailing eye. Policy might induce him to fly before an adversary too powerful
                  for him to resist successfully—but the paltry cowardice which so generally finds a
                  place in the breasts of men who are not honest in their dealings, found no hold in
                  his.
               In front of the state-house was stationed a guard of twenty fusileers, who, as the
                  Governor passed them, presented arms. As he ascended the steps, he turned to them
                  and said:
               "Gentlemen, in the days of Cromwell's Protectorate, you were not found wanting in
                  loyalty to your present Sovereign; and I trust you will now be found as valiant in
                  the cause of his humble servant, the present Governor of this Colony. Instead of
                  twenty, I would you were twenty times
                  twenty—but what you lack in number, you must make up in valor, my men, valor. You
                  must be the nucleus around which twenty times your number may form, to put down
                  this infernal rebellion. You are stationed here to guard this temple of Law—to
                  protect this temple of Justice; let not the desecrating foot of a traitor and
                  rebel cross the threshhold save over your dead bodies—your dead bodies, my gallant
                  men—your dead bodies."
               With this the old Knight bowed with dignity; the fusileers cheered; and, waving
                  his hand, Sir William turned on his heel, and with a firm, even step, entered the
                  Council Chamber, where he found all the members of his immediate body assembled,
                  who greeted his coming with looks of deep anxiety. Passing calmly down the long
                  Chamber to the end farthest from the door, the Governor entered the bench—which,
                  not unlike that of our modern court-rooms, was raised above and divided from the
                  bar—within which, around a long table, sat his counselors and colleagues; and
                  then, as presiding officer, he formally announced the House to be properly
                  organized for the transaction of business.
               "Gentlemen," he continued, "I foresee we are about to have warm work here—warm
                  work—if that traitor Bacon only delays his coming till we can gather enough troops
                  here to oppose him."
               At this moment he was interrupted by the entrance of a young man in great
                  haste.
               "Well! well! well!" cried the Governor, much excited—"what news, Martin?"
               "Please your honor, Bacon has reached Middle Plantations with a large army, which
                  is continually swelling with new recruits."
               "My curses on the scoundrel! If I get him again, no power on earth shall save his
                  neck from the halter! How many men do you think he has under him, Martin?—how
                  many? how many?"
               "Please your honor, not less than five hundred."
               "Five hundred at Middle Plantations! and we not fifty soldiers in town to oppose
                  to him! Why don't I get news from York and Surry?"
               "So please your honor, I am just over the river from Surry," said a new-comer, who
                  entered the Council Chamber just in time to hear the Governor's last remark.
               "Well! well! what from Surry, Giles? What says Colonel Hastings? Did you see him?
                  did you see him? Speak! man—speak!"
               "I saw him, your honor, and he promised to do what he could. He says that by
                  to-morrow—"
               "He's a fool!" interrupted Berkeley, in a rage—"a fool or a knave! 'Fore Heaven!
                  what have we to do with to-morrow, with traitor's swords at our throats? Back with
                  you, sirrah! and tell Hastings if he be not here with two hundred men before
                  sunset, I'll court-martial him! Back, Giles, and tell him so! To-morrow, forsooth!
                  'S death! it's today! And you, Martin—away to Bacon, and gather all the
                  intelligence you can!"
               "I think, your honor," said Colonel Cole, one of the Council, as the two
                  messengers hastily disappeared to execute Berkeley's orders: "I think, your honor,
                  that if Bacon be at Middle Plantations, on his march hither, he will soon be here;
                  and even should Hastings and others arrive a few hours hence, I fear they will be
                  too late to be of any service to us."
               "Not so, Mr. Cole; not so. Only let me get equal numbers with Bacon, and I will
                  fight him to the death."
               "But, your honor, he will get possession of the town!" said another.
               "If he do so, we must promise to accede to all his demands, and so throw him off
                  his guard and get the upper hand," suggested a third member.
               "Right, Mr. Ball," returned the Governor: "right, sir—right! Leave me to deal with
                  him. I'll amuse him, and keep him out of mischief."
               "I think it will be a hard matter to amuse him with promises, since he has seen so
                  many broken," said Colonel Bacon the senior.
               "I suppose, sir, we shall find you siding with your rash kinsman!" cried Sir
                  William angrily. "Do it, sir, at your peril—at your peril, Mr. Bacon!"
               "I do not think any act of mine has ever given your honor just cause to doubt my
                  loyalty," replied the other, in a rather stern tone; "and therefore I think your
                  honor's menace wholly uncalled for. I do not side with my kinsman; on the
                  contrary, I have ever exerted the little influence I possess over him, to keep him
                  from violating the law; but I do honestly think, and in this presence I boldly say
                  it, that he has been shamefully treated. Through my persuasion, and 
                     repretation
                     representation
                   to him of what he might expect for so doing, he knelt before this bar,
                  acknowledged himself guilty of the charge against him, and begged pardon of God,
                  King and Governor. That pardon your honor granted him, restored him to his seat at
                  this board, and promise him the commission of General of the forces to be sent
                  against the Indians. No one, your honor, was more peaceable and loyal till he
                  learned that the basest treachery was mediated."
               Here cries of, "Order! order! Treason! treason!" interrupted the speaker; and the
                  Governor, flushed with rage, thundered:
               "Silence, Mr. Bacon! Sit down, sir! sit down! such language shall not be tolerated
                  here!"
               A scene of disgraceful confusion ensued—for Colonel Bacon had his friends, who
                  boldly declared he had a right to speak; and in the midst of an angry discussion
                  on the matter, another messenger was ushered into the Chamber, and all became
                  silent to hear his news.
               "Well, sir! who are you?" cried Berkeley.
               "Please your honor, my name is Packhern."
               "Well, Packhern, Packhorse, or Packdragon," rejoined Sir William, angrily—"what
                  are you staring at, man? You are not a child in swaddling clothes! Why don't you
                  speak? and say what you have to say? say what you have to say, at once?"
               "Please your honor," stammered the man, turning pale and red alternately, with
                  fear and confusion, as he heard such unexpected language addressed to him, and saw
                  himself the cynosure of all eyes: "Please your honor, I—I say—I come from Captain
                  Brent—who—who—"
               "Who ought to be here himself, with his troop of horse!" interrupted Sir William.
                  "Where is he? where is he? and why is he not here?"
               "He's in York county, your honor," pursued the messenger, "drumming up recruits;
                  and bids me tell your honor, he will be in town to-day with all he can raise."
               "Back with you, Mr. Packdriver, or what ever your name is, and tell him if he be
                  not here by two of the clock, I will drum him out of his command?"
                  roared Sir William. "Tell him that rebel Bacon is close upon us; close upon us,
                  d'ye hear? and that there is no time to grow corn to feed his horses for a future
                  campaign. Away with ye! away with ye! and see that you pack my orders
                  to him as fast as horseflesh can carry you!"
               The man vanished from the Chamber, with an eager and terrified look, We may
                  surmise he had no very exalted idea of the gentlemanly qualities of the chief
                  magistrate of Virginia, Scarcely had Packhern departed, when another messenger
                  entered in breath less haste.
               Well, what of Bacon, Cummings?" cried Sir William.,
               "He is this side of Middle Plantations, in full march for Jamestown."
               "Odd's life! odd's blood! 'sdeath! fury and destruction!" shouted Berkeley,
                  starting to his feet, and striking the bench furiously with his fist; "and not
                  fifty men here in the capital to oppose him! Sergeant at-arms, bid Captain Quinby
                  hither instantly!"
               The Sergeant hastened to the door, and ordered in the Captain
                  of the guard.
               "Quinby," pursued Sir William, "withdraw your men to the Neck, and oppose the
                  entrance of Bacon into Jamestown."
               "With all due deference to your honor," said Colonel Cole, "I think your honor's
                  mandate will consign these brave fellows to certain destruction. May I venture to
                  observe, that I think your honor overlooks the fact that Captain Quinby commands
                  twenty men and Mr. Bacon five hundred."
               "By, the Lord Harry!" cried Sir William, "will some sagacious gentleman of the
                  House be good enough to suggest something better to be done in this
                  emergency?"
               "I will obey your honor's commands, so far as in my power," said the gallant
                  Captain, turning to depart.
               
               "Stay!" exclaimed the Governor. I countermand the order, my brave Captain! It
                  shall not be said of me, that I wantonly sacrificed my friends. You are too weak
                  to oppose Bacon, I see; too weak—too weak; would to Heaven it were otherwise! Yet
                  we must try to do something—something—something."
               At this moment another messenger entered, pale and breathless; and so intense was
                  the excitement in the House, and so eager were all to hear the latest news, that
                  Governor and Council rose as one man to their feet, and fixed their gaze on the
                  new-comer.
               "Well?" almost gasped Berkeley.
               "Bacon is about two leagues distant, your honor, at the head of more than five
                  hundred men; and he swears he will get what he seeks, or put to death your honor
                  and all opposers, and lay Jamestown in ashes."
               Berkeley ripped out a terrible oath, and demanded to know if the messenger saw no
                  men hastening toward the Capital to oppose him.
               "About three miles from the Neck, your honor, I passed a company of foot coming
                  this way."
               "How many? how many?" demanded Sir William.
               "Something over fifty, your honor."
               "There is time for flight, your honor," said one of the Council.
               "Let cowards improve it!" was the sarcastic answer of the undaunted old Cavalier,
                  "For myself, I'll face the traitor, if I die for it. Here, Clerk! write an order
                  to Gardiner, to send on shore, immediately, all the marines he can spare from the
                  Duke of York! and see it dispatched instantly! at once—at once. And, Clerk! add
                  another order like it to Cheesman, of the King Charles. We must have all the men
                  we can get: all—all—all! Gentlemen, there is no use sitting here quarrelling in
                  debate? let every man be out and doing what be can to defend the town! I will
                  forth myself and see what can be done. For the present we stand adjourned."
               With this the Governor hurried out of the State-House, and found the whole town in
                  a state of great excitement and alarm, consequent upon the rumor that Bacon was
                  approaching with a large force, for the purpose of general massacre and
                  plunder.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               ALMOST A MASSACRE.
               SIR WILLIAM BERKELEY exerted his utmost to put Jamestown in a
                  state of defense against the arrival of Colonel Bacon. But his effort was a
                  complete failure—owing to a want of time for such preparation in the first place;
                  and a want of prompt and energetic response on the part of the different
                  commanders of militia and regular troops, in the second. The truth was, Sir
                  William's military officers were in general composed of men wholly unfitted for
                  their responsible stations. They regarded their office as a kind of political
                  sinecure, which would yield them honor and pay, without requiring them to expose
                  their valuable lives to dangerous bullets in return, Such a thing as an actual
                  fight had never entered into the consideration of most of them; and when they did
                  come to give it a thought, they very sagaciously came to the conclusion, that to
                  stand up and be shot at would greatly lessen their chances of dying of old age;
                  and therefore they wisely resolved to avoid any thing so very disagreeable. They
                  were a set of arrant cowards, who, like old Jack Falstaff, were very brave when
                  there was no danger, and who held with him, that honor was but air, which could
                  not set a broken leg, or restore the life it might cost to gain.
               Therefore, when Sir William sent to them to hasten to Jamestown, with all the men
                  they could raise, to oppose a hot-headed, daring fellow like Bacon—who, at the
                  head of five hundred stout-hearted yeoman, would unquestionably afford them a
                  dangerous field to labor in—they found they could not make it convenient to be in
                  time. They reasoned that if Bacon were as near as reported, and on the march, he
                  would soon be at the Capital; and therefore a little delay would render them safe
                  from all harm—for, of course, the Governor would not be so unreasonable as to
                  expect them to invest the town after their foes had got possession.
               It was necessary, however, in order to remain main in the good graces of the
                  Governor, to stake a show of zeal and loyalty; and this they did by sending
                  messages that they were doing all they could in his cause, and that shortly he
                  might expect them to be with him in person—some of which messages the reader has
                  seen delivered to him in the Council Chamber. And aware that these were hardly
                  sufficient to save them from the displeasure of the fiery old Cavalier, they
                  dispatched a few subordinate officers, at the head of a few small parties of men,
                  who, for the most part, sharing the fears of their superiors, lagged by the way,
                  and kept themselves out of danger.
               A few, however, did reach the Capital be fore Bacon; but these, commanded by
                  Sergeants and Ensigns, did not number a hundred; and with his regular guard, and
                  the mariners sent from the vessels, Berkeley saw, to his dismay, that all the
                  force he could raise to oppose to Bacon, would not exceed a hundred and fifty men.
                  If simple swearing could build a breast-work, the oaths he uttered, in the true
                  old Cavalier style, would have fortified Jamestown; but, unfortunately for him,
                  they presented no obstacle to any thing but his soul's salvation.
               At last, despairing of being able to do ought to keep his rebellious foe out of
                  the Capital, he, in a fit of spleen, told his men to go to the Neck or to the —;
                  and, retiring to his dwelling in disgust, shut himself up in his private room, and
                  gave his servants strict orders not to let him be disturbed by visitors.
               Meantime, Colonel Bacon, splendidly mounted, and at the head of a large body of
                  horse and foot, was nearing Jamestown; and about the mid-hour of the day he
                  entered the town, across the Neck, without opposition, His first proceeding was to
                  disarm the soldiery, and surround the Capital with a strong guard, who had orders
                  to shoot down any and all persons who should, after being duly warned, persist in
                  leaving it without a regular permit over his signature. He then marched the
                  remainder of his troops to the State-House green, where they formed in fine
                  military order and made quite an imposing display.
               "There, Reginald," he said, turning to his young friend, who was mounted beside
                  him, and who in some sort acted in the capacity of aid-de-camp—"I wonder what the
                  treacherous old Cavalier will have to say for himself now!"
               "He will find some way to get himself out of an unpleasant predicament, the old
                  fox!" replied Reginald, with a laugh.
               "Well, if he gets off without giving me the commission this time, may the fiends
                  fly away with me!" rejoined Bacon, savagely. "But where is he?" he continued,
                  looking toward the State-House. "I see no faces at the windows of the Council
                  Chamber! Can it be that he has taken fright and left the town before our arrival?
                  Ride over, Beauchamp, and ascertain."
               In a few minutes Reginald returned, and said:
               "The Council has adjourned. A gentleman whom I met in the hall, informed me that
                  the Governor can most probably be found at his own dwelling."
               "Hie thee hither, then, and tell him he must give me an interview immediately. You
                  can add what suits the occasion; but tell him I am in no mood to be trifled
                  with."
               Reginald instantly rode over to the Governor's house, and, dismounting, rapped
                  loudly on the door. A servant made his appearance.
               "Is your master at home?" demanded Reginald.
               "He is, sah; but won't see no visitors," replied the black.
               "Tell him I have a message from Colonel Bacon, which he will do well to attend to
                  at once," rejoined Beauchamp, sternly.
               "What is it? what is it?" inquired Sir William himself, in a peevish tone, putting
                  his head out of the second story window.
               Beauchamp repeated Bacon's message.
               "And suppose I refuse to grant him the interview? positively, absolutely refuse,
                  sir?" demanded Berkeley, in an angry tone.
               "Then your honor will find Jamestown a very warm place," replied Reginald, in a
                  proud; haughty tone.
               "Well, sir oracle! I suppose you know what you are saying?" rejoined the old
                  Knight, contemptuously.
               "My name is Beauchamp" returned the
                  other, sternly; "and you will do well to bear it in mind when addressing me?"
               "Hey-day! hey-day! young sir: wonders are coming to pass, when his most sacred
                  Majesty's 
                     vice-gerent
                     vice-regent
                   can be so bearded in his own dwelling by a strippling rebel and
                  traitor!—a rebel and traitor, d'ye mark?" was the angry response.
               "Yes," replied Reginald, with flashing eyes; "wonders are certainly coming to
                  pass; for tyrant gray-beards are about to be taught that they cannot longer tread
                  on the necks of the people with impunity."
               "I would I had as large a force in town as your renegade master!" cried the old
                  Cavalier. "By the Lord Harry! I would soon teach you your place! Audacious!
                  audacious! audacious!"
               "Will you grant Colonel Bacon the interview he desires?" demanded Reginald,
                  choking down his anger, and trying to speak calmly, though his voice trembled with
                  suppressed passion.
               "What business have you to vex yourself up in this quarrel!" pursued the Governor,
                  without heeding the other's question. "You are not one of the citizens: You, a
                  mere adventurer here, have no right to complain of wrongs. You came to me as a
                  friend, with letters from England, and I treated you as a friend; and now you come
                  to me as a foe—as a foe to your King and country—to your King and country, young
                  scape-grace!"
               "'Tis false!" cried Beauchamp: "false as the foul tongue that utters it! Who says
                  I am a foe to my King and country, lies in his throat!"
               For some moments Berkeley was too enraged to reply; but at length he articulated,
                  fairly shaking with passion:
               "By the souls of my sires! Mr. Beauchamp, I will make you answer for such
                  insolence some day! Beware of that day, you young scoundrel! beware of that Day!
                  You may triumph now; but 'fore Heaven! you shall rue it! you shall rue it!—mark my
                  words; you shall rue it?"
               "Will you grant Colonel Bacon the interview he desires?" again demanded
                  Reginald.
               "Oh! that I had these insolent scoundrels in my power!" muttered the Governor, as
                  if to himself, clinching and unclinching his hands, in a kind of impotent
                  rage.
               "Will you grant Colonel Bacon the interview he desires?" again repeated Reginald,
                  with a proud curl of his lip, which the Governor perceiving became nearly frantic
                  with passion, so that the veins on his forehead stood out like whip-cords, and the
                  blood seemed about to burst from his scarlet face, "Come," added the other, after
                  a short pause, "my time is valuable, and I can not wait all day for your honor's
                  answer. Bear in mind, sir! I am none of your miserable parasites, begging a favor;
                  but the honorable representative of the commander of this town. Say yea or nay,
                  Sir William—I care not which; but if nay, I will soon call for you again at the
                  head of a file of soldiers."
               The last remark somewhat startled the Governor; recollecting that he had no power
                  for successful resistance, should his foe venture on extreme measures, he deemed
                  it politic to accede to the Colonel's request with what grace he could.
               "Yes, tell Mr. Bacon I will grant him an interview, on the State-House green, at
                  the head of my Cabinet, within an hour," he said; and drawing in his head, he
                  closed the window with violence.
               Beauchamp mounted his horse—which, during the colloquy, he had held by the bridle;
                  and riding back to Bacon, reported all that had been said on either side.
               "You have made him your enemy for life," replied Bacon, with a serious air. "He is
                  a terrible beast, and our only safety lies in clipping off his claws, For myself,
                  individually, I care neither for his love nor hate; but, Reginald, he is a
                  vindictive foe; and on your account I regret you so angered him."
               "Like yourself, my friend, I neither care for his love nor hate, "replied the
                  other," "If he compass my destruction, he will find he has made a slight mistake
                  in the person ere he completes it, "he added, in a tone and with an air that
                  seemed to imply something more than he chose to utter.
               A few minutes after this conversation, the drum again beat for the two Houses to
                  meet; and the Governor, and also the members of the two legislative bodies, were
                  seen to take their way to the state-house from different parts of the town.
               "Now." said Bacon to his officers, whom he had called together, "the crisis of our
                  business is at hand; and either I get the commission I seek, or woe to them who
                  refuse me! There shall be no child's play in the matter. Colonel Hansford, you
                  will remain here with the main body. Captain Carver, select fifty of your best
                  marksmen and follow me: the rest of you, gentlemen, with the exception of
                  Beauchamp, will also remain here till further orders. Be surprised, my friends, at
                  nothing you may see; for I tell you I will have the commission, or woe to them who
                  refuse it me!"
               Escorted by the number of men already mentioned, Bacon advanced to within a few
                  yards of the state-house, and there made a halt, with the soldiers facing the
                  building at the two angles which embraced the windows of the council chamber and
                  assembly room.
               "Here," he said, "we will await the Governor's appearance—and I pray Heaven our
                  differences may be amicably adjusted! But be ready, my gallant men, to do your
                  duty; for if what I demand be not granted, blood must flow. Let this be a signal
                  for you to act: If you see me draw my sword, then shoot down Governor, Council,
                  and Assembly—all—every man—let none be spared! If we are to be known in history
                  only as rebels and traitors, let us be known to some purpose. Remember! the
                  drawing of my sword is the signal for the work of slaughter to begin; but while my
                  sword remains in its scabbard, let not one of you, on pain of death, fire a shot!
                  Captain Carver, I shall make you responsible for the execution of my orders, to
                  the very letter and spirit of them."
               A few minutes after this, the Governor—preceded as usual by his halberdiers, and
                  followed by the members of his Cabinet, two-by-two, arm-in-arm—came forward from
                  the state-house toward Bacon; who, accompanied only by Reginald, advanced a few
                  paces from his escort to meet him. As the two parties finally formed for the
                  interview, and stood face to face, the scene presented to the gaze of many of the
                  early settlers of Virginia, was both novel and imposing.
               Let us take a bird's eye view of Jamestown at that important moment—a moment big
                  with fate to many who figure prominently in the Colonial records.
               The town, built near the river, along the southern side of the peninsula, was
                  entirely surrounded by a guard of soldiers, carrying fusils, and whose numbers
                  rendered the distance between each not over twenty paces. The state-house,
                  standing back from the only street, and about equi-distant from either end of it,
                  fronted toward the river, with a broad opening down to the water, where were
                  anchored some half a dozen sloops, with a few sailors in the rigging, who had
                  ascended there the better to see what was taking place on shore. The state-house
                  green or common, off to the right of the building, displayed a body of horse and
                  foot, drawn up in true military style, and almost motionless. Nearer the
                  state-house by some two hundred yards, and flanking its south-western angle, stood
                  fifty fusileers, their arms shouldered, their Captain at their head, and Bacon and
                  Beauchamp some ten paces in front of them. Facing the latter—their gold-laced,
                  scarlet costumes, looped and feather-ornamented hats, strikingly contrasting the
                  green fustian jerkins and small round caps of the fusileers—stood the Governor and
                  his Counselors, the latter a pace or two behind him, and his halberdier-guard on
                  his right and left hand. Standing about in groups, a few rods distant—for they
                  dared venture no nearer—were more than a hundred deeply-concerned spectators, some
                  citizens of James-town, some strangers, while every house-top had its group of
                  female lookers-on, both white and black. The windows of the assembly room were
                  open, and filled with faces pale and anxious, the owners of many of which wished
                  them leagues away. All eyes, from all directions, far and near, had one common
                  cynosure; all faces, wherever seen, wore either stern, serious, or troubled
                  expressions; and if one spoke to another, it was in a low, hushed, mysterious
                  tone, as if the speaker felt the awe of some impending calamity.
               For a brief time, Governor Berkeley and Colonel Bacon eyed each other without speaking, as two combatants each taking
                  the dimensions and calculating the strength of his opponent.
               "So, sir!" said Sir William, at length, with a kind of mock politeness, "I trust I
                  may congratulate you, Mr. Bacon, my dear friend, on your wife's most marvelous
                  recovery—a recovery most marvelous indeed, considering her serious illness of a
                  date so recent! Odd's blood, sir! you must make me acquainted with your family
                  physician. He must be a great leech—a man of wonderful parts—truly an embodiment
                  of skill."
               "He is, your honor!" replied Bacon, in the same strain of polite irony. "He is
                  truly a wonderful leech, Sir William—a man who professes to cure the worst
                  political distempers by a little judicious blood-letting. We are his pupils, and
                  hearing your honor and friends were ailing, we have hastened hither too tender you
                  our services."
               "In other words," rejoined the old knight, changing his tone and manner, speaking
                  with stern bitterness, and drawing himself up haughtily, his face flushed with
                  passion, and his eyes flashing: "In other words, sir, you have come here to
                  assassinate me—to murder me—to put me to death!"
               "If such were my intention, and I executed it, I regret to be able to say, with
                  truth, your honor would only get your desert," returned Bacon, angrily. "Sir
                  William Berkeley, I tell you to your teeth, you are a false-hearted, double-faced,
                  treacherous old sinner! You are one of those in whom no confidence can be
                  placed—who disgrace the name of gentleman, and degrade it below the standard of
                  honor set up by the veriest lackey!"
               "Well, scapegrace, vent your foul abuse! and then begin your murderous business!"
                  cried the Governor. "Order up your tools, and let them make my breast a target!
                  Come, sirrah! why do you dally? you are losing time. Here, sirrah! here! (opening
                  his doublet and presenting his breast), a fair mark, sir—a fair mark—shoot! shoot!
                  shoot!"
               "No, your honor," returned Bacon, in a more respectful tone, feeling some
                  admiration for the old Knight's bravery; "I would not willingly harm a hair of
                  your honor's head, nor any other man's. We did not come here as base assassins: we
                  came for the commission, which you have so often promised, to save our lives from
                  the Indians; and by the blood of my fathers! we will have it, too, before we go,
                  be the consequences what they may!"
               "A fair mark, sir!" repeated the Governor, still exposing his breast: "fore
                  Heaven, scapegrace, a very fair mark: shoot! shoot! shoot!"
               "By St. George! I have a mind to take you at your word," rejoined Bacon, savagely.
                  "Will you give me the commission or not? Refuse me, and you shall not have time to
                  say your prayers"
               "Why don't you shoot?" persisted Berkeley; "you see it is a fair mark; fore
                  Heaven, scapegrace, a very fair mark: shoot! shoot! shoot!
               "Make ready, men!" cried Bacon, turning to his fusileers, and stepping a few paces
                  aside, so that the Governor and his Council were brought in fair range. You know
                  my orders," and he laid his hand upon the hilt of his sword. "Aim!" and at the
                  last word the fusils were leveled at the breasts of Berkeley and his friends;
                  while the stern looks of the yeomen too plainly showed that they only waited the
                  last order, or the signal, to begin the bloody work.
               A simultaneous cry of consternation now arose from the Governor's Counsellors, and
                  several shouted:
               "Hold! hold! for the love of Heaven, do not fire!"
               "Just as his honor pleases," returned the Colonel, with a grim smile. "He has been
                  ordering me to shoot, shoot, shoot, all along, and now I am prepared to obey. He
                  has only to give the command once more, and ere the sound of his voice dies out on
                  the air, he shall have lead enough in his body to ballast his soul for a long
                  voyage. Come, Sir William! what say you now?"
               But Berkeley stood pale and silent. Without showing any thing like cowardice, or
                  unruly fear, he had suddenly lost his air of bravado.
               Matters had all at once assumed a more startling aspect than he had anticipated.
                  Bacon was in earnest, without question, and so were his men. It needed but a word
                  to open a most bloody record, to be closed Heaven only knew when. That word Sir
                  William was not fool-hardy enough to utter, and Bacon waited for him to speak
                  first.
               "Come, your honor!" said the Colonel at length; "you evidently do not want a dozen
                  bullets in your body, and I do want a commission as General for the
                  Indian war. What say you? Shall I have it?"
               Here several of the Governor's cabinet crowded around, and spoke eagerly with him,
                  for some moments, in low tones. It was an exciting, impressive scene to the
                  spectators, many of whom held their breath with fearful anticipation, as they saw
                  the fifty deadly weapons of the yeomanry remain leveled at the breasts of
                  Virginia's chief rulers, while the latter were debating among themselves whether
                  to accede or not to the demands of him whose simple word would consign them to a
                  bloody grave.
               At length Sir William said:
               "Mr. Bacon, we will retire and consider this business—seriously consider it, sir,
                  and then you shall have our decision—our final and irrevocable decision."
               "Stay! your honor," cried Bacon, as the Governor turned away to retrace his steps
                  to the state-house: "Stay! Sir William: the matter at issue has been considered
                  sufficiently already, and I demand your decision now, on the instant."
               To this Berkeley apparently paid no heed, not even turning his head to bestow a
                  look upon the speaker—but, preceded by his halberdiers and followed by his
                  council, in the same manner that he had come out to meet Bacon, steadily pursued
                  his way back to the building, through a large concourse of excited spectators.
               Till the Governor had reached the steps, the young Colonel stood looking after
                  him, his features gradually assuming an expression almost demoniac. Then clinching
                  his hands and fairly gnashing his teeth with wild fury, he started after him,
                  gesticulating furiously, and shouting so as to be heard by all:
               "D—n my blood! I have a mind to kill Governor, Council, Assembly and all, and then
                  sheath my sword in my own heart*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Bacon's identical words, uttered on the occasion above alluded to, as
                     reported by one who heard them. In fact the whole 
                        scenes
                        scene
                     , as presented to the readex, corresponds with the description of
                     an eye-witness, who was himself, at that time, a member of the Assembly.
               
               As Bacon disappeared into the state-house, following the Governor and his Cabinet,
                  the fusileers became fearfully excited and drawing his sword, Captain Carver
                  pointed to the windows of the Assembly room, filled with blanched faces, and
                  shouted:
               "Yonder are good targets yet. Ready! present! aim!" and as the men obeyed. and ere
                  the word "Fire," which was already trembling on the lips of their excited and
                  enraged commander, could be uttered, Reginald, who had remained behind Bacon,
                  sprung in front 
                     of of
                     of
                   the corps, and cried:
               "Hold! hold! I charge you, in the name of humanity, till you have the signal or
                  orders of Colonel Bacon himself! Would you murder these men, who are no more to
                  blame for the acts of their superiors in authority than yourself?" he sternly
                  demanded of Carver.
               "I care not whom I kill," replied the Captain sullenly, with an oath. "We are come
                  for a commission, and by —! we'll have it, too, or every mother's son of the
                  scoundrels who oppose us shall die!"
               "Yes! yes! the commission! the commission! we will have it! we will have it!"
                  shouted the fusileers.
               Meantime the Burgesses had withdrawn from the windows, and there was great
                  commotion and excitement in the Assembly room. Presently a gentleman who knew
                  Carver, and was known to most of the men, having been elected from one of the
                  border counties, reappeared at one of the windows, and holding forth a white
                  handkerchief, as a flag of truce, said:
               "Captain Carver, and gentlemen, what seek you of us, that you so menace us with
                  death?"
               "A commission for Colonel Bacon, as General for the Indian war," shouted back the
                  determined Captain.
               "A commission for Colonel Bacon! and we will have it—we will have it!" echoed the yeomen, with their pieces still
                  elevated.
               "You shall have it! you shall have it, my friends—only
                  give us time!" returned he of the Assembly.
               "Enough!" rejoined Carver; "it is all we seek."
               On hearing this, the fusileers lowered their weapons and proceeded to uncock
                  them.
               Once more the spectators and all concerned breathed freely—a general massacre had
                  been averted by a timely word.
               Presently Bacon returned, flushed with excitement, and ordered Captain Carver to
                  withdraw his men to the main body, and there await further instructions. When
                  taking the arm of Reginald, he walked aside, saying, with no little emotion:
               "My friend, I would not live over the last half hour to be king of England."
               "Will you get the 
                     commsision
                     commission
                  ?" inquired the other.
               "I do not know: I pray Heaven I may! If not, then do I consign my dear Edith to
                  your tender charge, my dear friend—for I will not outlive a failure—and the
                  Governor and his Council shall keep me bloody company across the fatal bourne. It
                  is of this I wish to speak, dear Reginald. For the love of Heaven, and your soul's
                  peace, attend to what I say!" and for some half an hour, the excited Colonel
                  rattled on in a wild and almost incoherent strain.
               Then suddenly, abruptly breaking away from his bosom confidant, he exclaimed:
               "The Assembly! the Assembly! I will to the Assembly!" and he hurried into the
                  statehouse, and up the broad stairs, like one insane
               On entering the apartment appropriated to the Burgesses, the Colonel found that
                  body organized and in grave deliberation. On perceiving who was their visitor, all
                  business was suspended, and they awaited his communication in silence and deep
                  anxiety. They were not long kept in a state of suspense concerning the object of
                  his visit. Running his keen, black eye, now somewhat wild in its expression,
                  rapidly over the whole Assembly, he let it rest upon the Speaker, and exclaimed,
                  in a quick, stern tone:
               "I want a commission as General for the Indian war!"
               The Speaker looked embarrassed and frightened, but made no reply, and all the
                  other members remained silent. Bacon repeated his words, in a louder and more
                  authoritative tone.
               "Colonel Bacon," now answered his friend and neighbor, Squire Bristow, the
                  gentleman who had been elected from Henrico at the same time as himself, "you ask
                  what is not in our province to grant, were we ever so well disposed. Governor
                  Berkeley, and he alone, as the King's vicegerent, has the legal power to grant you
                  a lawful commission."
               "To the lower hell with all such hypocritical old scoundrels!" cried Bacon, almost
                  foaming with rage; and forthwith he proceeded to make a hurried, angry speech, in
                  which he urged upon the House the necessity, if the Governor longer dallied, of
                  taking upon themselves the responsibility of providing ample means for the
                  security of the Colony and the preservation of the lives of good citizens against
                  the ravages of the savage hordes—as also for the inspection of the public
                  revenues, to see that the money was not squandered, as he had good reason to know
                  it had been—thus requiring of the people such exorbitant taxes, that it was
                  impossible for the best favored of fortune to more than live and meet these
                  demands, while the rest, the majority in point of numbers, were
                  ground to the dust, and were scarcely better than so many galley slaves. He spoke,
                  too, of other wrongs, grievances, and abuses, in strong, bitter terms, and
                  engrossed the earnest attention of the House for half an hour.
               "These, gentlemen," he said, in conclusion, "are wrongs which must be
                  righted. I have spoken—you have heard. Do your duty to your country, and prove
                  yourselves worthy to be called enlightened freemen of Virginia, and not the
                  cringing, cowardly parasites of your present scheming, ambitious, avaricious,
                  treacherous, tyrannical rulers!" Then, to the surprise of all, he suddenly turned
                  on his heel, and exclaiming: "The commission! I will have it or die!" he rushed
                  almost frantically from the apartment.
               The remainder of that eventful day, Bacon passed in an excitement bordering on
                  frenzy; and many who saw him, believed he had gone mad in earnest. That night he
                  spent without sleep, closeted with Lawrence, Drummond, and Beauchamp. The day
                  following, to his unbounded delight, he got tidings, that at last his commission
                  had been made out, and had received the sign-manuel of the Governor. Great was the
                  rejoicing of Bacon's personal friends at this intelligence, and great was the
                  rejoicing of the people throughout the Colony. They little dreamed what was to
                  follow.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE CONSENT AND PREPARATION.
               As the regularly-commissioned General for the Indian war, Bacon had the power to
                  select and appoint all the officers who were to serve under him—the Governor
                  furnishing him the requisite number of cartes-blanche. In the making of these appointments, and arranging
                  matters for an active campaign, he was occupied some days at Jamestown; and then
                  returning to his wife, he spent one night in her company, and the next day set off
                  for the wilderness, at the head of some five hundred men, whose numbers increased
                  daily, as he passed through the upper border counties.
               In filling out his commissions, General Baton—for so he was now and henceforth
                  denominated—did not forget his young friend. Reginald Beauchamp. On him he
                  bestowed the rank of Colonel; but at the same time persuaded him to remain behind,
                  and take charge of a troop of horse, about fifty in number, with his head-quarters
                  at Middle Plantations,*
                     some eight or ten miles from the Capital.
               
                  
                  *Now called Williamsburg.
               
               The truth was, the General had no longer implicit confidence in the integrity of
                  Berkeley, who had so often deceived him; and therefore he thought it politic to
                  leave behind him a vigilant guard, to protect his family and act as a check upon
                  any further treacherous designs of the Governor. Reginald himself was the more
                  easily satisfied with this arrangement, that it would leave him near, with power
                  to protect, the being he so truly and devotedly loved.
               So soon as Governor Berkeley learned, through one of his spies, Martin, what Bacon
                  had done to thwart any treacherous designs on his own part, he set his wits to
                  work to circumvent the General, and at the same time obtain a terrible revenge
                  upon one who had imprudently bearded him in his own stronghold.
               Having once more dissolved the Assembly, at their own request, Sir William had now
                  little to do but plot the downfall of Bacon and his adherents; and he thought it
                  well, since the General was for the present beyond his reach, to begin on the
                  obnoxious young Colonel Beauchamp, and put him out of the way as speedily as
                  possible. For this purpose he sent for Captain Brent, and promised him a Colonel's
                  commission the moment he should place Reginald Beauchamp in his power.
               And here, leaving the Governor compassing his destruction, let us return to our
                  hero, and see in what manner he was employing his time after Bacon's
                  departure.
               We have said that Beauchamp's headquarters were at Middle Plantations. This
                  settlement, then the residence of several wealthy families and persons of note,
                  was distant from Jamestown some eight or ten miles, and situated on a level,
                  healthy plain, about midway between the James and York rivers, and immediately on
                  the division line between James City and York counties. The settlement was not
                  large—containing some dozen dwellings, a church, several storehouses, a couple of
                  inns, and a few other buildings, used for various purposes. These might be said to
                  be clustered together—that is to say, comprised within the diameter of three
                  fourths of a mile—but beyond these, for several miles in every direction, the
                  country was settled by wealthy planters, several of whom were members of the
                  Council of State, but who preferred a residence on their broad and extensive
                  plantations, to one within the limits of a corporate town, and more especially
                  Jamestown, which, as before remarked was so very unhealthy.
               
               A commodious storehouse, at Middle Plantations, was converted into a barrack for
                  Reginald's troop of horse; and thence, for several days after General Bacon's
                  departure, he sallied forth at the head of his men, and rode a circuit of several
                  miles; but ever finding the country in a state of quietude, and hearing nothing to
                  excite suspicion of secret plotting against either Bacon or himself, he gradually
                  grew remiss in vigilance, and allowed his mind to be occupied with very different
                  matters, and his men to do much as they pleased.
               Reginald, as we have before shown, was in love with the beautiful Flora; and, like
                  all lovers, he found his greatest delight in the presence of his charming
                  mistress, and embraced every occasion to he with her—often riding over to Colonel
                  Parker's (at whose house she and Mrs. Bacon still remained welcome guests) after
                  nightfall, attended only by a servant, and returning at a late hour to his
                  military quarters.
               The distance to Colonel Parker's, from Middle Plantations, was about twelve miles,
                  by a good road, which passed through a settled country, interspersed with
                  woodlands and cultivated openings.
               In the edge of one of these woodlands, a few reds back from the highway, and about
                  half way between his starting point and destination, stood one of those neat,
                  stone structures, erected to the service of God, of which so many ruins are to be
                  found at this day within the limits occupied by the early settlers of the Old
                  Dominion. It was a very retired and interesting little church, embowered with
                  trees, and partially surrounded by a grave-yard, in which, from time to time, were
                  deposited the remains of such of the neighboring inhabitants as were called to
                  another state of existence. It was under the pastoral charge of a mild, venerable
                  clergyman of the Church of England, who had occupied its pulpit for thirty years,
                  preaching every Sabbath the word of God to a small congregation of quiet but
                  attentive listeners, and attending to such other duties as his holy calling
                  enjoined.
               The residence of the pastor, the Rev. Mr. Fairbanks, was distant something less
                  than a quarter of a mile from the church. It was also a stone structure—plain,
                  neat, and unostentatious—with woodbine and hyacinth clustering around the door—ivy
                  and moss mantling the walls—fruit and other trees shadowing it—with a green lawn
                  in front, and a flowery garden in the rear—the whole inclosed with white palings,
                  and wearing an air of quiet cheerfulness, and having a look of rural simplicity,
                  such as only can be found in the open country, away from the busy hum of the marts
                  of trade.
               As Reginald passed the church and pastor's dwelling, on his way to and from the
                  present abode of Flora, he ever let his gaze linger upon both, and fancied to
                  himself the joy he would experience in standing with the being he loved before the
                  sacred altar, with the venerable clergyman officiating in the holy rite which
                  should make them one by a tie that death alone could sever. And ever with this
                  delightful contemplation, was associated night, and a calm, holy stillness, with
                  the bright stars on high, as so many angel eyes, looking sweetly down through the
                  azure vault of heaven. Yes! in the still hours of night, he would have the little
                  sanctuary dimly lighted, the clergyman in his official robes to read the solemn
                  ritual, and some three or four friends by to witness the ceremony; and thus, and
                  then, and there, would he have Flora Monteith made his forever.
               Such was the picture that Reginald romantically drew in his mind, till he deemed
                  it essential to his happiness to make it a reality; and at last he gained the
                  assent of Flora that it should be so.
               In a former chapter we made the reader acquainted with the objections which Flora
                  then had to a speedy union with the person of her choice; and these objections she
                  consistently retained, till Bacon had received his commission as General for the
                  Indian war, and she had been led to believe, from the almost daily representations
                  of Reginald, that the country was now in a state of security, and no longer in
                  danger of being embroiled in the bloody strife of factions. And once satisfied of
                  this, she saw no further reason to oppose the desire of her heart, and the earnest
                  solicitations of him she loved.
               "Since the danger is past, and the country is likely to remain in a state of
                  quietude, and none can say I am influenced by a base motive, in uniting myself to
                  one who is likely to soon leave me a widow with a competence," she reasoned to
                  herself, "why should I longer oppose a union which is so earnestly urged upon me,
                  and which my own heart tells me will increase the happiness of both during the
                  brief term we may be permitted to live together on earth?"
               Therefore, like a sensible woman, when she saw her only objections removed, Flora
                  frankly placed her hand in Reginald's, and bade him do what to him might seem
                  best. It seems needless to add, that Reginald, like many an impassioned and happy
                  lover both before and since—for human nature has been much the same in all
                  ages—was in an enviable state of rapture at this announcement; and he forthwith
                  set about making preparations for the consummation of the dearest wish of his
                  heart.
               Had Flora merely consulted her own feelings and desire in the matter, she would
                  have had the ceremony performed at the house of Colonel Parker, instead of the
                  forest church, as Reginald proposed; but she did not think it right to oppose a
                  wish that he seemed to have so much at heart; and so she consented to this
                  arrangement without expressing an objection.
               Reginald called on the Rev. Mr. Fairbanks, and the good man consented to perform
                  the ceremony in the church, after nightfall—though, being a rather matter-of-fact
                  man, devoid of romantic ideas, he thought it singular that candle-light should be
                  preferred to daylight, and so expressed himself to the young officer.
               "It is a whim of my own," replied Reginald—"a mere whim. And yet," he added,
                  "perhaps I should consider this desire as ranging something higher than mere idle
                  fancy. Marriage I regard as something sacred—a solemn, holy covenant; and what
                  place so suitable for the performance of the rite, as the sanctuary of the Most
                  High? and what hour so fitting, as when the stillness and repose of night
                  surrounds?"
               "Your wish, Mr. Beauchamp, so far as I am concerned, shall be gratified," rejoined
                  the clergyman.
               It was finally arranged that the ceremony should be performed on the following
                  night, and that Colonel Parker and lady, his niece, a young gentleman who visited
                  the house, and Mr. and Mrs. Fairbanks, should be the only witnesses—Mrs. Bacon
                  being in too delicate health to venture a ride after nightfall. To avoid the
                  assembling of any curious spectators, it was further decided that the matter
                  should be kept a profound secret, till it could be said that Reginald and Flora
                  were one in the holy covenant of marriage.
               But fate had decreed that there should be other actors upon the scene than those
                  enumerated, whose presence should prove as unwelcome as unexpected.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE MARRIAGE.
               As the sun sunk to rest on the evening appointed for the nuptials of Reginald
                  Beauchamp and Flora Monteith, his parting rays of golden hue streamed upon a small
                  cavalcade, moving slowly along the traveled route between Colonel Parker's and the
                  forest church. At the head of this mounted party rode the 
                     neice
                     niece
                   of Colonel Parker—a Miss Mowbray, a very intelligent and interesting
                  young lady—who was accompanied by one Walter Neville, a young planter living in
                  the vicinity, and an intimate friend of the family. Next in order rode Reginald
                  and Flora, followed in turn by Mr. and Mrs. Parker, while two negro servants
                  brought up the rear.
               The day had been remarkably hot and sultry; and even at this hour the heat was so
                  oppressive that our wedding party did not urge their horses beyond a walk. A few
                  fleecy clouds could be seen in the west, whose edges, catching the golden rays of
                  the declining sun, presented a most gorgeous appearance. As the god of day finally
                  disappeared, and the shadows of approaching night began to settle over the earth,
                  a dark cloud could be seen lifting its portentous head above the horizon; and as it gradually rose higher,
                  and the evening grew darker, an occasional flash of lightning behind, threw it
                  into bold relief, though no thunder could as yet be heard.
               "I fear we shall have a storm," said Reginald, looking anxiously toward the west.
                  His companion did not reply; and on turning to her, he gave a start, and
                  exclaimed: "Good heavens! Flora, are you ill? Your face is deadly pale!"
               A slight shudder was the only answer.
               "Are you ill, dearest? are you ill?" cried Reginald again, in a tone of alarm.
                  "Speak! dearest, speak! You seem faint—let us stop our horses and dismount."
               "No! no!" returned Flora, quickly, but in a low, faint tone. "Do not speak so
                  loud, Reginald, and seem so anxious! You will attract the notice of the others;
                  and I would not have them question me now. I shall be better presently. I am
                  foolish—but do not wish to be laughed at."
               "Laughed at, Flora? laughed at?" rejoined the other, in a tone of surprise. "And
                  who do you think would laugh because you are ill?"
               "My illness is rather of the mind than the body."
               "How of the mind?"
               "Why, I have a strange foreboding that something terrible is about to happen!"
               "Indeed! this foreboding must have come upon you suddenly then; for I have noticed
                  that you have been in uncommonly good spirits till now."
               "And have I then succeeded in deceiving you till now?"
               "Deceiving me, Flora? I do not understand you."
               "Ah! dear Reginald, I have affected what I have not felt, that none might guess my
                  secret terrors."
               "Terrors of what, Flora?"
               "I know not what; but ever since this matter has been arranged, that we should be
                  united at the forest church in the night, I have felt as if something dreadful
                  were going to happen to us."
               "This is strange! why did you not mention it before? and I would have had the
                  ceremony performed elsewhere. Surely, when you were about to unite your fortune
                  with mine, by the most sacred of ties, you should not have shrunk from making me
                  your confidant!"
               "Why, I thought, dear Reginald, you might think me foolish—in fact, I thought
                  myself so—and I resolved to shake off the dread which hung upon me; but I have not
                  succeeded; and just now I felt more fearfully impressed than ever with that same
                  terrible something."
               "It is not too late yet—let us turn back, dear Flora!"
               "It is a bad omen to turn back; and beside, what excuse could we give but the
                  right one? and I fear that would subject me to unpleasant comments, if not actual
                  ridicule, No, no, dear Reginald—if you think there is no danger, and have no
                  secret fear, let mine pass, and say nothing to our friends."
               "I certainly have no secret fear, dear Flora, and apprehend no danger. In fact,
                  what danger should I apprehend? The country is every where quiet—the people are
                  every where rejoicing at Bacon's appointment; and certainly the Indians would not
                  venture this far down into the very heart of the settled portion of the Colony,
                  even if no large force were in the very act of marching against them."
               "Have you nothing to fear from Sir William, think you, dear Reginald? You and he
                  quarreled, you know; and he is not one likely to forgive and forget."
               "Doubtless he bears me malice," replied the other; "but he is powerless for the
                  present; and I will take good care to provide against the future. It is not
                  unreasonable to suppose that he hates Bacon, and all his friends, myself
                  especially; and if he could effect our destruction, without too much risk to
                  himself and his authority, no doubt he would; but while the General is at the head
                  of his troops, and I at the head of mine, it is not probable that so shrewd an old
                  fox as the Governor is reputed to be, will do any thing more serious than curse us
                  both in his heart. It is when the forces shall have been disbanded, that we shall
                  have to guard against his machinations; though even then I see nothing that he can
                  do; for we are both acting ing by authority, and both have regular, lawful
                  commissions, signed by himself. But setting all that aside, it is folly in our
                  case, tonight, dear Flora, to fear any thing from the Governor; for if he were
                  seeking me, he certainly would not seek me at yonder church, since even the junior
                  officers of my command know not where I am."
               "They may not know where you are, dear Reginald; but you have traveled this road
                  so often of late, it may be enough for them to know at which point of compass you
                  left the settlement, to guess the rest; and what they can surmise, others can; and
                  if the Governor meditates any harm to you, it were easy for him to have some
                  person to watch all your movements, and make daily report."
               "In which case he would be foiled this time," returned Reginald, with a light
                  laugh; "for to throw every body off of the right scent—not through fear, but a
                  desire to keep my secret from even so much as being suspected—I left Middle
                  Plantations in a direction exactly opposite to my usual course today; and, making
                  a long circuit, reached Colonel Parker's by an entirely new route. But hark! is
                  not that thunder?"
               "Yes," returned Flora, in a quick, anxious tone. "And see how fast yonder cloud
                  rises! and the lightning is so vivid! Doubtless my unusual nervousness may be
                  attributed to the approach of this storm; for it was when I first saw that dark
                  cloud, that I felt so very faint and frightened. It may seem foolish to you, dear
                  Reginald, but I always was, and perhaps always shall be, timid in a thunder
                  shower. Some years since I had a distant relation killed by a stroke of lightning,
                  and ever since then I have been more timid than before."
               "We must quicken our pace," said Reginald; "otherwise we may reach our destination
                  too late to have the ceremony performed till after the storm. Nay, Flora, he
                  added, again looking at his companion, who was still very pale—"had I known how
                  you were to be affected by this whim of mine, I never would have made such a
                  proposition. But, dearest, we can make the approaching storm an excuse for turning
                  back; and to-morrow, or what other time may best suit you, I will send for Mr.
                  Fairbanks to ride over to Col. Parker's."
               "No, no," said Flora, in a firmer tone; "there must be no turning back—it is a bad
                  omen—and there must be no change in the manner, time and place already fixed upon
                  for celebrating the holy rite. I will bring my feelings under proper
                  subjection, and none shall see me wavering with fear. I will be firm
                  and composed. It only requires a strong effort of the will for this, and it shall
                  be made. But as you say, Reginald, we should quicken our pace."
               Beauchamp then said to the others, in a loud tone, that he thought it advisable to
                  ride faster; and the horses were accordingly quickened to a trot, which pace they
                  kept till the church was reached. It had by this time become quite dark—the black
                  cloud in the west had risen high above the horizon, and was still fast rolling
                  upward and forward; long zig-zag chains of lightning darted from the heavens to
                  the earth, casting a fitful lurid glare over every object, which the next moment
                  seemed buried in a darkness impenetrable to sight; while one peal of thunder,
                  joining its solemn, heavy rumble to another, kept up a constant roar, that each
                  moment increased in volume with the steady approach of the battle of the
                  elements.
               On dismounting before the little sanctuary, our friends found the venerable pastor
                  standing in the doorway, awaiting their arrival. He was alone; but apologized for
                  the absence of his good lady, by saying that her health was such as to render it
                  very imprudent for her to venture out on a stormy night.
               "Nor would I ask it, Reverend sir," replied Reginald; "and had I seen certain
                  signs of this storm before we set out, I would have had the matter on which we
                  have come, deferred to another time. Even now, I wish the advice of my friends,
                  whether or not the ceremony should proceed under the circumstances!"
               "Since we are all here, I, for one, think it best that it should," replied Colonel
                  Parker. "That is, unless there be objection on the part of Miss Monteith," he
                  added, turning to Flora.
               "I would not counsel delay," replied Flora, in a firm, but subdued tone.
               
               "There will be time, I think, to conclude the ceremony, and reach my dwelling
                  before the storm begins," said the pastor; and turning as he spoke, he led the way
                  down the central aisle, to the sacred desk, on which stood two lighted lamps,
                  whose united rays seemed not to extend beyond a small circuit, leaving most of the
                  church enveloped in a dismal pall of blackness, save when it was for an instant
                  removed by a vivid flash of lightning, that tended no little to increase the gloom
                  and impressiveness of the scene, more especially when a heavier peal of thunder
                  than usual made the ground slightly quake, and the whole building tremble as if
                  the chariots of heaven were rushing over it.
               Marriage, if properly entered into, is one of the most solemn and impressive of
                  covenants; and even those who witness it, without having any unusual interest in
                  the parties who take upon them the sacred vows, will sometimes feel an
                  unaccountable thrill of awe steal over them while the holy rite is being
                  performed—an awe not unlike that which we experience by the bed of death, as we
                  watch the sufferer through the last agonies till the spirit leaps into the life
                  beyond. Why this is, we leave philosophers to decide; but that it is sometimes the
                  case, we speak from our own individual experience.
               And doubly, trebly solemn and impressive was the marriage scene that night, in
                  that lone forest church, amid the flashing lightning and roaring thunder. Robed in
                  white, her beautiful features pale as marble, Flora stood on the left hand of
                  Reginald, not entirely firm and composed, but struggling to be so against dangers
                  seen and terrors imagined. Reginald stood erect and calm; but his face was very
                  pale, and his whole appearance betokened one duly impressed with the unusual
                  solemnities of the occasion. Facing the two about to be united by the tie that
                  death alone must sever, stood the clergyman, his long dark gown, with its falling
                  collar of point-lace, and his bare head, with a few gray locks streaming down
                  about his venerable face—as dimly seen by the lamps behind, or more fully
                  displayed by the almost constant flashes of lightning—presenting a figure with all
                  the strong points which the artist is ever so ready to seize upon. Grouped around
                  the three described, stood the others, in their relative
                  positions, fairly breathless with the intense interest which
                  the time, the place, the occasion, and, withal, the striking, not to say
                  thrilling, peculiarities of the scene were so well calculated to excite.
               Glancing hurriedly over the license, which Reginald now handed him, the venerable
                  pastor, without referring to the book which he held in his hand, began the
                  beautiful ritual, in a tone of more than usual solemnity.
               "Dearly beloved," he said, and his voice seemed to be echoed down the aisles and
                  throughout the deep gloom of the little sanctuary. "Dearly beloved, we are
                  gathered together here, in the sight of God and in the face of this company, to
                  join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony, which is commanded of St.
                  Paul to be honorable among all men; and, therefore, is not by any to be entered
                  into unadvisedly or lightly, but reverently, discreetly, advisedly, soberly, and
                  in the fear of God. Into this holy estate these two persons come now to be joined.
                  If any man can show just cause why they may not be lawfully joined together, let
                  him now speak, or else hereafter forever hold his peace!"
               He paused, amid a breathless silence, and a loud, heavy peal of thunder rolled
                  over the house of God, increasing the gloom and the awe, which each felt like a
                  weight upon the heart; but no human voice was heard—no answer was given from
                  earthly lips.
               Then addressing himself directly to Reginald and Flora, the divine proceeded:
               "I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment,
                  when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that if either of you know any
                  impediment why ye may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, ye do now
                  confess it. For, be ye well assured, that if any persons are joined together
                  otherwise than as God's Word doth allow, their marriage is not lawful."
               He paused again, and the loud voice of the warring elements alone was heard. The
                  clergyman again proceeded:
               Reginald Beauchamp, wilt then have this woman to thy wedded wife, to live together
                  after God's ordinance, in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt thou love her,
                  comfort her, honor and keep her, in sickness and in health, and, forsaking all
                  others, keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall live?"
               "I will," was the firm reply of Reginald.
               The same question was then put to Flora, varying only as the sex required; and,
                  after a moment's pause, the affirmative was given in a tremulous tone, but
                  sufficiently distinct to be heard by all.
               "Who giveth this woman to be married to this man?" proceeded the minister.
               Colonel Parker stepped forward, and taking the hand of Flora, placed it in the
                  pastor's, who said:
               "Reginald Beauchamp, you will now take the right hand of Flora Monteith in your
                  right hand, and repeat after me these words:
               "I, Reginald Beauchamp, take thee, Flora Monteith, to my wedded wife, to have and
                  to hold, from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in
                  sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part, according
                  to God's holy ordinance; and thereto I plight thee my troth."
               They then loosed hands; and the pastor requesting Flora to take the right hand of
                  Reginald in her right hand, bade her repeat after him nearly the same words as
                  above quoted. This done, Reginald handed Flora a ring, which, the clergyman
                  receiving from her, returned to him, and desired him to place it upon the fourth
                  finger of her left hand, and, holding it there, repeat after him these words:
               "With this ring I thee wed; and with all my worldly goods I thee endow: In the
                  name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost! Amen!"
               "Let us pray!" now said the pastor, and first repeating the Lord's Prayer, he
                  continued, in a deep, solemn tone, that the hour, the place, the occasion, and
                  withal the mingling of his words with the roar of the deep-mouthed thunder, made
                  awfully impressive:
               "O, eternal God! Creator and Preserver of all mankind! Giver of all spiritual
                  grace; the Author of everlasting life! send thy blessing upon these thy servants,
                  this man and this woman, whom we bless in thy Name! that as Isaac and Rebecca
                  lived faithfully together, so these persons may surely perform and keep the vow
                  and covenant betwixt them made, (whereof this ring, given and received, is a token
                  and pledge,) and may ever remain in perfect love and peace together, and live
                  according to thy laws; through Jesus Christ our Lord! Amen!"
               Then taking the right hand of each, the divine joined them together, saying:
               "Those whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder!
               "Forasmuch, as Reginald Beauchamp and Flora Monteith have consented together in
                  holy wedlock, and have witnessed the same before God and this company, and thereto
                  have given and pledged their troth each to the other, and have declared the same
                  by giving and receiving a ring, and by joining hands, I pronounce that they are
                  man and wife: In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost!
                  Amen!"
               Then lifting up his eyes and his hands, the venerable minister concluded with his
                  blessing, in a tone, if any thing, more impressive than ever:
               "God the Father! God the Son! God the Holy Ghost! bless, preserve and keep you!
                  the Lord mercifully with his favor look upon you, and fill you with all spiritual
                  benediction and grace! that ye may so live together in this life, that in the
                  world to come ye may have life everlasting! Amen!"*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *We have thus given the "Solemnization of Matrimony" in full according to the
                     form established by the Protestant Episcopal Church. Those who have never
                     witnessed a marriage so solemnized, will find it new and
                     interesting; those who have may find pleasure and profit in reading it
                     again.
               
               As the last "Amen" passed the lips of the Rev. Mr. Fairbanks, a blinding flash of
                  lightning seemed to fill the little sanctuary with a burning flame; and the next
                  moment there came a crash of thunder that made each person start from his or her
                  place, as if the ground had been torn up around their feet.
                  Flora uttered a subdued cry to terror, and tremblingly clung to him who now had
                  the holy right to protect and watch over her through all the storms and
                  vicissitudes of life.
               "Courage! my dear wife!" now whispered Reginald in her ear, as he drew her fondly to him. "Lean on me ever, as now,
                  dearest, and with my life I will guard you."
               "Let none fear because we see the hand of God manifest in the storm!" said the
                  pious clergyman, in a soothing but solemn tone. "We are as safe here as
                  elsewhere—as safe now as at any other moment. His will can call us in the bright
                  sunshine of day—His will can protect us amid the strife of the 
                     elments
                     elements
                  , and the most terrible convulsions of nature. We should be ever ready,
                  my dear friends, to go hence at a moment's warning; for who can say the next day,
                  the next hour, or even the next moment is his own. Life is uncertain —"
               Here the speaker's words seemed to have a terrible confirmation; for he was
                  suddenly thrown forward upon his knees—Reginald fell, like one dead, with Flora
                  clinging to him—and the others reeled to and fro, like persons under the influence
                  of liquor. A bolt of lightning had passed down the wall behind the pulpit; had
                  plowed a rough furrow in the stones—hurling them down in a shapeless heap; and had
                  torn up the floor of the central aisle, under the very feet of Reginald and his
                  trembling wife, who both now lay prostrate where they had fallen—motionless,
                  unconscious, senseless, perhaps dead. No fire appeared to have originated from the
                  lightning; but the place seemed filled with dust, and the air was impregnated with
                  a sulphurous stench almost suffocating.
               Shrieks of terror from the females, and cries of alarm from the other sex,
                  instantly resounded; and a scene of wild confusion followed—during which Reginald
                  and Flora were lifted from the ground, and every means, which the emergency of the
                  case could suggest, taken to restore them to life. They were rolled, rubbed, and
                  breath was blown into their lungs; but for some time without any apparent
                  beneficial result. At length Flora showed signs of returning animation, and the
                  exertions of her friends were redoubled. The hope thus inspired did not prove
                  fallacious; and with returning animation came returning consciousness. In a short
                  time she was able to comprehend what had occurred; and at the same moment her eyes
                  rested upon the lifeless body of Reginald, upon which the gentlemen present were
                  zealously at work; though, so far, their labors had not been crowned with the
                  least success; and the belief began to be entertained, that his spirit had taken
                  its eternal flight.
               The moment Flora beheld him, she uttered a wild shriek: and springing up, with
                  almost superhuman strength, she rushed forward, and frantically threw herself upon
                  the body, exclaiming, in tones that pierced the hearts of all who heard her:
               "My husband! my husband! my dear, dear Reginald!—dead! dead! dead! Oh God! support
                  me! Oh! why do I live, to see thee dead? Why could not I have died with thee? Why
                  was I restored to life and misery, to find thee dead? Ah! wo is me! wo is me! And
                  my heart foreboded it—my heart foreboded it; and yet foolish pride would not let
                  me turn back—would not let me take thy counsel and turn back! Some good spirit
                  warned me of danger—of this awful calamity—and yet I would not turn back. Ah! wo
                  is me! wo is me! wo is me!" and she sunk upon the body, and burst into hysterical
                  sobs.
               "The hand of God is here for some wise purpose, my dearly beloved and afflicted
                  sister," said the aged divine, in a soothing but tremulous tone. "Let that console
                  you. Afflictions are sent for our good, and we should bless the rod that
                  chasteneth."
               "Speak to me, my dear husband!" wildly pursued Flora, without heeding the
                  clergyman's remarks. "Speak to me, my dear Reginald! Oh! speak to me, with those
                  dear lips, once more, even if it be for the last time!"
               "My dear Flora," said Mrs. Parker, taking the hand of the afflicted young wife,
                  and endeavoring to raise her: "My dear Flora, do not thus give way to despair,
                  till it be proved, beyond all doubt, that life is really extinct! It is possible
                  that your dear husband may yet be saved; but at present you are preventing any
                  effort being made for his resuscitation."
               On hearing his, Flora sprung up from the body, exclaiming, with clasped hands, and
                  a look of the wildest agony:
               "Oh! my friends, restore him to me! restore store him to me! bring him back to
                  life, or let one grave hold us both—for my heart is breaking—and if he come not
                  back to speak to me again, it will break; yes, I feel it—I know it—it will break;
                  yes, it will break."
               The clergyman, the Colonel, and Mr. Neville hastened to renew their exertions to
                  restore life to the inanimate body of Reginald—but, if truth must be told, without
                  any hope of success.
               The storm meantime had reached the hight of its fury; but none of that anxious
                  group, in that little sanctuary, either heeded or heard it. The lightnings
                  flashed, the thunders roared, the winds howled, the rains poured—but the senses of
                  seeing and hearing, of that excited, alarmed and grief-stricken company, were
                  concentrated, if we may so express ourself, upon the lifeless body of Reginald
                  Beauchamp.
               Suddenly a large party of mounted men dashed up to the door—but those who heard
                  not the storm, heard not them.
               At this moment "He lives! he lives! he lives!" cried several voices.
               "Oh, God! I thank thee!" was the response of Flora; and, clasping her hands with
                  joy, the young wife swooned, and was caught in the arms of Mrs. Parker.
               At the same instant a body of armed men rushed from the storm, pell-mell, into the
                  little church.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE ARREST.
               THE leader of the armed party of newcomers, who so unexpectedly appeared upon the
                  scene, as mentioned at the close of the preceding chapter, at once came stalking
                  down the central aisle, shaking the water from his saturated garments, and
                  wringing it from the long locks of his uncovered head, followed irregularly by
                  most of his command, acting in the same manner.
               He was a man about thirty-five years of age, of stoutish build, coarse-featured,
                  sun-browned, with long, bushy eye-brows, black hair and eyes, a heavy, matted
                  beard, and an expression by no means prepossessing, but, on the contrary, rather
                  repulsive, not to say brutal. As he drew near our friends, without exhibiting any
                  feeling of respect for the presence of ladies, he said, in a gruff, authoritative
                  tone:
               "What's this? what's going on here? A woman dead, dying, or something of that
                  sort!" he continued, looking at the pale features of Flora, on whom Mrs. Parker
                  and her 
                     neice
                     niece
                   were engaged in trying to restore animation; but who suddenly desisted
                  on his voice; and glancing at the speaker and his followers, of whose presence,
                  owing to their pre-occupation and the noise of the furious storm, they were now
                  for the first made aware, they uttered exclamations of surprise and drew back,
                  with looks of alarm.
               "Don't be frightened, my good ladies! we're not a-going to do you any harm,"
                  pursued the intruder, in a tone somewhat modified from its ordinary gruffness;
                  "that is to say, if you are not up to any mischief here—which I more than half
                  suspect—for this is a queer mode of worship: and I see not for what other good
                  purpose you should be here, at this time of night, and such a—of a storm beating
                  about these old walls. Halloo! you sir—you man of the gown—whom I take to be high
                  priest on this occasion—I suppose you can tell what all this means? if not, we'll
                  trouble you to come with us."
               This last was addressed to Mr. Fairbanks, who, with Colonel Parker and young
                  Neville, had risen from the still prostrate form of Reginald, to greet the
                  new-comers with looks of extreme surprise, not to say alarm. The moment Colonel
                  Parker caught a view of the face of the speaker, by the dim light, he bent quickly
                  down over Reginald again, leaving the others standing, perplexed with wonder. The
                  Colonel knew those features; and knew his own, if seen, would be recognized; and
                  for reasons which will soon be made apparent, he could have wished the face of
                  that rough commander leagues away. To the rude remarks addressed to him, the
                  clergyman replied, in a stern but solemn tone:
               "I know not who you are, sir," he said, "who thus irreverently enter the house
                     of God, nor by what right you question
                  what has here taken place; but, sir, be you whoever you are, I would have you to
                  know you are standing upon the very spot where has so recently been manifested one
                  of God's wonderful providences. Look on that wall, sir, and beneath your feet, and
                  you will see the furrow of the forked lightning, which is still playing about us,
                  and which has but now struck down—but we hope and pray not unto death—two persons
                  who had just been joined together in holy matrimony."
               "Ah! yes—I see," returned the other, cavalierly: "struck by lightning, eh? Close
                  work and hot work. Hum! that accounts for the smell of brimstone; which one hardly
                  expects to find in so sacred a place as a church, you
                  know, whatever other place one may find it in. Well, we soldiers get rather used
                  to the smell here; and if the creed of you preachers be true, some of us will
                  continue to smell it hereafter, I suppose. Eh! boys?"
               This sally of coarse, profane wit, which shocked the finer feelings of the
                  venerable clergyman and his friends, was received by the men, to whom their leader
                  appealed, with a shout of laughter.
               "Silence!" cried the pastor, in a stern, indignant tone. "Do you forget, sirs,
                  that you stand within a sanctuary consecrated to the worship of the Most High? For
                  shame, men—for shame! And above all, sir," he continued, addressing the commanding
                  officer, "shame upon you, who thus, in this place, at this time, and in view of
                  such solemn, awful manifestations of God's power, presume to make light of what
                  should bring you to your knees, in humble repentance! Tremble, O vain man! and
                  repent, lest the judgment of Heaven overtake you in your career of sin and
                  folly!"
               "Come, come—that'll do!" said the gruff leader, in a haughty tone. "You preachers
                  are paid fat salaries to preach, I know—but we soldiers are not paid to listen;
                  and as we merely dropped in here to escape the fury of the storm, we will dispense
                  with any further sermonizing. Better devote your talents to your prostrate friend
                  yonder, who seems half inclined to make a live of it after
                  all."
               The pastor turned to Reginald; and seeing,
                  in truth, there were signs of returning consciousness, he again bent over him, and
                  commenced chafing his limbs; while Mrs. Parker and her 
                     neice
                     niece
                   resumed their labors upon the still unconscious Flora.
               Reginald had received a light shock from the electric fluid, and had been stunned,
                  but was not seriously injured: and in a few minutes after the first signs of
                  returning animation, he was able sit up and comprehend what had taken place.
               "Flora!" was his first word, uttered in a tone of alarm.
               Flora, meantime, had revived from her swoon, and on hearing her name mentioned by
                  one so dear to her, she uttered a cry of joy; and starting up, she hastened to
                  him, threw herself upon his breast, and murmuring, "Reginald! Reginald! dear, dear
                  Reginald!" burst into tears, which greatly relieved her over-charged heart!
               During this time, the Captain of the horse had remained an indifferent spectator
                  of the scene; and, with folded arms had been leaning against one of the pews, in a
                  careless attitude; but the moment he heard the names of Flora and Reginald, he
                  started, and a sudden change came over his bronzed features.
               "Call Martin," he said, in a low tone, to one of his men who stood nearest him;
                  and as he spoke, he stepped forward so as to get a view of Reginald's face, which
                  as yet he had not seen.
               The latter—who was seated on the ground, with his back against the pulpit, and the
                  sobbing Flora clasped in his arms—chancing to raise his eyes, encountered the
                  black, piercing orbs of the Captain intently fixed upon him; and, at the same
                  moment, he thought he beheld, over the Captain's shoulder, another face, which he
                  had seen before; though this last was so quickly withdrawn, and the light by which
                  it was seen was so dim, that he was far from being positive that fancy had not
                  deceived him.
               Fancy had not deceived him, however, The face in question was that of Ansel
                  Martin, who had been more than once at Reginald's head-quarters; and who,
                  affecting to be a friend of the Baconian faction, had pretended to act as a spy
                  upon the Governor; and had thus won the confidence of the unsuspecting Beauchamp,
                  and obtained from him much valuable intelligence, which he had privately
                  communicated to the wiley Berkeley, in whose employ he really was, as the reader
                  is already aware. It was, in truth, from Martin's representations of the quiet
                  state of the country and the inactivity of the 
                     Gover
                     Governor
                  , that Reginald had mainly derived his feeling of security, at the very
                  time when a deep plot was in operation for his destruction.
               "It is the man you seek," whispered Martin, in the ear of the Captain, as he drew
                  back his face the moment he caught the eye of Reginald; for it was no part of his
                  scheme to be recognized by his victim on this occasion.
               "Aha!" thought the Captain, with an inward chuckle—"a fortunate storm this!"
               And then, with his black, piercing eye still fixed upon Reginald, he said, aloud,
                  with a grim smile:
               "Have I the pleasure of addressing Colonel Beauchamp?"
               "I am so called," replied Reginald; while Flora looked up, with an expression of
                  alarm on her beautiful features; and the others, with the exception of Colonel
                  Parker, at once turned toward the Captain, as if in anticipation of some
                  unpleasant communication.
               "A very timely meeting, sir," pursued the Captain, with mock politeness. "We were
                  on our way to one Colonel Parker's, to find you—having heard you had gone
                  thither—when this storm caused us to take shelter here, which, so far as I am
                  concerned, I consider most fortunate. Colonel Reginald Beauchamp, I have the honor
                  to arrest you, in the King's name."
               "Who are you, sir?" demanded Reginald; while Flora uttered a cry of alarm, and
                  clung tremblingly to him.
               "I know of no reason, beyond my desire to oblige, why I should inform you who I
                  am," answered the other, with another grim smile. "But that desire to oblige,
                  overcomes all objections; and therefore I do myself the honor to most humbly tell
                  your Colonelship that I am Captain Brent, of His Majesty's troop of horse."
               "O! Reginald, Reginald, my forebodings are doubly verified!" cried his agonized
                  wife, throwing her arms about his neck, "O! I shall never, never forgive myself,
                  that I did not take your advice and turn back—by which, perchance, this heavy
                  calamity might have been averted."
               "Take no blame to yourself, my dear wife—take no blame to yourself Flora! It is I,
                  and I alone, who am in fault. I should not have neglected my duty, and given
                  credence to false reports. I, who have seen so much of treachery, should have been
                  on my guard against it, and not stirred abroad without my men. But it is folly to
                  dwell upon the errors of the past, unless it be for the purpose of guarding
                  against like errors in the future."
               "O! dear Reginald." sobbed Flora, "I shudder to think what that future may have in
                  store for you!—perhaps a prison and a gallows!"
               "Nay, my dear wife, fear not that. I may perchance be imprisoned for a time; but
                  even Governor Berkeley, whom I have reason to think hates me, will find no cause
                  to condemn me to death."
               "You know not that, my dear husband—you know not that!" sobbed Flora. "O! trust
                  nothing to your own innocence! He is vindictive, and hates you; and he may find
                  cause, through perjury, to take away your dear life. O! should you be condemned,
                  and 
                     ignominously
                     ignominiously
                   perish, what would become of me? Great God! support me! Father in
                  heaven! hear thou my prayer, and deliver us from this terrible affliction! Thou
                  who hath just saved us, in thy mercy, from a fearful death, O! deliver us from a
                  wo more terrible!"
               While this conversation, in a low tone, was taking place between Reginald and
                  Flora, Captain Brent, perceiving that one of the party studiously avoided looking
                  toward him, walked up to him, and laying his hand on his shoulder, said,
                  gruffly:
               "Who are you sir, that keep your face concealed? Ha! Colonel Parker," he added, as
                  the person addressed confronted him. "So-so! this concealment must, mean
                  something; and therefore I also arrest you, in the King's name."
               
               "Captain Brent, you have no right to arrest me," returned the Colonel, sternly;
                  "and before these witnesses, I protest against this illegal proceeding."
               "Settle that with the Governor," replied Brent.
               "O! sir, you are not going to take my husband from me thus?" cried Mrs.
                  Parker.
               "Unquestionably, madam," was the answer.
               "What has he done, sir?" 
                     demanned
                     demanded
                   Mrs. Parker.
               "That we will endeavor to find out," replied Brent. "He has, to say the least,
                  been giving aid and comfort to traitors."
               "You have no more right to arrest him, than you have to arrest me," now spoke up
                  Neville, indignantly.
               "Will you honor me with your name?" said Brent, with a sardonic smile.
               "My name, sir, is Walter Neville, of Neville Park—a name, sir, I am proud to say,
                  that has never yet been disgraced—which is more than I would vouch of one other I
                  have heard mentioned to-night."
               "Indeed?" returned Brent, with a sneer. "Well, Walter Neville, of Neville Park, I
                  arrest you also, in the King's name."
               "How, sir?" cried Neville, drawing his sword: "dare you presume to arrest a
                  freeholder, guilty of no crime?"
               "Dare you presume to resist my authority?" exclaimed Brent, flushing with
                  anger.
               "While you are acting illegally, I dare, to the very death," was the undaunted
                  reply.
               "Then the consequences be on your own head!" shouted Brent, furiously; and in an
                  instant his own sword was drawn and crossed with Neville's.
               A scene of wild confusion followed. The clash of steel, mingled with the screams
                  of women, was heard in the house of prayer; while a dozen of Brent's men rushed
                  forward to secure the refractory young hero.
               The result was, that Neville was soon knocked down and disarmed; but not till he
                  had slightly wounded Captain Brent in the sword-arm; which so enraged the brutal
                  commander, that, but for the prudent firmness of two of his junior officers, he
                  would have added the crime of murder to his other dastardly outrages.
               "Seize, bind, and away with the whole three of them!" he shouted. "By — they shall
                  hang for this, every mother's son of 'em!"
               It is needless for us to dwell longer upon this scene of confusion, brutality,
                  alarm, and dismay. Flora was rudely torn from the arms of Reginald, who was
                  hurried away, and mounted upon the back of a strong horse, with a stalwart trooper
                  behind him; Colonel Parker and his wife were separated in the same manner, and the
                  same disposition was made of him; while young Neville, more dead than alive, was
                  dragged down the aisle, and out of the church, without one of the frightened
                  ladies being allowed to speak to him. It was still raining, but the fury of the
                  storm was spent; and mounting in haste, the dragoons, headed by their ferocious
                  Captain, dashed away, leaving behind them terrified and disconsolate hearts, to
                  shriek forth their lamentations to unpitying walls.
               It was a long time after the departure of Brent and his band, ere the wail of
                  grief, for the loss of those borne away prisoners, so subsided that the pious
                  clergyman could make his voice heard by those whom he now felt it his duty to try
                  to calm and console. But when he did at last gain their attention, he spoke the
                  only words that seemed likely to give any consolation to persons so deeply
                  afflicted as were his fair hearers on that distressing occasion.
               "My dearly beloved sisters," he said, in a most solemn, impressive tone, "we are
                  all in the hands of God; and whatever God doeth, is for the best. It is hard for
                  us when bowed down to the dust under some afflicting dispensation, to think God is
                  so chastening us for our good; but we should ever think so; and humbling ourselves
                  before him in prayer, we should acknowledge his holy justice in so afflicting us,
                  even while we beseech him in his mercy to let the bitter cup pass from our lips.
                  Let us now kneel, my dear friends; and while so admitting God's justice—not in
                  words only, but in our hearts—implore Him to let the angel of mercy step in
                  between our present tribulations and the greater tribulations which we fear to
                  come, and sanctify all to our good."
               The pious pastor then kneeled down among his weeping friends; and from that lone
                  forest sanctuary ascended to the Throne of the Almighty Invisible a most eloquent
                  and fervent prayer. The little company finally arose from their knees, sobbing,
                  but in a calmer frame of mind—a hope, that all might yet be well, began to dawn in
                  the breasts of the afflicted.
               The storm having now passed over, the clergyman proposed that the ladies should
                  accompany him home, and pass the night at his house—a proposition to which Mrs.
                  Parker and her 
                     neice
                     niece
                   yielded ready assent. Flora said nothing, either in the way of assent or
                  objection; but, drying her eyes, stood for a few moments, as one absorbed in
                  thought. Suddenly the expression of her beautiful features changed, as one
                  animated by a new idea, a new hope. A bright glow spread over her face, her eyes
                  brightened, while her lips compressed, as one who has sternly resolved upon a
                  certain course of action.
               "Are our servants and horses to be found?" she inquired of the
                  clergyman.
               Mr. Fairbanks immediately went out to look for them—but soon
                  returned and reported them missing.
               "This is most unfortunate," was the reply
               "Do you not feel able to walk to my house?" he rejoined. "It is
                  not far, you know; and there you can rest for the night; and in
                  the morning, if the servants do not return, I will find means to convey you all
                     safely to Colonel Parker's."
               "Nay, it is not that—I am not too feeble to walk," said Flora. "Ah! hark! I hear
                     horses' feet now. Perhaps the blacks sought
                     shelter from the storm, and have returned for
                     us!"
               Such proved to be the case. The negroes, frightened at the
                  approaching storm, had ventured to ride over to the minister's,
                  without asking leave, where they carefully stabled the
                     beasts, and waited in terror till they saw the
                     clouds begin to break.
               Flora selected the animal that had borne her hither, and was
                  the first to mount, when he said:
               "My kind friends, think not hard of me, that I do not make you
                  my confidant, and take counsel with you concerning what I am
                  about to do. I have thought, planned, and resolved; and if I execute, all may yet
                  be well. Hope lures—duty urges. Let this suffice till I see you again: Adieu!" and
                  with the last word she dashed away, and was quickly lost to the view of her
                  friends, who for some time remained staring after her, perfectly astonished and
                  bewildered.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE GOVERNOR AND HIS PRISONERS.
               AFTER the departure of General Bacon and his forces for the wilderness, Governor
                  Berkeley, as we have elsewhere mentioned, began secretly to plot his destruction;
                  and while, through the false reports of his vile tool, Ansel Martin, he kept the
                  too negligent Colonel Beauchamp from watching him too closely, he quietly
                  proceeded with a scheme which he expected to result in the total annihilation of
                  his foes and the re-establishment of himself in absolute authority. Those were not
                  the days for the speedy dissemination of any intelligence, however important or
                  startling it might be. There were in those times no lightning telegraphs,
                  steamboats, and railroads, for the quick transmission and transportation of news,
                  letters, papers, and passengers, from one portion of the country to another. No!
                  there were not then even post-coaches, or post-horses, for the conveyance of mails
                  from one place to another. And in sooth there were no mails to be conveyed. The
                  citizens generally could not read, much less write; and only a few years previous
                  to the date of our story, Sir William Berkeley, in writing home to England, said
                  he thanked God there were no free schools nor printing offices in the Colony of
                  Virginia, and he hoped there would not be any for a hundred years to come.
               Taking all these things into consideration, therefore, the reader will scarcely be
                  surprised that Berkeley should be able to summon a convention of the militia of
                  Gloucester county, at a distance of several miles from Reginald's head-quarters,
                  without a knowledge of such a proceeding reaching the ears of the young Colonel,
                  who, to say the least, had recently been too remiss in the discharge of his duty
                  as commander of a guard of vigilance.
               
               Such indeed was the fact. By secret agents in his employ, the Governor had
                  notified the militia of Gloucester (a county the most populous, loyal, and best
                  supplied with munitions of any in the Colony) to meet him at a certain place, on a
                  certain day, at which time and place he would personally communicate to them some
                  matters of vital importance to the safety and well-being of the government of
                  which he still had the honor to be chief-ruler. The day appointed for this
                  Convention was the very day which terminated with the thrilling incidents
                  described in the two preceding chapters. The citizens of Gloucester gathered
                  together, to a great number; and the Governor, according to promise, laid before
                  them his important communication—which was neither more nor less in substance,
                  than that they should unite in arms and march against Bacon, whom he abused in the
                  vilest terms.
               Considering that Bacon, with the consent of the Governor, and bearing a regular
                  commission as General for the Indian war, was now actually in the wilderness,
                  marching against the common foe, and, like a noble patriot, was sacrificing the
                  ease and comforts of his home, to the peril of his life, for the good of his
                  country—considering all this, we say, as the sensible citizens of Gloucester did,
                  is it any wonder that they should regard with surprise, indignation, and disgust,
                  the dastardly, treacherous proposition of Sir William Berkeley? And the answer
                  which they gave the base proposer of so base a scheme, told him, in plain terms,
                  that both his power and popularity were on the wane. They said it would be the
                  hight of meanness, as well as folly, to rise in arms against a man who was
                  valiantly fighting in their defense, and thus give the common foe, the savages, a
                  fair opportunity to fall upon both parties, to the utter ruin and destruction of
                  the whole Colony. But they added, that should Bacon, at the close of the Indian
                  war, "attempt any thing against his honor's person or government, they would rise
                  up in arms, with a joint consent, for the preservation of both."
               With this reply the wily Governor affected to be satisfied, but in reality he was
                  greatly chagrined, and inwardly foamed with a rage that threatened something
                  serious to the first person on whom he might find cause to vent it. Cursing in his
                  heart the citizens of Gloucester, he mounted his horse and rode furiously back to
                  Jamestown; which place he reached at an early hour in the evening; just in time,
                  in fact, to escape the fury of the storm which overtook our friends at the forest
                  church.
               At a later hour, the Governor was seated in a private apartment of his own
                  dwelling in consultation with some half a dozen of his meanest parasites—devising
                  means by which he might effect the downfall of Bacon, and the personal and
                  political friends of the latter—when a servant announced that Martin had returned
                  and was anxious to have an immediate interview with him on business of great
                  importance.
               "Ha! show him in! show him in!" cried the Governor, starting up excitedly. "Now,
                  gentlemen," he added, as the servant disappeared, "we shall have news of some
                  kind—of some kind—but bad, I fear—bad—for of late all is bad."
               In a few minutes Martin made his appearance at the door; and bowing obsequiously
                  as he entered, he ran his keen eye rapidly over every one present, as if to be
                  assured that none were before him of doubtful loyalty. He was a young man, of
                  handsome features, and, at a casual glance, of prepossessing appearance. We say at
                  a casual glance; for by studying his face, one could detect an indescribable
                  something—seen rather in expression than lineament—that would seem to indicate a
                  person of low cunning, and one not to be trusted beyond the limit of
                  self-interest.
               "Well, Martin? well?" cried Berkeley "Speak! man—speak!—these are all true
                  friends."
               "We have succeeded in arresting Colonel Beauchamp, Colonel Parker, and a Mr.
                  Neville," said Martin.
               "Ha! you have got that scoundrel, Beauchamp, then?" cried the Governor, rubbing
                  his hands with delight. "This is good news—capital news. Where is he? where is he!
                  what have you done with him, Martin?"
               "He and the others are in charge of Captain tain Brent, your honor, just outside
                  the Neck. He bade me go forward and inform your honor, if so be as I should find
                  your honor returned, and desires to know what disposition your honor will have
                  made of the prisoners?"
               "Tell him to bring them into town forthwith, and conduct them to the old jail,
                  where I will meet him and give further orders. By the Lord Harry! this catching of
                  that insolent young Beauchamp puts me in a better humor than. I have been this
                  many a day. Here, Martin—take this purse, you worthy rascal—and tell Brent the
                  rising of the morrow's sun shall see him a Colonel of His Majesty's Eighth
                  Regiment of Cavalry. But stay! how were Beauchamp and the others taken?—caught
                  napping, Martin? —eh! caught napping?"
               Martin hurriedly related the incidents which we have given in the preceding
                  chapter.
               "Odd's blood!" cried the old Knight, laughing: "his troubles come thick upon him:
                  married, struck by lightning, and arrested, and all in the same hour. Well, well,
                  unless I greatly mistake, he'll finish by hanging. I would you had brought that
                  young wife of his along; for, from all accounts, she is as much of a rebel as he.
                  But we don't war on women—we don't war on women. So Neville must resist authority
                  eh? Bad business for him—bad business We must make some examples soon—or fore
                  Heaven! every upstart will fancy himself Governor of the Colony. Away, Martin to
                  Brent, and bid him hasten forward! I will meet him at the jail."
               Some half an hour later, the Governor, accompanied by his sycophantic friends, and
                  preceded by a couple of negro servants, bearing lanterns, sallied forth from his
                  dwelling, and took his way to a small stone building, which fronted upon the open
                  space already mentioned as lying between the state house and the river. He had
                  been here but a few minutes, when Captain Brent appeared at the head of his troop
                  of horse, bringing with him the prisoners.
               The latter, by the Governor's orders, were immediately ironed, and lodged in cells
                  under ground. The Governor then called Brent aside, and said:
               "Captain, you have done well, sir—well—and to-morrow you shall be hailed as
                  Colonel. But there is one thing more I wish you to do to-night, for to-morrow may
                  be too late."
               "Name it, your honor," said Brent.
               "Secure the men commanded by this insolent fellow."
               "But, your honor, that is not so easily done," replied the Captain.
               "But it can be done, sir—it can be done," returned Berkeley. "They will probably
                  not hear of his arrest till to-morrow; and you can ride to Middle Plantations
                  to-night, surround their quarters, and demand their surrender."
               "I think they will show fight, your honor."
               "Well, sir—well, sir—suppose they do? Can't you show fight also? Odd's blood! man,
                  what is your business, if not to fight?"
               "I will make the effort, your honor—though I fear it may prove a failure."
               "By the Lord Harry!" cried Berkeley "if I were of your age, and commanded your
                  men, I would not fear a failure. Go to, man—go to—for a
                  faint heart, if not a cowardly."
               "No man, save your honor, dare make such insinuation!" rejoined the Captain,
                  angrily.
               "Away, then, and secure Beauchamp's men," said the Governor, "and I will take all
                  back—otherwise I must think what you say you would not permit another
                  to speak."
               Soon after this conversation. Captain Brent left Jamestown, in no very amiable
                  mood, at the head of his command; while the Governor repaired to the cell now
                  tenanted by Reginald Beauchamp.
               "So, my scape grace Colonel!" said Berkeley, as the jailor held the light so that
                  it shone full upon the face of our hero. "So, air! a good e'en to you, and am glad
                  to see you here."
               Reginald bit his lips, to keep down his anger, but made no reply.
               "What! no words for an old acquaintance?" continued the Governor. "It was not so
                  when last we met. You had tongue then; and a little too much of it—a little too
                  much of it, scape-grace. I warned you then of danger—gave you fair warning—fore Heaven! very fair warning—but all to no
                  purpose it seems."
               "Taunt on, Sir William—taunt on!" replied Reginald. "It is the coward's game to
                  taunt his victim—and the present instance witnesseth that such game is played by
                  an adept."
               "Odd's blood! sirrah! you have let your tongue loose at last; but curb it,
                  sir—curb it—or it will run away with your life!" cried the old Knight,
                  furiously.
               "Which must give your honor a great degree of satisfaction," returned
                  Reginald.
               "Well, yes, it would be some satisfaction to have one traitor and rebel the less,"
                  rejoined the Governor.
               "Then why not begin the good work by hanging yourself, Sir William?" retorted
                  Reginald. "If there be one man in the Colony more of a traitor than another to its
                  peace and prosperity, it is its present Governor."
               "Sdeath! sir—how dare you speak thus to me?" cried Berkeley, foaming with
                  rage.
               "Because your honor has not tied my tongue, which never yet feared to speak the
                  truth. If not a traitor, and your honor has any honor, will your honor condescend
                  to inform me why your honor has had me arrested and placed here in irons?"
               "Because you have been in arms against the King's peace."
               "'Tis false! I was never in arms against the King's peace in my life; but, on the
                  contrary, have ever striven to do my duty as a good and loyal subject."
               "You seem to forget the occurrences of a few days since, when you and others, with
                  that scoundrel Bacon at your head, menaced me with death!"
               "No, Sir William, I forget nothing," replied Reginald, with dignity. "We, as loyal
                  citizens, rose in arms against your honor, when you basely resisted the last
                  appeals of suffering humanity for a commission to proceed against a barbarous foe,
                  who was fast laying waste the country and turning one of His Majesty's peaceful
                  Colonies into a howling wilderness."
               "Sophistry—mere sophistry; it will not serve you," sneered the
                  Governor. "And, by the mass! it should not serve you if it could."
               "Were you sole arbiter of my fate, I know that full well. But, unfortunately for
                  such vindictive persons as yourself, a free citizen is entitled to a fair and open
                  trial by jury; and I am ready, at any time, to have my acts judged by twelve
                  honest men."
               "I will take care there shall be no such loop-hole for your escape," rejoined the
                  Governor. "You shall be tried, sir, by a military, not a civil, tribunal. Do not
                  forget, young man, that you hold a commission, and are amenable to military
                  laws!—do not forget that, sir—do not forget that!"
               "No fear of my forgetting that, Governor; nor that that commission
                  bears your own sign-manuel. Neither will I forget, that, since receiving that
                  commission, I have, in all military affairs, obeyed the commands of my superior
                  officer, who also holds a regular commission, signed by your honor In short, I
                  have no fear of condemnation by honest, impartial judges, whether civil or
                  military."
               "Indeed! sir—indeed! You will see—you will see, sir—you will see.
               And with this the Governor withdrew, in an angry mood. After visiting the other
                  prisoners, and accusing them of disloyalty and treason, Sir William quitted the
                  prison and returned to his dwelling; where, the same night, he held a private
                  consultation with a few of his partisan officers.
               His last words, as he dismissed them, were:
               "I tell you, gentlemen, law or no law, he must and shall be condemned! And hanged,
                  too—hanged, by —!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               SIR WILLIAM AND FLORA.
               AT an early hour on the following morning, Governor Berkeley was awakened by a
                  servant, who said that a lady was waiting to see him on business of the utmost
                  importance.
               "Who is she? what business? what does she want?" cried the old
                  Knight, enraged at being thus disturbed.
               "She wouldn't tell her name, massa," answered the black.
               "You ebony scoundrel!" roared Berkeley, "have I not more than once told you not to
                  disturb me without cause?"
               "Bu— but, Massa Berkeley, she—she pleaded so hard—she did, indeed—and she say,
                  'Tell his honor it is business dat concerns him'—she did, indeed!" returned the
                  affrighted servant, who had in truth received a large bribe to deliver the
                  message.
               "Tell her to go hang or drown, for a—But stay! I'll see her; and if you've
                  deceived me, you rascal, by the Lord Harry! I'll break every bone in your body!
                  Where is she?"
               "In de parlor, massa."
               "Is she young or old?"
               "Young, massa—and so hansom."
               "Umph! Tell her I will be with her presently."
               "I tought dat last remark would fetch um," chuckled the black to himself, as he
                  withdrew.
               Some quarter of an hour later, having with the assistance of his valet de chambre finished his toilet, the Governor,
                  not in the most amiable mood it must be confessed, repaired to the parlor to meet
                  his fair guest. This apartment, large and square. with two windows looking out
                  upon the broad river, whose tranquil bosom was now reflecting the rays of the
                  rising sun, was hung with tapestry, and furnished in what was considered at that
                  period a style of great elegance, though it would sink in comparison with parlors
                  of much less pretension of the present day. A rush-mat covered the floor; and the
                  furniture which stood upon it, was ponderous and elaborately carved. There were
                  several high-backed chairs, a table, two cushioned settles, and a gigantic
                  side-board, garnished with decanters and tumblers; and a large mirror, in a huge
                  frame, hung between the windows.
               At one of these windows, which were curtained, her features very pale, and wearing
                  a look of the deepest anxiety, sat our heroine, Flora Beauchamp. As the Governor
                  entered, she started up, and scanning his gross features eagerly, let her eyes
                  rest upon the ground, and dropped a low, respectful courtesy. Though she had seen
                  Sir William before, her face was new to him; and he had yet to learn that she was
                  the wife of a man he hated, and who by his orders had been the night previous torn
                  from her side at the marriage altar.
               The appearance of Flora evidently made a favorable impression upon the old Knight;
                  for he said, in a more respectful tone than he might have been expected to use,
                  considering his choleric temperament, and his recent anger at being aroused at so
                  untimely an hour upon a matter of business, which it was probable to his mind more
                  concerned another than himself.
               "Good morning, madam! I am told that you wish to see me on business of
                  importance."
               "I do, your honor," replied Flora, in a low, tremulous tone, evidently making an
                  effort to summon up all her resolution, firmness and courage, for the trying
                  interview.
               "Be seated, lady, and proceed without fear," rejoined Sir William, in a kindly
                  tone. "But first," he added, "perhaps it would be as well if you would honor me
                  with your name—with your name, madam—as it is always more agreeable to me to know
                  whom I am addressing."
               The hot blood quickly mounted to the temples of Flora, and she remained standing,
                  silent, confused and embarrassed; for she knew that the mere mention of her name
                  would act like magic in changing the pleasant mood of the Governor to one of a
                  very different nature; and yet to proceed with the business on which she had come
                  without the mention of her name, she saw at once was impossible.
               The Governor, meanwhile, was watching her closely, and as her embarrassed manner
                  aroused his suspicious, a frown began to gather on his brow; and he addressed her
                  again, in a sterner and harsher tone.
               "Surely, madam," he said, "if you bear an honorable name, you need not fear to
                  speak it."
               "Sir William Berkeley," cried Flora, suddenly dropping on her knees at his
                     feet, "I do bear an honorable name,
                  but one whose mention, I fear, will make you angry. O! let me thus humbly entreat
                  your favor, and get warrant of your merciful consideration, ere I make the
                  disclosure!"
               "Rise, madam," said Berkeley, sternly. "If, as I now suspect, you sue for the
                  release of a traitor, you may spare your words—you may spare your words, madam, if
                  such be your suit; for by the blood of the martyred Charles! they shall avail you
                  nothing—nothing—nothing."
               "O, no, your honor!" cried Flora; "I do not sue for the release of a
                     traitor; but for the release of a gentleman who is in heart as
                  loyal as any within your honor's dominion. O, Sir William, as you hope for mercy
                  yourself, show mercy to others! and forgive past errors to those who stand ready
                  to prove themselves your honor's steadfast friends in future."
               "Odd's blood, madam!" returned the Governor, angrily, "you do not know me, if you
                  think for a moment that the silly whinings of any of your fickle sex—be they maid,
                  wife or widow—will influence me in the least, as regards my sworn duty as chief
                  magistrate of this rebellious Colony! At present there are many rebels and
                  traitors in it; and as I live, they shall hang, sooner or later -sooner or later
                  they shall hang—I swear it, by the soul of the martyr! So up with ye! up with ye!
                  for your suit is in vain."
               "O! let me touch your heart with compassion ere I rise!" pleaded Flora.
               "Whose liberation do you seek?" demanded the Governor, harshly. "Come! you have
                  not told me that. Speak, woman! his name? his name?"
               "But first promise me merciful consideration, your honor! only promise me that,
                  and I will tell you."
               "Odd's life! it's little I care whether you tell me or not," rejoined Sir William.
                  "I'll wager my life he's one of the vilest traitors on my black list. In a word,
                  woman, are you not the new-made wife of Reginald Beauchamp?"
               "Your honor has rightly divined," answered Flora, in a tremulous tone.
               "By the Lord Harry! I knew it!" cried the vindictive old Knight, stamping his foot
                  with rage. "And you have the brazen audacity to come here, at this hour, and
                  disturb my slumbers—disturb my slumbers, d'ye mark? you hussy—to plead for the
                  release of a scoundrel, whose very name puts me in a passion. Go to, you jade! and
                  away with ye! ere I forget your sex, and drive you hence by force. And take this
                  prophecy with ye—take this prophecy with ye! Ere the next moon fills her horn, you
                  shall be a widow—a widow without first being a wife. Your traitor-husband shall be
                  tried to-day; and, if convicted, shall swing ere sunset. There's a honeymoon for
                  you! Go to—there's a honeymoon for you!"*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The reader who knows nothing of the character of Sir William 
                     Berkely
                     Berkeley
                  , may think, perhaps that we have represented him with an
                     exaggeration in the way of harshness and grossness. What will he say, then,
                     when we assure him, on the verity of the chronicles of the time, that so far
                     from this being the case, we have seen expressions recorded of him too
                     vulgar for print? On one occasion, in particular, when a lady fell on her
                     knees, and begged of him the life of her husband, saying that he had taken
                     up arms at her instigation; that she alone was in fault, and plead to be
                     allowed to die for him, to be hung in his stead, the Governor outraged all
                     feelings of humanity and decency, by spurning her prayer, and calling her,
                     in open court, a name that would shock modesty by repetition. "But his
                     honor," says the chronicler, by way of apology, was angry, and therefore
                     this expression must be interpreted the effects of his passion, not his
                     meaning"—evidently seeing nothing particularly wrong about it, except the
                     fact of its not being true.
               
               While being abused in such gross terms, Flora slowly arose from her kneeling
                  posture; and drawing herself up to her full hight, she folded her arms across her
                  breast, and confronted the enraged Knight with a look of haughty, withering
                  scorn.
               "Sir William Berkeley," she said, with compressed lips and flashing eyes, "by
                  virtue of your rank and office, you should be a gentleman; but you are not."
               "Hey! baggage—this to me! this to me!" cried the Governor, stamping his foot.
                  Odd's life! you are a bold woman, to tell me this to my face—to my face, hussy!
                     If you were only a man, by the Lord Harry! old as I am, my
                  sword should leap from its scabbard to avenge the insult."
               "No," returned Flora, with a smile of contempt; "were I a man, your
                  sword would cut no such antics. Sir William Berkeley, you have been told—and by a
                     man, too—that you are no gentleman; and yet the man
                  who told you so, retired without a scratch from your valorous sword, to repeat the
                  same elsewhere. I do not say your honor is a coward; but I do say you act the part
                  of a coward, when you insult a defenseless woman, as you have insulted me."
               "Away! begone!" fairly shouted the Governor; "or I will call my servants and have
                  you ejected by force. By —! your husband shall hang—in chains, too—mark that! in
                  chains! I tell you he shall hang, and in chains, for a vile rebel and
                  traitor!"
               "And I tell you, Sir William Berkeley, he shall not hang in any form," returned
                  Flora, with an air of such haughty confidence, that the Governor, recalling her
                  late dejected appearance and humble demeanor, was at a loss whether to attribute
                  this marked change to mere angry bravado, or to some important knowledge of which
                  he himself was ignorant. "Bear in mind, Sir William," continued Flora, approaching
                  the door, "that, whatever may happen, I have paid suit to you, on my knees, for
                  the release of one whose life is dearer to me than my own."
               "Stay!" said Berkeley: "I like not the haughty manner in which you are taking your
                  leave. It seems to imply, and your words also, that you have confidence in some
                  plot of which I am not cognizant; and perhaps I should do well to detain you. You
                  women, when once you become possessed of the devil, sometimes prove very
                  troublesome; very troublesome, indeed."
               "I think," returned Flora, looking the old Knight full in the eye, and speaking
                  slowly and impressively, "that with the course you have adopted, you will soon
                  have more cause to think the women of this Colony troublesome. Indeed, sir, I
                  presage you will encounter more than one fair rebel, ere you succeed in making
                  slaves of freemen."
               "'Sdeath! madam," exclaimed the other hastily, "I see that in your eye which
                  renders it politic for me to order you at least into confinement.
                  Wherefore I take it upon myself to arrest you, in the King's name."
               As the Governor said this, he made a step toward Flora. who was standing with her
                  hand upon the door. Quick as lightning she threw it open, darted into the hall,
                  rushed out of the house, and, snatching the reins of her steed from the hands of a
                  lackey, vaulted into the saddle, and dashed away, leaving the Governor in the act
                  of shouting his orders to his servants to have her instantly secured. Swift as her
                  steed could bear her, Flora rode along the single street of Jamestown; and though
                  many gazed at her in surprise, none offered the least impediment to her progress;
                  and in a few minutes she found herself safely across the neck of the peninsula,
                  and in the open country.
               "Now," she cried, looking back and breathing more freely, "let those pursue who
                  have least need of long shrift."
               Meantime, Governor Berkeley, finding that Flora had made good her escape, vented
                  his rage upon the servant who had disturbed him, by beating him in a most
                  unmerciful manner; and then he contented himself with the idea that he would soon
                  have his revenge upon her, by the consignment of her gallant husband to an ignoble
                  death.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE TRIAL.
               SOME two hours after the scene described in the last chapter, the beat of the drum
                  at the state-house was heard throughout the capital. On this occasion it beat not
                  for the assembling of the Council of State and House of Burgesses, but to call
                  together the persons selected by the Governor to compose the court-martial for the
                  trial of Colonel Reginald Beauchamp. To prevent any disturbance—for the few
                  citizens in town on learning what was to take place, began to grow much
                  excited—Sir William ordered Captain Quinby to surround the state-house with his
                  men, and allow none to enter but such as were known to be personal friends of himself; and in the event of any
                  tumultuous gathering of the people, they were to be ordered to disperse; and if
                  they obeyed at once, well—if not, they were to be fired upon without
                  hesitation.
               The court being ready to proceed with the trial, Reginald was escorted from the
                  jail to the court-room by four soldiers, who, having placed him in the dock,
                  arranged themselves two on either side of him. His features were very pale, and
                  showed traces of his having passed a restless night of intense anxiety; but,
                  notwithstanding, his look was firm and composed, and gave no evidence that he
                  doubted or feared the final result of the present proceedings against him. For a
                  moment, as he glanced around the apartment, and noted the few persons present, all
                  of whom he believed to be his enemies, his eye seemed to sparkle with something
                  like defiance, and his upper lip slightly curled 
                     with with
                     with
                   something like scorn; but this change of expression was only momentary,
                  and was only observed by the Governor and one or two others. Sir William, who had
                  taken his seat on the bench, with a couple of military officers on either side of
                  him, seemed much nettled at the look, however, transient as it was; and, with a
                  face flushed with anger, muttered, half aloud:
               "Ay, ay, young rebel, we'll humble you ere long."
               He then whispered to one of his officers, who immediately addressed Reginald:
               "Mr. Beauchamp," he said, "have you a commission of Colonelcy, signed by his
                  honor, Sir William Berkeley?"
               "I have," was the answer.
               "Will you oblige the court by producing it?"
               "I have it not here, but at my quarters, at Middle Plantations," answered
                  Reginald.
               "It is not absolutely essential that it should be produced here at this
                  time—though, if you had it about you, we would look at it. I suppose you remember
                  the date of it?"
               "I do."
               "Will you mention it to the court?"
               Reginald did so.
               "This date, then, you are aware, is later than that of your first proceeding into
                  the wilderness to attack the Indians?"
               "Yes, I am aware of that."
               "By what authority, then, did you at that time set forth?"
               "By the authority of my conscience, and a sense of doing right in lending myself
                  to the noble cause of trying to protect the frontiers against the inroads of a
                  savage foe," replied Reginald, with a look of proud defiance.
               "But we," answered his interrogator, sternly, "who have been called together here,
                  to sit in judgment on your acts, can not acknowledge any such authority as you
                  name. We hold, sir, that your doings at that time were a treasonous offense
                  against the government of this Colony."
               "But an offense which was afterward pardoned by his honor, the Governor, and
                  therefore not now to be brought forward as an accusation," rejoined Reginald.
               "You mistake," said the other: "you were not pardoned—for you, at the
                  time, were not even under arrest."
               "Did not Governor Berkeley declare, in open court, that he pardoned Bacon, and all
                  that were with him?"
               "Which meant all that had been arrested with him; but had no reference to
                     you, scapegrace—had no reference to you!" cried the Governor,
                  savagely. "How could it, you scoundrel! when you know very well—you know very
                  well—and we know, too—mark that?—we know, too—that you at that very time were
                  unlawfully engaged in collecting and banding together a host of rebels, to put the
                  laws at defiance, in the event of our attempting to inforce those same laws
                  against Bacon? Come, sirrah! what say you to this? what say you to this? You can't
                  deny it without lying, you know you can't.'
               "All I have to say, your honor," replied Reginald, "is simply this: that I can not
                  legally be tried by a military tribunal for any thing I may have done prior to my
                  receiving a commission. If, as a civilian, I transgressed the law, and such charge
                  be now brought against me, I demand, as my right, a trial by jury!"
               "Odd's blood!" cried Sir William—"you are more knave than fool!"
               "And I can justly return the compliment," said Beauchamp, coldly.
               "Silence!" roared Berkeley; or, by the Lord Harry! I will have you gagged."
               The Governor then held a short consultation with his officers, in a low tone, at
                  the conclusion of which, the one who had before addressed the prisoner, again
                  spoke:
               "Colonel Beauchamp." he said, "perhaps what you say, with regard to your being
                  tried before this court for offenses committed prior to the date of your
                  commission, is correct: at least the court has decided to waive all such
                  accusations for the present. But do not flatter yourself, sir, that you have any
                  cause for triumph; for if we do not mistake, there are some serious charges yet
                  resting against you, which you will find less easy to elude. In the first place,
                  sir, I suppose you are aware (being a very sagacious young man) that Nathaniel
                  Bacon, Jr., received his commission as General for the Indian war?"
               "I am not ignorant of that fact," replied Reginald, haughtily.
               "So far, very well. Now then, sir (you being very learned in matters of law), you
                  must also be aware, that, aside from his office as General for the Indian war,
                  Bacon has no military authority whatever?"
               "That may be, sir."
               "Again, very well. Now then, sir, so acute and learned a
                  gentleman as yourself will have no difficulty in perceiving and understanding,
                  that Bacon could not lawfully confer on another any authority or power which he
                  did not himself possess."
               "Granted, sir," returned Reginald.
               "Therefore," pursued the other, "when he gave you your commission, he did not
                  constitute you an officer of the regular army, but simply a Colonel of Militia for
                  the Indian war."
               "Well," said Reginald, as the other paused for him to make reply.
               "You acknowledge this to be so?"
               "Assuredly."
               "Then," returned the interrogator, with a smile of triumph, "have we reached the
                  point which brings against you a very serious charge. If you are only a Colonel of
                  Militia for the Indian war, how is it that we find you making Middle Plantations
                  your head-quarters, and thence, at the head of a body of armed men, daily sallying
                  forth, in the very heart of a thickly settled country, where the foot of a hostile
                  Indian has not been for years, and thus by such proceedings putting good, loyal
                  and peaceable citizens in fear for their lives and for the safety of their
                  property?"
               "I defy you to prove that I have ever injured their property to the amount of a
                  penny, or that the life of a single individual among them all has ever been so
                  much as menaced, either by myself or any one of those whom I had the honor to
                  command."
               "This is not to the point, Colonel Beauchamp," returned the other, sternly. "It is
                  not necessary to our purpose to prove any thing of the kind. You tacitly admit
                  that you have thus been roving about the country at the head of an armed force,
                  which we declare to be a proceeding against the peace of God and his most sacred
                  Majesty, the King of England, and this Colony, and we now demand by what authority
                  you have done this."
               "I answer, by the authority of my superior officer," replied Reginald.
               "Ay, sir, but your superior officer, General Bacon, by your own admission, had and
                  has no authority himself aside from what his commission specifies as General of
                  the forces raised to march against the Indians."
               "If he has transgressed the law, by transcending the power deputed to him, let him
                  be made to answer for it," replied Reginald. "I only claim, that, as my superior
                  officer, I was bound to obey his orders, or subject myself to a trial by
                  court-martial for disobedience."
               A consultation now again took place between Berkeley and his officers, which
                  lasted some five minutes, when the chief spokesman once more addressed the
                  prisoner.
               "Your plea in this case, Colonel Beauchamp, can not serve you," he said. "That
                  Bacon is guilty o transcending his authority, the court readily admits; and for
                  this, and other offenses, he will have to answer, whenever he can be brought to
                  trial; but you are not less guilty, as particeps
                     criminis, and, therefore,
                  for disturbing the King's peace in a rebellious manner, we consider you guilty of
                  the heinous crime of high treason, and adjudge you to death. It is the sentence of
                  this court, that you be forthwith taken back to the prison whence you came; and
                  thence, at the hour of twelve, this day, you be escorted, by a file of soldiers,
                  to the place of execution, and there, in chains, like a common felon, be hanged by
                  the neck till dead."
               Reginald started, on hearing this awful sentence pronounced; and so much was he
                  affected, that the perspiration pressed through the pores of his skin, and stood
                  on his face and hands in large drops.
               "Your honor," he cried, looking at the Governor, "and you, gentlemen, can not be
                  serious, surely? Why, this is but mockery—downright murder, in fact."
               "Silence!" cried Berkeley, with a look of malignant triumph. "You have been fairly
                  tried, and justly condemned, and by—! you shall be hanged, too! I promised your
                  whey-faced wife that she should be a widow before night, and I'm going to make my
                  word good."
               "My wife! Flora!" exclaimed Reginald in surprise, and with an emotion that
                  rendered his words almost inarticulate. "Have you seen her? have you seen
                  her?—when? where? in Heaven's name, speak!"
               "Yes," replied Berkeley, rejoicing, like a fiend, in the intense agony which his
                  words caused his victim to experience. "She came to my house this morning on a
                  fool's errand: on a fool's errand, Mr. Beauchamp—to beg your release; and she went
                  away wiser than she came—wiser than she came, scape-grace, for which you may thank
                  me."
               "O! merciful Heaven!" cried Reginald. "Flora! my dear Flora! my dear wife! But
                  this must not be!" he added, in an altered tone. "Gentlemen," he continued,
                  addressing the court, "if I have permitted you thus to condemn me, without
                  speaking the word which I trust may yet save my life, it was because I did not for
                  a moment suppose you could find it in your hearts to condemn me on so trifling a
                  charge, setting aside justice and the straining of the law. But now I—"
               "Silence!" roared Berkeley, "we want none of your insolence. Away with him,
                  soldiers—away with him!"
               "But one moment, your honor—let me tell you—"
               "You shall tell me nothing—but I tell you, you shall be
                  hanged within three hours; within three hours—and in chains, too. Away with him,
                  men, to prison—to prison. I will not listen to his insulting language. Stop his
                  mouth—gag him, if he won't keep silence without."
               The men, as directed, seized Reginald roughly, to hurry him away; and as he
                  struggled with them, and strove to speak still, one herculean fellow thrust a
                  handkerchief into his mouth.
               At this moment all were startled by loud cries outside, commingled with the
                  reports of firearms.
               "What's that?" cried the Governor, hastening to one of the windows. "By the blood
                  of the Martyr?" he added the next moment, "we are attacked by the rebels! Draw
                  your swords, gentlemen, and sell your lives dearly!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE RESCUE.
               FOR a few minutes the noise of conflict was heard from without, during which time
                  great alarm and confusion prevailed in the court-room. The gentlemen present drew
                  their swords—but their pale faces and trembling limbs gave unmistakable
                  indications, that, if the choice were left to them, they would much rather run
                  than fight. Of those composing the court-martial, who had so wantonly outraged
                  justice by passing sentence of death on Reginald Beauchamp, each one, with the
                  exception of the Governor, seemed greatly terrified at the idea of meeting the
                  grim king himself. To doom another to death, was a matter for cool consideration;
                  but to die themselves was quite a different thing—a very serious and unpleasant
                  idea in fact.
               As a general rule, brutal men are arrant cowards; but there are exceptions, and
                  Sir William Berkeley may be named as one of them; for though he was at times
                  really brutal, he seldom exhibited any thing that could be termed cowardice when
                  his own life was in danger. On the present occasion the old knight drew his sword,
                  and would have rushed forth to take part in the affray, if any of his cowardly
                  associates would have followed him—in fact, disgusted with the cringing fear they
                  displayed, he would have gone alone, had they not restrained him by force.
               In his rage at being thus attacked, he ordered the soldiers to shoot down
                  Reginald, but they, fearing the retributive consequences of such an act, more than
                  his anger, did not obey; but drew away from the prisoner, and stood in sullen
                  silence, close together, like men who had resolved to act only on the
                  defensive.
               Reginald, finding himself thus unexpectedly at liberty, thought it best, under the
                  circumstances, to profit by the chance of escape which fortune offered; and he
                  accordingly sprung toward the door, which was open, when some ten or twelve armed
                  men rushed into the apartment, whom he instantly recognized as a part of his own
                  gallant corps. Uttering a cry of joy, he grasped the hand of the foremost, who, in
                  turn, exclaimed:
               "Thank God! Colonel Beauchamp, we are in time to save you."
               "Barely in time, Lieutenant Marcy," replied our hero; "for I have just been
                  condemned to death, by a court-martial composed of yonder trembling cowards, and
                  for no other offense than obeying the orders of our General."
               "Down with them—down with the treacherous old Governor and his parasites!" shouted
                  the men, furious with rage, as they heard the words of their commander; and they
                  were about to rush forward and make the court-room a scene of carnage, when
                  Reginald promptly and effectually interposed.
               "Halt!" he shouted; "halt! Beware of what you do, my gallant men! Yonder
                  craven-hearted fellows richly deserve death—but this is not a time and place to
                  inflict it. I will not countenance assassination and massacre: I forbid it. Let
                  the trembling cowards go for the present, and when the proper occasion for
                  punishment arrives, I promise you, if I have any hand or voice in the matter, they
                  shall get their deserts. We have other work to do; and since you are conquerors,
                  and I am free, let us hasten to liberate Colonel Parker and Mr. Neville, friends
                  of mine, who are confined in yonder jail."
               While speaking, others of Reginald's command came pouring into the state-house,
                  and as he passed into the hall, on his way out, he found himself surrounded by the
                  whole corps, some fifty in number, all of whom were loud in their congratulations
                  at his escape.
               The affray was now at an end; for Reginald's men, having drawn near the
                  state-house, under cover of a wood in the rear, had suddenly assailed Quinby's
                  Guard, and put them to flight, after a short skirmish, during which some three or
                  four had been killed on both sides, and a few others wounded. Reginald now left
                  the state-house, and ordering the whole corps to form in line, acquainted them
                  with his determination to attack the jail at once and free the prisoners. The men
                  gave an answering shout of assent; and the order to march had just been given,
                  when Lieutenant Marcy exclaimed:
               "Colonel Beauchamp, we must fly, to save ourselves! for yonder come Captain Brent
                  and his troop of horse."
               He pointed toward the Neck as he spoke, a little beyond which a body of cavalry
                  could be seen approaching the town at a fast trot.
               "Yes, we are too few to fight them, and must try to escape—for if we fall into the
                  Governor's power, no mercy will be shown us," said Reginald, hurriedly. "But how
                  are we to escape?" he continued, anxiously; "for Brent will reach the Neck before
                  we can, and he is mounted; while we, I perceive, are afoot—at least I see not our
                  horses."
               "This way!" cried Marcy; "this way!" pointing toward the wood. "We know how to
                  escape;" and he set off on a run, followed by all the others—for none who had not
                  been killed, had been so seriously wounded as to prevent an active flight.
               
               In a few minutes the nearest cover was reached; and on looking back, it was
                  perceived that Berkeley and his party had sallied forth from
                  the state-house; and that Quinby's men, seeing the flight of Beauchamp's corps,
                  and the reinforcement at hand, had rallied, and were now in hot pursuit.
               "Run, men, run!" cried Marcy; "we must reach the main-land, and our horses, before
                  our foes, or we are lost!"
               The distance across the peninsula, in the direction taken by the fugitives, was
                  something over a mile and their way lay first through a heavy wood, and next
                  across a swamp, where care had to be taken to keep themselves from sinking in the
                  mire. They made their flight with all the speed they could, which was not lessened
                  by occasionally hearing a distant shout from their pursuers. Some quarter of an
                  hour brought them to the narrow creek, which here separated the peninsula from the
                  main-land, when, much to the surprise and relief of Reginald, who as yet was
                  ignorant of the plan which had been adopted for his rescue, he perceived some half
                  a dozen boats made fast to the low bushes which margined the stream. To enter
                  these, cut them loose, and row across the creek to a thick wood on the main-land,
                  was the work of some three or four minutes; and as the fugitives landed, and drew
                  the boats from the water into the bushes, out of sight, they heard another shout
                  from their pursuers, who were fast making their way through the swamp.
               "Now," said Marcy, "with your permission, Colonel, we will give our friends on the
                  other side a parting salute."
               "But can it be done without too much risk to ourselves?" inquired Reginald.
               "Yes, for our horses are not far off," was the reply; and finding that his
                  commander made no special objection, Marcy bade the men conceal themselves in the
                  thicket, load their pieces, and take one more shot for vengeance.
               The men obeyed with alacrity; and scarcely was the last piece primed, when some
                  fifteen of Quinby's Guard (himself among the number), reached the opposite bank of
                  the creek, in open view.
               "Ready, men!" said the Lieutenant, in a low tone: "aim! fire!" and with the last
                  word, the sharp report of more than forty; fusiles broke the silence of the wood,
                  and went echoing far away, commingling with a loud shout of defiance from the
                  fugitives, and yells of consternation, rage and pain, from their pursuers.
               By that discharge, Captain Quinby fell, mortally wounded, and six of his men were
                  brought to the ground with him.
               "My love to old Sir William," cried Marcy, stepping boldly from his cover into
                  open view of his enemies, and waving his hat above his head. "Now then for our
                  horses, my gallant fellows!" he said to his men; and he led the way into the wood,
                  to where they were tied, at a distance from the river of a hundred yards.
               As Reginald came in sight of the animals, what was his astonishment to perceive
                  his own dear wife, Flora, whom he supposed to be miles away, now running toward
                  him, and evidently laboring under the most intense excitement! The instant she saw
                  him, she uttered a wild cry of joy, and the next moment was caught in his arms.
                  She still had on the dress in which the night previous she had stood before the
                  sacred altar, and bound herself to him in the holy covenant of marriage; but it
                  was much disarranged, and soiled with the rains and with mud.
               "Flora! my wife! my dear Flora!" cried Reginald, almost doubting his senses, as he
                  fondly strained her to his wildly beating heart: "in Heaven's name! how came you
                  here?"
               "You are saved, dear Reginald! you are saved!—thank God! you are saved!" murmured
                  Flora, in a low, faint tone, which her deep emotion rendered almost
                  inarticulate.
               "Marcy," cried Reginald, turning to the Lieutenant, who was now standing near and
                  quietly regarding his commander with a look of great satisfaction, "do tell me
                  what this means, for I am half bewildered."
               "A pleasant surprise for one thing," replied Marcy. "But I have not time to
                  explain, if I would: in fact, you can only get a full explanation from the lips of
                  your heroic lady—to whose efforts, I may say in a word, you owe your escape from
                  an awful death."
               "No! no!" cried Flora: "to this noble officer, and his gallant companions, do you
                  owe your rescue, dear Reginald; and after God, you must thank them, as I do from
                  my heart, that you are restored to me."
               "I am all amazement," said Reginald.
               "Well, well, the mystery may soon be cleared up," rejoined Marcy; "but not
                  here—not here—for we are too near our foes; and who knows but Brent may be on
                  his-way in another direction to cut off our retreat."
               "Of yes, dear Reginald," exclaimed Flora, greatly excited, "let us fly while we
                  may! for your life is too precious to be risked here, where is so much danger. As
                  soon as we can reach a place of safety, dear Reginald, you shall know all."
               "Come then, my dear Flora—my heroic wife!" said the Colonel, hurrying forward to
                  the horses, which his men were in the act of mounting: "prudence shall take the
                  place of curiosity; nor will I, by any negligence on my own part, again put that
                  life in jeopardy, which I more than ever value for having been saved by one I so
                  dearly prize."
               In a few minutes the whole party were dashing through the wood—Reginald, Flora and
                  Marcy, with their horses abreast, riding in advance. Emerging from the wood, at
                  the distance of something more than a mile from where they mounted, they struck
                  across an open country; and after riding a few miles further, passing on their way
                  several fine plantations, they entered another wood, in which they continued till
                  within sight of Middle Plantations. This settlement, their recent head-quarters,
                  they now approached with great caution; but finding it was not occupied by any of
                  the regular troops, they rode boldly forward to their barrack, to the no small
                  surprise of the good citizens, who came to the doors and windows to look at
                  them.
               They now learned what they had already anticipated, as we will presently show,
                  that Captain Brent and his men had been here, expecting to take them by surprise,
                  in the absence of their commander, and make them captives. He had arrived in the
                  night, and, after quietly surrounding the barrack, had demanded the instant
                  surrender of all it contained, both men and munitions. Getting no answer to his
                  summons, he had proceeded to attack the building; and not till he had forced an
                  entrance, had he been made aware that his valor had been thrown away on mere stone
                  walls. Enraged at this, or else pretending to be so, he took up his quarters here
                  for the night, fed his horses and feasted his men, and then ransacked the
                  building, and plundered it of every thing of value. Reginald found that his
                  private apartment had been broken open, and that his wardrobe, his commission,
                  some private papers, and other articles of value, had been abstracted.
               There were still enough of provisions left, however, to feed both men and horses;
                  and here he concluded to rest some two or three hours—first stationing a few
                  sentinels on the outskirts of the place, to give timely warning of the approach of
                  an enemy.
               It was while here, that Reginald heard, from the lips of his lovely and devoted
                  wife, an account of her adventures in his behalf, which we will give the reader in
                  a condensed form.
               After leaving the forest church, she first rode post haste to Middle Plantations;
                  and procuring an interview with Lieutenant Marcy, acquainted him with what had
                  just taken place, and urged him to take immediate steps for the rescue of her
                  husband and his commander. Marcy acted with great promptness, and within an hour
                  was on his way to Jamestown, whither it was thought probable Reginald had been
                  conveyed. Before reaching the Neck, our friends discovered a body of horse
                  approaching them, and prudently concealed themselves in a thicket close at hand.
                  Thus Brent, on his way to attack them, actually passed them on the road, without
                  knowing it; and by some expressions which his men made use of, and which were
                  overheard by Reginald's party, the latter were in some measure made acquainted
                  with his design, and also learned that their commander had been conveyed to
                  Jamestown and confined in the jail.
               Not knowing what force Berkeley might have in town, it was thought best, after
                     a consultation, not to enter it at
                  once, but let Flora, at her own desire, go forward and have an interview with the
                  Governor, while the troop should remain in concealment, not far from the Neck,
                  ready to take advantage of whatever should seem to favor the purpose they had in
                  view. Concealing themselves, accordingly, in a thick wood, about half a mile from
                  the only entrance by land into the capital, they awaited the dawn of day with
                  great anxiety. Just before sunrise, Flora set forward, alone, on her mission to
                  Sir William; and the reader having been present at that interview, knows how it
                  terminated.
               On leaving Jamestown, Flora immediately rejoined her friends, and made a full
                  report of all that had occurred; and a hurried consultation then resulted in the
                  plan of proceeding a short distance down the river, concealing the horses in a
                  wood which here margined the stream, crossing the creek to the peninsula, and
                  thence marching down on foot as near the state-house as they could approach under
                  cover, there to let further operations be controlled by circumstances. On coming
                  in-sight of the state-house, they found it surrounded by Quinby's guard, and
                  naturally concluded that the trial of their leader was taking place. Seeing no
                  other troops in town, they thought this a favorable moment to effect the rescue;
                  and suddenly emerging from the wood, they made a fierce onset upon the guard, and,
                  after a short skirmish, succeeded in their design, as the reader already
                  knows.
               Such is in substance what Reginald learned from Flora and Marcy; and straining the
                  one to his heart, and shaking the other cordially by the hand, he expressed
                  himself as being the happiest of men, in having so heroic and devoted a wife, and
                  such true and valiant friends.
               Flora now wrote a brief account of her adventure to Mrs. Bacon, which epistle was
                  dispatched to her by a special courier. Shortly after, Reginald resumed his march
                  northward, taking Flora with him. That night saw him encamped in a place of
                  safety, on the southern bank of York river, some twenty miles from Middle
                  Plantations; whence, the day following, messengers were dispatched to the
                  wilderness, in quest of Bacon, bearing him tidings of what had occurred during his
                  absence.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               HISTORICAL FACTS.
               GOVERNOR BERKELEY, on finding that Colonel Beauchamp had actually made good his
                  escape, and that Captain Quinby and several of his men had been killed, became, as
                  usual, nearly frantic with fury; and at once caused a proclamation to be issued,
                  and posted in all public places, denouncing General Bacon, Colonel Beauchamp, and
                  all their adherents and followers, as rebels and traitors; and commanding all
                  loyal citizens to rise in arms against them; promising them protection, military
                  honors, and plunder; and declaring that all slaves, who were owned by rebels,
                  should be made free, on condition of their instantly forsaking their masters and
                  joining the royal cause.
               This villainous proceeding took the citizens every where by surprise, and many
                  were led by it to think the Governor insane; while others, knowing something of
                  Sir William's vindictive nature, became disgusted with so treacherous a ruler;
                  and, from being zealous supporters of the government, at once took sides with the
                  opposing faction—so that Berkeley, by this act, lost nearly all his disinterested
                  friends, and found himself more unpopular than ever. Nothing disconcerted by this,
                  apparently—and determined to show his contempt for popular opinion—and also, if
                  possible, strike such terror into the more timid, as would make them adhere to his
                  cause through fear if not through love—he ordered Colonel Parker and young Neville
                  to be brought to trial before a court-martial composed of men with whom his wish
                  was law. The result was, that Neville was convicted of an attempt to create
                  rebellion (how justly the reader knows), was condemned to death, and actually
                  hanged, in chains, in the rear of the state-house, within three hours of his
                  sentence, to the perfect consternation and horror of the citizens. This example
                  being seemed sufficient for his present purpose, 
                     the the
                     the
                   Governor thought it best to reserve Colonel Parker for another occasion,
                  and therefore remanded him to prison.
               Couriers set off to find General Bacon, bearing all these evil tidings. They found
                  him on his return march—for Beauchamp's messengers had reached him first—and this
                  last news did not tend to retard his progress homeward.
               Sir William, being advised of what was taking place, did not now consider
                  Jamestown and vicinity very safe quarters for himself and friends; and so, with
                  them and his valuables, he goes aboard a sloop-of-war, and sails for Accomac—a
                  county lying east of the Chesapeake, between that bay and the Atlantic. Here,
                  feeling himself secure from molestation (for his new place of residence could only
                  be approached by water, and he had control of nearly all the shipping), the
                  Governor begins to plot anew against the Baconian faction.
               Meantime, General Bacon countermarches his forces to Middle Plantations, fixes
                  there his head-quarters, calls a grand convention of the people, declares Sir
                  William Berkeley no longer Governor, and succeeds, after some vexatious delay, in
                  establishing an entirely new government, of which he is himself to be the head,
                  till such time as the true state of affairs can be laid before King and
                  Parliament.
               And the people, everywhere, of every condition and degree (servants alone
                  excepted), were now required to subscribe to the following oath, to-wit: First,
                  that they would aid and assist, with their lives, estates and other property,
                  General Bacon in his prosecution of the Indian war to a satisfactory termination;
                  secondly, that they would, with their lives and fortunes, oppose Sir William
                  Berkeley in his designs, should he have any, against the same; and, lastly, that
                  they would band together to protect the General, the army, and themselves, against
                  any power that should be sent out of England, till it should be granted that the
                  country's complaint might be heard against Sir William before the King and
                  Parliament.
               To this last clause, strong objections were raised by different members of the
                  convention; and, from midday till midnight, a fierce and angry discussion took
                  place for and against its adoption. Bacon, after one or two speeches, in which he
                  gave very specious reasons for the taking of this oath without any curtailment,
                  finally grew impatient of delay, then angry, and at last declared, in the most
                  positive terms, that it either should be adopted and administered as it stood, or
                  he would resign his commission, and the people might get somebody else to manage
                  their affairs and fight their battles. This decided the matter; and the oath—put
                  in proper form by the Clerk of the late Assembly, who was present at this meeting,
                  as were also some four or five members of the Governor's Council—was duly
                  registered, and immediately subscribed to by several of the most prominent
                  gentlemen of the Colony.
               The business before the Convention being so far transacted to the satisfaction of
                  Bacon and his friends, it was further decided that a new Assembly should be
                  summoned to meet at Middle Plantations, on the fourth of September, and for this
                  purpose regular writs were issued in the King's name, and sent to the Sheriffs of
                  the different counties, commanding new elections. These writs were signed by Bacon
                  and four others of the Governor's Council; and being thus in a manner legalized,
                  were not to be disregarded with impunity.
               Bacon, having now accomplished his design of wrenching the scepter of rule from
                  the hands of Berkeley, to hold himself, for the time being, determined still
                  further to turn the tables on the old knight, by taking him prisoner.
               Learning whither Berkeley had retreated, he ordered Captain Gill to take
                  possession of a couple of sloops then lying before Jamestown, and man and
                  provision them for a long cruise down the river. Aboard these vessels he sent
                  Captain Carver, with a detachment of soldiers, with instructions to seize Sir
                  William, wherever he might be found, and bring him forthwith to Jamestown in
                  irons.
               As soon as this expedition had sailed, Bacon con began to make preparations for a further
                  prosecution of the Indian war. Leaving Colonel Hansford with a large force in
                  command of Jamestown, as a sort of acting-Governor, with full powers to raise
                  whatsoever other numbers of military might be required to protect the Capital and
                  preserve peace throughout the Colony; releasing Col. Parker from confinement;
                  removing his own wife to Middle Plantations for better security; requesting Flora
                  to remain with her; and taking Colonel Beauchamp with himself, in the capacity of
                  Aid-de-Camp, Gen. Bacon set off, with a force of about a thousand men, on his
                  third expedition against the savages.
               To be as brief as possible with this chronicle of several important events which
                  took place within a few weeks of Sir William Berkeley's flight from Jamestown, it
                  will only be necessary to our purpose to say, that the expedition of Gill and
                  Carver resulted in both being entrapped by a treacherous scheme of the old knight,
                  and that so far from capturing him, they were by him captured, and all their men.
                  Captain Carver was immediately tried and executed; and Gill, after being a long
                  time confined in irons, subsequently met the same fate; but the soldiers and
                  seamen were promised pardon, on condition of their renouncing Bacon's cause and
                  embracing that of Sir William; which the majority of them did.
               This unexpected capture greatly elated Sir William and his friends, and inspired
                  them with fresh hopes. Making use of his authority, which was still acknowledged
                  by the regular troops and the government vessels, he collected a fleet of five
                  ships and ten sloops off Accomac, and succeeded in raising a force of about a
                  thousand men, with which he set sail for Jamestown, having heard that Bacon was
                  again in the wilderness, and naturally supposing it would be easy, in his absence,
                  to terrify the inhabitants into quiet subjection.
               Notwithstanding a rumor of Sir William's new movement reached the ears of the
                  Baconians—of whom, at this time, about eight hundred were assembled at
                  Jamestown—still the sudden appearance of such a Beet before the town (it having
                  quietly arrived in the night), took them completely by surprise, and caused
                  proportionate alarm and dismay. Aware of this, Sir William ordered the men-of-war
                  to display their guns, as if an immediate attack were meditated; and so disposed
                  his whole force as to make it appear much more formidable than it was in reality.
                  This done, he made a formal demand for the surrender of the town—promising full
                  pardon to all who would lay down their arms and forsake the cause of Bacon, with
                  the exceptions of Colonel Lawrence and Ex-Governor Drummond, whom he denounced as
                  prime instigators of the rebellion, and declared to be without the pale of
                  clemency.
               This summons for surrender caused a great commotion among the Baconians assembled
                  at Jamestown. Some were for complying with Berkeley's conditions; while others
                  contended that the doing so would be equivalent to putting the halter around their
                  necks. Lawrence and Drummond, both of whom were in town, became much alarmed at
                  the Governor's proscription, and of course exerted their utmost to prevent the
                  others from acceding to Sir William's proposals—a proceeding which would consign
                  themselves at least to an 
                     ignomonious
                     ignominious
                   death. The discussion, pro and con, of this matter, continued through
                  the day, amid a great excitement; and when night closed around the disputants, the
                  question, as to what was best to be done under the circumstances, seemed as far
                  from being settled as ever. But now it happily occurred to Lawrence, that during
                  the darkness all might escape together; and this proposition being eagerly
                  assented to, in less than an hour the town was evacuated. So fearful were the
                  Baconians that Berkeley might have one or more spies among them, who would find
                  means to report their intentions, and that he would, on getting the information,
                  take active measures to cut them off, that they scarcely waited to secure their
                  valuables; and Lawrence actually left much costly plate in his dwelling, which the
                  next day fell into the possession of the Governor.
               Sir William was highly delighted, on the following morning, when informed that
                  Jamestown was deserted. In fact, this was the very result he had hoped for; and so
                  far was it from his design to endeavor to prevent a flight of his foes, that he
                  would gladly have assisted them to get out of his way, that he might get
                  possession of the Capital without fighting for it.
               Toward noon, the same day, the Governor and his forces landed on the beach, amid
                  martial strains of music, beating of drums, and firing of cannon. The first thing
                  he did, when he got ashore, was to make a public demonstration of piety; and for
                  this purpose he got down on his knees, and in a loud voice thanked God for his
                  success, so far, against the rebels. Having thus eased his conscience, and
                  convinced some of his followers that he was really a good and much injured old
                  gentleman, he very quietly and systematically set to work to collect the spoils
                  which these same rebels had left behind them; and finding that these were
                  considerable, and knowing that his would be the lion's share, he became
                  proportionally reconciled to his hard lot—in fact rather liked it.
               After remaining very quietly in town for a few days, and finding himself well
                  rested from the fatigues of a bloodless siege of a few hours, the old Knight and
                  his friends thought it well to be up and doing once more. So he sent out foraging
                  parties to bring in provisions, and messages to different military commanders, in
                  different counties, to raise what men they could and join him at Jamestown;
                  intending, so soon as his force should be deemed sufficient for the purpose, to
                  carry the war into the enemy's country; not once dreaming that that same enemy
                  would be so fool-hardy as to attack him in his present quarters, fortified as he
                  was by a fleet of fifteen sail, and having at his command more than a thousand
                  men, who, to take their own words for it, were furious fighters, blessed with no
                  ordinary courage, to whom the annihilation of rebels would only be a pleasant
                  pastime; in short, perfect fire-eaters. But that there might be no possibility of
                  a mistake in regard to his security, Sir William ordered some three or four
                  field-pieces to be erected into a battery in front of the Neck, (the only point,
                  as the reader will remember, by which Jamestown could be approached by land), and
                  the shipping to lay along broadside of the shore; so that, in the event of the
                  battery being carried by a body of assailants, they would be exposed, at every
                  step of their progress towards the town, to a destructive fire.
               Meantime, ignorant of Berkeley's movements—and really supposing him either at
                  Accomac still, or in the hands of Carner a prisoner—General Bacon was vigorously
                  prosecuting the Indian war. Having been successful in two or three engagements,
                  and finding that the savages, greatly alarmed for their safety, had retreated
                  further into the wilderness, and would not be likely to permit him to again come
                  to close quarters, even should he continue to pursue them; he thought it advisable
                  to end the campaign, and let his soldiers rest and gain strength against another
                  time of need.
               Accordingly, he called in his scouts, and counter-marched his little army within
                  the limits of his settlements; where, after making them a brief speech—in which he
                  complimented them on their bravery, and thanked them in the name of the whole
                  Colony, for their valiant services—he dismissed them to their several homes,
                  retaining only a few of his most intimate friends as a body-guard.
               This done, Bacon set out on his return; but had not proceeded many miles homeward,
                  when, to his great surprise, he was met by Lawrence, Drummond, Hansford, and
                  others, who communicated the startling intelligence, that Berkeley was in
                  possession of Jamestown, supported in his position by a large force, a large
                  fleet, and was actively increasing his strength by new recruits. To some men, such
                  news would have been crushing; but Bacon was not one of these. Bold, daring, and
                  energetic, he only saw in new dangers, new cause for exertion; and in the present
                  trying emergency, he proved himself worthy to wear the laurels of a here.
               "Would to Heaven, gentlemen," he said, "that I had received this news before I
                  dismissed my men to their homes! But never mind; we are an hundred and fifty
                  strong still, and no cowards to be counted. Stand by me, and I will teach
                  Berkeley, that, old as he is, there is something for him to learn yet. Now then,
                  for Jamestown, by forced marches, to take the old fox by surprise."
               On their rapid march toward Jamestown,
                  Bacon and Beauchamp were greatly astonished to meet Edith and Flora, with two
                  servants on their flight northward. We pass over the scene at this unexpected
                  meeting—unexpected by either party —leaving so much to the reader's imagination.
                  They gave as a reason for their flight, that they had more than once been insulted
                  by some of Berkeley's soldiery; and that, besides, a rumor had reached them, that
                  their capture was meditated by Sir William. It seems needless to add, that this
                  last piece of intelligence in no degree tended to soften the bitter feeling of
                  animosity which Bacon and Beauchamp both had for the old Knight; and if this did
                  not cause their speed toward Jamestown to be increased, it certainly did not
                  produce a contrary effect.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               A CURIOUS STRATAGEM.
               On a dark, but starry night, toward the close of the summer of 1676, a small body
                  of horsemen dismounted in the edge of a wood that grew upon the northern bank of
                  the James river, not far from the then Capital of the Colony of Virginia.
                  Presently a single figure glided out into a narrow opening, a kind of road or
                  horse-path, which led into Jamestown across the Neck. Moving quickly, but stealthy
                  forward, he soon crossed the Neck, and came in view of the battery mentioned in
                  the previous chapter. Here, dimly perceiving a human figure at some distance,
                  walking slowly to and fro, which he rightly judged to be a sentinel, he halted,
                  and stood almost motionless for some five minutes, during which time he made as
                  careful a survey of every thing around him, as the darkness would allow. Then he
                  slowly retraced his steps, pausing from time to time to more carefully inspect the
                  ground over which he was passing. Having done this, he returned to the wood whence
                  we saw him emerge; and shortly after, some twenty mounted men appeared in the
                  road, and rode away in the darkness, taking a direction opposite to that which led
                  into the town. About two miles distant, at what was called the Cross Roads, these
                  mounted men separated into three distinct parties; and while one turned to the
                  right, and the other to the left the third kept straight on. These three parties
                  were shortly after divided into six; and within two hours from their first
                  separation, each one had dismounted before some private dwelling of the better
                  class, and made a demand upon the inmates of such a nature as to excite unbounded
                  astonishment and alarm.
               Meantime, the larger party at the wood—for the twenty we saw ride forth were only
                  a detachment of the main body—set off together toward the Neck, on foot, carrying
                  with him tools of various kinds, and weapons also. On arriving at a certain point,
                  he who led the way stopped, and silently pointed to the ground. At this, all the
                  others, more than a hundred in number, stopped also; and after whispering together
                  for a few minutes, laid aside their coats and arms, and began to dig up the
                  ground, working vigorously.
               Off to the right of these men, riding on the dark bosom of the James, and some of
                  them within call, stretched a line of vessels, from which, here and there, lights
                  gleamed upon the tranquil waters, and, resting there, resembled long bars of gold.
                  In front of them, they could just see the shadow of the battery, but could make
                  out nothing distinctly; and the sentinels, which they believed to be there, were
                  wholly invisible. Beyond, at some distance, the lights of the town could be seen
                  moving and sparkling; and occasionally a loud laugh, or a shout, together with
                  strains of music, were sounds wafted to their ears on the still air. But the most
                  of them toiled on, as if their lives were at stake, unmindful of all around
                  them.
               Long before morning, the twenty we saw ride forth together, returned in separate
                  parties of three and four; and with each party rode one or more females of the
                  better class. When the 
                     dromsy
                     drowsy
                   sentinels of the battery looked around them at day light, they were
                  wonderfully astonished to see a high embankment stretching across the narrowest
                  part of the Neck, from water to water, and on this embankment some eight or ten
                  ladies standing very quietly, and behind these ladies more than a hundred men
                  still at work throwing up the loose earth. Their first astonishment over, though
                  still inclined to doubt their senses, they betook themselves to town as fast as
                  their legs could carry them; and soon the whole Capital was in a state of
                  excitement, confusion, and alarm, at the report that the place was already
                  besieged by an overwhelming body of rebels.
               It was the fashion in Virginia, at the period of which we are writing, for all
                  ladies to wear short white aprons; and when, alarmed by the reports of the
                  sentinels, the dwellers in Jamestown, including the Governor and members of his
                  Council, hurried down toward the Neck, to ascertain for themselves, that the
                  sentinels had spoken truly, they beheld, with astonishment, not less than eight of
                  these same white aprons, displayed on the persons of as many ladies, who were very
                  quietly standing on a high bank of earth, which had been thrown up during the
                  night.
               "In the name of all that is curious and wonderful," said Colonel Ballard, one of
                  the Council. "what does this mean?"
               "It is more than I can tell," cried 
                     Berkely
                     Berkeley
                  , excitedly, "unless the —— rebels think petticoats will protect them
                  while at their infernal work. Odd's life! we'll soon teach them to the contrary.
                  If the wenches choose to stand there, let them take the consequences—let them take
                  the consequences. Here, Hooper, bid half a dozen yonder sailor-looking fellows put
                  you aboard the King Charles speedily, and tell Captain Cheeseman it is my orders
                  that he open, at once, upon the scoundrels, and pepper away while there is one of
                  them in sight. And you, Wilson, away with you to yonder battery, with your men,
                  before they seize it—which, not to have done before this, shows their commander,
                  whoever he is, to be a fool—and blaze away at them—blaze away at them. Never mind
                  the women! If they don't want to be made targets of, let them skulk off with their
                  cowardly companions, who prefer seeing them shot to being shot themselves."
               "Stay!" exclaimed Colonel Ballard to the individuals addressed by the Governor,
                  who had already turned away to execute his orders. "I fear your honor is too
                  hasty, "he continued to Sir William. "Had we not better ascertain first who yonder
                  females are?"
               "So they are leagued with rebels, I care not who they are—let them die the death!"
                  returned the old Knight, savagely.
               "We shall soon know, I think, who they are," said another of the Council; "for
                  yonder comes one of them on horseback.
               He pointed, as he spoke, to a mounted female, who was seen to emerge from a
                  thicket behind the embankment, ride around it in the edge of the water, and then
                  gallop toward the town, The Governor and his cabinet, with a few other particular
                  friends, were standing apart from the main body of the spectators, of whom there
                  were not less than a thousand within hail, most of them soldiers, all looking and
                  wondering, but very patiently awaiting orders from head-quarters. Their position
                  was on an open flat, just above the town, whither they had came to get a better
                  view of the Neck, which was distant some quarter of a mile.
               As the mounted lady, who had now become an object of great interest to all
                  parties, drew near this body of spectators, she singled out the group where the
                  Governor stood, and rode straight toward him.
               "By the Lord Harry!" cried Berkeley, as rider drew near: "I knew yonder wenches
                  were all rebels; and here comes one that shall not go back in a hurry."
               "Who is she, your honor?" inquired one of the by-standers.
               "One who would have been a widow before being a wife, if that traitor Beauchamp
                  had not been snatched from my grasp just as I had fairly got the halter about his
                  neck."
               "Colonel Beauchamp's wife?" exclaimed two or three in surprise.
               "She is beautiful, whoever she is," said one.
               "Would that all rebels were as fair, it would then be a double pleasure to
                     conquer them" laughed another.
               Flora—for the mounted lady was none other—had by this time drawn sufficiently near
                  to overhear the remark of the last speaker er; but save a slightly heightened color, there was nothing in her appearance
                  or manner to indicate that she did; and even this might be attributed to the
                  rather novel situation in which she now found herself placed, considering also the
                  errand on which she had come hither.
               As she stopped her horse near the group, Sir William Berkeley stepped forward and
                  laid his hand upon the bridle-rein, saying:
               "You escaped me once, madam—we will see if you will this time be so
                  fortunate."
               Flora smiled somewhat disdainfully, as she replied:
               "My beast is a very quiet one, Sir William; and, therefore, I must consider myself
                  highly complimented when I see so venerable a knight as your honor acting as my
                  groom."
               Berkeley ripped out a terrible oath, and dropped the reins as if they had been hot
                  irons; while several of his friends turned aside to conceal their laughter; for it
                  would have been a most uncourtly, as well as impolitic proceeding, to have laughed
                  openly in the face of their chief-ruler, especially at a witticism made at his
                  expense.
               "What want you here, you jade?" cried the Governor, savagely, to cover his
                  confusion. "Speak! or, 'sdeath! woman, I'll soon find your horse a more fitting
                  groom, and you a close keeper."
               "First," returned Flora, quietly, "I would tell your honor that I am still a wife
                  and not a widow." Sir William interjected another oath. "Secondly," pursued the
                  fair rebel, "I am desired by General Bacon to present you his compliments, and say
                  to your honor, that you will much oblige him by an immediate surrender of the
                  town."
               For some moments after hearing this message, the old knight fairly shook with
                  rage; and it was not till some three or four oaths had followed each other in
                  quick succession, that he was able to say:
               "I'll reply to him by the cannon's mouth—by the cannon's mouth, you —!"
               "I fear your honor's friends will object to such a proceeding," answered Flora, in
                  the same quiet, tantalizing tone—"when informed that every shot, ere it reaches
                  your honor's foes, must first pass through yonder female guard."
               "And what care I or my friends for that what care we for that? If yonder cowards
                  choose to skulk behind their females, let them all die and be —— together! If
                  she-rebels come into the field, let she-rebels take he-rebels' fare—that is all I
                  have to say on that point."
               "But, unfortunately for your honor's wise decision," pursued Flora, "yonder ladies
                  do not happen to be she-rebels, as your honor terms them."
               "Who are they? who are they?" now cried several voices in excited tones.
               "Four of them are the wives of four members of the Council of State," answered
                  Flora; "to wit: Madames Ballard, Bray, Page, and Cole."
               "Good heavens! and our wives!" cried several voices at once.
               
                  
                     Berkely
                     Berkeley
                  , on hearing this, looked perfectly astonished and crest-fallen.
               "Are you telling the truth, woman?" he demanded of the fair messenger.
               "If you doubt my word, I shall be too happy to escort your honor near enough to
                  let your own eyes convince you of its verity," replied Flora, with a bow.
               "And how came they there?" inquired Sir William, testily.
               "They were brought there, during the night, by order of General Bacon," answered
                  Flora, with a peculiar smile. "Having heard that your honor had taken possession
                  of this town, and desiring to have possession of it himself, he thought he would
                  begin the work by throwing up a rampart; but, for fear your honor might think
                  proper to molest him before it should be completed, it struck him that a few white
                  aprons, on the persons of a few loyal wives, conspicuously displayed on the
                  embankment above the trench, would act as a charm to keep your honor, and your
                  honor's counsellors, and your honor's fighting-men, in a passive state of being,
                  till the work should be finished to his satisfaction. And in this connection I
                  will further say, as a part of his message to your honor, that unless your honor
                  becomes the aggressor before the work be completed, the ladies in question shall
                  be kindly treated, and receive no harm; and that when the work shall be done, they
                  shall be withdrawn to a place of safety; and then, if your honor be still in town,
                  he will have the honor to salute your honor with a discharge of cannon loaded with
                  ball."
               "By the Lord Harry!" exclaimed Sir William; "if Bacon be not the d—l himself, he
                  must be a near relative."
               He then called his friends aside, and after a short consultation with them,
                  returned to Flora and said:
               "Hark you, woman! Go back to that arch-rebel and traitor, Bacon, and say to him,
                  that so long as he, coward-like, sneaks behind yonder ladies, we cannot fight him;
                  but the moment he withdraws them—if, in sooth, he shall have the courage to do
                  so—we will proceed to beat him back into the wilderness—unless, indeed, we catch
                  and hang him before he gets there. Away with you now!—away with ye, to yonder scum
                  of the earth, your fit associates!"
               "I thought your honor would hardly detain me, after once hearing what I had to
                  say," rejoined Flora, sarcastically, with a smile of contempt, which much annoyed
                  and nettled the old knight. "Adieu, my dear Sir William, till we again meet," she
                  added; "at which time I trust to find you as gallant and gentlemanly
                  as ever."
               Saying this, she bowed low, deliberately turned her horse's head in the proper
                  direction, and galloped away, leaving the Governor and his friends staring after
                  her, in a very disagreeable state of vexation.
               "Yes," muttered Berkeley, clenching his hands and biting his lips, "when we again
                  meet! which I pray Heaven may be under the gallows-tree of your renegade
                  husband!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE CONFLAGRATION.
               IT is a fact, taken from the Colonial records of Virginia, that Bacon actually
                  planned and carried out the curious stratagem which we have made known to the
                  reader in the preceding chapter. Knowing that the force with which he approached
                  the town was too small to risk an open engagement with that under Berkeley, he
                  conceived the idea of making such use as we have shown of the wives of loyalists,
                  to hold the enemy in check till he could complete a rampart across the Neck.
               This rampart he completed in the course of the day, and mounted some three or four
                  cannon, which were brought meantime from a fort at no great distance. This done,
                  he withdrew the ladies from their disagreeable station; and the next morning sent
                  one of them with a message of defiance to Berkeley, bidding her assure him that
                  her companions had been removed to a place of safety, and that he (Bacon) would be
                  happy to see the old Knight attempt to execute some of his bombastic threats.
               This message put Sir William in a furious rage; and perceiving there were no
                  ladies in sight, he ordered his fire-eaters to make an onset and drive the rebels
                  from their position, offering a reward of a hundred pounds for the head of Bacon.
                  But to his astonishment and disgust, he now ascertained that, instead of brave,
                  desperate fighters, he commanded a pack of as arrant cowards as ever the world
                  saw. All their great valor, so finely displayed while their enemies were at a
                  distance, had now suddenly disappeared. Even the officers who commanded showed
                  such paltry, despicable fear, that it was said of them, by a facetious writer of
                  the time, to quote his own words, "That the Gunner of Yorke Fort did proffer to
                  purchase, for any that would buy, a Colonel's or a Captain's commission for a
                  chunk of a pipe."
               By much swearing, raving and threatening, Sir William did at last succeed in
                  getting a force of some eight hundred to venture toward the Baconians for the
                  purpose of attacking them; but one or two well-directed vollies from the latter,
                  which killed several and wounded many more, put them to flight, nor could they be
                  induced to return.
               "So much for Berkeley's bombast, my gallant fellows!" said Bacon to his men. "This
                  is the way they drive us beyond the borders. Now, then, since they have begun the
                  sport so merrily, let us continue it."
               
               He then ordered the great guns to open upon the town and the shipping; and soon
                  after the heavy, booming sound of ordnance was heard for miles around; and the
                  iron messengers of death began to course along the street, and riddle the houses
                  of James-town, causing the cowardly occupants to desert them, and retreat with
                  precipitation beyond danger. Sir William, seconded by some three or four others,
                  exhausted every means in his power to induce his men to rally and make a bold and
                  determined onset upon the foe—but he labored in vain. At last, after having
                  berated them in the wildest terms which could be produced from h s vocabulary of
                  vulgarity, he gave up the matter in despair, and began to make preparations for
                  evacuating the town. Under cover of darkness, on the following night, he shipped
                  every thing of value in the town; and then going aboard himself, with his cowardly
                  associates, set sail.
               The next morning the Baconians found the town deserted, and saw Berkeley's fleet
                  several miles down the river. At the head of his gallant little band. Bacon now
                  marched into Jamestown, and found himself once more in possession of the Capital
                  of Virginia. But this possession, beyond the fact that he had driven away Sir
                  William, he considered of very little consequence—for the latter had taken care
                  not to leave behind him any thing in the way of furniture or provisions—so that if
                  the Baconians would quarter here, they must first send off and get food and
                  articles of necessity. Under the circumstances Bacon thought it would be folly to
                  garrison the place—more especially when he saw that Sir William had anchored about
                  twenty miles below, whence, having full command of the river and shipping, it
                  would be an easy matter for him to return, surprise those in town, and regain what
                  he had lost—a plan of operations which he doubtless had settled upon before his
                  departure. Therefore, Bacon called a Council of War, consisting of his principal
                  officers and friends, among whom were Lawrence, Drummond, Beauchamp and Hansford;
                  and after stating the matter clearly and concisely—
               "Now, gentlemen," he said, "say what you think we had better do, situated as we
                  are."
               "We must quit the place," said Hansford.
               "In which case," replied Reginald, "Berkeley will soon regain it, and therefore
                  will our labor have been for nothing."
               "But if we garrison it," rejoined Hansford, "he will regain it, likewise; and with
                  it, probably, many victims for the gallows—so that it were better that he should
                  have the empty town, than the town with many prisoners."
               "If we only had a few fast sailing sloops, to cruise on the river, we might thus
                  perhaps guard against a surprise," said another officer; "but since Sir William
                  has command of all the shipping, I see not better what we can do, than to retire
                  and let him once more have possession, which he will naturally suppose will
                  thenceforth be an undisputed one. Meanwhile, we will raise a large force, and
                  march in small detachments to some secret rendezvous in this vicinity, whence we
                  will suddenly and unexpectedly come down upon him, and perhaps take
                     him and his men prisoners, and get no small amount of booty
                  beside."
               This proposition was received with much favor by some, while others thought it in
                  many respects highly objectionable.
               Thus the discussion proceeded for more than an hour, when suddenly Colonel
                  Lawrence exclaimed:
               "Gentlemen, I have been pondering this matter seriously, and I will now tell you
                  what I think we had better do. Situated as we are, we can not hold
                  the place against Berkeley. To let him get quiet possession again, with the
                  expectation of being able to take him by surprise, I think is much underrating his
                  foxy nature. Now I have a plan, by carrying out which we shall neither be required
                  to remain, nor give Sir William possession."
               "What is it, Colonel?"
               "Simply this: Burn the town!"
               "By St. George! well thought of!" cried Bacon. "But you, Colonel, and you, Mr.
                  Drummond, will both be sufferers by this!" he immediately added.
               "We suffer then in a good cause," returned Drummond. Beside, I see not that we
                  shall be better off by adopting any other course. The fact is, Colonel Lawrence
                  and myself own two of the three best dwellings in Jamestown—the third is the
                  property of Sir William Berkeley. By burning all, he suffers equally
                  with us; but by burning none, we lose ours still, and he becomes possessor, not
                  only of the three, but of all the others; which, should our cause fail, he will
                  hold through confiscation; and should our cause be finally triumphant—of which I
                  scarcely doubt—why, then, if needs be, we will repay ourselves from spoils taken
                  from our foes; so that, let the result be what it may, I give my voice for
                  fire."
               "And since we own two of the best houses, Drummond," rejoined Lawrence, "and
                  therefore are to that extent interested beyond our friends here, let as begin the
                  good work ourselves, by each firing his own dwelling with his own hands!"
               "Agreed," cried Drummond, enthusiastically, "at what time General Bacon may
                  name."
               At this moment the attention of the Council was arrested by the appearance of a
                  man on horseback, who came dashing up to where the party stood, just in front of
                  the state-house, his beast breathing hard and covered with form. Throwing himself
                  from the animal's back, even before he had brought him to a halt, he approached
                  Bacon, but in hand, saying:
               "Pardon me, General, for intruding myself upon you so unceremoniously—but my
                  orders, to deliver this into your honor's possession with all haste, must be my
                  excuse;" and as he spoke, he handed Bacon a sealed package, tied with a
                  ribbon.
               Bacon opened it hurriedly, glanced at its contents, and exclaimed:
               "In good sooth, gentlemen, we have not settled what to do with Jamestown any too
                  soon—for here comes a letter from Colonel Warner, of Gloucester, with intelligence
                  that Colonel Brent, somewhere on the Rappahannock, at the head of a thousand men,
                  is already on his march toward the Capital. All I have to say in the way of
                  comment is, that we will burn the Capital and go forth to meet this
                  valorous brute, whom, next to Berkeley, I have a very strong desire to
                  chastise."
               The matter being thus decided, preparations were accordingly made for carrying out
                  the design in view. The day closed ere every thing was prepared for the grand
                  catastrophe; but just as night shut in the scene, the word was given to consign
                  Jamestown to utter destruction. Lawrence and Drummond, true to their agreement,
                  each entered his own dwelling, and with his own hand set it on fire; and
                  simultaneously with this transaction, the burning brand was cast into every
                  building on the peninsula—the state-house and church not excepted. In a few
                  minutes the flames began to make their appearance in every quarter; and soon the
                  curtain of night was uplifted by a ghastly conflagration, whose lurid glare was
                  seen for miles around, presenting a sad picture of the evils of intestine
                  strife.
               By this gloomy light, and with the roar of the flames and the crash of falling
                  buildings sounding in their ears, the Baconians marched steadily across the Neck,
                  and ascending a small hill about a mile distant, there halted to take a farewell
                  view of the scene. By this time the fire had reached the summit of the
                  church-tower, the most conspicuous object in the town, and, entwining it in a hot
                  embrace, soon brought the upper portion of it to earth, with a fall that was
                  distinctly audible where the spectators stood. The body of the church, the first
                  ever erected to the worship of God in the Colony of Virginia, stood some time
                  longer, a fiery skeleton; while the flames of different buildings, joining in one
                  broad sheet, with the grinning fabrics tottering and falling beneath the great
                  destroyer, presented a spectacle at once grand and awful. In this bright light
                  every object looked ghastly, and by it the broad river could be traced for miles,
                  even to the point where Berkeley had anchored his fleet, and whence he and his men
                  were watching the conflagration with singular emotions. It told more plainly than
                  aught before, that war had actually begun, and convinced the old Cavalier and his
                  friends that so long as Bacon should live and be at liberty, they might never hope
                  to rule the land again in peace.
               Gradually, one by one, the burning fabrics sunk down amidst the destroying element. A few hours later, and darkness had
                  once more resumed her sway, and Jamestown lay a heap of smoking ruins—but never
                  more, Phœnix-like, to rise from its own ashes. No! during almost two centuries,
                  which have since elapsed, Jamestown, the first settlement and first Capital of
                  Virginia, has never been rebuilt, and a portion of the stone tower of the church,
                  standing alone in solitary gloom, is all that now remains of a place made famous
                  in the annals of Virginia.
               That night, after witnessing the entire destruction of Jamestown, Bacon, with his
                  men, proceeded to Green Spring, the country-seat of Sir William Berkeley, of which
                  they took possession, and scrupled not to entertain themselves with the best which
                  the larder, cellar and stables of the old Knight could produce. The next day the
                  whole party, with several ladies, among whom were Edith and Flora, set off on a
                  slow march toward Gloucester county. In two days Bacon arrived at his friend's
                  house, Colonel Warner's, where, by invitation, he now established his
                  head-quarters, and whence he issued a proclamation, commanding all citizens in
                  those parts to meet him at Gloucester court-house on a certain day, and there
                  subscribe to the oath which had been drawn up at Middle Plantations, of which
                  mention has already been made in a previous chapter. This proceeding was rendered
                  necessary, for the reason that this oath had never been administered to the
                  citizens of this county, who were secretly inclined to favor the cause of
                  Berkeley.
               Meantime, before the day fixed upon for this meeting arrived, Bacon received
                  another message, to the effect that Colonel Brent was marching toward him at the
                  head of a thousand men, intending to give him battle.
               "We will save him some trouble," was the General's characteristic reply; "we will
                  go forth to meet him."
               He then called his little band together, told them of Brent's numbers and
                  intentions, and asked them if they were inclined to fight him under the
                  circumstances. The answer being in the affirmative, accompanied with shouts and
                  cheers, the gallant little band accordingly set forward; but had not gone far,
                  when they got word that Brent's soldiers, having-heard that Bacon had driven
                  Berkeley from Jamestown and burned the place, had become alarmed thereat, and had
                  deserted him to a man. This news of course caused a change in Bacon's plan, and he
                  immediately countermarched his men to Colonel Warner's.
               To be brief, on the day appointed, Bacon repaired to Gloucester Court House, where
                  some seven hundred of the county militia, horse and foot, all well armed, gave him
                  a meeting. Bacon, as usual on such occasions, delivered a public address, in which
                  he reverted to the cause of strife between himself and Sir William; and after
                  entering into a detail of many other matters and grievances, unnecessary for us to
                  mention, he closed with a strong appeal to them to take the oath already more than
                  once referred to.
               But the citizens of Gloucester were not disposed to enter into an engagement which
                  would make them sworn enemies of the present Governor, and which might
                  subsequently result in placing the halter around their necks; and so they told
                  Bacon, that, as matters stood, they would prefer to remain neutral.
               "Well, neutral you shall not remain!" replied Bacon angrily. "I will
                  either know you as friends or foes, Good sooth! you are like the worst of sinners,
                  who desire to be saved with the righteous, and yet will do nothing to obtain your
                  salvation."
               After some further parley, which resulted in no change in his favor, Bacon was
                  about to depart, in a not very amiable mood, when some
                  gentleman called to him, saying:
               "Your honor has only addressed the horse; (meaning the troopers) perhaps
                     if you try the foot, you will be more successful."
               Bacon turned upon the speaker a withering look of contempt, and replied:
               "Sir! I have addressed the men, not the horse, leaving
                  that for you to do, as one beast can best understand the
                  meaning of another."
               Soon after withdrawing himself from the crowd, Bacon was informed by one of his
                  own party, that a certain preacher, a Mr. Wadding, was declaiming loudly against
                  him calling him a rebel and traitor, and advising the Gloucester militia not to
                  subscribe to the oath on any conditions.
               "Arrest him, and bring him before me," replied the General.
               This being effected, Wadding desired to know of Bacon what he meant by imposing
                  such restraint on a free citizen and minister of the Gospel.
               "It means, reverend Sir," replied the General, with considerable asperity, that
                  you are altogether out of your place, and therefore I thought proper to place you
                  under guard. In a word, Mr. Wadding, you have too much tongue for this locality.
                  If you are a minister of the Gospel, as I am told you are, it is your place to
                  preach in the pulpit, not in the camp. In the former you may say what pleases you,
                  but in the latter you can only say what pleases me—that is, unless you are better
                  at fighting than sermonizing."
               The result of Bacon's first public interview with the men of Gloucester, tended
                  more to depress his spirits than anything which had occurred since his first
                  rising in arms against Berkeley. He saw they were lukewarm in his cause, and
                  regarded him with fear and distrust. Was this a proper reward for the perils,
                  privations, and toils he had undergone in behalf of his country and theirs?
                  Heretofore he had met with opposition, strong opposition, but with none so
                  positive and determinedly maintained as now, and he felt both angered and grieved.
                  Being of an 
                     act tive
                     active
                   mind, ardent temperament, and sensitive nature—and being much
                  debilitated through great physical exertion, and almost constant exposure, night
                  and day—it is not surprising that an accumulation of causes should tend to one
                  serious effect—that of undermining and destroying his health. Such was the fact.
                  From the day of his first public meeting with the men of Gloucester, there was a
                  marked change perceptible in the appearance of Bacon—a change which caused his
                  gentle wife and his friends the deepest anxiety. He grew more pale, and haggard,
                  and feeble every day—though he still kept about and at the head of his affairs
                  —resisting, with all the strength of his iron will, the progress of a disease
                  which had begun to take hold of him with a power that could not much longer be
                  resisted successfully.
               During this time, Bacon had a second public interview with the Gloucester men,
                  which resulted in a manner highly satisfactory to himself and friends—the oath,
                  which had at first been refused, being taken without any curtailment. At this
                  meeting, Ansel Martin, who had come hither in disguise, to be a spy upon the
                  proceedings, was detected, brought to an immediate trial, convicted, and sentenced
                  to death. Bacon, who, as commander-in-chief, alone possessed the pardoning power,
                  then addressed the prisoner in a brief but impressive manner; at the conclusion of
                  which he told him that, notwithstanding the 
                     heniousness
                     heinousness
                   of his offence, if there were one individual present, who would say he
                  ought not to suffer, his life should be spared. But all considered him worthy of
                  death, and not a single voice was heard in his behalf. He was then granted a few
                  hours to settle his worldly affairs and make his peace with God, at the expiration
                  of which time he was taken out and hanged.
               Ill as he was in body, Bacon had no sooner seen the oath administered to the
                  citizens of Gloucester, and felt his cause once more strong by reason of such
                  powerful support, than he began to make preparations for carrying on the war
                  vigorously against Sir William, who had again taken refuge in Accomac county. In
                  fact, he was actively engaged in preparing an expedition to 
                     set set
                     set
                   off for that quarter, when his friends were much grieved and alarmed by
                  the report that he had been brought to his bed by sickness, and was not expected
                  to recover.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE DEATH AND BURIAL.
               Surrounded by his friends, General Bacon lay upon a bed of death. The room was
                  large, and more than twenty persons were present; among whom we may mention his
                  loving wife, nearly distracted with grief—Flora—Reginald—the Rev. Mr. Fairbanks,
                  who had been sent for to administer the holy sacrament for the last time—Colonels Lawrence,
                  Hansford, Parker, Warner, Mr. Drummond, and many others. An expression of awful
                  solemnity, and of deep, heart-felt grief, was to be seen on the faces of all who
                  stood around the bed of the dying sufferer. Pale and emaciated, the picture of
                  earthly decay. Bacon lay, with panting breath, awaiting his soul's transit across
                  the bourne which divides this existence from the next. One feverish hand was
                  clasped in that of his dear partner, who was sobbing with grief, and wetting it
                  with her tears of anguish. On the other side of the couch stood the aged divine,
                  exhorting the sufferer to try and bear all with patience and resignation—to try
                  and forgive all his enemies, and rest his hope on the saving mercies of Him who
                  died for sinners.—In different positions and attitudes, the others present were
                  grouped around the bed of death—some of them weeping, and some endeavoring to bear
                  up with stoical firmness against the afflicting dispensation which was about to
                  take from them one personally beloved, and one whose place in that trying
                  emergency could never be filled.
               "May I trust that you have forgiven all your enemies?" pursued the divine, after a
                  short pause, during which the dying man had evidently been uttering a prayer,
                  though no sound had issued from his moving lips.—"For, be you well assured, my
                  dear brother, that no one can hope for forgiveness, who will not himself forgive.
                  Our blessed Saviour has taught us to pray, 'forgive us our trespasses as we
                  forgive those who trespass against us;' and, if, therefore, we forgive not others,
                  we in effect pray not to be forgiven."
               "I feel that I have forgiven all," answered Bacon, faintly.
               "Even Sir William Berkeley?"
               At the mention of this name, the lips of the dying man were suddenly compressed,
                  the brow slightly contracted, and there appeared to be a great inward or mental
                  struggle taking place. It was but momentary, however, and then a calm, placid
                  expression settled upon the countenance, and the lips murmured:
               "Personally, even him."
               "Oh! my dear, dear Nathan! my dear husband" sobbed the wife; "must we indeed
                     part so soon?"
               "It is the will of God," replied Bacon, "and God wills all for the best."
               "If you can feel that sentiment in your inmost heart," interposed the clergyman,
                  "you are not far from the kingdom of heaven."
               "I feel a holy resignation to the will of God in my heart," was the answer, "but
                  still I am mortal, and must grieve to part from her who clings to me as the vine
                  clings to the oak which supports it."
               "And like that vine when the oak is uprooted, I must fall with thee," returned the
                  sobbing wife.
               "Nay, dear Edith—live on! live on!—You have friends who will never desert you—they
                  stand around you here—two of them are now by your side—Reginald and Flora, why
                  must my going drag you down to the dark valley?"
               "I am already in the dark valley, dearest Nathan, and would follow you into the
                  light of a better existence. Let me weep, dear husband; but do not let my grief
                  add to your mortal agonies—for I have an inward consolation in the belief that I
                  shall soon follow you."
               In like manner the conversation between the several parties continued for some
                  half an hour; when the dying man fell into a kind of lethargic sleep, which lasted
                  for an hour; when, suddenly opening his eyes, he looked around somewhat quickly,
                  and exclaimed:
               "Friends, draw near! I have a few words to say, and but a brief time to
                  speak."
               As those present complied with his request, he turned to his officers and
                  continued:
               "Gentlemen, I am about to bid you fare-well; and in parting from you, I have
                  deeply to regret that you will be left without a proper leader. Not that I would
                  have you infer there are not any here as worthy and capable as myself—but that my
                  removal will cause division in your party, and division will a be a death-blow to
                  your cause. Having, by the Providence of God, been so successful, I feel that, had
                  it been His will to have granted me a few more days of action here on earth, I
                  could have succeeded in a design that would have been a lasting benefit fit to the
                  Colony. As it is, I foresee that the moment it is known I am dead, our enemies
                  will rally with strong hopes; and many who would have joined our cause, will stand
                  neutral, or go boldly over to the other side; which, together with the division
                  that must follow on our part, through self-interest and ambition, will insure the
                  triumph of Sir William Berkeley; and then wo to you who have been my warmest
                  friends and most able supporters."
               "And is there no plan we can adopt to prevent such a catastrophe?" inquired Col.
                  Lawrence.
               "I know of but one," answered Bacon, "and that is, to all unite on a leader and
                  swear to support him. When I am gone, name one in my stead, and let him take my
                  commission and be as myself. I can say no more—my strength is failing, and death
                  is near. Farewell, gentlemen, one and all; and if it be ever safely in your power
                  to defend my memory when you shall hear it reviled, do it by saying that, with all
                  my faults, I bad the good of this Colony and the welfare of its citizens at heart
                  till the very last."
               He then took the hand of his afflicted wife, and placed it in Reginald's, saying
                  to the latter:
               "On the confines of eternity, with the last breath that keeps my spirit from the
                  world of shadows, remember I solemnly charge you to watch over and protect this
                  gentle being, as you would your own life and honor!"
               "Which I as solemnly promise to do," replied Reginald, with a strong burst of
                  emotion.
               "It will not be for long," murmured the heart-broken wife. "With your final
                  departure, dear Nathan, the last tie binding me to earth will be severed, and I
                  shall soon follow you:
               "God's will be done!" was the dying man's response. "Bear up as well as you may,
                  my dear Edith! and may Heaven be merciful and spare you a long affliction, and
                  permit us to meet in a happier state! Adieu, dear Edith—adieu, Flora—adieu,
                  Reginald; and friends, one and all, adieu!"
               As he said this, he closed his eyes, and for a few moments lay like one in a
                  tranquil sleep. Suddenly the lids unclosed; but the eyes no longer had
                  "speculation" in them; they were fixed and glassy, as if the sight had been turned
                  inward. Slowly the hands raised, as if to clasp an object hovering over him; and
                  the lips parting, faintly murmured:
               "A beautiful being beckons me away. I come! I come!"
               And with these words the spirit of Nathaniel Bacon took its eternal flight. Over
                  the scene of grief which ensued, we will draw the veil.
               A consultation among the officers present resulted in an agreement to prevent as
                  far as lay in their power, the fact of Bacon's death being bruited abroad till
                  after his burial; and for fear his body might not be suffered to repose in quiet
                  till the day of resurrection, should it be known where deposited, it was further
                  resolved that a few of his immediate friends take charge of it, and make such
                  disposition of it as they might deem proper. To perform this solemn duty, Colonels
                  Lawrence and Beauchamp, the Rev. Mr. Fairbanks and one or two others were
                  selected; and the following night, about the mid hour, was the time fixed upon for
                  its secret removal. It was still further arranged, that, save the persons who were
                  to officiate in consigning it to its last resting place, none should attend it
                  beyond the dwelling of Col. Warner; and none, save the clergyman and bearers,
                  should know the spot of its final deposit, that the secret thereof might be the
                  more securely kept. By this arrangement, the afflicted widow, Flora and other
                  friends, could not follow it to its place of sepulchre, but were obliged to take
                  their leave of it before it was borne across the threshold on its last
                  journey.
               The final parting of Edith from the clay-cold form of him she so dearly and
                  devotedly loved, was heart-rending in the extreme. Completely overwhelmed with
                  grief, she threw herself upon the body, and moaned and groaned, and uttered the
                  wildest lamentations. At length nature gave way, and she was removed in an
                  unconscious state.
               From the house of Colonel Warner, to the northern bank of York river, a distance
                  of some half a mile, the body of Bacon was removed by those who had it in charge.
                  There a skiff was in waiting; and silently entering it, the party rowed out to the middle of the
                  stream; and then the clergyman, in a low, deep tone, of great solemnity, began to
                  read the burial service, while all stood with heads uncovered. When he came to
                  that part which required the consignment of the body to its last resting place, it
                  was gently raised by the bearers, and lowered into the water, and by means of
                  weights previously attached to it, it immediately sunk from view; when the divine
                  concluded as follows:
               "We therefore commit his body to the deep, to be turned into corruption, looking
                  for the resurrection of the body when the sea shall give up her dead, and the life
                  of the world to come, through our Lord Jesus Christ; who at his coming shall
                  change our vile body, that it may be like his glorious body, according to the
                  mighty working whereby he is able to subdue all things to himself."
               So lived and perished from the earth a true American patriot—one worthy to have
                  lived a century later, and been one of that glorious little band of the eighteenth
                  century who won immortal renown, and whose names will ever be enshrined in the
                  inmost hearts of all true lovers of their country.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE LAST TRIAL.
               We must now pass briefly over the events of the two months succeeding the death of
                  Bacon—for on the general history of the time it is not our purpose to dwell. It
                  must therefore suffice to say, that with Bacon perished the soul of his cause; and
                  though another leader was chosen (one Ingram) according to his directions, yet
                  divisions, as he had predicted, sprang up in the party, and the result was its
                  total overthrow and the triumph of Berkeley. The common soldiers of the Baconian
                  faction were generally pardoned; but the leaders were seized and thrown into
                  prison, whence they were brought forth for trial, and in nearly every case were
                  condemned and executed. At first, a portion of them were tried by jury; but
                  finding this did not answer his purpose, as many were thus brought in not guilty,
                  Berkeley summoned a court martial and by this means succeeded in his vindictive
                  design of putting to death those he most hated. He also proceeded to seize the
                  property, confiscate and dispose of the estates of all opposers; and for a time
                  absolute tyranny and oppression reigned.
               Long previously to this, an account of the troubles of the Colony had been laid
                  before the British Parliament; which resulted in Commissioners being appointed and
                  sent over to investigate the matter and make due report. These Commissioners
                  arrived in time to witness some of the trials; which were conducted with such
                  unfairness, vindictiveness, and injustice, as to cause them to utter a solemn
                  protest against such proceedings; and by this means many, whom Sir William had
                  doomed in his heart, were saved from an ignominious death.
               About this time, Reginald, at the head of a small party, was surprised by a force
                  of treble his own; and after a short skirmish, was made prisoner and conveyed to
                  the Gloucester county jail, near which Sir William was holding his Court. On
                  hearing that Colonel Beauchamp was again in his power, Berkeley gave way to a most
                  fiendish delight, and swore that he at least should be hanged, even
                  should it be the means of bringing his own head to the block.
               "Since the death of that scoundrel Bacon, I have not been so delighted but once,"
                  he said; "and that was when I got hold of Drummond, and saw him dance on nothing.
                  Beauchamp shall hang, and Lawrence, if I catch him; and with these I'll be
                  satisfied; but with nothing less—nothing less—no by the Lord Harry! with nothing
                  less."
               The day following his imprisonment, was the one fixed upon for the trial of
                  Reginald; and learning this, his afflicted wife, in company with Mrs. Bacon—both
                  of whom had been staying at a friend's house, not far distant, and the latter of
                  whom, since her husband's death, was in more delicate health than ever—repaired to
                  the court house and succeeded in gaining admittance.
               At the moment of their arrival. Berkeley was not present; but he soon after came
                  into the court room: and seeing Flora and Edith, without knowing who they were—for
                  their faces were concealed under veils—he approached them, and very civilly
                  said:
               "May I inquire if I can serve you, ladies?"
               "I wish to be present at my husband's trial," answered Flora, at the same time
                  dropping her veil, and showing a face pale as marble, but, if anything, more
                  beautiful than ever.
               "Ha!" said the Governor, with a slight start and a smile of triumph: "So we meet
                  again thus, do we, my fair rebel? It was my prayer, when last I saw you, that we
                  should meet again under the gallows tree of your renegade husband; and this is
                  certainly something near to my wish—something very near to it, by my faith! You
                  are very welcome Mrs. Beauchamp; and I will endeavor to keep my promise this time,
                  to you, and make you a widow shortly."
               Flora, shuddered, but made no reply.
               "And this woman," pursued Sir William, pointing to Edith—"shall I not be
                     honored with her name?"
               "It is Mrs. Bacon," replied Flora, 
                     strugling
                     struggling
                   to control her contending emotions.
               "Ha! indeed? the widow of the arch-traitor! I am indeed honored!"
                  rejoined Berkeley, ironically. "Well, you are both very welcome here
                  at this time;" and bowing, as if in mockery of their grief, he passed on to take
                  his seat on the bench.
               Shortly after, Reginald Beauchamp was conducted into the presence, between a guard
                  of six soldiers. He entered with a firm step, and lofty demeanor; but on glancing
                  around, and perceiving that Flora and Mrs. Bacon were present, he started, turned
                  very pale, and became much agitated.
               "Will your honor permit me to speak a few words with yonder ladies?" he said,
                  addressing Sir William.
               "Not a word," was the stern reply of the Governor, "not a word! You are here to be
                  tried for your life, scape-grace! not to gossip. You escaped me once, through the
                  machinations of yonder—, and I'll take good care you don't do it again."
               The Governor then spoke a few words to the Judge Advocate, who, after a few
                  preliminaries, proceeded with the trial.
               "Colonel Beauchamp," he said, "from what I have heard of your case, it seems
                  needless for us to waste time on it. You were tried once before for treason and
                  rebellion, and were condemned, and would have been executed, had you not been
                  rescued. Since that time, you have received no pardon, and have been actively in
                  arms against the government of this Colony. Besides, you were taken in arms, after
                  a stout resistance, during which resistance some of his Majesty's subjects were
                  slain. All these things can be proved, if you deny them."
               "I only deny that I am guilty of treason or rebellion against his most sacred
                  Majesty," replied Reginald.
               "So far as that is concerned, we must consider ourselves the proper judges," was
                  the reply; "and shall accordingly adjudge you to undergo the penalty affixed to
                  the crime of which you are accused."
               "Stay!" exclaimed Reginald, hurriedly, who was now laboring under considerable
                  excitement: "be not too hasty in this matter, I beseech you. Were my lips not
                  sealed with a vow that I must not break for any thing short of actual peril of
                  life, I would give you such reasons for not proceeding, as I think would arrest
                  judgment."
               "Subterfuge!" cried Berkeley—"all subterfuge—do not listen to him, Col. Wheatley;
                  but pronounce sentence; and, odd's blood! I'll see it executed, and take the
                  responsibility."
               "Nay, then," said Reginald, "if it comes to that I must speak."
               "Silence!" cried Berkeley; "we'll not hear you. 'Sdeath! do you think we are silly
                  enough to sit here and waste time by listening to such as you?"
               "But I will speak!" cried Reginald, angrily; "and you
                     shall hear me! I protest against this trial as being illegal; and
                  if I must be tried at all, I insist on my right of being tried by my equals."
               "Your equals!" sneered Sir William, "your equals, you
                  renegade dog! Where, forsooth, can your equals be found? In villainy you have not
                  half-a-dozen equals in this Colony; and by the Martyr's blood! I'm not going to
                  search them out, unless it be to hang, them."
               At this moment one of the Commissioners entered the court room; and as he passed
                  Reginald on his way to the bench, the latter caught a view of his features; and in a tone
                  tremulous with various emotions, suddenly exclaimed:
               "Sir Herbert Jeffries?"
               Sir Herbert, on hearing his name called, turned to Reginald, and said,
                  civilly:
               "What is your wish, young man?"
               "Don't waste breath on such a villain!" cried the Governor; "don't waste breath on
                  him. Sir Herbert! for not a viler wretch goes unhanged,—nor shall he
                  much longer. Come! Wheatley, come! let this matter he dispatched as speedily as
                  may be."
               "Stay, your honor!" interposed Sir Herbert, turning to the Governor, "Colonel
                  Beauchamp, as I think I have heard him termed, has addressed me by name, and
                  evidently has something to communicate.—With your honor's permission, I will hear
                  what it is."
               "As you please," answered Berkeley, somewhat testily; "but, my word for't you'll
                  hear nothing but rank treason."
               "Go on, sir," said Sir Herbert, turning to Reginald.
               "Is it possible I am so changed you do not know me?" pursued the other.
               "Know you?" returned the knight, in some surprise, carefully surveying the
                  features and person of the accused, "I cannot say I recollect—yet stay—a
                  something—but no it—is not possible."
               "Let this remove your doubts then," said Reginald, pushing back the hair from his
                  left temple, and disclosing a long, deep scar.
               "Gracious Heaven!" cried Sir Herbert, taking a step backward, and throwing up both
                  hands in perfect amazement, "Glanville! is it really and truly yourself?"
               "None other, my old friend," answered Reginald; and the next moment, to the
                  astonishment of all present—but to none more than Sir William—the prisoner
                  arraigned for trial, and the King's Commissioner, were locked in each others
                  embrace.
               Flora, on perceiving this, uttered a loud cry of joy—for though she as yet
                  understood not what it meant—she felt a hope spring up in her breast, that, with
                  so powerful a friend as the King's Commissioner to stand by him, the life of
                  Reginald would yet be spared.—She little dreamed what was so soon to follow."
               "My dear young friend, what is the meaning of this?" pursued Sir Herbert Jeffries.
                  "Why do I find you here a prisoner, on trial for your life, under the name of
                  Beauchamp?"
               "I will tell you in a word, Sir Herbert. You remember my duel with Lord
                  Elkerton?"
               "I do, I do; and a sad affair it was, that two such friends should quarrel and
                  fight."
               "He was wounded as you know, and I did not escape without harm. So troubled was I
                  in conscience about the whole affair, that I made a solemn but secret vow, that if
                  he were permitted to recover, I would banish myself to the Colonies of America,
                  and for two years remain away under an assumed name.—Through two friends, whom I
                  let into the secret, I procured letters of introduction to Sir William Berkeley,
                  and a few others, and sailed for Virginia. Soon after my arrival here, I became
                  acquainted with Nathaniel Bacon; and was led through friendship, and my honest
                  convictions of his being in the right, to engage in his cause—concerning which you
                  shall have full particulars at another time."
               While Reginald was speaking, a breathless silence prevailed in the court room, so
                  that every word was distinctly heard by every one present. Flora was all
                  amazement, and almost fancied herself in a dream.
               "I do not understand this, Sir Herbert," said the Governor, in a very different
                  tone than that in which he had so recently spoken.
               "Probably not," said the King's Commissioner, with a peculiar smile. "Have I your
                  lordship's permission to give his honor an explanation?" he inquired of
                  Reginald.
               "Under the circumstances, perhaps it is best; for it is what I was about to do
                  myself, when you so unexpectedly to me appeared upon the scene," was the
                  reply.
               "Then your honor," pursued Jeffries, turning to the Governor, "allow me to inform
                  you, that this gentleman, whom you have known as Reginald Beauchamp, is none other
                  than Reginald the fourth Earl of Glanville, and whilom Private Secretary to his
                  Most Sacred Majesty Charles the Second of England."
               Had a bomb suddenly fallen and exploded in the midst of that assembly, it would
                  scarcely have caused more real astonishment than did this simple announcement.
                  With one accord, as if he had been the King himself, the guard around Reginald
                  drew back, with an air of respect; and the members of the Court looked each in the
                  other's face with expressions of amazement and dismay. As for Berkeley, for once
                  in his life he fairly turned pale; and Flora sat like a figure in marble, gazing
                  upon him she loved, and scarcely knowing whether to regard what she heard and saw
                  as a reality or a dream.
               Reginald was the first to break the deep silence. Fixing his eye steadily, and
                  with a stern expression upon Berkeley, he said:
               "What Sir Herbert has just spoken is true your honor; and it is also true, that,
                  before Bacon's death, I wrote to the Prime Minister, giving him a true account of
                  what had then taken place in the Colony; and if I was somewhat severe upon the
                  course you have so far pursued you have only to blame yourself, for I am still
                  ready to affirm that your honor did and does merit the severest censure."
               "Perhaps I have acted hastily, imprudently, rashly," returned the Governor
                  deprecatingly with a crest-fallen air. "But, my lord, what could I do—what could I
                  do—surrounded as I was with rebellious subjects?"
               "If you had done what you should have done, in the first place," answered the
                  young Earl, sternly, "there would have been no rebellion. But settle the matter,
                  sir, with your superiors. All I have to say is, that if you escape the fate to
                  which you have consigned more than one noble and loyal gentleman, you may consider
                  yourself more fortunate than deserving."
               "But my lord, may I trust your lordship will not be more severe upon me than I
                  really deserve?"
               "No need of that, Sir William."
               "But I pray your lordship to calmly consider all the circumstances in which I was
                  placed; and first and foremost, that, as regards your noble self, I could not know
                  you were other than you seemed, a mere adventurer. It was partly your lordship's
                  own fault—pardon, me, your lordship, for speaking thus plainly!—I say it was
                  partly your lordship's own fault, that you received such treatment at my hands.
                  Had I known—had your lordship informed me—that—in short—."
               "In short," interrupted Reginald, "had you known that I was Reginald Earl of
                  Glanville, instead of plain Reginald Beauchamp, your honor would have been as
                  fawning and sycophantic as the meanest of your honor's parasites. This I doubt
                  not. But this only proves that your honor is as much a slave to nobility as to
                  your own passions. But settle your own affairs, Sir William, with your
                  superiors,—voluntarily I will not appear against you further than I have
                  already.—And now a question, your honor! Is this trial to proceed? or am I at
                  liberty to depart?"
               "How can your lordship ask such a question?" replied the old knight, in his
                  blandest tone. "At liberty? certainly—most certainly—and any thing I can do to
                  serve your lordship, shall be done with delight. And further, I crave your
                  lordship's pardon for the past, and pray that you will forget it! And still
                  further to show your lordship that I am anxious to make amends for my errors, I
                  will immediately cause a proclamation to be issued, granting free and ample pardon
                  to all offenders; and all now imprisoned for political offences, shall immediately
                  be set at liberty—immediately—immediately—by the bones of the Martyr!"
               "This may be something in your favor," said Reginald, "and I will add, that I
                  trust if you ever be brought to trial, you may find that mercy for yourself which
                  you have so often denied to others. With this I take my leave of your honor.
                  Between us there is no affinity, and can never be any friendship. Adieu."
               Saying this, Reginald turned to Sir Herbert Jeffries, spoke a few words with him
                  aside, in a low tone, and then approached his bewildered young wife.
               "Flora," he said, gently, "dear Flora, my better angel, look up! cheer up! for
                  behold I am once more free, and by your side, where I trust I may ever remain,
                  till it shall please God to part us by death."
               
               "Oh! Reginald," exclaimed Flora, rising and throwing her arms around his neck,
                  with a strong burst of emotion, "I know not yet whether I dream, or this be a
                  reality."
               "It is a sweet reality, dearest," replied the other; "but, please Heaven, may it
                  ever continue to be to you a delightful dream, from which you may never awake this
                  side of the joys and glories of a better world!"
               "But, Reginald," said the other, tenderly, looking up and smiling through her
                  tears; "dear Reginald, you have deceived me. Did you not tell me, ere I gave you
                  my hand, that I was your equal?"
               "I said, dearest, you were the equal of Reginald Beauchamp; and I said truly; and
                  I now as truly say, that as Lady Glanville—as Flora Countess of Glanville—you are
                  my equal still. But even were it not so, in a 
                     wordly
                     worldly
                   point of view—even were there still a difference in mere position—love,
                  dearest, which knows no grade, should level all distinctions, and make as one in
                  heart and soul. Are you happy, Flora?"
               "Oh! yes, Reginald, my dear husband, too, too happy!" sighed the other.
               "Be ever as happy as now, my Flora;" and unmindful of the presence of others,
                  Reginald strained his loving and beautiful wife to his heart, long and tenderly,
                  and then impressed upon her sweet lips love's holy seal of eternal devotion.
               
               Reader, our tale is told. It is now before you, with all its imperfections; and we
                  regret to say they are many—perhaps too many, to expect you will receive it with
                  the same favor you have so kindly bestowed upon our former efforts. And yet we
                  hope (the oft-times vain hope of an author) that you will find more to praise than
                  to censure. We have endeavored to present to you a web from our mental loom, with
                  a warp of fact and a woof fiction—to draw, as it were, a picture of a period in
                  the history of on country, so remote, and so obscure as to be but little known to
                  the general reader of the present day—to portray a few scenes and characters,
                  which, unimportant in the great scale of progression, only so far as they may be
                  considered precursors of still greater similar events which resulted in the birth
                  of Freedom, a century later, were, to the early settlers of Virginia, living
                  present realities of no little moment. In a word, we have endeavored to interest
                  you with a detail of a few striking facts of Colonial times, which the historian
                  either passes over unnoticed, or gives only in skeleton form; and if we have
                  succeeded in our design of blending instruction with amusement, well: if
                  otherwise, perhaps we may serve as a corner-stone for some future genius to build
                  upon a more stately and enduring edifice.
               In conclusion, we would say in brief of those who have figured in our narrative,
                  that long ere we saw existence they were dust. The Earl and Countess of Glanville
                  returned to England, and lived many years in the 
                     tripple
                     triple
                   enjoyment of title, wealth, and happiness. Mrs. Bacon set out with them
                  but died on the passage and was consigned to the great deep. Sir William Berkeley
                  being removed from office, and Sir Herbert Jeffries appointed in his place, peace
                  was restored to the Colony of Virginia, which through proper management, mild
                  measures, and an otherwise liberal form of government, was rendered lasting.
                  Berkeley returned to England, only to find himself despised and his once fair name
                  a by-word of reproach. Hearing that Charles had censured him in bitter terms,
                  calling him "an old fool," and the like, he took to his bed, and died a miserable,
                  broken-hearted old man. So ends our story.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            
               Catalogue of U. P. James' Publications, Cincinnati.
               
                  The Gem; A Handsome and Useful Present, for all seasons; containing
                  Selections of Prose and Poetry of a Moral, Instructive, and useful character,
                  including a number of Stories and Tales, among which are: The Generous Seaman—The
                  Honest Soldier—The Triumph of Constancy—The Strange Passenger—Rosalie and
                  Leander—The Unknown Painter—The Maid of Soleure—Matilda's Choice—The Sisters—The
                  Poor Student—The Chieftain's Daughter—Death of the First Discoverer of the
                  Mississippi Valley—The Daughter in Exile—The Last of the Line—The Two Maidens—The
                  Vacant Chair, &c., &c.
               The work contains 324 octavo pages,
               Price $1 50.
               The contents of this excellent work are of such a character that, while they
                  amuse, they serve for instruction in the Moral and Social Virtues. Where there is
                  a taste for light reading, especially in young persons, it is better that such
                  reading should be imbued with those qualities that tend to make the reader "a
                  wiser and a better man." Such a work we have now the pleasure of offering to the
                  public, and to the heads of families in particular, whose care is to assist their
                  children and friends in their choice of reading.
               
                  Oakshaw, or the Victims of Avarice. A Tale of Intrigue. By WILLIAM
                  T. COGGESHALL, Ohio State Librarian, author of "Easy Warren and his
                  Contemporaries," &c. 12mo. cloth binding. Price 50 cents; in paper cover, 25
                  cents.
               
                  Burns' Works, Complete. The Works of Robert Burns, in Verse and
                  Prose. With Life and Criticism on his writings and Observations on the Scottish
                  Peasantry. By JAMES CURRIE, M. D. Also, additional poems extracted from the late
                  edition edited by Allan Cunningham; Burns' General Correspondence (letters); a
                  very full and complete Glossary, &c., &c., full tables of
                  contents. Octavo, Library binding. Price $2.50.
               This edition of Burns is printed on clear fine paper, and new type—the greatest
                  possible pains was taken in proof-reading to have all correct, especially the
                  punctuation, and it possesses one great advantage—it contains all his
                     Poems.
               
                  Burns' Poems. The complete Poetical Works of Robert Burns, with a
                  Glossary and Life of the author. By JAMES CURRIE, M. D. Including additional
                  Poems, extracted from the late edition edited by Allan Cunningham. With full
                  tables of contents. 551 pages, 32mo., cloth binding. Price cents.
               This contains all the matter of the octavo edition except the Correspondence.
               
                  Hannah More's Devotions. The Book of Private Devotion. A series of
                  Prayers and Meditations; with an Introductory Essay on Prayer; chiefly from the
                  writings of Hannah More. Revised and enlarged, 32mo., cloth binding. Price 35
                  cents.
               
                  Vedder's Hymns. A choice selection of Psalms and Hymns, and
                  Spiritual Songs, designed for the Christian's Companion through Life. By NICHOLAS
                  I. VEDDER. 32mo., sheep binding. Price 35 cents.
               
                  The Language of Flowers, and Alphabet of Floral Emblems. To which
                  is added, Fables of Flora and the Poetical Flower Basket. 82 no., cloth, gilt.
                  Price 35 cents.
               
                  Salathiel. A Story of the Past, the Present, and the Future. By the
                  Rev. GEORGE CROLY, author of the "Life and Times of George the Fourth." Two vols
                  in one, 12mo., 464 pp., cloth. Price $1.50.
               "The traditional account of the cause of the production of this novel, refers it
                  to a controversy between its author and Scott; Croly averring that it was easier
                  to write a good novel than a good sermon, and Scott denying it. To end the
                  controversy, it was proposed to change works. Scott to write a sermon, and Croly a
                  novel. Salathiel is the novel, but the sermon is nowhere. Salathiel is a story of
                  the time of Nero and Titus, and gives the history of the priest who first shouted
                  before the judgment seat of Pilate. "His blood be upon us and our children," and
                  to whom Christ said. "Tarry thou till I come." It gives an account of the
                  crucifixion, of the subsequent persecution of the Christians, of the wars of the
                  Jews, of the great are at Rome, of the death of Paul, of the siege of Jerusalem,
                  by Titus, and of the destruction of that devoted city.
               "The account of all these is from the mouth of the Wanderer himself, and the book
                  is full of the solemn grandeur which attaches to our conception of such a
                  character. We have never read a book of such sustained splendor of diction. The
                  sentences are like continuous squadrons of a great army, and his descriptions have
                  all the magnificence which attaches to the oriental scenery of which he writes.
                  The story is but a thread upon which to string the scenes of that stormy time.
               "There are passages of description in it which, for pomp of diction, and splendor
                  of imagery have never been surpassed. Such an one is the burning of Rome, in the
                  time of Nero, of the capture of Nasada, of the conflicts of the arena at Rome.
               "We are glad to see its republication, for it is a book upon which we can bestow
                  our heartiest commendation, and can cheerfully recommend to our readers, not alone
                  for the interest of its story, but for the excellence of its composition, and the
                  wealth of imagination displayed in its pages."—Cincinnati Daily
                     Herald.
               
               
                  Marriage and the Duties of the Marriage Relations, in a Series of
                  Six Lectures, addressed to Youth, and the Young in Married Life. By Rev. GEORGE W.
                  QUINBY. 16mo. cloth. Price 75 cts.
               "This volume is well calculated to lessen the trials and difficulties common to
                  the lot of humanity, whether in married or single state. There are rough roads and
                  stormy days in the path of most young married people; yet, with such knowledge of
                  correct rules and principles as this volume presents, these rough roads will be
                  made smooth—the storms be calmed, and all the little difficulties attendant upon
                  this divine institution alleviated. It is a delightful and instructive volume from
                  the pen of a good pastor. It is handsomely published, and abounds in simple
                  truths, well calculated to lead the mind to profitable reflection."—Indiana
                     Daily state Journal.
               
               
                  Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation; with a sequel. By
                  WILLIAM CHAMBERS, 12mo cloth. Price 1.25.
               
               
                  The Course of Time. A Poem. By ROBERT POLLOK, A. M. With a Memoir
                  of the Author, by Wm. Livingston Prall, Esq. A copious Index and an Analysis
                  prefixed to each book. 32mo, cloth binding. Price, 35 cents.
               Few modern poems exist, which at once attained such acceptance and celebrity as
                  Pollok's Course of Time. Originally issued without a name preface, or any other
                  appendage, its lofty themes, exciting spirit, melodious verse, and all-powerful
                  effects upon the reader, completely silenced criticism, and secured general and
                  lasting popularity.
               
                  Lady of the Lake. A Poem in six cantos. By SIR WALTER SCOTT. Last
                  revised edition, with an Introduction, Glossary, and copious Notes, by the Author.
                  32mo, cloth binding. Price 50 cents.
               "There is a richness and spirit in this poem—a profusion of incident, and shifting
                  brilliancy of coloring that reminds us of the witchery of Ariosto—and a constant
                  elasticity and occasional energy, which seem to belong more particularly to the
                  author now before us."—Jeffrey.
               
               
                  Paul and Virginia. From the French. By J. B. H. DE SAINT PIERRE.
                  32mo, cloth, gilt. Price 25 cents.
               
                  The Enchanted Plants. Being Fables in Verse, by MADAME MONTOLIEU,
                  on the various Sentiments personified in the Flowers and Plants. 32mo, cloth
                  binding. Price 25 cents.
               
                  The Songs of the Affections. By MRS. HEMANS. A selection of
                  beautiful pieces from the works of this gifted writer. 32mo, cloth, gilt. Price 25
                  cents.
               
                  Pope's Essay on Man. To which is added his celebrated Universal
                  Prayer. 32mo, cloth binding. Price 15 cents.
               Also, an edition of the same with Miscellaneous Poems, Epitaphs, etc. 32mo, cloth,
                  gilt. Price 25 cents.
            
            
               LETTER-WRITERS.
               
                  The Pocket or Popular Letter-Writer, containing a great variety of
                  original and selected Letters on the subjects of Love, Courtship, Marriage,
                  Friendship, Relationship, Cards of Invitation, Business, etc., etc., with a
                  selection of Correspondence from standard authors. Also, a Dictionary of Poetical
                  Quotations from the standard poets, alphabetically arranged, for the use of ladies
                  and gentlemen. 32mo, Price 35 cents;
               In making up this volume, the aim has been to present all the ordinary forms of
                  correspondence, clothed in good language, and worded in accordance with the rules
                  of English Grammar. The selected letters have been chosen with a view to
                  illustrate the ease and fluency so necessary to render any correspondence
                  pleasant; while the Dictionary of Quotations, a new feature in
                  works of this class, will afford many opportunities of poetical illustrations of
                  the writer's ideas.
               
                  The Instructive Letter-Writer, designed for the improvement of
                  ladies and gentlemen, containing a variety of Letters on Business, Love,
                  Courtship, Marriage, Friendship, and miscellaneous subjects; adapted to all ages
                  and circumstances. 32mo, Price 35 cents.
               
                  American Fashionable Letter-Writer, original and selected,
                  containing a variety of Letters on Business, Love, Courtship, Marriage,
                  Relationship, Friendship, and VALENTINES, with forms of Complimentary Cards. To
                  which are prefixed directions for Letter-Writing, and Rules for Composition. 32mo,
                  Price 35 cents.
               
                  Ready Reckoner; OR, FEDERAL CALCULATOR; giving the amount in
                  dollars and cents of any number of articles from one to one thousand, at any price
                  from a fourth of a cent to ten dollars, and equally applicable to many other
                  species of calculation, as is shown in the explanation. To which are added many
                  useful tables and forms. Half bound. Price 20 cents.
            
            
               SONG BOOKS.
               
                  The Eolian Songster. A collection of the best Sentimental,
                  Patriotic, Naval, and Comic Songs, accompanied with Music. 16mo, Price paper
                  cover, 25 cents.
               
                  United States Songster. A choice collection of the most Popular
                  Songs, as sung by celebrated performers. 32mo, Price 20 cents; paper covers,
               
                  The National American Songster, containing a great variety of
                  Popular, Patriotic, National, and Sentimental Songs. 32mo, Price 25 cents.
               
                  The Negro Melodist, containing a great variety of the most Popular
                  Airs, Songs, and Melodies, Comic, Humorous, Sentimental, and Patriotic. 32mo,
                  Price 25 cents.
               
                  The New Popular Forget-Me-Not Songster, containing a choice
                  collection of Ballad Songs. 32mo, Price 25 cents.
               
                  The New Negro Forget-Me-Not Songster, containing a choice
                  collection of Negro Songs, Ballads, etc., as sung in concerts. 32mo, Price 25
                  cents.
               [For other Song Books see "DIME BOOKS."]
            
            
               
                  Æsop's Fables, with upward of one hundred and fifty engravings.
                  32mo, cloth. Price 50 cents.
               Sent by mail, postage paid on receipt of price.
            
         
      
   
