
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). After the Storm .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5603 wright2-0083
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            T.S. ARTHUR'S POPULAR WORKS.
            
               ARTHUR'S TEMPERANCE STORIES AND OTHER TALES. In three uniform volumes, each
                  complete in itself, price $1.75. In a neat case, price per set, $5.25.
               ARTHUR'S WAY TO PROSPER. In six uniform volumes, each complete in itself, price
                  $1.50. In a neat case, price per set, $9.
               THE THREE ERAS IN A WOMAN'S LIFE. In six uniform volumes, each complete in
                  itself, price $1.50. In a neat case, price per set, $9.
               THE GOOD TIME COMING. In six uniform volumes, each complete in itself, price
                  $1.25. In a neat case, price per set, $7.50.
               ARTHUR'S ADVICE TO YOUNG PEOPLE. In six uniform volumes, each complete in
                  itself, price $1.25. In a neat case, price per set, $7.50.
            
            Full descriptive catalogues furnished free on application, and books sent, post-paid,
               to any address, on receipt of price.
            Address, JOHN E. POTTER & CO., Publishers, Nos. 614 & 617 Sansom Street,
               PHILADELPHIA.
         
         
         
            
               AFTER THE STORM.
            
            BY T. S. ARTHUR.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               JOHN E. POTTER AND COMPANY,
                  
                     NOS. 614 AND 617 SANSOM STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by JOHN E. POTTER
                  AND COMPANY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for
                  the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
               WESTCOTT & THOMSON, STEREOTYPERS, PHILADA.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. THE WAR OF THE ELEMENTS. 9
               
               CHAPTER II. THE LOVERS. 17
               
               CHAPTER III. THE CLOUD AND THE SIGN. 36
               
               CHAPTER IV. UNDER THE CLOUD. 46
               
               CHAPTER V. THE BURSTING OF THE STORM. 57
               
               CHAPTER VI. AFTER THE STORM. 69
               
               CHAPTER VII. THE LETTER. 86
               
               CHAPTER VIII. THE FLIGHT AND THE RETURN. 96
               
               
               CHAPTER IX. THE RECONCILIATION. 108
               
               CHAPTER X. AFTER THE STORM. 112
               
               CHAPTER XI. A NEW ACQUAINTANCE. 117
               
               CHAPTER XII. IN BONDS. 128
               
               CHAPTER XIII. THE REFORMERS. 138
               
               CHAPTER XIV. A STARTLING EXPERIENCE. 148
               
               CHAPTER XV. CAPTIVATED AGAIN. 159
               
               CHAPTER XVI. WEARY OF CONSTRAINT. 168
               
               CHAPTER XVII. GONE FOR EVER! 178
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. YOUNG, BUT WISE. 194
               
               CHAPTER XIX. THE SHIPWRECKED LIFE. 204
               
               CHAPTER XX. THE PALSIED HEART. 217
               
               CHAPTER XXI. THE IRREVOCABLE DECREE. 227
               
               CHAPTER XXII. STRUCK DOWN. 236
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. THE HAUNTED VISION. 247
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. THE MINISTERING ANGEL. 257
               
               CHAPTER XXV. BORN FOR EACH OTHER. 266
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. LOVE NEVER DIES. 276
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. EFFECTS OF THE STORM. 288
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. AFTER THE STORM. 295
               
            
         
      
      
         
            After the storm
            
            AFTER THE STORM.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE WAR OF THE ELEMENTS.
               
                  NO June day ever opened with a fairer promise. Not a single cloud
                  flecked the sky, and the sun coursed onward through the azure sea until past
                  meridian, without throwing to the earth a single shadow. Then, low in the west,
                  appeared something obscure and hazy, blending the hill-tops with the horizon; an
                  hour later, and three or four small fleecy islands were seen, clearly outlined in
                  the airy ocean, and slowly ascending—avant-couriers of a coming storm. Following
                  these were mountain peaks, snow-capped and craggy, with desolate valleys between.
                  Then, over all this arctic panorama, fell a sudden shadow. The white tops of the
                  cloudy hills lost their clear, gleaming outlines and their slumbrous stillness.
                  The atmosphere was in motion, and a white scud began to drive across the heavy,
                  dark masses of clouds that lay far back against the sky in mountain-like
                  repose.
               
               How grandly now began the onward march of the tempest, which had already invaded
                  the sun's domain and shrouded his face in the smoke of approaching battle. Dark
                  and heavy it lay along more than half the visible horizon, while its crown invaded
                  the zenith.
               As yet, all was silence and portentous gloom. Nature seemed to pause and hold her
                  breath in dread anticipation. Then came a muffled, jarring sound, as of far
                  distant artillery, which died away into an oppressive stillness. Suddenly from
                  zenith to horizon the cloud was cut by a fiery stroke, an instant visible.
                  Following this, a heavy thunder-peal shook the solid earth, and rattled in booming
                  echoes along the hillsides and amid the cloudy caverns above.
               At last the storm came down on the wind's strong pinions, swooping fiercely to the
                  earth, like an eagle to its prey. For one wild hour it raged as if the angel of
                  destruction were abroad.
               At the window of a house standing picturesquely among the Hudson Highlands, and
                  looking down upon the river, stood a maiden and her lover, gazing upon this wild
                  war among the elements. Fear had pressed her closely to his side, and he had drawn
                  an arm around her in assurance of safety.
               Suddenly the maiden clasped her hands over her face, cried out and shuddered. The
                  lightning had shivered a tree upon which her gaze was fixed, rending it as she
                  could have rent a willow wand.
               "God is in the storm," said the lover, bending to her ear. He spoke reverently and
                  in a voice that had in it no tremor of fear.
               The maiden withdrew her hands from before her shut eyes, and looking up into his
                  face, answered in a voice which she strove to make steady:
               "Thank you, Hartley, for the words. Yes, God is present in the storm, as in the
                  sunshine."
               "Look!" exclaimed the young man, suddenly, pointing to the river. A boat had just
                  come in sight. It contained a man and a woman. The former was striving with a pair
                  of oars to keep the boat right in the eye of the wind; but while the maiden and
                  her lover still gazed at them, a wild gust swept down upon the water and drove
                  their frail bark under. There was no hope in their case; the floods had swallowed
                  them, and would not give up their living prey.
               A moment afterward, and an elm, whose great arms had for nearly a century spread
                  themselves out in the sunshine tranquilly or battled with the storms, fell
                  crashing against the house, shaking it to the very foundations.
               The maiden drew back from the window, overcome with terror. These shocks were too
                  much for her nerves. But her lover restrained her, saying, with a covert chiding
                  in his voice,
               "Stay, Irene! There is a wild delight in all this, and are you not brave enough to
                  share it with me?"
               
               But she struggled to release herself from his arm, replying with a shade of
                  impatience—
               "Let me go, Hartley! Let me go!"
               The flexed arm was instantly relaxed, and the maiden was free. She went back,
                  hastily, from the window, and, sitting down on a sofa, buried her face in her
                  hands. The young man did not follow her, but remained standing by the window,
                  gazing out upon Nature in her strong convulsion. It may, however, be doubted
                  whether his mind took note of the wild images that were pictured in his eyes. A
                  cloud was in the horizon of his mind, dimming its heavenly azure. And the maiden's
                  sky was shadowed also.
               For two or three minutes the young man stood by the window, looking out at the
                  writhing trees and the rain pouring down an avalanche of water, and then, with a
                  movement that indicated a struggle and a conquest, turned and walked toward the
                  sofa on which the maiden still sat with her face hidden from view. Sitting down
                  beside her, he took her hand. It lay passive in his. He pressed it gently; but she
                  gave back no returning pressure. There came a sharp, quick gleam of lightning,
                  followed by a crash that jarred the house. But Irene did not start—we may question
                  whether she even saw the one or heard the other, except as something remote.
               "Irene!"
               She did not stir.
               The young man leaned closer, and said, in a tender voice—
               "Irene—darling—"
               Her hand moved in his—just moved—but did not return the pressure of his own.
               "Irene." And now his arm stole around her. She yielded, and, turning, laid her
                  head upon his shoulder.
               There had been a little storm in the maiden's heart, consequent upon the slight
                  restraint ventured on by her lover when she drew back from the window; and it was
                  only now subsiding.
               "I did not mean to offend you," said the young man, penitently.
               "Who said that I was offended?" She looked up, with a smile that only half
                  obliterated the shadow. "I was frightened, Hartley. It is a fearful storm!" And
                  she glanced toward the window.
               The lover accepted this affirmation, though he knew better in his heart. He knew
                  that his slight attempt at constraint had chafed her naturally impatient spirit,
                  and that it had taken her some time to regain her lost self-control.
               Without, the wild rush of winds was subsiding, the lightning gleamed out less
                  frequently, and the thunder rolled at a farther distance. Then came that deep
                  stillness of nature which follows in the wake of the tempest, and in its hush the
                  lovers stood again at the window, looking out upon the wrecks that were strewn in its path. They were
                  silent, for on both hearts was a shadow, which had not rested there when they
                  first stood by the window, although the sky was then more deeply veiled. So slight
                  was the cause on which these shadows depended that memory scarcely retained its
                  impression. He was tender, and she was yielding; and each tried to atone by loving
                  acts for a moment of willfulness.
               The sun went down while yet the skirts of the storm were spread over the western
                  sky, and without a single glance at the ruins which lightning, wind and rain had
                  scattered over the earth's fair surface. But he arose gloriously in the coming
                  morning, and went upward in his strength, consuming the vapors at a breath, and
                  drinking up every bright dewdrop that welcomed him with a quiver of joy. The
                  branches shook themselves in the gentle breezes his presence had called forth to
                  dally amid their foliage and sport with the flowers; and every green thing put on
                  a fresher beauty in delight at his return; while from the bosom of the trees—from
                  hedgerow and from meadow—went up the melody of birds.
               In the brightness of this morning, the lovers went out to look at the storm-wrecks
                  that lay scattered around. Here a tree had been twisted off where the tough wood
                  measured by feet instead of inches; there stood the white and shivered trunk of
                  another sylvan lord, blasted in an instant by a lightning stroke; and there lay,
                  prone upon the ground, giant limbs, which, but the day before, spread themselves
                  abroad in proud defiance of the storm. Vines were torn from their fastenings;
                  flower-beds destroyed; choice shrubbery, tended with care for years, shorn of its
                  beauty. Even the solid earth had been invaded by floods of water, which ploughed
                  deep furrows along its surface. And, saddest of all, two human lives had gone out
                  while the mad tempest raged in uncontrollable fury.
               As the lover and maiden stood looking at the signs of violence so thickly
                  scattered around, the former said, in a cheerful tone—
               "For all his wild, desolating power, the tempest is vassal to the sun and dew. He
                  may spread his sad trophies around in brief, blind rage; but they soon obliterate
                  all traces of his path, and make beautiful what he has scarred with wounds or
                  disfigured by the tramp of his iron heel."
               "Not so, my children," said the calm voice of the maiden's father, to whose ears
                  the remark had come. "Not so, my children. The sun and dew never fully restore
                  what the storm has broken and trampled upon. They may hide disfiguring marks, and
                  cover with new forms of life and beauty the ruins which time can never restore.
                  This is something, and we may take the blessing thankfully, and try to forget what
                  is lost, or so changed as to be no longer desirable. Look at this fallen and
                  shattered elm, my children. Is there any hope for that in the dew, the rain and sunshine? Can these build it
                  up again, and spread out its arms as of old, bringing back to me, as it has done
                  daily, the image of my early years? No, my children. After every storm are ruins
                  which can never be repaired. Is it not so with that lightning-stricken oak? And
                  what art can restore to its exquisite loveliness this statue of Hope, thrown down
                  by the ruthless hand of the unsparing tempest? Moreover, is there human vitality
                  in the sunshine and fructifying dew? Can they put life into the dead?
               "No—no—my children. And take the lesson to heart. Outward tempests but typify and
                  represent the fiercer tempests that too often desolate the human soul. In either
                  case something is lost that can never be restored. Beware, then, of storms, for
                  wreck and ruin follow as surely as the passions rage."
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE LOVERS.
               
                  IRENE DELANCY was a girl of quick, strong feelings, and an
                  undisciplined will. Her mother died before she reached her tenth year. From that
                  time she was either at home under the care of domestics, or within the scarcely
                  more favorable surroundings of a boarding-school. She grew up beautiful and
                  accomplished, but capricious and with a natural impatience of control, that unwise
                  reactions on the part of those who attempted to govern her in no degree
                  tempered.
               Hartley Emerson, as a boy, was self-willed and passionate, but possessed many fine
                  qualities. A weak mother yielded to his resolute struggles to have his own way,
                  and so he acquired, at an early age, control over his own movements. He went to
                  college, studied hard, because he was ambitious, and graduated with honor. Law he
                  chose as a profession; and, in order to secure the highest advantages, entered the
                  office of a distinguished attorney in the city of New York, and gave to its study
                  the best efforts of a clear, acute and logical mind. Self-reliant, proud, and in
                  the habit of reaching his ends by the nearest ways, he took his place at the bar with a promise of success rarely
                  exceeded. From his widowed mother, who died before he reached his majority,
                  Hartley Emerson inherited a moderate fortune with which to begin the world. Few
                  young men started forward on their life-journey with so small a number of vices,
                  or with so spotless a moral character. The fine intellectual cast of his mind, and
                  his devotion to study, lifted him above the baser allurements of sense and kept
                  his garments pure.
               Such were Irene Delancy and Hartley Emerson—lovers and betrothed at the time we
                  present them to our readers. They met, two years before, at Saratoga, and drew
                  together by a mutual attraction. She was the first to whom his heart had bowed in
                  homage; and until she looked upon him her pulse had never beat quicker at sight of
                  a manly form.
               Mr. Edmund Delancy, a gentleman of some wealth and advanced in years, saw no
                  reason to interpose objections. The family of Emerson occupied a social position
                  equal with his own; and the young man's character and habits were blameless. So
                  far, the course of love ran smooth; and only three months intervened until the
                  wedding-day.
               The closer relation into which the minds of the lovers came after their betrothal
                  and the removal of a degree of deference and self-constraint, gave opportunity for
                  the real character of each to show itself. Irene could not always repress her
                  willfulness ness and impatience of another's control; nor her lover hold a firm
                  hand on quick-springing anger when anything checked his purpose. Pride and
                  adhesiveness of character, under such conditions of mind, were dangerous foes to
                  peace; and both were proud and tenacious.
               The little break in the harmonious flow of their lives, noticed as occurring while
                  the tempest raged, was one of many such incidents; and it was in consequence of
                  Mr. Delancy's observation of these unpromising features in their intercourse that
                  he spoke with so much earnestness about the irreparable ruin that followed in the
                  wake of storms.
               At least once a week Emerson left the city, and his books and cases, to spend a
                  day with Irene in her tasteful home; and sometimes he lingered there for two or
                  three days at a time. It happened, almost invariably, that some harsh notes jarred
                  in the music of their lives during these pleasant seasons, and left on both their
                  hearts a feeling of oppression, or, worse, a brooding sense of injustice. Then
                  there grew up between them an affected opposition and indifference, and a kind of
                  half-sportive, half-earnest wrangling about trifles, which too often grew
                  serious.
               Mr. Delancy saw this with a feeling of regret, and often interposed to restore
                  some broken links in the chain of harmony.
               "You must be more conciliating, Irene," he would often say to his daughter.
                  "Hartley is earnest and impulsive, and
                  you should yield to him gracefully, even when you do not always see and feel as he
                  does. This constant opposition and standing on your dignity about trifles is
                  fretting both of you, and bodes evil in the future."
               "Would you have me assent if he said black was white?" she answered to her
                  father's remonstrance one day, balancing her little head firmly and setting her
                  lips together in a resolute way.
               "It might be wiser to say nothing than to utter dissent, if, in so doing, both
                  were made unhappy," returned her father.
               "And so let him think me a passive fool?" she asked.
               "No; a prudent girl, shaming his unreasonableness by her self-control."
               "I have read somewhere," said Irene, "that all men are self-willed tyrants—the
                  words do not apply to you, my father, and so there is an exception to the rule."
                  She smiled a tender smile as she looked into the face of a parent who had ever
                  been too indulgent. "But, from my experience with a lover, I can well believe the
                  sentiment based in truth. Hartley must have me think just as he thinks, and do
                  what he wants me to do, or he gets ruffled. Now I don't expect, when I am married,
                  to sink into a mere nobody—to be my husband's echo and shadow; and the quicker I
                  can make Hartley comprehend this the better will it be for both of us. A few
                  rufflings of his feathers now will teach him how to keep them smooth and glossy in
                  the time to come."
               "You are in error, my child," replied Mr. Delancy, speaking very seriously.
                  "Between those who love a cloud should never interpose; and I pray you, Irene, as
                  you value your peace and that of the man who is about to become your husband, to
                  be wise in the very beginning, and dissolve with a smile of affection every vapor
                  that threatens a coming storm. Keep the sky always bright."
               "I will do everything that I can, father, to keep the sky of our lives always
                  bright, except give up my own freedom of thought and independence of action. A
                  wife should not sink her individuality in that of her husband, any more than a
                  husband should sink his individuality in that of his wife. They are two equals,
                  and should be content to remain equals. There is no love in subordination."
               Mr. Delancy sighed deeply: "Is argument of any avail here? Can words stir
                  conviction in her mind?" He was silent for a time, and then said—
               "Better, Irene, that you stop where you are, and go through life alone, than
                  venture upon marriage, in your state of feeling, with a man like Hartley
                  Emerson."
               "Dear father, you are altogether too serious!" exclaimed the warm-hearted girl,
                  putting her arms around his neck and kissing him. "Hartley and I love each other
                  too well to be made very unhappy by any little jar that takes place in the
                     first reciprocal movement of our
                  lives. We shall soon come to understand each other, and then the harmonies will be
                  restored."
               "The harmonies should never be lost, my child," returned Mr. Delancy. "In that
                  lies the danger. When the enemy gets into the citadel, who can say that he will
                  ever be dislodged? There is no safety but in keeping him out."
               "Still too serious, father," said Irene. "There is no danger to be feared from any
                  formidable enemy. All these are very little things."
               "It is the little foxes that spoil the tender grapes, my daughter," Mr. Delancy
                  replied; "and if the tender grapes are spoiled, what hope is there in the time of
                  vintage? Alas for us if in the later years the wine of life shall fail!"
               There was so sad a tone in her father's voice, and so sad an expression on his
                  face, that Irene was touched with a new feeling toward him. She again put her arms
                  around his neck and kissed him tenderly.
               "Do not fear for us," she replied. "These are only little summer showers, that
                  make the earth greener and the flowers more beautiful. The sky is of a more
                  heavenly azure when they pass away, and the sun shines more gloriously than
                  before."
               But the father could not be satisfied, and answered—
               "Beware of even summer showers, my darling. I have known fearful ravages to follow
                  in their path—seen many a goodly tree go down. After every storm, though the sky
                  may be clearer, the earth upon which it fell has suffered some loss which is a
                  loss for ever. Begin, then, by conciliation and forbearance. Look past the
                  external, which may seem at times too exacting or imperative, and see only the
                  true heart pulsing beneath—the true, brave heart, that would give to every muscle
                  the strength of steel for your protection if danger threatened. Can you not be
                  satisfied with knowing that you are loved—deeply, truly, tenderly? What more can a
                  woman ask? Can you not wait until this love puts on its rightly-adjusted exterior,
                  as it assuredly will. It is yet mingled with self-love, and its action modified by
                  impulse and habit. Wait—wait—wait, my daughter. Bear and forbear for a time, as
                  you value peace on earth and happiness in heaven."
               "I will try, father, for your sake, to guard myself," she answered.
               "No, no, Irene. Not for my sake, but for the sake of right," returned Mr.
                  Delancy.
               They were sitting in the vine-covered portico that looked down, over a sloping
                  lawn toward the river.
               "There is Hartley now!" exclaimed Irene, as the form of her lover came suddenly
                  into view, moving forward along the road that approached from the landing, and she
                  sprung forward and went rapidly down to meet him. There an ardent kiss, a twining of arms, warmly spoken words and
                  earnest gestures. Mr. Delancy looked at them as they stood fondly together, and
                  sighed. He could not help it, for he knew there was trouble before them. After
                  standing and talking for a short time, they began moving toward the house, but
                  paused at every few paces—sometimes to admire a picturesque view—sometimes to
                  listen one to the other and respond to pleasant sentiments—and sometimes in fond
                  dispute. This was Mr. Delancy's reading of their actions and gestures, as he sat
                  looking at and observing them closely.
               A little way from the path by which they were advancing toward the house was a
                  rustic arbor, so placed as to command a fine sweep of river from one line of view
                  and West Point from another. Irene paused and made a motion of her hand toward
                  this arbor, as if she wished to go there; but Hartley looked to the house and
                  plainly signified a wish to go there first. At this Irene pulled him gently toward
                  the arbor; he resisted, and she drew upon his arm more resolutely, when, planting
                  his feet firmly, he stood like a rock. Still she urged and still he declined going
                  in that direction. It was play at first, but Mr. Delancy saw that it was growing
                  to be earnest. A few moments longer, and he saw Irene separate from Hartley and
                  move toward the arbor; at the same time the young man came forward in the
                  direction of the house. Mr. Delancy, as he stepped from the portico to meet him,
                  noticed that his color was heightened and his eyes unusually bright.
               "What's the matter with that self-willed girl of mine?" he asked, as he took the
                  hand of Emerson, affecting a lightness of tone that did not correspond with his
                  real feelings.
               "Oh, nothing serious," the young man replied. "She's only in a little pet because
                  I wouldn't go with her to the arbor before I paid my respects to you."
               "She's a spoiled little puss," said the father, in a fond yet serious way, "and
                  you'll have to humor her a little at first, Hartley. She never had the wise
                  discipline of a mother, and so has grown up unused to that salutary control which
                  is so necessary for young persons. But she has a warm, true heart and pure
                  principles; and these are the foundation-stones on which to build the temple of
                  happiness."
               "Don't fear but that it will be all right between us. I love her too well to let
                  any flitting humors affect me."
               He stepped upon the portico as he spoke and sat down. Irene had before this
                  reached the arbor and taken a seat there. Mr. Delancy could do no less than resume
                  the chair from which he had arisen on the young man's approach. In looking into
                  Hartley's face he noticed a resolute expression about his mouth. For nearly ten
                  minutes they sat and talked, Irene remaining alone in the arbor. Mr. Delancy then said, in a pleasant off-handed
                  way,
               "Come, Hartley, you have punished her long enough. I don't like to see you even
                  play at disagreement."
               He did not seem to notice the remark, but started a subject of conversation that
                  it was almost impossible to dismiss for the next ten minutes. Then he stepped down
                  from the portico, and was moving leisurely toward the arbor when he perceived that
                  Irene had already left it and was returning by another path. So he came back and
                  seated himself again, to await her approach. But, instead of joining him, she
                  passed round the house and entered on the opposite side. For several minutes he
                  sat, expecting every instant to see her come out on the portico, but she did not
                  make her appearance.
               It was early in the afternoon. Hartley, affecting not to notice the absence of
                  Irene, kept up an animated conversation with Mr. Delancy. A whole hour went by,
                  and still the young lady was absent. Suddenly starting, up, at the end of this
                  time, Hartley exclaimed—
               "As I live, there comes the boat! and I must be in New York to-night."
               "Stay," said Mr. Delancy, "until I call Irene."
               "I can't linger for a moment, sir. It will take quick walking to reach the landing
                  by the time the boat is there." The young man spoke hurriedly, shook hands with
                  Mr. Delancy, and then sprung away, moving at a rapid pace.
               "What's the matter, father? Where is Hartley going?" exclaimed Irene, coming out
                  into the portico and grasping her father's arm. Her face was pale and her lips
                  trembled.
               "He is going to New York," relied Mr. Delancy.
               "To New York!" She looked almost frightened.
               "Yes. The boat is coming, and he says that he must be in the city to-night."
               Irene sat down, looking pale and troubled.
               "Why have you remained away from Hartley ever since his arrival?" asked Mr.
                  Delancy, fixing his eyes upon Irene and evincing some displeasure.
               Irene did not answer, but her father saw the color coming back to her face.
               "I think, from his manner, that he was hurt by your singular treatment. What
                  possessed you to do so?"
               "Because I was not pleased with him," said Irene. Her voice was now steady.
               "Why not?"
               "I wished him to go to the arbor."
               "He was your guest, and, in simple courtesy, if there was no other motive, you
                  should have let his wishes govern your movements," Mr. Delancy replied.
               "He is always opposing me!" said Irene, giving way to a flood of tears and weeping for a time
                  bitterly.
               "It is not at all unlikely, my daughter," replied Mr. Delancy, after the tears
                  began to flow less freely, "that Hartley is now saying the same thing of you, and
                  treasuring up bitter things in his heart. I have no idea that any business calls
                  him to New York to-night."
               "Nor I. He takes this means to punish me," said Irene.
               "Don't take that for granted. Your conduct has blinded him, and he is acting now
                  from blind impulse. Before he is half-way to New York he will regret this hasty
                  step as sincerely as I trust you are already regretting its occasion."
               Irene did not reply.
               "I did not think," he resumed, "that my late earnest remonstrance would have so
                  soon received an illustration like this. But it may be as well. Trifles light as
                  air have many times proved the beginning of life-longs separations between friends
                  and lovers who possessed all the substantial qualities for a life-long and happy
                  companionship. Oh, my daughter, beware! beware of these little beginnings of
                  discord. How easy would it have been for you to have yielded to Hartley's
                  wishes!—how hard will it to endure the pain that must now be suffered! And
                  remember that you do not suffer alone; your conduct has made him an equal
                  sufferer. He came up all the way from the city full of sweet anticipations. It was
                  for your sake that he came; and love pictured you as embodying all attractions.
                  But how has he found you? Ah, my daughter, your caprice has wounded the heart that
                  turned to you for love. He came in joy, but goes back in sorrow."
               Irene went up to her chamber, feeling sadder than she had ever felt in her life;
                  yet, mingling, with her sadness and self-reproaches, were complaining thoughts of
                  her lover. For a little half-playful pettishness was she to be visited with a
                  punishment like this? If be had really loved her—so she queried—would be have
                  flung himself away after this hasty fashion? Pride came to her aid in the conflict
                  of feeling, and gave her self-control and endurance. At tea-time she met her
                  father, and surprised him with her calm, almost cheerful, aspect. But his glance
                  was too keen not to penetrate the disguise. After tea, she sat reading—or at least
                  affecting to read—in the portico, until the evening shadows came down, and then
                  she retired to her chamber.
               Not many hours of sleep brought forgetfulness of suffering through the night that
                  followed. Sometimes the unhappy girl heaped mountains of reproaches upon her own
                  head; and sometimes pride and indignation, gaining rule in her heart, would
                  whisper self-justification, and throw the weight of responsibility upon her
                  lover.
               Her pale face and troubled eyes revealed too plainly, on the next morning, the conflict through
                  which she had passed.
               "Write him a letter of apology or explanation," said Mr. Delancy.
               But Irene was not in a state of mind for this. Pride came whispering too many
                  humiliating objections in her ear. Morning passed, and in the early hours of the
                  afternoon, when the New York boat usually came up the river, she was out on the
                  portico watching for its appearance. Hope whispered that, repenting of his hasty
                  return on the day before, her lover was now hurrying back to meet her. At last the
                  white hull of the boat came gliding into view, and in less than half an hour it
                  was at the landing. Then it moved on its course again. Almost to a second of time
                  had Irene learned to calculate the minutes it required for Hartley to make the
                  distance between the landing and the nearest point in the road where his form
                  could meet her view. She held her breath in eager expectation as that moment of
                  time approached. It came—it passed; the white spot in the road, where his dark
                  form first revealed itself, was touched by no obscuring shadow. For more than ten
                  minutes Irene sat motionless, gazing still toward that point; then, sighing
                  deeply, she arose and went up to her room, from which she did not come down until
                  summoned to join her father at tea.
               The next day passed as this had done, and so did the next. Hartley neither came
                  nor sent a message of any kind. The maiden's heart began to fail. Grief and fear
                  took the place of accusation and self-reproach. What if he had left her for ever!
                  The thought made her heart shiver as if an icy wind had passed over it. Two or
                  three times she took up her pen to write him a few words and entreat him to come
                  back to her again. But she could form no sentences against which pride did not
                  come with strong objection; and so she suffered on, and made no sign.
               A whole week at last intervened. Then the enduring heart began to grow stronger to
                  bear, and, in self-protection, to put on sterner moods. Hers was not a spirit to
                  yield weakly in any struggle. She was formed for endurance, pride and
                  self-reliance giving her strength above common natures. But this did not really
                  lessen her suffering, for she was not only capable of deep affection, but really
                  loved Hartley almost as her own life; and the thought of losing him, whenever it
                  grew distinct, filled her with terrible anguish.
               With pain her father saw the color leave her cheeks, her eyes grow fixed and
                  dreamy, and her lips shrink from their full outline.
               "Write to Hartley," he said to her one day, after a week had passed.
               "Never!" was her quick, firm, almost sharply uttered response; "I would die
                  first!"
               "But, my daughter—"
               
               "Father," she interrupted him, two bright spots suddenly burning on her cheeks,
                  "don't, I pray you, urge me on this point. I have courage enough to break, but I
                  will not bend. I gave him no offence. What right has he to assume that I was not
                  engaged in domestic duties while he sat talking with you? He said that he had an
                  engagement in New York. Very well; there was a sufficient reason for his sudden
                  departure; and I accept the reason. But why does he remain away? If simply because
                  I preferred a seat in the arbor to one in the portico, why, the whole thing is so
                  unmanly, that I can have no patience with it. Write to him, and humor a whim like
                  this! No, no—Irene Delancy is not made of the right stuff. He went from me, and he
                  must return again. I cannot go to him. Maiden modesty and pride forbid. And so I
                  shall remain silent and passive, if my heart breaks."
               It was in the afternoon, and they were sitting in the portico, where, at this
                  hour, Irene might have been found every day for the past week. The boat from New
                  York came in sight as she closed the last sentence. She saw it—for her eyes were
                  on the look-out—the moment it turned the distant point of land that hid the river
                  beyond. Mr. Delancy also observed the boat. Its appearance was an incident of
                  sufficient importance, taking things as they were, to check the conversation,
                  which was far from being satisfactory on either side.
               The figure of Irene was half buried in a deep cushioned chair, which had been
                  wheeled out upon the portico, and now her small, slender form seemed to shrink
                  farther back among the cushions, and she sat as motionless as one asleep. Steadily
                  onward came the boat, throwing backward her dusky trail and lashing with her great
                  revolving wheels the quiet waters into foamy turbulence—onward, until the dark
                  crowd of human forms could be seen upon her decks; then, turning sharply, she was
                  lost to view behind a bank of forest trees. Ten minutes more, and the shriek of
                  escaping steam was heard as she stopped her ponderous machinery at the
                  landing.
               From that time Irene almost held her breath, as so she counted the moments that
                  must elapse before Hartley could reach the point of view in the road that led up
                  from the river, should he have been a passenger in the steamboat. The number was
                  fully told, but it was to-day as yesterday. There was no sign of his coming. And
                  so the eyelids, weary with vain expectation, drooped heavily over the dimming
                  eyes. But she had not stirred, nor shown a sign of feeling. A little while she sat
                  with her long lashes shading her pale cheeks; then she slowly raised them and
                  looked out toward the river again. What a quick start she gave! Did her eyes
                  deceive her? No, it was Hartley, just in the spot she had looked to see him only a
                  minute or two before. But how slowly he moved, and with what a weary step! and, even at this long
                  distance, his face looked white against the wavy masses of his dark-brown
                  hair.
               Irene started up with an exclamation, stood as if in doubt for a moment, then,
                  springing from the portico, she went flying to meet him, as swiftly as if moving
                  on winged feet. All the forces of her ardent, impulsive nature were bearing her
                  forward. There was no remembrance of coldness or imagined wrong—pride did not even
                  struggle to lift its head—love conquered everything. The young man stood still,
                  from weariness or surprise, ere she reached him. As she drew near, Irene saw that
                  his face was not only pale, but thin and wasted.
               "Oh, Hartley! dear Hartley!" came almost wildly from her lips, as she flung her
                  arms around his neck, and kissed him over and over again, on lips, cheeks and
                  brow, with an ardor and tenderness that no maiden delicacy could restrain. "Have
                  you been sick, or hurt? Why are you so pale, darling?"
               "I have been ill for a week—ever since I was last here," the young man replied,
                  speaking in a slow, tremulous voice.
               "And I knew it not!" Tears were glittering in her eyes and pressing out in great
                  pearly beads from between the fringing lashes. "Why did you not send for me,
                  Hartley?"
               And she laid her small hands upon each side of his face, as you have seen a mother
                  press the cheeks of her child, and looked up tenderly into his love-beaming
                  eyes.
               "But come, dear," she added, removing her hands from his face and drawing her arm
                  within his—not to lean on, but to offer support. "My father, who has, with me,
                  suffered great anxiety on your account, is waiting your arrival at the house."
               Then, with slow steps, they moved along the upward sloping way, crowding the
                  moments with loving words.
               And so the storm passed, and the sun came out again in the firmament of their
                  souls. But looked he down on no tempest-marks? Had not the ruthless tread of
                  passion marred the earth's fair surface? Were no goodly trees uptorn, or clinging
                  vines wrenched from their support? Alas! was there ever a storm that did not leave
                  some ruined hope behind? ever a storm that did not strew the sea with wrecks or
                  mar the earth's fair beauty?
               As when the pain of a crushed limb ceases there comes to the sufferer a sense of
                  delicious ease, so, after the storm had passed, the lovers sat in the warm
                  sunshine and dreamed of unclouded happiness in the future. But in the week that
                  Hartley spent with his betrothed were revealed to their eyes, many times, desolate
                  places where flowers had been; and their hearts grew sad as they turned their eyes
                  away, and sighed for hopes departed, faith shaken, and untroubled confidence in
                  each other for the future before them, for ever gone.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               THE CLOUD AND THE SIGN.
               
                  IN alternate storm and sunshine their lives passed on, until the
                  appointed day arrived that was to see them bound, not by the graceful true-lovers'
                  knot, which either might untie, but by a chain light as downy fetters if borne in
                  mutual love, and galling as ponderous iron links, if heart answered not heart and
                  the chafing spirit struggled to get free.
               Hartley Emerson loved truly the beautiful, talented and affectionate, but
                  badly-disciplined, quick-tempered, self-willed girl he had chosen for a wife; and
                  Irene Delancy would have gone to prison and to death for the sake of the man to
                  whom she had yielded up the rich treasures of her young heart. In both cases the
                  great drawback to happiness was the absence of self-discipline, self-denial and
                  self-conquest. They could overcome difficulties, brave danger, set the world at
                  defiance, if need be, for each other, and not a coward nerve give way; but when
                  pride and passion came between them, each was a child in weakness and blind
                  self-will. Unfortunately, persistence of character was strong in both. They were
                  of such stuff as martyrs were made of in the fiery times of power and
                  persecution.
               A brighter, purer morning than that on which their marriage vows were said the
                  year had not given to the smiling earth. Clear and softly blue as the eye of
                  childhood bent the summer sky above them. There was not a cloud in all the
                  tranquil heavens to give suggestion of dreary days to come or to wave a sign of
                  warning. The blithe birds sung their matins amid the branches that hung their
                  leafy drapery around and above Irene's windows, in seeming echoes to the songs
                  love was singing in her heart. Nature put on the loveliest attire in all her ample
                  wardrobe, and decked herself with coronals and wreaths of flowers that loaded the
                  air with sweetness.
               "May your lives flow together like two pure streams that meet in the same valley,
                  and as bright a sky bend always over you as gives its serene promise for
                  to-day."
               Thus spoke the minister as the ceremonials closed that wrought the external bond
                  of union between them. His words were uttered with feeling and solemnity; for
                  marriage, in his eyes, was no light thing. He had seen too many sad hearts
                  struggling in chains that only death could break, ever to regard marriage with
                  other than sober thoughts that went questioning away into the future.
               The "amen" of Mr. Delancy was not audibly spoken, but it was deep-voiced in his
                  heart.
               
               There was to be a wedding-tour of a few weeks, and then the young couple were to
                  take possession of a new home in the city, Which Mr. Emerson had prepared for his
                  bride. The earliest boat that came up from New York was to bears the party to
                  Albany, Saratoga being the first point of their destination.
               After the closing of the marriage ceremony some two or three hours passed before
                  the time of departure came. The warm congratulations were followed by a gay,
                  festive scene, in which glad young hearts had a merry-making time. How beautiful
                  the bride looked! and how proudly the gaze of her newly-installed husband turned
                  ever and ever toward her, move which way she would among her maidens, as if she
                  were a magnet to his eyes. He was standing in the portico that looked out upon the
                  distant river, about an hour after the wedding, talking with one of the
                  bridesmaids, when the latter, pointing to the sky, said, laughing—
               "There comes your fate."
               Emerson's eyes followed the direction of her finger.
               "You speak in riddles," he replied, looking back into the maiden's face. "What do
                  you see?"
               "A little white blemish on the deepening azure," was answered. "There it lies,
                  just over that stately horse-chestnut, whose branches arch themselves into the
                  outline of a great cathedral window."
               "A scarcely perceptible cloud?"
               "Yes, no bigger than a hand; and just below it is another."
               "I see; and yet you still propound a riddle. What has that cloud to do with my
                  fate?"
               "You know the old superstition connected with wedding-days?"
               "What?"
               "That as the aspect of the day is, so will the wedded life be."
               "Ours, then, is full of promise. There has been no fairer day than this," said the
                  young man.
               "Yet many a day that opened as bright and cloudless has sobbed itself away in
                  tears."
               "True; and it may be so again. But I am no believer in signs."
               "Nor I," said the young lady, again laughing.
               The bride came up at this moment and, hearing the remark of her young husband,
                  said, as she drew her arm within his—
               "What about signs, Hartley?"
               "Miss Carman has just reminded me of the superstition about wedding-days, as
                  typical of life."
               "Oh yes, I remember," said Irene, smiling. "If the day opens clear, then becomes
                  cloudy, and goes out in storm, there will be happiness in the beginning, but
                  sorrow at the close; but if clouds and rain herald its awakening, then pass over
                  and leave the sky blue and sunny, there will be trouble at first, but smiling
                  peace as life progresses and declines
                  clines. Our sky is bright as heart could wish." And the bride looked up into the
                  deep blue ether.
               Miss Carman laid one hand upon her arm and with the other pointed lower down,
                  almost upon the horizon's edge, saying, in a tone of mock solemnity—
               "As I said to Mr. Emerson, so I now say to you—There comes our fate."
               "You don't call that the herald of an approaching storm?"
               "Weatherwise people say," answered the maiden, "that a sky without a cloud is soon
                  followed by stormy weather. Since morning until now there has not a cloud been
                  seen."'
               "Weatherwise people and almanac-makers speak very oracularly, but the day of
                  auguries and signs is over," replied Irene.
               "Philosophy," said Mr. Emerson, "is beginning to find reasons in the nature of
                  things for results that once seemed only accidental, yet followed with remarkable
                  certainty the same phenomena. It discovers a relation of cause and effect where
                  ignorance only recognizes some power working in the dark." 
               "So you pass me over to the side of ignorance!" Irene spoke in a tone that
                  Hartley's ear recognized too well. His remark had touched her pride.
               "Not by any means," he answered quickly, eager to do away the impression. "Not by
                  any means," he repeated. "The day of mere auguries, omens and signs is over.
                  Whatever natural phenomena appear are dependent on natural causes, and men of
                  science are beginning to study the so-called superstitions of farmers and seamen,
                  to find out, if possible, the philosophical elucidation. Already a number of
                  curious results have followed investigation in this field."
               Irene leaned on his arm still, but she did not respond. A little cloud had come up
                  and lay just upon the verge of her soul's horizon. Her husband knew that it was
                  there; and this knowledge caused a cloud to dim also the clear azure of his mind.
                  There was a singular correspondence between their mental sky and the fair cerulean
                  without.
               Fearing to pursue the theme on which they were conversing, lest some unwitting
                  words might shadow still further the mind of Irene, Emerson changed the subject,
                  and was, to all appearance, successful in dispelling the little cloud.
               The hour came, at length, when the bridal party must leave. After a tender,
                  tearful partings with her father, Irene turned her steps away from the home of her
                  childhood into a new path, that would lead her out into the world, where so many
                  thousands upon thousands, who saw only a way of velvet softness before them, have
                  cut their tended feet upon flinty rocks, even to the verve end of their tearful
                  journey. Tightly and long did Mr. Delancy hold his child to his heart, and when
                  his last kiss was given and his fervent "God give you a happy life, my daughter!"
                  said, he gazed after her departing form
                  with eyes front which manly firmness could not hold back the tears.
               No one knew better than Mr. Delancy the perils that lay before his daughter. That
                  storms would darken her sky and desolate her heart, he had too good reason to
                  fear. His hope for her lay beyond the summer-time of life, when, chastened by
                  suffering and subdued by experience, a tranquil autumn would crown her soul with
                  blessings that might have been earlier enjoyed. He was not superstitious, and yet
                  it was with a feeling of concern that he saw the white and golden clouds gathering
                  like enchanted land along the horizon, and piling themselves up, one above
                  another, as if in sport, building castles and towers that soon dissolved, changing
                  away into fantastic forms, in which the eye could see no meaning; and when, at
                  last, his ear caught a far-distant sound that jarred the air, a sudden pain shot
                  through his heart.
               "On any other day but this!" he sighed to himself, turning from the window at
                  which he was standing and walking restlessly the floor for several minutes, lost
                  in a sad, dreamy reverie.
               Like something instinct with life the stately steamer, quivering with every stroke
                  of her iron heart, swept along the gleaming river on her upward passage, bearing
                  to their destination her freight of human souls. Among theme was our bridal party,
                  which, as the day was so clear and beautiful, was gathered upon the upper deck. As
                  Irene's eyes turned from the closing vision of her father's beautiful home, where
                  the first cycle of her life had recorded its golden hours, she said, with a sigh,
                  speaking to one of her companions—
               "Farewell, Ivy Cliff! I shall return to you again, but not the same being I was
                  when I left your pleasant scenes this morning."
               "A happier being I trust," replied Miss Carman, one of her bridemaids.
               Rose Carman was a young friend, residing in the neighborhood of her father, to
                  whom Irene was tenderly attached.
               "Something here says no." And Irene, bending toward Miss Carman, pressed one of
                  her hands against her bosom.
               "The weakness of an hour like this," answered her friend with an assuring smile.
                  "It will pass away like the morning cloud and the early dew."
               Mr. Emerson noticed the shade upon the face of his bride, and drawing near to her,
                  said, tenderly—
               "I can forgive you a sigh for the past, Irene. Ivy Cliff is a lovely spot, and
                  your home has been all that a maiden's heart could desire. It would be strange,
                  indeed, if the chords that have so long bound you there did not pull at your heart
                  in parting."
               Irene did not answer, but let her eyes turn backward with a pensive almost longing
                  glance toward the spot where lay hidden
                  among the distant trees the home of her early years. A deep shadow had suddenly
                  fallen upon her spirits. Whence it came she knew not and asked not; but with the
                  shadow was a dim foreboding of evil.
               There was tact and delicacy enough in the companions of Irene to lead them to
                  withdraw observation and to withhold further remarks until she could recover the
                  self-possession she had lost. This came back in a little while, when, with an
                  effort, she put on the light, easy manner so natural to her.
               "Looking at the signs?" said one of the party, half an hour afterward, as she saw
                  the eyes of Irene ranging along the sky, where clouds were now seen towering up in
                  steep masses, like distant mountains.
               "If I were a believer of signs," replied Irene, placing her arm within that of the
                  maiden who had addressed her, and drawing her partly aside, "I might feel sober at
                  this portent. But I am not. Still, sign or no sign, I trust we are not going to
                  have a storm. It would greatly mar our pleasure."
               But long ere the boat reached Albany, rain began to fall, accompanied by lightning
                  and thunder; and soon the clouds were dissolving in a mimic deluge. Hour after
                  hour, the wind and rain and lightning held fierce revelry, and not until near the
                  completion of the voyage did the clouds hold back their watery treasures, and the
                  sunbeams force themselves through the storm's dark barriers,
               When the stars came out that evening, studding the heavens with light, there was
                  no obscuring spot on all the o'erarching sky.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               UNDER THE CLOUD.
               
                  THE wedding party was to spend a week at Saratoga, and it was now
                  the third day since its arrival. The time had passed pleasantly, or wearily,
                  according to the state of mind or social habits and resources of the individual.
                  The bride, it was remarked by some of the party, seemed dull; and Rose Carman, who
                  knew her friend better, perhaps, than any other individual in the company, and
                  kept her under close observation, was concerned to notice an occasional curtness
                  of manner toward her husband, that was evidently not relished. Something had
                  already transpired to jar the chords so lately attuned to harmony.
               After dinner a ride was proposed by one of the company. Emerson responded
                  favorably, but Irene was indifferent. He urged her, and she gave an evidently
                  reluctant consent. While the gentlemen went to make arrangement for carriages, the
                  ladies retired to their rooms. Miss Carman accompanied the bride. She had noticed
                  her manner, and felt slightly troubled at her state of mind, knowing, as she did,
                  her impulsive character and blind self-will when excited by opposition.
               "I don't want to ride to-day!" exclaimed Irene, throwing herself into a chair as
                  soon as she had entered her room; "and Hartley knows that I do not."
               Her cheeks burned and her eyes sparkled.
               "If it will give him pleasure to ride out," said Rose, in a gentle soothing
                  manner, "you cannot but have the same feeling in accompanying him."
               "I beg your pardon!" replied Irene, briskly. "If I don't want to ride, no company
                  can make the act agreeable. Why can't people learn to leave others in freedom? If
                  Hartley had shown the same unwillingness to join this riding party that I
                  manifested, do you think I would have uttered a second word in favor of going? No.
                  I am provoked at his persistence."
               "There, there, Irene!" said Miss Carman, drawing an arm tenderly around the neck
                  of her friend; "don't trust such sentences on your lips. I can't bear to hear you
                  talk so. It isn't my sweet friend speaking."
               "You are a dear, good girl, Rose," replied Irene, smiling faintly, "and I only
                  wish that I had a portion of your calm, gentle spirit. But I am as I am, and must
                  act out if I act at all. I must be myself or nothing."
               "You can be as considerate of others as of yourself?" said Rose.
               Irene looked at her companion inquiringly.
               "I mean," added Rose, "that you can exercise the virtue of self-denial in order to give pleasure
                  to another—especially if that other one be an object very dear to you. As in the
                  present case, seeing that your husband wants to join this riding party, you can,
                  for his sake, lay aside your indifference, and enter, with a hearty good-will,
                  into the proposed pastime."
               "And why cannot he, seeing that I do not care to ride, deny himself a little for
                  my sake, and not drag me out against my will? Is all the yielding and concession
                  to be on my side? Must his will rule in everything? I can tell you what it is,
                  Rose, this will never suit me. There will be open war between us before the
                  honeymoon has waxed and waned, if he goes on as he has begun."
               "Hush! hush, Irene!" said her friend, in a tone of deprecation. "The lightest
                  sense of wrong gains undue magnitude the moment we begin to complain. We see
                  almost anything to be of greater importance when from the obscurity of thought we
                  bring it out into the daylight of speech."
               "It will be just as I say, and saying it will not make it any more so," was
                  Irene's almost sullen response to this. "I have my own ideas of things and my own
                  individuality, and neither of these do I mean to abandon. If Hartley hasn't the
                  good sense to let me have my own way in what concerns myself, I will take my own
                  way. As to the troubles that may come afterward, I do not give them any weight in
                  the argument. I would die a martyr's tyr's deaths rather than become the passive
                  creature of another."
               "My dear friend, why will you talk so?" Rose spoke in a tone of grief.
               "Simply because I am in earnest. From the hour of our marriage I have seen a
                  disposition on the part of my husband to assume control—to make his will the
                  general law of our actions. It has not exhibited itself in things of moment, but
                  in trifles, showing that the spirit was there. I say this to you, Rose, because we
                  have been like sisters, and I can tell you of my inmost thoughts. There is a cloud
                  already in the sky, and it threatens an approaching storm."
               "Oh, my friend, why are you so blind, so weak, so self-deceived? You are putting
                  forth your hands to drag down the temple of happiness. If it fall, it will crush
                  you beneath a mass of ruins; and not you only, but the one you have so lately
                  pledged yourself before God and his angels to love."
               "And I do love him as deeply as ever man was loved. Oh that he knew my heart! He
                  would not then shatter his image there. He would not trifle with a spirit formed
                  for intense, yielding, passionate love, but rigid as steel and cold as ice when
                  its freedom is touched. He should have known me better before linking his fate
                  with mine."
               One of her darker moods had come upon Irene, and she was beating about in the
                  blind obscurity of passion. As she began
                  to give utterance to complaining thoughts, new thoughts formed themselves, and
                  what was only vague feelings grew into ideas of wrong; and these, when once
                  spoken, assumed a magnitude unimagined before. In vain did her friend strive with
                  her. Argument, remonstrance, persuasion, only seemed to bring greater obscurity
                  and to excite a more bitter feeling in her mind. And so, despairing of any good
                  result, Rose withdrew, and left her with her own unhappy thoughts.
               Not long after Miss Carman retired, Emerson came in. At the sound of his
                  approaching footsteps, Irene had, with a strong effort, composed herself and swept
                  back the deeper shadows from her face.
               "Not ready yet?" he said, in a pleasant, half-chiding way. "The carriages will be
                  at the door in ten minutes."
               "I am not going to ride out," returned Irene, in a quiet, seemingly indifferent
                  tone of voice. Hartley mistook her manner for sport, and answered pleasantly—
               "Oh yes you are, my little lady."
               "No, I am not." There was no misapprehension now.
               "Not going to ride out?" Hartley's brows contracted.
               "No; I am not going to ride out to-day." Each word was distinctly spoken.
               "I don't understand you, Irene."
               "Are not my words plain enough?"
               "Yes, they are too plain—so plain as to make them involve a mystery. What do you
                  mean by this sudden change of purpose?"
               "I don't wish to ride out," said Irene, with assumed calmness of manner; "and that
                  being so, may I not have my will in the case?"
               "No—"
               A red spot burned on Irene's cheeks and her eyes flashed.
               "No," repeated her husband; "not after you have given up that will to
                  another."
               "To you!" Irene started to her feet in instant passion. "And so I am to be nobody,
                  and you the lord and master. My will is to be nothing, and yours the law of my
                  life." Her lip curled in contemptuous anger.
               "You misunderstand me," said Hartley Emerson, speaking as calmly as was possible
                  in this sudden emergency. "I did not refer specially to myself, but to all of our
                  party, to whom you had given up your will in a promise to ride out with them, and
                  to whom, therefore, you were bound."
               "An easy evasion," retorted the excited bride, who had lost her mental
                  equipoise.
               "Irene," the young man spoke sternly, "are those the right words for your husband?
                  An easy evasion!"
               "I have said them."
               
               "And you must unsay them."
               Both had passed under the cloud which pride and passion had raised.
               "Must! I thought you knew me better, Hartley." Irene grew suddenly calm.
               "If there is to be love between us, all barriers must be removed."
               "Don't say must to me, sir! I will not endure the word."
               Hartley turned from her and walked the floor with rapid steps, angry, grieved and
                  in doubt as to what it were best for him to do. The storm had broken on him
                  without a sign of warning, and he was wholly unprepared to meet it.
               "Irene," he said, at length, pausing before her, "this conduct on your part is
                  wholly inexplicable. I cannot understand its meaning. Will you explain
                  yourself?"
               "Certainly. I am always ready to give a reason for my conduct," she replied, with
                  cold dignity.
               "Say on, then." Emerson spoke with equal coldness of manner.
               "I did not wish to ride out, and said so in the beginning. That ought to have been
                  enough for you. But no—my wishes were nothing; your will must be law."
               "And that is all! the head and front of my offending!" said Emerson, in a tone of
                  surprise.
               "It isn't so much the thing itself that I object to, as the spirit in which it is
                  done," said Irene.
               "A spirit of overbearing self-will!' said Emerson.
               "Yes, if you choose. That is what my soul revolts against. I gave you my heart and
                  my hand—my love and my confidence—not my freedom. The last is a part of my being,
                  and I will maintain it while I have life."
               "Perverse girl! What insane spirit has got possession of your mind?" exclaimed
                  Emerson, chafed beyond endurance.
               "Say on," retorted Irene; "I am prepared for this. I have seen, from the hour of
                  our marriage, that a time of strife would come; that your will would seek to make
                  itself ruler, and that I would not submit. I did not expect the issue to come so
                  soon. I trusted in your love to spare me, at least, until I could be bidden from
                  general observation when I turned myself upon you and said, Thus far thou mayest
                  go, but no farther. But, come the struggle early or late—now or in twenty years—I
                  am prepared."
               There came at this moment a rap at their door. Mr. Emerson opened it.
               "Carriage is waiting," said a servant.
               "Say that we will be down in a few minutes."
               The door closed.
               "Come, Irene," said Mr. Emerson.
               "You spoke very confidently to the servant, and said we would be down in a few
                  minutes."
               "There, there, Irene! Let this folly die; it has lived long enough. Come! Make yourself ready with
                  all speed—our party is delayed by this prolonged absence."
               "You think me trifling, and treat me as if I were a captious child," said Irene,
                  with chilling calmness; "but I am neither."
               "Then you will not go?"
               "I will not go." She said the words slowly and deliberately, and as she spoke
                  looked her husband steadily in the face. She was in earnest, and he felt that
                  further remonstrance would be in vain.
               "You will repent of this," he replied, with enough of menace in his voice to
                  convey to her mind a great deal more than was in his thoughts. And he turned from
                  her and left the room. Going down stairs, he found the riding-party waiting for
                  their appearance.
               "Where is Irene?" was asked by one and another, on seeing him alone.
               "She does not care to ride out this afternoon, and so I have excused her," he
                  replied. Miss Carman looked at him narrowly, and saw that there was a shade of
                  trouble on his countenance, which he could not wholly conceal. She would have
                  remained behind with Irene, but that would have disappointed the friend who was to
                  be her companion in the drive.
               As the party was in couples, and as Mr. Emerson had made up his mind to go without
                  his young wife, he had to ride alone. The absence of Irene was felt as a drawback
                  to the pleasure of all the company. Miss Carman, who understood the real cause of
                  Irene's refusal to ride, was so much troubled in her mind that she sat almost
                  silent during the two hours they were out. Mr. Emerson left the party after they
                  had been out for an hour, and returned to the hotel. His excitement had cooled
                  off, and he began to feel regret at the unbending way in which he had met his
                  bride's unhappy mood.
               "Her over-sensitive mind has taken up a wrong impression," he said, as he talked
                  with himself; "and, instead of saying or doing anything to increase that
                  impression, I should, by word and act of kindness, have done all in my power for
                  its removal. Two wrongs never make a right. Passion met by passion results not in
                  peace. I should have soothed and yielded, and so won her back to reason. As a man,
                  I ought to possess a cooler and more rationally balanced mind. She is a being of
                  feeling and impulse,—loving, ardent, proud, sensitive and strong-willed. Knowing
                  this, it was madness in me to chafe instead of soothing her; to oppose, when
                  gentle concession would have torn from her eyes an illusive veil. Oh that I could
                  learn wisdom in time! I was in no ignorance as to her peculiar character. I knew
                  her faults and her weaknesses, as well as her nobler qualities; and it was for me
                  to stimulate the one and bear with the others. Duty, love, honor, humanity, all
                  pointed to this."
               
               The longer Mr. Emerson's thoughts ran in this direction, the deeper grew his
                  feeling of self-condemnation, and the more tenderly yearned his heart toward the
                  young creature he had left alone with the enemies of their peace nestling in her
                  bosom and filling it with passion and pain. After separating himself from his
                  party, he drove back toward the hotel at a speed that soon put his horses into a
                  foam.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE BURSTING OF THE STORM.
               
                  MR. DELANCY was sitting in his library on the afternoon of the
                  fourth day since the wedding-party left Ivy Cliff, when the entrance of some one
                  caused him to turn toward the door.
               "Irene!" he exclaimed, in a tone of anxiety and alarm, as he started to his feet;
                  for his daughter stood before him. Her face was pale, her eyes fixed and sad, her
                  dress in disorder.
               "Irene, in Heaven's name, what has happened?"
               "The worst," she answered, in a low, hoarse voice, not moving from the spot where
                  she first stood still.
               "Speak plainly, my child. I cannot bear suspense."
               "I have left my husband and returned to you!" was the firmly uttered reply.
               "Oh, folly! oh, madness! What evil counselor has prevailed with you, my unhappy
                  child?" said Mr. Delancy, in a voice of anguish.
               "I have counseled with no one but myself."
               "Never a wise counselor—never a wise counselor selor! But why, why have you taken this desperate
                  step?"
               "In self-protection," replied Irene.
               "Sit down, my child. There!" and he led her to a seat. "Now let me remove your
                  bonnet and shawl. How wretched you look, poor, misguided one! I could have laid
                  you in the grave with less agony than I feel in seeing you thus."
               Her heart was touched at this, and tears fell over her face. In the selfishness of
                  her own sternly-borne trouble, she had forgotten the sorrow she was bringing to
                  her father's heart.
               "Poor child! poor child!" sobbed the old man, as he sat down beside Irene and drew
                  her head against his breast. And so both wept together for a time. After they had
                  grown calm, Mr. Delancy said—
               "Tell me, Irene, without disguise of any kind, the meaning of this step which you
                  have so hastily taken. Let me have the beginning, progress and consummation of the
                  sad misunderstanding."
               While yet under the government of blind passion, ere her husband returned from the
                  drive which Irene had refused to take with him, she had, acting from a sudden
                  suggestion that came to her mind, left her room and, taking the cars, passed down
                  to Albany, where she remained until morning at one of the hotels. In silence and
                  loneliness she had, during the almost sleepless night that followed, ample time
                  for reflection and repentance. And both came, with convictions of error and deep
                  regret for the unwise, almost disgraceful step she had taken, involving not only
                  suffering, but humiliating exposure of herself and husband. But it was felt to be
                  too late now to look back. Pride would have laid upon her a positive interdiction,
                  if other considerations had not come in to push the question of return aside.
               In the morning, without partaking of food, Irene left in the New York boat, and
                  passed down the river toward the home from which she had gone forth, only a few
                  days before, a happy bride—returning with the cup, then full of the sweet wine of
                  life, now brimming with the bitterest potion that had ever touched her lips.
               And so she had come back to her father's house. In all the hours of mental anguish
                  which had passed since her departure from Saratoga, there had been an accusing
                  spirit at her ear, and, resist as she would, self-condemnation prevailed over
                  attempted self-justification. The cause of this unhappy rupture was so slight, the
                  first provocation so insignificant, that she felt the difficulty of making out her
                  case before her father. As to the world, pride counseled silence.
               With but little concealment or extenuation of her own conduct, Irene told the
                  story of her disagreement with Hartley.
               "And that was all!" exclaimed Mr. 
                     Delancey
                     Delancy
                  , in amazement, when she ended her narrative.
               
               "All, but enough!" she answered, with a resolute manner.
               Mr. Delancy arose and walked the floor in silence for more than ten minutes,
                  during which time Irene neither spoke nor moved.
               "Oh, misery!" ejaculated the father, at length, lifting his hands above his head
                  and then bringing them down with a gesture of despair.
               Irene started up and moved to his side.
               "Dear father!" She spoke tenderly, laying her hands upon him; but he pushed her
                  away, saying—
               "Wretched girl! you have laid upon my old head a burden of disgrace and
                  wretchedness that you have no power to remove."
               "Father! father!" She clung to him, but he pushed her away. His manner was like
                  that of one suddenly bereft of reason. She clung still, but he resolutely tore
                  himself from her, when she fell exhausted and fainting upon the floor.
               Alarm now took the place of other emotions, and Mr. Delancy was endeavoring to
                  lift the insensible body, when a quick, heavy tread in the portico caused him to
                  look up, just as Hartley Emerson pushed open one of the French windows and entered
                  the library. He had a wild, anxious, half-frightened look. Mr. Delancy let the
                  body fall from his almost paralyzed arms and staggered to a chair, while Emerson
                  sprung forward, catching up the fainting form of his young bride and bearing it to
                  a sofa.
               "How long has she been in this way?" asked the young man, in a tone of
                  agitation.
               "She fainted this moment," replied Mr. Delancy.
               "How long has she been here?"
               "Not half an hour," was answered; and as Mr. Delancy spoke he reached for the bell
                  and jerked it two or three times violently. The waiter, startled by the loud,
                  prolonged sound, came hurriedly to the library.
               "Send Margaret here, and then get a horse and ride over swiftly for Dr. Edmundson.
                  Tell him to come immediately."
               The waiter stood for a moment or two, looking in a half-terrified way upon the
                  white, deathly face of Irene, and then fled from the apartment. No grass grew
                  beneath his horse's feet as he held him to his utmost speed for the distance of
                  two miles, which lay between Ivy Cliff and the doctor's residence.
               Margaret, startled by the hurried, half-incoherent summons of the waiter, came
                  flying into the library. The moment her eyes rested upon Irene, who still
                  insensible upon the sofa, she screamed out, in terror—
               "Oh, she's dead! she's dead!" and stood still as if suddenly paralyzed; then,
                  wringing her hands, she broke out in a wild, sobbing tone—
               "My poor, poor child! Oh, she is dead, dead!"
               "No, Margaret," said Mr. Delancy, as calmly as he could speak, "she is not dead; it is only a
                  fainting fit. Bring some water, quickly."
               Water was brought and dashed into the face of Irene; but there came no sign of
                  returning consciousness.
               "Hadn't you better take her up to her room, Mr. Emerson?" suggested Margaret.
               "Yes," he replied; and, lifting the insensible form of his bride in his arms, the
                  unhappy man bore her to her chamber. Then, sitting down beside the bed upon which
                  he had placed her, he kissed her pale cheeks and, laying his face to hers, sobbed
                  and moaned, in the abandonment of his grief, like a distressed child weeping in
                  despair for some lost treasure.
               "Come," said Margaret, who was an old family domestic, drawing Hartley from the
                  bedside, "leave her alone with me for a little while."
               And the husband and father retired from the room. When they returned, at the call
                  of Margaret, they found Irene in bed, her white, unconscious face scarcely
                  relieved against the snowy pillow on which her head was resting.
               "She is alive," said Margaret, in a low and excited voice; "I can feel her heart
                  beat."
               "Thank God!" ejaculated Emerson, bending again over the motionless form and gazing
                  anxiously down upon the face of his bride.
               But there was no utterance of thankfulness in the heart of Mr. Delancy. For her to
                  come back again to conscious life was, he felt, but a return to wretchedness. If
                  the true prayer of his heart could have found voice, it would have been for death,
                  and not for life.
               In silence, fear and suspense they waited an hour before the doctor arrived.
                  Little change in Irene took place during that time, except that her respiration
                  became clearer and the pulsations of her heart distinct and regular. The
                  application of warm stimulants was immediately ordered, and their good effects
                  soon became apparent.
               "All will come right in a little while," said Dr. Edmundson, encouragingly. "It
                  seems to be only a fainting fit of unusual length."
               Hartley drew Mr. Delancy aside.
               "It will be best that I should be alone with her when she recovers," said he.
               "You may be right in that," said Mr. Delancy, after a moment's reflection.
               "I am sure that I am," was returned.
               "You think she will recover soon?" said Mr. Delancy, approaching the doctor.
               "Yes, at any moment. She is breathing deeper, and her heart beats with a fuller
                  impulse."
               "Let us, retire, then;" and he drew the doctor from the apartment. Pausing at the
                  door, he called to Margaret in a half whisper. She went out also, Emerson alone
                  remaining.
               Taking his place by the bedside, he waited, in trembling anxiety, for the moment
                  when her eyes should open and recognize
                  him. At last there came a quivering of the eyelids and a motion about the
                  sleeper's lips. Emerson bent over and took one of her hands in his.
               "Irene!" He called her name in a voice of the tenderest affection. The sound
                  seemed to penetrate to the region of consciousness, for her lips moved with a
                  murmur of inarticulate words. He kissed her, and said again—
               "Irene! "
               There was a sudden lighting up of her face.
               "Irene, love! darling!" The voice of Emerson was burdened with tenderness.
               "Oh, Hartley!" she exclaimed, opening her eyes and looking with a kind of glad
                  bewilderment into his face. Then, half rising and drawing her arms around his
                  neck, she hid her face on his bosom, murmuring—
               "Thank God that it is only a dream!"
               "Yes, thank God!" replied her husband, as he kissed her in a kind of wild fervor;
                  "and may such dreams never come again."
               She lay very still for some moments. Thought and memory were beginning to act
                  feebly. The response of her husband had in it something that set her to
                  questioning. But there was one thing that made her feel happy: the sound of his
                  loving voice was in her ears; and all the while she felt his hand moving, with a
                  soft, caressing touch, over her cheek and temple.
               "Dear Irene!" he murmured in her ears; and then her hand tightened on his.
               And thus she remained until conscious life regained its full activity. Then the
                  trial came.
               Suddenly lifting herself from the bosom of her husband, Irene gave a hurried
                  glance around the well-known chamber, then turned and looked with a strange,
                  fearful questioning glance into his face:
               "Where am I? What does this mean?"
               "It means," replied Emerson, "that the dream, thank God! is over, and that my dear
                  wife is awake again."
               He placed his arms again around her and drew her to his heart, almost smothering
                  her, as he did so, with kisses.
               She lay passive for a little while; then, disengaging herself, she said,
                  faintly—
               "I feel weak and bewildered; let me lie down."
               She closed her eyes as Emerson placed her back on the pillow, a sad expression
                  covering her still pallid face. Sitting down beside her, he took her hand and held
                  it with a firm pressure. She did not attempt to withdraw it. He kissed her, and a
                  warmer flush came over her face.
               "Dear Irene!" His hand pressed tightly upon hers, and she returned the
                  pressure.
               "Shall I call your father? He is very anxious about you."
               "Not yet." And she caught slightly her breath, as if feeling were growing too
                  strong for her.
               
               "Let it be as a dream, Hartley." Irene lifted herself up and looked calmly, but
                  with a very sad expression on her countenance, into her husband's face.
               "Between us two, Irene, even as a dream from which both have awakened," he
                  replied.
               She closed her eyes and sunk back upon the pillow.
               Mr. Emerson then went to the door and spoke to Mr. Delancy. On a brief
                  consultation it was thought best for Dr. Edmundson not to see her again. A
                  knowledge of the fact that he had been called in might give occasion for more
                  disturbing thoughts than were already pressing upon her mind. And so, after giving
                  some general directions as to the avoidance of all things likely to excite her
                  mind unpleasantly, the doctor withdrew.
               Mr. Delancy saw his daughter alone. The interview was long and earnest. On his
                  part was the fullest disapproval of her conduct and the most solemnly spoken
                  admonitions and warnings. She confessed her error, without any attempt at excuse
                  or palliation, and promised a wiser conduct in the future.
               "There is not one husband in five," said the father, "who would have forgiven an
                  act like this, placing him, as it does, in such a false and humiliating position
                  before the world. He loves you with too deep and true a love, my child, for
                  girlish trifling like this. And let me warn you of the danger you incur of turning
                  against you the spirit of such a man. I have studied his character closely, and I
                  see in it an element of firmness that, if it once sets itself, will be as
                  inflexible as iron. If you repeat acts of this kind, the day must come when
                  forbearance will cease; and then, in turning from you, it will be never to turn
                  back again. Harden him against you once, and it will be for all time."
               Irene wept bitterly at this strong representation, and trembled at thought of the
                  danger she had escaped.
               To her husband, when she was alone with him again, she confessed her fault, and
                  prayed him to let the memory of it pass from his mind for ever. On his part was
                  the fullest denial of any purpose whatever, in the late misunderstanding, to bend
                  her to his will. He assured her that if he had dreamed of any serious objection on
                  her part to the ride, he would not have urged it for a moment. It involved no
                  promised pleasure to him apart from pleasure to her; and it was because he
                  believed that she would enjoy the drive that he had urged her to make one of the
                  party.
               All this was well, as far as it could go. But repentance and mutual forgiveness
                  did not restore everything to the old condition—did not obliterate that one sad
                  page in their history, and leave them free to make a new and better record. If the
                  folly had been in private, the effort at forgiving and forgetting would have been
                  attended with fewer annoying noying
                  considerations. But it was committed in public, and under circumstances calculated
                  to attract attention and occasion invidious remark. And then, how were they to
                  meet the different members of the wedding-party, which they had so suddenly thrown
                  into consternation?
               On the next day the anxious members of this party made their appearance at Ivy
                  Cliff, not having, up to this time, received any intelligence of the fugitive
                  bride. Mr. Delancy did not attempt to excuse to them the unjustifiable conduct of
                  his daughter, beyond the admission that she must have been temporarily deranged.
                  Something was said about resuming the bridal tour, but Mr. Delancy said, "No; the
                  quiet of Ivy Cliff will yield more pleasure than the excitement of travel."
               And all felt this to be true.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               AFTER THE STORM.
               
                  AFTER the storm. Alas! that there should be a wreck-strewn shore so
                  soon! That within three days of the bridal morning a tempest should have raged,
                  scattering on the wind sweet blossoms which had just opened to the sunshine,
                  tearing away the clinging vines of love, and leaving marks of desolation which no
                  dew and sunshine could ever obliterate!
               It was not a blessed honeymoon to them. How could it be, after what had passed?
                  Both were hurt and mortified; and while there was mutual forgiveness and great
                  tenderness and fond concessions, one toward the other, there was a sober, 
                     thoughful
                     thoughtful
                   state of mind, not favorable to happiness.
               Mr. Delancy hoped the lesson—a very severe one—might prove the guarantee of future
                  peace. It had, without doubt, awakened Irene's mind to sober thoughts—and closer
                  self-examination than usual. She was convicted in her own heart of folly, the
                  memory of which could never return to her without a sense of pain.
               At the end of three weeks from the day of their marriage, Mr. and Mrs. Emerson went down to the
                  city to take possession of their new home. On the eve of their departure from Ivy
                  Cliff, Mr. Delancy had a long conference with his daughter, in which he conjured
                  her, by all things sacred, to guard herself against that blindness of passion
                  which had already produced such unhappy consequences. She repeated, with many
                  tears, her good resolutions for the future, and showed great sorrow and contrition
                  for the past.
               "It may come out right," said the old man to himself; as he sat alone, with a
                  pressure of foreboding on his mind, looking into the dim future, on the day of
                  their departure for New York. His only and beloved child had gone forth to return
                  no more, unless in sorrow or wretchedness. "It may come out right, but my heart
                  has sad misgivings."
               There was a troubled suspense of nearly a week, when the first letter came from
                  Irene to her father. He broke the seal with unsteady hands, fearing to let his
                  eyes fall upon the opening page.
               "My dear, dear father! I am a happy young wife."
               "Thank God!" exclaimed the old man aloud, letting the hand fall that held Irene's
                  letter. It was some moments before he could read farther; then he drank in, with
                  almost childish eagerness, every sentence of the long letter.
               "Yes, yes, it may come out right," said Mr. Delancy; "it may come out right." He
                  uttered the words, so often on his lips, with more confidence than usual. The
                  letter strongly urged him to make her a visit, if it was only for a day or
                  two.
               "You know, dear father," she wrote, "that most of your time is to be spent with
                  us—all your winters, certainly; and we want you to begin the new arrangement as
                  soon as possible."
               Mr. Delancy sighed over the passage. He had not set his heart on this arrangement.
                  It might have been a pleasant thing for him to anticipate; but there was not the
                  hopeful basis for anticipation which a mind like his required.
               Not love alone prompted Mr. Delancy to make an early visit to New York; a feeling
                  of anxiety to know how it really was with the young couple acted quite as strongly
                  in the line of incentive. And so he went down to the city and passed nearly a week
                  there. Both Irene and her husband knew that he was observing them closely all the
                  while, and a consciousness of this put them under some constraint. Everything
                  passed harmoniously, and Mr. Delancy returned with the half-hopeful, half-doubting
                  words on his lips, so often and often repeated—
               "Yes, yes, it may come out right."
               But it was not coming out altogether right. Even while the old man was under her
                  roof, Irene had a brief season of self-willed reaction against her husband,
                  consequent on some unguarded word or act, which she felt to be a trespass on her
                     freedom dom. To save appearances while
                  Mr. Delancy was with them, Hartley yielded and tendered conciliation, all the
                  while that his spirit chafed sorely. 
               The departure of Mr. Delancy for Ivy Cliff was the signal for both Irene and her
                  husband to lay aside a portion of the restraint which each had borne with a
                  certain restlessness that longed for a time of freedom. On the very day that he
                  left Irene showed so much that seemed to her husband like perverseness of will
                  that he was seriously offended, and spoke an unguarded word that was as fire to
                  stubble—a word that was repented of as soon as spoken, but which pride would not
                  permit him to recall. It took nearly a week of suffering to discipline the mind of
                  Mr. Emerson to the point of conciliation. On the part of Irene there was not the
                  thought of yielding. Her will, supported by pride, was as rigid as iron. Reason
                  had no power over her. She felt, rather than thought.
               Thus far, both as lover and husband, in all their alienations, Hartley had been
                  the first to yield; and it was so now. He was strong-willed and persistent; but
                  cooler reason helped him back into the right way, and he had, thus far, found it
                  quicker than Irene. Not that he suffered less or repented sooner. Irene's
                  suffering was far deeper, but she was blinder and more self-determined.
               Again the sun of peace smiled down upon them, but, as before, on something shorn
                  of its strength or beauty.
               "I will be more guarded," said Hartley to himself. "Knowing her weakness, why
                  should I not protect her against everything that wounds her sensitive nature? Love
                  concedes, is long suffering and full of patience. I love Irene—words cannot tell
                  how deeply. Then why should I not, for her sake, bear and forbear? Why should I
                  think of myself and grow fretted because she does not yield as readily as I could
                  desire to my wishes?"
               So Emerson talked with himself and resolved. But who does not know the feebleness
                  of resolution when opposed to temperament and confirmed habits of mind? How weak
                  is mere human strength! Alas! how few, depending on that alone, are ever able to
                  bear up steadily, for any length of time, against the tide of passion!
               Off his guard in less than twenty-four hours after resolving thus with himself,
                  the young husband spoke in captious disapproval of something which Irene had done
                  or proposed to do, and the consequence was the assumption on her part of a cold,
                  reserved and dignified manner, which hurt and annoyed him beyond measure. Pride
                  led him to treat her in the same way; and so for days they met in silence or
                  formal courtesy, all the while suffering a degree of wretchedness almost
                  impossible to be endured, and all the while, which was worst of all, writing on
                  their hearts bitter things against each other.
               To Emerson, as before, the better state first returned turned, and the sunshine of his countenance drove
                  the shadows from hers. Then for a season they were loving, thoughtful, forbearing
                  and happy. But the clouds came back again, and storms marred the beauty of their
                  lives.
               All this was sad—very sad. There were good and noble qualities in the hearts of
                  both. They were not narrow-minded and selfish, like so many of your placid,
                  accommodating, calculating people, but generous in their feelings and broad in
                  their sympathies. They had ideals of life that went reaching out far beyond
                  themselves. Yes, it was sad to see two such hearts beating against and bruising
                  each other, instead of taking the same pulsation. But there seemed to be no help
                  for them. Irene's jealous guardianship of her freedom, her quick temper, pride and
                  self-will made the position of her husband so difficult that it was almost
                  impossible for him to avoid giving offence.
               The summer and fall passed away without any serious rupture between the sensitive
                  couple, although there had been seasons of great unhappiness to both. Irene had
                  been up to Ivy Cliff many times to visit her father, and now she was, beginning to
                  urge his removal to the city for the winter; but Mr. Delancy, who had never given
                  his full promise to this arrangement, felt less and less inclined to leave his old
                  home as the season advanced. Almost from boyhood he had lived there, and his
                  habits were formed for rural instead of city life. He pictured the close streets,
                  with their rows of houses, that left for the eye only narrow patches of ethereal
                  blue, and contrasted this with the broad winter landscape, which for him had
                  always spread itself out with a beauty rivaled by no other season, and his heart
                  failed him.
               The brief December days were on them, and Irene grew more urgent.
               "Come, dear father," she wrote. "I think of you, sitting all alone at Ivy Cliff,
                  during these long evenings, and grow sad at heart in sympathy with your
                  loneliness. Come at once. Why linger a week or even a day longer? We have been all
                  in all to each other these many years, and ought not to be separated now."
               But Mr. Delancy was not ready to exchange the pure air and widespreading scenery
                  of the Highlands for a city residence, even in the desolate winter, and so wrote
                  back doubtingly. Irene and her husband then came up to add the persuasion of their
                  presence at Ivy Cliff. It did not avail, however. The old man was too deeply
                  wedded to his home.
               "I should be miserable in New York," he replied to their earnest entreaties; "and
                  it would not add to your happiness to see me going about with a sober,
                  discontented face, or to be reminded every little while that if you had left me to
                  my winter's hibernation I would have been a contented instead of a dissatisfied
                  old man. No, no, my children; Ivy Cliff
                  is the best place for me. You shall come up and spend Christmas here, and we will
                  have a gay season."
               There was no further use in argument. Mr. Delancy would have his way; and he was
                  right.
               Irene and her husband went back to the city, with a promise to spend Christmas at
                  the old homestead.
               Two weeks passed. It was the twentieth of December. Without previous intimation,
                  Irene came up alone to Ivy Cliff, startling her father by coming in suddenly upon
                  him one dreary afternoon, just as the leaden sky began to scatter down the
                  winter's first offering of snow.
               "My daughter!" he exclaimed, so surprised that he could not move from where he was
                  sitting.
               "Dear father!" she answered with a loving smile, throwing her arms around his neck
                  and kissing him.
               "Where is Hartley?" asked the old man, looking past Irene toward the door through
                  which she had just entered.
               "Oh, I left him in New York," she replied.
               "In New York! Have you come alone?"
               "Yes. Christmas is only five days off, you know, and I am here to help you prepare
                  for it. Of course, Hartley cannot leave his business."
               She spoke in an excited, almost gay tone of voice. Mr. Delancy looked at her
                  earnestly. Unpleasant doubts flitted through his mind.
               "When will your husband come up?" he inquired.
               "At Christmas," she answered, without hesitation.
               "Why didn't you write, love?" asked Mr. Delancy. "You have taken me by surprise,
                  and set my nerves in a flutter."
               "I only thought about it last evening. One of my sudden resolutions."
               And she laughed a low, fluttering laugh. It might have been an error, but her
                  father had a fancy that it did not come from her heart.
               "I will run up stairs and put off my things," she said, moving away.
               "Did you bring a trunk?"
               "Oh yes; it is at the landing. Will you send for it?"
               And Irene went, with quick steps, from the apartment, and ran up to the chamber
                  she still called her own. On the way she met Margaret.
               "Miss Irene!" exclaimed the latter, pausing and lifting her hands in astonishment.
                  "Why, where did you come from?"
               "Just arrived in the boat. Have come to help you get ready for Christmas."
               "Please goodness, how you frightened me!" said the warm-hearted domestic, who had
                  been in the family ever since Irene was a child, and was strongly attached to her.
                  "How's Mr. Emerson?"
               "Oh, he's well, thank you, Margaret."
               
               "Well now, child, you did set me all into a fluster. I thought maybe you'd got
                  into one of your tantrums, and come off and left your husband."
               "Why, Margaret!" A crimson flush mantled the face of Irene.
               "You must excuse me, child, but just that came into my head," replied Margaret.
                  "You're very downright and determined sometimes; and there isn't anything hardly
                  that you wouldn't do if the spirit was on you. I'm glad it's all right. Dear me!
                  dear me!"
               "Oh, I'm not quite so bad as you all make me out," said Irene, laughing.
               "I don't think you are bad," answered Margaret, in kind deprecation, yet with a
                  freedom of speech warranted by her years and attachment to Irene. "But you go off
                  in such strange ways—get so wrong-headed sometimes—that there's no counting on
                  you."
               Then, growing more serious, she added—
               "The fact is, Miss Irene, you keep me feeling kind of uneasy all the time. I
                  dreamed about you last night, and maybe that has helped to put me into a fluster
                  now."
               "Dreamed about me!" said Irene, with a degree of interest in her manner.
               "Yes. But don't stand here, Miss Irene; come over to your room."
               "What kind of a dream had you, Margaret?" asked the young wife, as she sat down on
                  the side of the bed where, pillowed in sleep, she had dreamed so many of
                  girlhood's pleasant dreams.
               "I was dreaming all night about you," replied Margaret, looking sober-faced.
               "And you saw me in trouble?"
               "Oh dear, yes; in nothing but trouble. I thought once that I saw you in a great
                  room full of wild beasts. They were chained or in cages; but you would keep going
                  close up to the bars of the cages, or near enough for the chained animals to
                  spring upon you. And that wasn't all. You put the end of your little parasol in
                  between the bars, and a fierce tiger struck at you with his great cat-like paw,
                  tearing the flesh from your arm. Then I saw you in a little boat, down on the
                  river. You had put up a sail, and was going out all alone. I saw the boat move off
                  from the shore just as plainly as I see you now. I stood and watched until you
                  were in the middle of the river. Then I thought Mr. Emerson was standing by me,
                  and that we both saw a great monster—a whale, or something else—chasing after your
                  boat. Mr. Emerson was in great distress, and said, 'I told her not to go, but she
                  is so self-willed.' And then he jumped into a boat and, taking the oars, went
                  gliding out after you as swiftly as the wind. I never saw mortal arm make a boat
                  fly as he did that little skiff. And I saw him strike the monster with his oar
                  just as his huge jaws were opened to devour you. Dear! dear; but I was frightened, and woke up all in a
                  tremble."
               "Before he had saved me?" said Irene, taking a deep breath.
               "Yes; but I don't think there was any chance of saving there, and I was glad that
                  I waked up when I did."
               "What else did you dream?" asked Irene.
               "Oh, I can't tell you all I dreamed. Once I saw you fall from the high rock just
                  above West Point and go dashing down into the river. Then I saw you chased by a
                  mad bull."
               "And no one came to my rescue?"
               "Oh yes, there was more than one who tried to save you. First, your father ran in
                  between you and the bull; but he dashed over him. Then I saw Mr. Emerson rushing
                  up with a pitchfork, and he got before the mad animal and pointed the sharp prongs
                  at his eyes; but the bull tore down on him and tossed him away up into the air. I
                  awoke as I saw him falling on the sharp-pointed horns that were held up to catch
                  him."
               "Well, Margaret, you certainly had a night of horrors," said Irene, in a sober
                  way.
               "Indeed, miss, and I had; such a night as I don't wish to have again."
               "And your dreaming was all about me?"
               "Yes."
               "And I was always in trouble or danger?"
               "Yes, always; and it was mostly your own fault, too. And that reminds me of what
                  the minister told us in his sermon last Sunday. He said that there were a great
                  many kinds of trouble in this world—some coming from the outside and some coming
                  from the inside; that the outside troubles, which we couldn't help, were generally
                  easiest to be borne; while the inside troubles, which we might have prevented,
                  were the bitterest things in life, because there was remorse as well as suffering.
                  I understood very well what he meant."
               "I am afraid," said Irene, speaking partly to herself, "that most of my troubles
                  come from the inside."
               "I'm afraid they do," spoke out the frank domestic.
               "Margaret!" 
               "Indeed, miss, and I do think so. If you'd only get right here"—laying her hand
                  upon her breast—"somebody beside yourself would be a great deal happier. There
                  now, child, I've said it; and you needn't go to getting angry with me."
               "They are often our best friends who use the plainest speech," said Irene. "No,
                  Margaret, I am not going to be angry with one whom I know to be true-hearted."
               "Not truer-hearted than your husband, Miss Irene; nor half so loving."
               "Why did you say that?" Margaret started at the tone of voice in which this
                  interrogation was made.
               
               "Because I think so," she answered naïvely.
               Irene looked at her for some moments with a penetrating gaze, and then said, with
                  an affected carelessness of tone—
               "Your preacher and your dreams have made you quite a moralist."
               "They have not taken from my heart any of the love it has felt for you," said
                  Margaret, tears coming into her eyes.
               "I know that, Margaret. You were always too kind and indulgent, and I always too
                  wayward and unreasonable. But I am getting years on my side, and shall not always
                  be a foolish girl."
               Snow had now begun to fall thickly, and the late December day was waning toward
                  the early twilight. Margaret went down stairs and left Irene alone in her chamber,
                  where she remained until nearly tea-time before joining her father.
               Mr. Delancy did not altogether feel satisfied in his mind about this unheralded
                  visit from his daughter, with whose wayward moods he was too familiar. It might be
                  all as she said, but there were intrusive misgivings that troubled him.
               At tea-time she took her old place at the table in such an easy, natural way, and
                  looked so pleased and happy, that her father was satisfied. He asked about her
                  husband, and she talked of him without reserve.
               "What day is Hartley coming up?" he inquired.
               "I hope to see him on the day before Christmas," returned Irene. There was a
                  falling in her voice that, to the ears of Mr. Delancy, betrayed a feeling of
                  doubt.
               "He will not, surely, put it off later," said the father.
               "I don't know," said Irene. "He may be prevented from leaving early enough to
                  reach here before Christmas morning. If there should be a cold snap, and the river
                  freeze up, it will make the journey difficult and attended with delay."
               "I think the winter has set in;" and Mr. Delancy turned his ear toward the window,
                  against which the snow and hail were beating with violence. "It's a pity Hartley
                  didn't come up with you."
               A sober hue came over the face of Irene. This did not escape the notice of her
                  father; but it was natural that she should feel sober in thinking of her husband
                  as likely to be kept from her by the storm. That such were her thoughts her words
                  made evident, for she said, glancing toward the window—
               "If there should be a deep snow, and the boats stop running, how can Hartley reach
                  here in time?"
               On the next morning the sun rose bright and warm for the season. Several inches of
                  snow had fallen, giving to the landscape a wintry whiteness, but the wind was
                  coming in from the south, genial as spring. Before night half the snowy covering
                  was gone.
               "We had our fears for nothing," said Mr. Delancy lancy, on the second day, which was as mild as the
                  preceding one. "All things promise well. I saw the boats go down as usual; so the
                  river is open still."
               Irene did not reply. Mr. Delancy looked at her curiously, but her face was partly
                  turned away and he did not get its true expression.
               The twenty-fourth came. No letter had been received by Irene, nor had she written
                  to New York since her arrival at Ivy Cliff.
               "Isn't it singular that you don't get a letter from Hartley?" said Mr.
                  Delancy.
               Irene had been sitting silent for some time when her father made this remark.
               "He is very busy," she said, in reply.
               "That's no excuse. A man is never too busy to write to his absent wife."
               "I haven't expected a letter, and so am not disappointed. But he's on his way, no
                  doubt. How soon will the boat arrive?"
               "Between two and three o'clock."
               "And it's now ten."
               The hours passed on, and the time of arrival came. The windows of Irene's chamber
                  looked toward the river, and she was standing at one of them alone when the boat
                  came in sight. Her face was almost colorless, and contracted by an expression of
                  deep anxiety. She remained on her feet for the half hour that intervened before
                  the boat could reach the landing. It was not the first time that she had watched
                  there, in the excitement of doubt and fear, for the same form her eyes were now
                  straining themselves to see.
               The shrill sound of escaping steam ceased to quiver on the air, and in a few
                  minutes the boat shot forward into view and went gliding up the river. Irene
                  scarcely breathed, as she stood, with colorless face, parted lips and eager eyes,
                  looking down the road that led to the landing. But she looked in vain; the form of
                  her husband did not appear—and it was Christmas Eve!
               What did it mean?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE LETTER.
               
                  YES, what did it mean? Christmas Eve, and Hartley still absent?
               Twilight was falling when Irene came down from her room and joined her father in
                  the library. Mr. Delancy looked into her face narrowly as she entered. The dim
                  light of the closing day was not strong enough to give him its true expression;
                  but he was not deceived as to its troubled aspect.
               "And so Hartley will not be here to-day," he said, in a tone that expressed both
                  disappointment and concern.
               "No. I looked for him confidently. It is strange."
               There was a constraint, a forced calmness in Irene's voice that did not escape her
                  father's notice.
               "I hope he is not sick," said Mr. Delancy.
               "Oh no." Irene spoke with a sudden earnestness; then, with failing tones,
                  added—
               "He should have been here to-day."
               She sat down near the open grate, shading her face with a hand-screen, and
                  remained silent and abstracted for some time.
               "There is scarcely a possibility of his arrival to-night," said Mr. Delancy. He
                  could not get his thoughts away from the fact of his son-in-law's absence.
               "He will not be here to-night," replied Irene, a cold dead level in her voice,
                  that Mr. Delancy well understood to be only a blind thrown up to conceal her
                  deeply-disturbed feelings.
               "Do you expect him to-morrow, my daughter?" asked Mr. Delancy, a few moments
                  afterward, speaking as if from a sudden thought or a sudden purpose. There was a
                  meaning in his tones that showed his mind to be in a state not prepared to brook
                  evasion.
               "I do," was the unhesitating answer; and she turned and looked calmly at her
                  father, whose eyes rested with a fixed, inquiring gaze upon her countenance. But
                  half her face was lit by a reflection from the glowing grate, while half lay in
                  shadow. His reading, therefore was not clear.
               If Irene had shown surprise at the question, her father would have felt better
                  satisfied. He meant it as a probe; but if a tender spot was reached, she had the
                  self-control not to give a sign of pain. At the tea-table Irene rallied her
                  spirits and talked lightly to her father; it was only by an effort that he could
                  respond with even apparent cheerfulness.
               Complaining of a headache, Irene retired, soon after tea, to her room, and did not
                  come down again during the evening.
               
               The next day was Christmas. It rose clear and mild as a day in October. When Irene
                  came down to breakfast, her pale, almost haggard, face showed too plainly that she
                  had passed a night of sleeplessness and suffering. She said, "A merry Christmas,"
                  to her father, on meeting him, but there was no heart in the words. It was almost
                  impossible to disguise the pain that almost stifled respiration. Neither of them
                  did more than make a feint at eating. As Mr. Delancy arose from the table, he said
                  to Irene—
               "I would like to see you in the library, my daughter."
               She followed him passively, closing the door behind her as she entered.
               "Sit down. There." And Mr. Delancy placed a chair for her, a little way from the
                  grate.
               Irene dropped into the chair like one who moved by another's volition.
               "Now, daughter," said Mr. Delancy, taking a chair, and drawing it in front of the
                  one in which she was seated, "I am going to ask a plain question, and I want a
                  direct answer."
               Irene rallied herself on the instant.
               "Did you leave New York with the knowledge and consent of your husband?"
               The blood mounted to her face and stained it a deep crimson:
               "I left without his knowledge. Consent I never ask."
               The old proud spirit was in her tones.
               "I feared as much," replied Mr. Delancy, his voice falling. "Then you do not
                  expect Hartley to-day?"
               "I expected him yesterday. He may be here to-day. I am almost sure he will
                  come."
               "Does he know you are here?"
               "Yes."
               "Why did you leave without his knowledge?"
               "To punish him."
               "Irene!"
               "I have answered without evasion. It was to punish him."
               "I do not remember in the marriage vows you took upon yourselves anything relating
                  to punishments," said Mr. Delancy. "There were explicit things said of love and
                  duty, but I do not recall a sentence that referred to the right of one party to
                  punish the other."
               Mr. Delancy paused for a few moments, but there was no reply to this rather novel
                  and unexpected view of the case.
               "Did you by anything in the rite acquire authority to punish your husband when his
                  conduct didn't just suit your fancy?"
               Mr. Delancy pressed the question.
               "It is idle, father," said Irene, with some sharpness of tone, "to make an issue
                  like this. It does not touch the case. Away back of marriage contracts lie
                  individual rights, which are never surrendered dered. The right of self-protection is one of
                  these; and if retaliation is needed as a guarantee of future peace, then the right
                  to punish is included in the right of self-protection."
               "A peace gained through coercion of any kind is not worth having. It is but the
                  semblance of peace—is war in bonds," replied Mr. Delancy. "The moment two married
                  partners begin the work of coercion and punishment, that moment love begins to
                  fail. If love gives not to their hearts a common beat, no other power is strong
                  enough to do the work. Irene, I did hope that the painful experiences already
                  passed through would have made you wiser. It seems not, however. It seems that
                  self-will, passion and a spirit of retaliation are to govern your actions, instead
                  of patience and love. Well, my child, if you go on sowing this seed in your garden
                  now, in the spring-time of life, you must not murmur when autumn gives you a
                  harvest of thorns and thistles. If you sow tares in your field, you must not
                  expect to find corn there when you put in your sickle to reap. You can take back
                  your morning salutation. It is not a 'merry Christmas' to you or to me; and I
                  think we are both done with merry Christmases."
               "Father!"
               The tone in which this word was uttered was almost a cry of pain.
               "It is even so, my child—even so," replied Mr. Delancy, in a voice of
                  irrepressible sadness. "You have left your husband a second time. It is not every
                  man who would forgive the first offence; not one in twenty who would pardon the
                  second. You are in great peril, Irene. This storm that you have conjured up may
                  drive you to hopeless shipwreck. You need not expect Hartley to-day. He will not
                  come. I have studied his character well, and know that he will not pass this
                  conduct over lightly."
               Even while this was said a servant, who had been over to the village, brought in a
                  letter and handed it to Mr. Delancy, who, recognizing in the superscription the
                  handwriting of his daughter's husband, broke the seal hurriedly. The letter was in
                  these words:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR SIR: As your daughter has left me, no doubt with the purpose
                              of finally abandoning the effort to live in that harmony so essential
                              to happiness in married life, I shall be glad if you will choose some
                              judicious friend to represent her in consultation with a friend whom I
                              will select, with a view to the arrangement of a separation, as
                              favorable to her in its provisions as it can possibly be made. In view
                              of the peculiarity of our temperaments, we made a great error in this
                              experiment. My hope was that love would be counselor to us both; that
                              the law of mutual forbearance would have rule. But we are both too
                              impulsive, too self-willed, too undisciplined. I do not pretend to
                              throw all the blame on Irene. We are as flint and steel. But she has taken the
                              responsibility of separation, and I am left without alternative. May
                              God lighten the burden of pain her heart will have to bear in the
                              ordeal through which she has elected to pass.
                           
                              Your unhappy son,
                              "HARTLEY EMERSON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Mr. Delancy's hand shook so violently before he had finished reading that the
                  paper rattled in the air. On finishing the last sentence he passed it, without a
                  word, to his daughter. It was some moments before the strong agitation produced by
                  the sight of this letter, and its effect upon her father, could be subdued enough
                  to enable her to read a line.
               "What does it mean, father? I don't understand it," she said, in a hoarse, deep
                  whisper, and with pale, quivering lips.
               "It means," said Mr. Delancy, "that your husband has taken you at your word."
               "At my word! What word?"
               "You have left the home he provided for you, I believe?"
               "Father!"
               Her eyes stood out staringly.
               "Let me read the letter for you." And he took it from her hand. After reading it
                  aloud and slowly, he said—
               "That is plain talk, Irene. I do not think any one can misunderstand it. You have,
                  in his view, left him finally, and he now asks me to name a judicious friend to
                  meet his friend, and arrange a basis of separation as favorable to you in its
                  provisions as it can possibly be made."
               "A separation, father! Oh no, he cannot mean that!" And she pressed her hands
                  strongly against her temples.
               "Yes, my daughter, that is the simple meaning."
               "Oh no, no, no! He never meant that."
               "You left him?"
               "But not in that way; not in earnest. It was only in fitful anger—half sport, half
                  serious."
               "Then, in Heaven's name, sit down and write him so, and that without the delay of
                  an instant. He has put another meaning on your conduct. He believes that you have
                  abandoned him."
               "Abandoned him! Madness!" And Irene, who had risen from her chair, commenced
                  moving about the room in a wild, irresolute kind of way, something like an actress
                  under tragic excitement.
               "This is meant to punish me!" she said, stopping suddenly, and speaking in a voice
                  slightly touched with indignation. "I understand it all, and see it as a great
                  outrage. Hartley knows as well I do that I left as much in sport as in earnest.
                  But this is carrying the joke too far. To write such a letter to you! Why didn't
                  he write to me? Why didn't he ask me to appoint a friend to represent me in the
                  arrangement proposed?"
               
               "He understood himself and the case entirely," replied Mr. Delancy. "Believing
                  that you had abandoned him—"
               "He didn't believe any such thing!" exclaimed Irene, in strong excitement.
               "You are deceiving yourself, my daughter. His letter is calm and deliberate. It
                  was not written, as you can see by the date, until yesterday. He has taken time to
                  let passion cool. Three days were permitted to elapse, that you might be heard
                  from in case any change of purpose occurred. But you remained silent. You
                  abandoned him."
               "Oh, father, why will you talk in this way? I tell you that Hartley is only doing
                  this to punish me; that he has no more thought of an actual separation than he has
                  of dying."
               "Admit this to be so, which I only do in the argument," said Mr. Delancy, "and
                  what better aspect does it present?"
               "The better aspect of sport as compared with earnest," replied Irene.
               "At which both will continue to play until earnest is reached—and a worse earnest
                  than the present. Take the case as you will, and it is one of the saddest and
                  least hopeful that I have seen."
               Irene did not reply.
               "You must elect some course of action, and that with the least possible delay,"
                  said Mr. Delancy. "This letter requires an immediate answer. Go to your room and,
                  in communion with God and your own heart, come to some quick decision upon the
                  subject."
               Irene turned away without speaking and left her father alone in the library.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE FLIGHT AND THE RETURN.
               
                  WE will not speak of the cause that led to this serious rupture
                  between Mr. and Mrs. Emerson. It was light as vanity—an airy nothing in itself—a
                  spark that would have gone out on a baby's cheek without leaving a sign of its
                  existence. On the day that Irene left the home of her husband he had parted from
                  her silent, moody and with ill-concealed anger. Hard words, reproaches and
                  accusations had passed between them on the night previous; and both felt unusually
                  disturbed. The cause of all this, as we have said, was light as vanity. During the
                  day Mr. Emerson, who was always first to come to his senses, saw the folly of what
                  had occurred, and when he turned his face homeward, after three o'clock, it was
                  with the purpose of ending the unhappy state by recalling a word to which he had
                  given thoughtless utterance.
               The moment our young husband came to this sensible conclusion his heart beat with
                  a freer motion and his spirits rose again into a region of tranquillity. He felt
                  the old tenderness toward his wife returning, dwelt on her beauty, accomplishments
                  plishments, virtues and high mental endowments with a glow of pride, and called
                  her defects of character light in comparison.
               "If I were more a man, and less a child of feeling and impulse," he said to
                  himself, "I would be more worthy to hold the place of husband to a woman like
                  Irene. She has strong peculiarities—who has not peculiarities? Am I free from
                  them? She is no ordinary woman, and must not be trammeled by ordinary tame
                  routine. She has quick impulses; therefore, if I love her, should I not guard
                  them, lest they leap from her feebly restraining hand in the wrong direction? She
                  is sensitive to control; why, then, let her see the hand that must lead her,
                  sometimes, aside from the way she would walk through the promptings of her own
                  will? Do I not know that she loves me? And is she not dear to me as my own life?
                  What folly to strive with each other! What madness to let angry feelings shadow
                  for an instant our lives!"
               It was in this state of mind that Emerson returned home. There were a few
                  misgivings in his heart as he entered, for he was not sure as to the kind of
                  reception Irene would offer his overtures for peace; but there was no failing of
                  his purpose to sue for peace and obtain it. With a quick step he passed through
                  the hall, and, after glancing into the parlors to see if his wife were there, went
                  up stairs with two or three light bounds. A hurried glance through the chambers
                  showed him that they had no occupant. He
                  was turning to leave them, when a letter, placed upright on a bureau, attracted
                  his attention. He caught it up. It was addressed to him in the well-known hand of
                  his wife. He opened it and read:
               
                  "I leave for Ivy Cliff to-day. IRENE."
               
               Two or three times Emerson read the line—"I leave for Ivy Cliff to-day"—and looked
                  at the signature, before its meaning came fully into his thought.
               "Gone to Ivy Cliff!" he said, at last, in a low, hoarse voice. "Gone, and without
                  a word of intimation or explanation! Gone, and in the heat of anger! Has it come
                  to this, and so soon! God help us!" And the unhappy man sunk into a chair,
                  heart-stricken and weak as a child.
               For nearly the whole of the night that followed he walked the floor of his room,
                  and the next day found him in a feverish condition of both mind and body. Not once
                  did the thought of following his wife to Ivy Cliff, if it came into his mind, rest
                  there for a moment. She had gone home to her father with only an announcement of
                  the fact. He would wait some intimation of her further purpose; but, if they met
                  again, she must come back to him. This was his first, spontaneous conclusion; and
                  it was not questioned in his thought, nor did he waver from it an instant. She
                  must come back of her own free will, if she came back at all.
               It was on the twentieth day of December that Irene left New York. Not until the
                  twenty-second could a letter from her reach Hartley, if, on reflection or after
                  conference with her father, she desired to make a communication. But the
                  twenty-second came and departed without a word from the absent one. So did the
                  twenty-third. By this time Hartley had grown very calm, self-adjusted and
                  resolute. He had gone over and over again the history of their lives since
                  marriage bound them together, and in this history he could see nothing hopeful as
                  bearing on the future. He was never certain of Irene. Things said and done in
                  moments of thoughtlessness or excitement, and not meant to hurt or offend, were
                  constantly disturbing their peace. It was clouds, and rain, and fitful sunshine
                  all the while. There were no long seasons of serene delight.
               "Why," he said to himself, "seek to prolong this effort to blend into one two
                  lives that seem hopelessly antagonistic. Better stand as far apart as the
                  antipodes than live in perpetual strife. If I should go to Irene, and, through
                  concession or entreaty, win her back again, what guarantee would I have for the
                  future? None, none whatever. Sooner or later we must be driven asunder by the
                  violence of our ungovernable passions, never to draw again together. We are apart
                  now, and it is well. I shall not take the first step toward a reconciliation."
               
               Hartley Emerson was a young man of cool purpose and strong will. For all that, he
                  was quick-tempered and undisciplined. It was from the possession of these
                  qualities that he was steadily advancing in his profession, and securing a
                  practice at the bar which promised to give him a high position in the future.
                  Persistence was another element of his character. If he adopted any course of
                  conduct, it was a difficult thing to turn him aside. When he laid his hand upon
                  the plough, he was of those who rarely look back. Unfortunate qualities these for
                  a crisis in life such as now existed.
               On the morning of the twenty-fourth of December, no word having come from his
                  wife, Emerson coolly penned the letter to Mr. Delancy which is given in the
                  preceding chapter, and mailed it so that it would reach him on Christmas day. He
                  was in earnest—sternly in earnest—as Mr. Delancy, on reading his letter, felt him
                  to be. The honeymoon flight was one thing; this abandonment of a husband's home,
                  another thing. Emerson gave to them a different weight and quality. Of the first
                  act he could never think without a burning cheek—a sense of mortification—a pang
                  of wounded pride; and long ere this he had made up his mind that if Irene ever
                  left him again, it would be for ever, so far as perpetuity depended on his action
                  in the case. He would never follow her nor seek to win her back.
               Yes, he was in earnest. He had made his mind up for the worst, and was acting with
                  a desperate coolness only faintly imagined by Irene on receipt of his letter to
                  her father. Mr. Delancy, who understood Emerson's character better, was not
                  deceived. He took the communication in its literal meaning, and felt appalled at
                  the ruin which impended.
               Emerson passed the whole of Christmas day alone in his house. At meal-times he
                  went to the table and forced himself to partake lightly of food, in order to blind
                  the servants, whose curiosity in regard to the absence of Mrs. Emerson was, of
                  course, all on the alert. After taking tea he went out.
               His purpose was to call upon a friend in whom he had great confidence, and confide
                  to him the unhappy state of his affairs. For an hour he walked the streets in
                  debate on the propriety of this course. Unable, however, to see the matter
                  clearly, he returned home with the secret of his domestic trouble still locked in
                  his own bosom.
               It was past eight o'clock when he entered his dwelling. A light was burning in one
                  of the parlors, and he stepped into the room. After walking for two or three times
                  the length of the apartment, Mr. Emerson threw himself on a sofa, a deep sigh
                  escaping his lips as he did so. At the same moment he heard a step in the passage,
                  and the rustling of a woman's garments, which caused him to start again to his
                  feet. In moving his eyes met the form
                  of Irene, who advanced toward him, and throwing her arms around his neck,
                  sobbed,
               "Dear husband! can you, will you forgive my childish folly?"
               His first impulse was to push her away, and he, even grasped her arms and
                  attempted to draw them from his neck. She perceived this, and clung to him more
                  eagerly.
               "Dear Hartley!" she said, "will you not speak to me ?"
               "Irene!" His voice was cold and deep, and as he pronounced her name he withdrew
                  himself from her embrace. At this she grew calm and stepped a pace back from
                  him.
               "Irene, we are not children," he said, in the same cold, deep voice, the tones of
                  which were even and measured. "That time is past. Nor foolish young lovers, who
                  fall out and make up again twice or thrice in a fortnight; but man and wife, with
                  the world and its sober realities before us."
               "Oh, Hartley," exclaimed Irene, as he paused; "don't talk to me in this way! Don't
                  look at me so! It will kill me. I have done wrong. I have acted like foolish
                  child. But I am penitent. It was half in sport that I went away, and I was so sure
                  of seeing you at Ivy Cliff yesterday that I told father you were coming."
               "Irene, sit down." And Emerson took the hand of his wife and led her to a sofa.
                  Then, after closing the parlor door, he drew a chair and seated himself directly
                  in front of her. There was a coldness and self-possession about him, that chilled
                  Irene.
               "It is a serious thing," he said, looking steadily in her face, "for a wife to
                  leave, in anger, her husband's house for that of her father."
               She tried to make some reply and moved her lips in attempted utterance, but the
                  organs of speech refused to perform their office.
               "You left me once before in anger, and I went after you. But it was clearly
                  understood with myself then that if you repeated the act it would be final in all
                  that appertained to me; that unless you returned, it would be a lifelong
                  separation. You have repeated the act; and, knowing your pride and
                  tenacity of will, I did not anticipate your return. And so I was looking the sad,
                  stern future in the face as steadily as possible, and preparing to meet it as a
                  man conscious of right should be prepared to meet whatever trouble lies in store
                  for him. I went out this evening, after passing the Christmas day alone, with the
                  purpose of consulting an old and discreet friend as to the wisest course of
                  action. But the thing was too painful to speak of yet. So I came back—and you are
                  here!"
               She looked at him steadily while he spoke, her face white as marble, and her
                  colorless lips drawn back from her teeth.
               
               "Irene," he continued, "it is folly for us to keep on in the way we have been
                  going. I am wearied out, and you cannot be happy in a relation that is for ever
                  reminding you that your own will and thought are no longer sole arbiters of
                  action; that there is another will and another thought that must at times be
                  consulted, and even obeyed. I am a man, and a husband; you a woman, and a wife,—we
                  are equal as to rights and duties—equal in the eyes of God; but to the man and
                  husband appertains a certain precedence in action; consent, co-operation and
                  approval, if he be a thoughtful and judicious man, appertaining to the wife."
               As Emerson spoke thus, he noticed a sign of returning warmth in her pale face, and
                  a dim, distant flash in her eyes. Her proud spirit did not accept this view of
                  their relation to each other. He went on:
               "If a wife has no confidence in her husband's manly judgment, if she cannot even
                  respect him, then the case is altered. She must be understanding and will to
                  herself; must lead both him and herself if he be weak enough to consent. But the
                  relation is not a true one; and marriage, under this condition of things, is only
                  a semblance."
               "And that is your doctrine?" said Irene. There was a shade of surprise in her
                  voice that lingered huskily in her throat.
               "That is my doctrine," was Emerson's firmly spoken answer.
               Irene sighed heavily. Both were silent for some moments. At length Irene said,
                  lifting her hands and bringing them down with an action of despair,
               "In bonds! in bonds!"
               "No, no!" Her husband replied quickly and earnestly. "Not in bonds, but in true
                  freedom, if you will—the freedom of reciprocal action."
               "Like bat and ball," she answered, with bitterness in her tones.
               "No, like heart and lungs," he returned, calmly. "Irene! dear wife! Why
                  misunderstand me? I have no wish to rule, and you know I have never sought to
                  place you in bonds. I have had only one desire, and that is to be your husband in
                  the highest and truest sense. But, I am a man—you a woman. There are two wills and
                  two understandings that must act in the same direction. Now, in the nature of
                  things, the mind of one must, helped by the mind of the other to see right, take,
                  as a general thing, the initiative where action is concerned. Unless this be so,
                  constant collisions will occur. And this takes us back to the question that lies
                  at the basis of all order and happiness—which of the two minds shall lead?"
               "A man and his wife are equal," said Irene, firmly. The strong individuality of
                  her character was asserting its claims even in this hour of severe mental
                  pain.
               "Equal in the eyes of God, as I have said before fore, but where action is concerned one must take
                  precedence of the other, for, it cannot be, seeing that their office and duties
                  are different, that their judgment in the general affairs of life can be equally
                  clear. A man's work takes him out into the world, and throws him into sharp
                  collision with other men. He learns, as a consequence, to think carefully and with
                  deliberation, and to decide with caution, knowing that action, based on erroneous
                  conclusions, may ruin his prospects in an hour. Thus, like the oak, which, grows
                  up exposed to all elemental changes, his judgment gains strength, while his
                  perceptions, constantly trained, acquire clearness. But a woman's duties lie
                  almost wholly within this region of strife and action, and she remains, for the
                  most part, in a tranquil atmosphere. Allowing nothing for a radical difference in
                  mental constitution, this difference of training must give a difference of mental
                  power. The man's judgment in affairs generally must be superior to the woman's,
                  and she must acquiesce in its decisions or there can be no right union in
                  marriage."
               "Must lose herself in him," said Irene, coldly. "Become a cypher, a slave. That
                  will not suit me, Hartley!" And she looked at him with firmly compressed mouth and
                  steady eyes.
               It came to his lips to reply, "Then you had better return to your father," but he
                  caught the words back ere they leaped forth into sound, and, rising, walked the
                  floor for the space of more than five minutes, Irene not stirring from the sofa.
                  Pausing at length, he said in a voice which had lost its steadiness:
               "You had better go up to your room, Irene. We are not in a condition to help each
                  other now."
               Mrs. Emerson did not answer, but, rising, left the parlor and went as her husband
                  had suggested. He stood still, listening, until the sound of her steps and the
                  rustle of her garments had died away into silence, when he commenced slowly
                  walking the parlor floor with his head bent down, and continued thus, as if he had
                  forgotten time and place, for over an hour. Then, awakened to consciousness by a
                  sense of dizziness and exhaustion, he laid himself upon a sofa, and, shutting his
                  eyes, tried to arrest the current of his troubled thoughts and sink into sleep and
                  forgetfulness.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE RECONCILIATION.
               
                  FOR such a reception the young wife was wholly unprepared. Suddenly
                  her husband had put on a new character and assumed a right of control against
                  which her sensitive pride and native love of freedom arose in strong rebellion.
                  That she had done wrong in going away she acknowledged to herself, and had
                  acknowledged to him. But he had met confession in a spirit so different from what
                  was anticipated, and showed an aspect so cold, stern, and exacting, that she was
                  bewildered. She did not, however, mistake the meaning of his language. It was
                  plain that she understood the man's position to be one of dictation and control:
                  we use the stronger aspect in which it was presented to her mind. As to
                  submission, it was not in all her thoughts. Wrung to agony as her heart was, and
                  appalled as she looked, trembling and shrinking into the future, she did not yield
                  a moment to weakness.
               Midnight found Irene alone in her chamber. She had flung herself upon a bed when
                  she came up from the parlor, and fallen asleep after an hour of fruitless beating
                  about in her mind. Awaking from a maze of troubled dreams, she started up and
                  gazed, half fearfully, around the dimly-lighted room.
               "Where am I?" she asked herself. Some moments elapsed before the painful events of
                  the past few days began to reveal themselves to her consciousness.
               "And where is Hartley?" This question followed as soon as all grew clear. Sleep
                  had tranquilized her state, and restored a measure of just perception. Stepping
                  from the bed, she went from the room and passed silently down stairs. A light
                  still burned in the parlor where she had left her husband some hours before, and
                  streamed out through the partly opened door. She stood for some moments,
                  listening, but there was no sound of life within. A sudden fear crept into her
                  heart. Her hand shook as she laid it upon the door and pressed it open. Stepping
                  within, she glanced around with a frightened air.
               On the sofa lay Hartley, with his face toward the light. It was wan and troubled,
                  and the brows were contracted as if from intense pain. For some moments Irene
                  stood looking at him; but his eyes were shut and he lay perfectly still. She drew
                  nearer and bent down over him. He was sleeping, but his breath came so faintly,
                  and there was so little motion of his chest, that the thought flashed through her
                  with an electric thrill that he might be dying! Only by a strong effort of
                  self-control did she repress a cry of
                  fear, or keep back her hands from clasping his neck. In what a strong tide did
                  love rush back upon her soul! Her heart overflowed with tenderness, was oppressed
                  with yearning.
               "Oh, Hartley, my husband, my dear husband!" she cried out, love, fear, grief and
                  anguish blending wildly in her voice, as she caught him in her arms and awoke him
                  with a rain of tears and kisses.
               "Irene! Love! Darling! What ails you? Where are we?" were the confusedly uttered
                  sentences of Mr. Emerson, as he started from the sofa and, holding his young wife
                  from him, looked into her weeping face.
               "Call me again 'love' and 'darling,' and I care not where we are!" she answered,
                  in tones of passionate entreaty. "Oh, Hartley, my dear, dear husband! A desert
                  island, with you, would be a paradise; a paradise, without you, a weary desert!
                  Say the words again. Call me ' darling!'" And she let her head fall upon his
                  bosom.
               "God bless you!" he said, laying his hand upon her head. He was awake and clearly
                  conscious of place and position. His voice was distinct, but tremulous and solemn.
                  "God bless you, Irene, my wife!"
               "And make me worthy of your love," she responded faintly.
               "Mutually worthy of each other," said he. "Wiser—better—more patient and
                  forbearing. Oh, Irene," and his voice grew deep and tender, "why may we not be to
                  each other all that our hearts desire?"
               "We can—we must—we will!" she answered, lifting her hidden face from his bosom and
                  turning it up fondly to his. "God helping me, I will be to you a better wife in
                  the future."
               "And I a more patient, loving, and forbearing husband," he replied. "Oh that our
                  hearts might beat together as one heart!"
               For a little while Irene continued to gaze into her husband's countenance with
                  looks of the tenderest love, and then hid her face on his bosom again.
               And thus were they again reconciled.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               AFTER THE STORM.
               
                  AFTER the storm. And they were reconciled. The clouds rolled back;
                  the sun came out again with his radiant smiles and genial warmth. But was nothing
                  broken? nothing lost? Did each flower in the garden of love lift its head as
                  bravely as before? In every storm of passion something is lost. Anger is a blind
                  fury, who tramples ruthlessly on tenderest and holiest things. Alas for the ruin
                  that waits upon her footsteps!
               The day that followed this night of reconciliation had many hours of sober
                  introversion of thought for both Emerson and his wife; hours in which memory
                  reproduced language, conduct and sentiments that could not be dwelt upon without
                  painful misgivings for the future. They understood each other too well to make
                  light account of things said and done, even in anger.
               In going over, as Irene did many times, the language used by her husband on the
                  night before, touching their relation as man and wife, and his prerogative, she
                  felt the old spirit of revolt arising. She tried to let her thought fall into his
                  rational presentation of the question involving precedence, and even said to
                  herself that he was right; but pride was strong, and kept lifting itself in her
                  mind. She saw, most clearly, the hardest aspect of the case. It was, in her view,
                  command and obedience. And she knew that submission was, for her, impossible.
               On the part of Emerson, the day's sober thought left his mind in no more hopeful
                  condition than that of his wife. The pain suffered in consequence of her temporary
                  flight from home, though lessened by her return, had not subsided. A portion of
                  confidence in her was lost. He felt that he had no guarantee for the future; that
                  at any moment, in the heat of passion, she might leave him again. He remembered,
                  too distinctly, her words on the night before, when he tried to make her
                  comprehend his view of the relation between man and wife—"That will not suit me,
                  Hartley." And he felt that she was in earnest; that she would resist every effort
                  he might make to lead and control as a man in certain things, just as she had done
                  from the beginning.
               In matrimonial quarrels you cannot kiss and make up again, as children do,
                  forgetting all the stormy past in the sunshiny present. And this was painfully
                  clear to both Hartley and Irene, as she, alone in her chamber, and he, alone in
                  his office, pondered, on that day of reconciliation, the past and the future. Yet
                  each resolved to be more forbearing and
                  less exacting; to be emulous of concession, rather than exaction; to let love,
                  uniting with reason, hold pride and self-will in close submission.
               Their meeting, on Hartley's return home, at his usual late hour in the afternoon,
                  was tender, but not full of the joyous warmth of feeling that often showed itself.
                  Their hearts were not light enough for ecstasy. But they were marked in their
                  attentions to each other, emulous of affectionate words and actions, yielding and
                  considerate. And yet this mutual, almost formal, recognition of a recent state of
                  painful antagonism left on each mind a feeling of embarrassment, checked words and
                  sentences ere they came to utterance, and threw amid their pleasant talks many
                  intermittent pauses.
               Often through the day had Mr. Emerson, as he dwelt on the unhappy relation
                  existing between himself and his wife, made up his mind to renew the subject of
                  their true position to each other, as briefly touched upon in their meeting of the
                  night before, and as often changed his purpose, in fear of another rupture. Yet to
                  him it seemed of the first importance that this matter, as a basis of future
                  peace, should be settled between them, and settled at once. If he held one view
                  and she another, and both were sensitive, quick-tempered and tenacious of
                  individual freedom, fierce antagonism might occur at any moment. He had come home
                  inclined to the affirmative side of the question, and many times during the
                  evening it was on his lips to introduce the subject. But he was so sure that it
                  would prove a theme of sharp discussion, that he had not the courage to risk the
                  consequences.
               There was peace again after this conflict, but it was not, by any means, a hopeful
                  peace. It had no well-considered basis. The causes which had produced a struggle
                  were still in existence, and liable to become active, by provocation, at any
                  moment. No change had taken place in the characters, dispositions, temperaments or
                  general views of life in either of the parties. Strife had ceased between them
                  only in consequence of the pain it involved. A deep conviction of this fact so
                  sobered the mind of Mr. Emerson, and altered, in consequence, his manner toward
                  Irene, that she felt its reserve and coldness as a rebuke that chilled the warmth
                  of her tender impulses.
               And this manner did not greatly change as the days and weeks moved onward. Memory
                  kept too vividly in the mind of Emerson that one act, and the danger of its
                  repetition on some sudden provocation. He could not feel safe and at ease with his
                  temple of peace built close to a slumbering volcano, which was liable at any
                  moment to blaze forth and bury its fair proportions in lava and ashes.
               Irene did not comprehend her husband's state of mind. She felt painfully the
                  change in his manner, but failed in reaching the true cause. Sometimes she
                  attributed his coldness to resentment;
                  sometimes to defect of love; and sometimes to a settled determination on his part
                  to inflict punishment. Sometimes she spent hours alone, weeping over these sad
                  ruins of her peace, and sometimes, in a spirit of revolt, she laid down for
                  herself a line of conduct intended to react against her husband. But something in
                  his calm, kind, self-reliant manner, when she looked into his face, broke down her
                  purpose. She was afraid of throwing herself against a rock which, while standing
                  immovable, might bruise her tender limbs or extinguish life in the strong
                  concussion.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.
               
                  BOTH Emerson and his wife came up from this experience changed in
                  themselves and toward each other. A few days had matured them beyond what might
                  have been looked for in as many years. Life suddenly put on more sober hues, and
                  the future laid off its smiles and beckonings onward to greener fields and
                  mountain-heights of felicity. There was a certain air of manly self-confidence, a
                  firmer, more deliberate way of expressing himself on all subjects, and an evidence
                  of mental clearness and strength, which gave to Irene the impression of power and
                  superiority not wholly agreeable to her self-love, yet awakening emotions of pride
                  in her husband when she contrasted him with other men. As a man among men, he was,
                  as he had ever been, her beau ideal; but as a husband, she felt a daily increasing
                  spirit of resistance and antagonism, and it required constant watchfulness over
                  herself to prevent this feeling from exhibiting itself in act.
               On the part of Emerson, the more he thought about this subject of the husband's
                  relative duties and prerogatives—thought as a man and as a lawyer yer—the more strongly did he feel about it, and the
                  more tenacious of his assumed rights did he become. Matters which seemed in the
                  beginning of such light importance as scarcely to attract his attention, now
                  loomed up before him as things of moment. Thus, if he spoke of their doing some
                  particular thing in a certain way, and Irene suggested a different way, instead of
                  yielding to her view, he would insist upon his own. If she tried to show him a
                  reason why her way was best, he would give no weight to her argument or
                  representation. On the other hand, it is but just to say that he rarely opposed
                  her independent suggestions or interfered with her freedom; and if she had been as
                  considerate toward him, the danger of trouble would have been lessened.
               It is the little foxes that spoil the tender grapes, and so it is the little
                  reactions of two spirits against each other that spoil the tender blossoms of love
                  and destroy the promised vintage. Steadily, day by day, and week by week, were
                  these light reactions marring the happiness of our undisciplined young friends,
                  and destroying in them germ after germ, and bud after bud, which, if left to
                  growth and development, would have brought forth ripe, luscious fruit in the later
                  summer of their lives. Trifles, light as air were noticed, and their importance
                  magnified. Words, looks, actions, insignificant in themselves, were made to
                  represent states of will or antagonism which really had no existence.
               Unhappily for their peace, Irene had a brooding disposition. She held in her
                  memory utterances and actions forgotten by her husband, and, by dwelling upon,
                  magnified and gave them an importance to which they were not entitled. Still more
                  unhappily for their peace, Irene met about this time, and became attached to, a
                  lady of fine intellectual attainments and fascinating manners, who was an
                  extremist in opinion on the subject of sexual equality. She was married, but to a
                  man greatly her inferior, though possessing some literary talent, which he managed
                  to turn to better account than she did her finer powers. He had been attracted by
                  her brilliant qualities, and in approaching her scorched his wings, and ever after
                  lay at her feet. She had no very high respect for him, but found a husband on many
                  accounts a convenient thing, and so held on to the appendage. If he had been man
                  enough to remain silent on the themes she was so fond of discussing on all
                  occasions, people of common sense and common perception would have respected him
                  for what he was worth. But he gloried in his bondage, and rattled his chains as
                  gleefully as if he were discoursing sweet music. What she announced oracularly, he
                  attempted to demonstrate by bald and feeble arguments. He was the false
                  understanding to her perverted will.
               The name of this lady was Mrs. Talbot. Irene met her soon after her marriage and
                  removal to New York, and was charmed
                  with her from the beginning. Mr. Emerson, on the contrary, liked neither her nor
                  her sentiments, and considered her a dangerous friend for his wife. He expressed
                  himself freely in regard to her at the commencement of the intimacy; but Irene
                  took her part so warmly, and used such strong language in her favor, that Emerson
                  deemed it wisest not to create new sentiments in her favor out of opposition to
                  himself.
               Within a week from that memorable Christmas day on which Irene came back from Ivy
                  Cliff, Mrs. Talbot, who had taken a fancy to the spirited, independent,
                  undisciplined wife of Emerson, called in to see her new friend. Irene received her
                  cordially. She was, in fact, of all her acquaintances, the one she most desired to
                  meet.
               "I'm right glad you thought of making me a call," said Mrs. Emerson, as they sat
                  down together. "I've felt as dull all the morning as an anchorite."
               "You dull!" Mrs. Talbot affected surprise, as she glanced round the tasteful room
                  in which they were sitting. "What is there to cloud your mind? With such a home
                  and such a husband as you possess life ought to be one long, bright holiday."
               "Good things in their way," replied Mrs. Emerson. "But not everything."
               She said this in a kind of thoughtless deference to Mrs. Talbot's known views on
                  the subject of homes and husbands, which she had not hesitated to call women's
                  prisons and women's jailers.
               "Indeed! And have you made that discovery?"
               Mrs. Talbot laughed a low, gurgling sort of laugh, leaning, at the same time, in a
                  confidential kind of way, closer to Mrs. Emerson.
               "Discovery!"
               "Yes."
               "It is no discovery," said Mrs. Emerson. "The fact is self-evident. There is much
                  that a woman needs for happiness beside a home and a husband."
               "Right, my young friend, right!" Mrs. Talbot's manner grew earnest. "No truer
                  words were ever spoken. Yes—yes—a woman needs a great deal more than these to fill
                  the measure of her happiness; and it is through the attempt to restrict and limit
                  her to such poor substitutes for a world-wide range and freedom that she has been
                  so dwarfed in mental stature, and made the unhappy creature and slave of man's
                  hard ambition and indomitable love of power. There were Amazons of old—as the
                  early Greeks knew to their cost—strong, self-reliant, courageous women, who
                  acknowledged no human superiority. Is the Amazonian spirit dead in the earth? Not
                  so! It is alive, and clothing itself with will, power and persistence. Already it
                  is grasping the rein, and the mettled steed stands impatient to feel the rider's
                  impulse in the saddle. The cycle of woman's degradation and humiliation is
                  completed. A new era in the world's
                  social history has dawned for her, and the mountain-tops are golden with the
                  coming day."
               Irene listened with delight and even enthusiasm to these sentiments, uttered with
                  ardor and eloquence.
               "It is not woman's fault, taking her in the aggregate, that she is so weak in body
                  and mind, and such a passive slave to man's will," continued Mrs. Talbot. "In the
                  retrocession of races toward barbarism mere muscle, in which alone man is superior
                  to woman, prevailed. Physical strength set itself up as master. Might made right.
                  And so unhappy woman was degraded below man, and held to the earth, until nearly
                  all independent life has been crushed out of her. As civilization has lifted
                  nation after nation out of the dark depths of barbarism, the condition of woman
                  physically has been improved. For the sake of his children, if from no better
                  motive, man has come to treat his wife with a more considerate kindness. If she is
                  still but the hewer of his wood and the drawer of his water, he has, in many
                  cases, elevated her to the position of dictatress in these humble affairs. He
                  allows her 'help!' But, mentally and socially, he continues to degrade her. In law
                  she is scarcely recognized, except as a criminal. She is punished if she does
                  wrong, but has no legal protection in her rights as an independent human being.
                  She is only man's shadow. The public opinion that affects her is made by him. The
                  earliest literature of a country is man's expression; and in this man's view of
                  woman is always apparent. The sentiment is repeated generation after generation,
                  and age after age, until the barbarous idea comes down, scarcely questioned, to
                  the days of high civilization, culture and refinement.
               "Here, my young friend, you have the simple story of woman's degradation in this
                  age of the world. Now, so long as she submits, man will hold her in fetters. Power
                  and dominion are sweet. If a man cannot govern a state, he will be content to
                  govern a household—but govern he will, if he can find anywhere submissive
                  subjects."
               "He is born a tyrant; that I have always felt," said Mrs. Emerson. "You see it in
                  a family of sisters and brothers. The boys always attempt to rule their sisters,
                  and if the latter do not submit, then comes discord and contention."
               "I have seen this, in hundreds of instances," replied Mrs. Talbot. "It was fully
                  illustrated in my own case. I had two brothers, who undertook to exercise their
                  love of domineering on me. But they did not find a passive subject—no, not by any
                  means. I was never obedient to their will, for I had one of my own. We made the
                  house often a bedlam for our poor mother; but I never gave way—no, not for an
                  instant, come what might. I had different stuff in me from that of common girls,
                  and in time the boys were glad to let me alone."
               
               "Are your brothers living?" asked Mrs. Emerson.
               "Yes. One resides in New York, and the other in Boston. One is a merchant, the
                  other a physician."
               "How was it as you grew older?"
               "About the same. They are like nearly all men—despisers of woman's intellect."
               Irene sighed, and, letting her eyes fall to the floor, sat lost in thought for
                  some moments. The suggestions of her friend were not producing agreeable states of
                  mind.
               "They reject the doctrine of an equality in the sexes?" said Mrs. Emerson.
               "Of course. All men do that," replied Mrs. Talbot.
               "Your husband among the rest?"
               "Talbot? Oh, he's well enough in his way!" The lady spoke lightly, tossing her
                  head in a manner that involved both indifference and contempt. "I never take him
                  into account when discussing these matters. That point was settled between us long
                  and long ago. We jog on without trouble. Talbot thinks as I do about the women—or
                  pretends that he does, which is all the same."
               "A rare exception to the general run of husbands," said Irene, thinking at the
                  same time how immeasurably superior Mr. Emerson was to this weakling, and
                  despising him in her heart for submitting to be ruled by a woman. Thus nature and
                  true perception spoke in her, even while she was seeking to blind herself by false
                  reasonings.
               "Yes, he's a rare exception; and it's well for us both that it is so. If he were
                  like your husband, for instance, one of us would have been before the legislature
                  for a divorce within twelve months of our marriage night."
               "Like my husband! What do you mean?" Mrs. Emerson drew herself up, with half real
                  and half affected surprise.
               "Oh, he's one of your men who have positive qualities about them—strong in
                  intellect and will."
               Irene felt pleased with the compliment bestowed upon her husband.
               "But wrong in his ideas of woman."
               "How do you know?" asked Irene.
               "How do I know? As I know all men with whom I come in contact. I probe them."
               "And you have probed my husband?"
               "Undoubtedly."
               "And do not regard him as sound on this subject?"
               "No sounder than other men of his class. He regards woman as man's inferior."
               "I think you state the case too strongly," said Mrs. Emerson, a red spot burning
                  on her cheek. "He thinks them mentally different."
               "Of course he does."
               "But not different as to superiority and inferiority," replied Irene.
               
               "Mere hair-splitting, my child. If they are mentally different, one must be more
                  highly organized than the other, and of course, superior. Mr. Emerson thinks a
                  man's rational powers stronger than a woman's, and that, therefore, he must direct
                  in affairs generally, and she follow his lead. I know; I've talked with and drawn
                  him out on this subject."
               Mrs. Emerson sighed again faintly, while her eyes dropped from the face of her
                  visitor and sunk to the floor. A shadow was falling on her spirit—a weight coming
                  down with a gradually increasing pressure upon her heart. She remembered the night
                  of her return from Ivy Cliff and the language then used by her husband on this
                  very subject, which was mainly in agreement with the range of opinions attributed
                  to him by Mrs. Talbot.
               "Marriage, to a spirited woman," she remarked, in a pensive undertone, "is a
                  doubtful experiment."
               "Always," returned her friend. "As woman stands now in the estimate of man, her
                  chances for happiness are almost wholly on the side of old-maidism. Still, freedom
                  is the price of struggle and combat; and woman will first have to show, in actual
                  strife, that she is the equal of her present lord."
               "Then you would turn every home into a battlefield?" said Mrs. Emerson.
               "Every home in which there is a tyrant and an oppressor," was the prompt answer.
                  "Many fair lands, in all ages, have been trampled down ruthlessly by the iron feet
                  of war; and that were better, as the price of freedom, than slavery."
               Irene sighed again, and was again silent.
               "What," she asked, "if the oppressor is so much stronger than the oppressed that
                  successful resistance is impossible? that with every struggle the links of the
                  chain that binds her sink deeper into her quivering flesh?"
               "Every age and every land have seen noble martyrs in the cause of freedom. It is
                  better to die for liberty than live an ignoble slave," answered the tempter.
               "And I will die a free woman." This Irene said in her heart.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               IN BONDS.
               
                  SENTIMENTS like these, coming to Irene as they did while she was yet
                  chafing under a recent collision with her husband, and while the question of
                  submission was yet an open one, were near proving a quick-match to a slumbering
                  mine in her spirit, and had not her husband been in a more passive state than
                  usual, there might have been an explosion which would have driven them asunder
                  with such terrific force that reunion must have been next to impossible.
               It would have been well if their effects had died with the passing away of that
                  immediate danger. But as we think so we incline to act. Our sentiments are our
                  governors; and of all imperious tyrants, false sentiments are the most ruthless.
                  The beautiful, the true, the good they trample out of the heart with a fiery
                  malignity that knows no touch of pity; for the false is the bitter enemy of the
                  true and makes with it no terms of amity.
               The coldness which had followed their reconciliation might have gradually given
                  way before the warmth of genuine love, if Irene had been left to the counsels of
                  her own heart; if there had been no enemy to her peace, like Mrs. Talbot, to throw
                  in wild, vague thoughts of oppression and freedom among the half-developed
                  opinions which were forming in her mind. As it was, a jealous scrutiny of words
                  and actions took the place of that tender confidence which was coming back to
                  Irene's heart, and she became watchfully on the alert; not, as she might have
                  been, lovingly ministrant.
               Only a few days were permitted to elapse after the call of this unsafe friend
                  before Irene returned the visit, and spent two hours with her, conning over the
                  subject of woman's rights and woman's wrongs. Mrs. Talbot introduced her to
                  writers on the vexed question, who had touched the theme with argument, sarcasm,
                  invective and bold, brilliant, specious generalities; read to her from their
                  books; commented on their deductions, and uttered sentiments on the subject of
                  reform and resistance as radical as the most extreme.
               "We must agitate—we must act—we must do good deeds of valor and self-sacrifice for
                  our sex," she said, in her enthusiastic way. "Every woman, whether of high or low
                  condition, of humble powers or vigorous intellect, has a duty to perform, and she
                  is false to the honor and rights of her sex if she do not array herself on the
                  side of freedom. You have great responsibilities resting upon you, my young
                  friend. I say it soberly, even solemnly. Responsibilities which may not be
                  disregarded without evil consequences to yourself and others. You are young, clear-thoughted and resolute—have
                  will, purpose and endurance. You are married to a young man destined, I think, to
                  make his mark in the world; but, as I have said before, a false education has
                  given him erroneous ideas on this great and important subject. Now what is your
                  duty?"
               The lady paused as if for an answer.
               "What is your duty, my dear young friend?" she repeated.
               "I will answer for you," she continued. "Your duty is to be true to yourself and
                  to your sisters in bonds."
               "In bonds! I in bonds!" Mrs. Talbot touched her to the quick.
               "Are you a free woman?" The inquiry was calmly made.
               Irene started to the floor and moved across the room, then turned and came back
                  again. Her cheeks burned and her eyes flashed. She stood before Mrs. Talbot and
                  looked at her steadily.
               "The question has disturbed you?" said the lady.
               "It has," was the brief answer.
               "Why should it disturb you?"
               Irene did not answer.
               "I can tell you."
               "Say on."
               "You are in bonds, and feel the fetters."
               "Mrs. Talbot!"
               "It is so, my poor child, and you know it as well as I do. From the beginning of
                  our acquaintance I have seen this; and more than once, in our various
                  conversations, you have admitted the fact."
               "I?"
               "Yes, you."
               Irene let her thoughts run back through the sentiments and opinions which she had
                  permitted herself to utter in the presence of her friend, to see if she had so
                  fully betrayed herself. She could not recall the distinct language, but it was
                  plain that Mrs. Talbot had her secret, and therefore reserve on the subject was
                  useless.
               "Well," she said, after standing for some time before Mrs. Talbot, "if I am in
                  bonds, it is not because I do not worship freedom."
               "I know that," was the quickly-spoken answer. "And it is because I wish to see you
                  a free woman that I point to your bonds. Now is the time to break them—now, before
                  years have increased their strength—now, before habit has made tyranny a part of
                  your husband's nature. He is your ruler, because the social sentiment is in favor
                  of manly domination. There is hope for you now, and now only. You must begin the
                  work of reaction while both are young. Let your husband understand, from this
                  time, that you are his equal. It may go a little hard at first. He will, without
                  doubt, hold on to the reins, for power is sweet; but if there be true love for you
                  in his heart, he will yield in the struggle, and make you his companion and
                     equal, as you should be. If his love
                  be not genuine, why—"
               She checked herself. It might be going a step too far with her young friend to
                  utter the thought that was coming to her lips. Irene did not question her as to
                  what more she was about to say. There was stimulus enough in the words already
                  spoken. She felt all the strength of her nature rising into opposition.
               "Yes, I will be free," she said in her heart. "I will be his equal, not his
                  slave."
               "It may cost you some pain in the beginning," resumed the tempter.
               "I am not afraid of pain," said Irene.
               "A brave heart spoke there. I wish we had more on our side with the stuff you are
                  made of. There would be hope of a speedier reform than is now promised."
               "Heaven send the reform right early! It cannot come a day too soon." Irene spoke
                  with rising ardor.
               "It will be our own fault," said Mrs. Talbot, "if we longer bow our necks to the
                  yoke or move obedient to our task-masters. Let us lay the axe to the very root of
                  this evil and hew it down."
               "Even if we are crushed by the tree in falling," responded Irene, in the spirit of
                  a martyr.
               From this interview our wrong-directed young friend went home with more clearly
                  defined purposes touching her conduct toward her husband than she had hitherto
                  entertained. She saw him in a new aspect, and in a character more definitely
                  outlined. He loomed up in more colossal proportions, and put on sterner features.
                  All disguises were thrown away, and he stood forth, not a loving husband, but the
                  tyrant of her home. Weak, jealous, passion-tost child! how this strong,
                  self-willed, false woman of the world had bewildered her thoughts, and pushed her
                  forth into an arena of strife, where she could only beat about blindly, and hurt
                  herself and others, yet accomplish no good.
               From her interview with Mrs. Talbot, Irene went home, bearing more distinct ideas
                  of resistance in her mind. In this great crisis of her life she felt that she
                  needed just such a friend, who could give direction to her striving spirit, and
                  clothe for her in thoughts the native impulses that she knew only as a love of
                  freedom. She believed now that she understood herself better than before, and
                  comprehended more clearly her duties and responsibilities.
               It was in this mood of mind that she met her husband when he returned in the
                  afternoon from his office. Happily for them, he was in a quiet, non-resistant
                  state, and in a special good-humor with himself and the world. Professional
                  matters had shaped themselves to his wishes, and left his mind at peace. Irene
                  had, in consequence, everything pretty much her own way. Hartley did not fail to notice a certain sharpness of
                  manner about her, and a certain spiciness of sentiment when the subject of their
                  intermittent talks verged on themes relating to women; but he felt no inclination
                  whatever for argument or opposition, and so her arrows struck a polished shield,
                  and went gracefully and harmlessly aside.
               "Shall we go and have a merry laugh with Matthews to-night?" said Hartley, as they
                  sat at the tea-table. "I feel just in the humor."
               "No, I thank you," replied Irene, curtly. "I don't incline to the laughing mood,
                  just now."
               "Laughing is contagious," suggested Hartley.
               "I shall not take the infection to-night." And she balanced her little head with
                  the perpendicularity of a plumb-line.
               "Can't I persuade you?" He was in a real good-humor, and smiled as he said
                  this.
               "No, sir. You may waive both argument and persuasion. I am in earnest."
               "And when a woman is in earnest you might as well essay to move the Pillars of
                  Hercules."
               "You might as well in my case," answered Irene, without any softening of tone or
                  features.
               "Then I shall not attempt, after a hard day's work, a task so difficult. I am in a
                  mood for rest and quiet," said the young husband.
               "Perhaps," he resumed, after a little pause, "you may feel somewhat musical. There
                  is to be a vocal and instrumental concert to-night. What say you to going there? I
                  think I could enjoy some good singing, mightily."
               Irene closed her lips firmly, and shook her head.
               "Not musically inclined this evening?"
               "No," she replied.
               "Got a regular stay-at-home feeling?"
               "Yes."
               "Enough," said Hartley, with unshadowed good-humor, "we will stay at home."
               And he sung a snatch of the familiar song—"There's no place like home," rising, as
                  he did so, from the table, and offering Irene his arm. She could do no less than
                  accept the courtesy, and so they went up to their cozy sitting-room arm-in-arm—he
                  chatty, and she almost silent.
               "What's the matter, petty?" he asked, in a fond way, after trying for some time,
                  but in vain, to draw her out into pleasant conversation. "Ain't you well
                  to-night?"
               Now, so far as her bodily state was concerned, Irene never felt better in her
                  life. So she could not plead indisposition.
               "I feel well," she replied, glancing up into her husband's face in a cold,
                  embarrassed kind of way.
               "Then your looks belie your condition—that's all. If it isn't the body, it must be
                  the mind. What's gone wrong, darling?"
               The tenderness in Hartley's tones was genuine, and the heart of Irene leaped to
                  his voice with a responsive throe. But was he not her master and tyrant? How that thought chilled the sweet
                  impulse!
               "Nothing wrong," she answered, with a sadness of tone which she was unable to
                  conceal. "But I feel dull, and cannot help it."
               "You should have gone with me to laugh with Matthews. He would have shaken all
                  these cobwebs from your brain. Come! it is not yet too late."
               But the rebel spirit was in her heart; and to have acceded to he husband's wishes
                  would have been to submit herself to control.
               "You must excuse me," she replied. "I feel as if home were the better place for me
                  to-night."
               An impatient answer was on her tongue; but she checked its utterance, and spoke
                  from a better spirit.
               Not even as a lover had Hartley shown more considerate tenderness than marked all
                  his conduct toward Irene this evening. His mind was in a clear-seeing region, and
                  his feelings tranquil. The sphere of her antagonism failed to reach him. He did
                  not understand the meaning of her opposition to his wishes, and so pride,
                  self-love and self-will remained quiescent. How peacefully unconscious was he of
                  the fact that his feet were standing over a mine, and that a single spark of
                  passion struck from him would have sprung that mine in fierce explosion! He read
                  to Irene from a volume which he knew to be a favorite; talked to her about Ivy
                  Cliff and her father; suggested an early visit to the pleasant old river home; and
                  thus charmed away the evil spirits which had found a lodgment in her bosom.
               But how different it might have been!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE REFORMERS.
               
                  SOCIAL theories that favor our passions, peculiarities, defects of
                  character or weaknesses are readily adopted, and, with minds of an ardent temper,
                  often become hobbies. There is a class of persons who are never content with
                  riding their own hobbies; they must have others mount with them. All the world is
                  going wrong because it moves past them—trotting, pacing or galloping, as it may
                  be, upon its own hobbies. And so they try to arrest this movement or that, or,
                  gathering a company of aimless people, they galvanize them with their own wild
                  purposes, and start them forth into the world on Quixotic errands.
               These persons are never content to wait for the slow changes that are included in
                  all orderly developments. Because a thing seems right to them in the abstract, it
                  must be done now. They cannot wait for old things to pass away, as preliminary to
                  the inauguration of what is new.
               "If I had the power," we have heard one of this class say, "evil and sorrow and
                  pain should cease from the earth in a moment." And in saying this the thought was
                  not concealed that God had this power, but failed to exercise it. With them no
                  questions of expediency, no regard for time-endowed prejudices, no weak spirit of
                  waiting, no looking for the fullness of time could have any influence. What they
                  willed to be done must be done now; and they were impatient and angry at every one
                  who stood in their way or opposed their theories.
               In most cases, you will find these "reformers," as they generally style
                  themselves, governed more by a love of ruling and influencing others than by a
                  spirit of humanity. They are one-sided people, and can only see one side of a
                  subject in clear light. It matters little to them what is destroyed, so that they
                  can build. If they possess the gift of language, either as writers or talkers—have
                  wit, brilliancy and sarcasm—they make disciples of the less gifted, and influence
                  larger or smaller circles of men and women. Flattered by this homage to their
                  talents, they grow more ardent in the cause which they have espoused, and see, or
                  affect to see, little else of any importance in the world. They do some good and
                  much harm. Good, in drawing general attention to social evils that need
                  reforming—evil, in causing weak people to forget common duties in their ambition
                  to set the world right.
               There is always danger in breaking suddenly away from the regular progression of
                  things and taking the lead in some new and antagonistic movement ment. Such things must and will be; but they who
                  set up for social reformers must be men and women of pure hearts, clear minds and
                  the broadest human sympathies. They must be lovers of their kind, not lovers of
                  themselves; brave as patriots, not as soldiers of fortune who seek for booty and
                  renown.
               Not many of these true reformers—all honor to them!—are found among the noisy
                  coteries that infest the land and turn so many foolish people away from real
                  duties.
               One of the dangers attendant on association with the class to which we refer lies
                  in the fact that they draw around them certain free-thinking, sensual personages,
                  of no very stable morality, who are ready for anything that gives excitement to
                  their morbid conditions of mind. Social disasters, of the saddest kind, are
                  constantly occurring through this cause. Men and women become at first unsettled
                  in their opinions, then unsettled in their conduct, and finally throw off all
                  virtuous restraint.
               Mrs. Talbot, the new friend of Mrs. Emerson, belonged to the better sort of
                  reformers in one respect. She was a pure-minded woman; but this did not keep her
                  out of the circle of those who were of freer thought and action. Being an
                  extremist on the subject of woman's social position, she met and assimilated with
                  others on the basis of a common sentiment. This threw her in contact with many
                  from whom she would have shrunk with instinctive aversion had she known their true
                  quality. Still, the evil to her was a gradual wearing away, by the power of steady
                  attrition, of old, true, conservative ideas in regard to the binding force of
                  marriage. There was always a great deal said on this subject, in a light way, by
                  persons for whose opinions on other subjects she had the highest respect, and this
                  had its influence. Insensibly her views and feelings changed, until she found
                  herself, in some cases, the advocate of sentiments that once would have been
                  rejected with instinctive repugnance.
               This was the woman who was about acquiring a strong influence over the
                  undisciplined, self-willed and too self-reliant young wife of Hartley Emerson; and
                  this was the class of personages among whom her dangerous friend was about
                  introducing her. At the house of Mrs. Talbot, where Irene became a frequent
                  visitor, she met a great many brilliant, talented and fascinating people, of whom
                  she often spoke to her husband, for she was too independent to have any
                  concealments. She knew that he did no like Mrs. Talbot, but this rather inclined
                  her to a favorable estimation, and really led to a more frequent intercourse than
                  would otherwise have been the case.
               Once a week Mrs. Talbot held a kind of conversazione, at which brilliant people
                  and people with hobbies met to hear themselves talk. Mr. and Mrs. Emerson had a
                  standing invitation to be present ent
                  at these reunions, and, as Irene wished to go, her husband saw it best not to
                  interpose obstacles. Besides, as he knew that she went to Mrs. Talbot's often in
                  the day-time, and met a good many people there, he wished to see for himself who
                  they were, and judge for himself as to their quality. Of the men who frequented
                  the parlors of Mrs. Talbot, the larger number had some prefix to their names, as
                  Professor, Doctor, Major, or Colonel. Most of the ladies were of a decidedly
                  literary turn—some had written books, some were magazine contributors, one was a
                  physician, and one a public lecturer. Nothing against them in all this, but much
                  to their honor if their talents and acquirements were used for the common
                  good.
               The themes of conversation at these weekly gatherings were varied, but social
                  relations and social reform were in most cases the leading topics. Two or three
                  evenings at Mrs. Talbot's were enough to satisfy Mr. Emerson that the people who
                  met there were not of a character to exercise a good influence upon his wife. But
                  how was he to keep her from associations that evidently presented strong
                  attractions? Direct opposition he feared to make, for the experience of a few
                  months had been sufficient to show him that she would resist all attempts on his
                  part to exercise a controlling influence.
               He tried at first to keep her away by feigning slight indisposition, or weariness,
                  or disinclination to go out, and so lead her to exercise some self-denial denial
                  for his sake. But her mind was too firmly bent on going to be turned so easily
                  from its purpose; she did not consider trifles like these of sufficient importance
                  to interfere with the pleasures of an evening at one of Mrs. Talbot's
                  conversaziones. Mr. Emerson felt hurt at his wife's plain disregard of his comfort
                  and wishes, and said within himself, with bitterness of feeling, that she was
                  heartless.
               One day, at dinner-time, he said to her—
               "I shall not be able to go to Mrs. Talbot's to-night."
               "Why?" Irene looked at her husband in surprise, and with a shade of disappointment
                  on her countenance.
               "I have business of importance with a gentleman who resides in Brooklyn, and have
                  promised to meet him at his house this evening."
               "You might call for me on your return," said Irene.
               "The time of my return will be uncertain. I cannot now tell how late I may be
                  detained in Brooklyn."
               "I'm sorry." And Irene bent down her eyes in a thoughtful way. "I promised Mrs.
                  Talbot to be there to-night," she added.
               "Mrs. Talbot will excuse you when she knows why you were absent."
               "I don't know about that," said Irene.
               "She must be a very unreasonable woman," remarked Emerson.
               
               "That doesn't follow. You could take me there, and Mrs. Talbot find me an escort
                  home."
               "Who?" Emerson knit his brows and glanced sharply at his wife. The suggestion
                  struck him unpleasantly.
               "Major Willard, for instance;" and she smiled in a half-amused, half-mischievous
                  way.
               "You cannot be in earnest, surely?" said Emerson.
               "Why not?" queried his wife, looking at her husband with calm, searching eyes.
               "You would not, in the first place, be present there, unaccompanied by your
                  husband; and, in the second place, I hardly think my wife would be seen in the
                  street, at night, on the arm of Major Willard."
               Mr. Emerson spoke like a man who was in earnest.
               "Do you know anything wrong of Major Willard?" asked Irene.
               "I know nothing about him, right or wrong," was replied. "But, if I have any skill
                  in reading men, he is very far from being a fine specimen."
               "Why, Hartley! You have let some prejudice come in to warp your estimation."
               "No. I have mixed some with men, and, though my opportunity for observation has
                  not been large, I have met two or three of your Major Willards. They are polished
                  and attractive on the surface, but unprincipled and corrupt."
               "I cannot believe this of Major Willard," said Irene.
               "It might be safer for you to believe it," replied Hartley.
               "Safer! I don't understand you! You talk in riddles? How safer?"
               Irene showed some irritation.
               "Safer as to your good name," replied her husband.
               "My good name is in my own keeping" said the young wife, proudly.
               "Then, for Heaven's sake, remain its safe custodian," replied Emerson. "Don't let
                  even the shadow of a man like Major Willard fall upon it."
               "I am sorry to see you so prejudiced," said Irene, coldly; "and sorry, still
                  further, that you have so poor an opinion of your wife."
               "You misapprehend me," returned Hartley. "I am neither prejudiced nor suspicious.
                  But seeing danger in your way, as a prudent man I lift a voice of warning. I am
                  out in the world more than you are, and see more of its worst side. My profession
                  naturally opens to me doors of observation that are shut to many. I see the inside
                  of character, where others look only upon the fair outside."
               "And so learn to be suspicious of everybody," said Irene.
               "No; only to read indices that to many others are unintelligible."
               
               "I must learn to read them also."
               "It would be well if your sex and place in the world gave the right opportunity,"
                  replied Hartley.
               "Truly said. And that touches the main question. Women, immured as they now are,
                  and never suffered to go out into the world unless guarded by husband, brother or
                  discreet managing friend, will continue as weak and undiscriminating as the great
                  mass of them now are. But, so far as I am concerned, this system is destined to
                  change. I must be permitted a larger liberty, and opportunities for independent
                  observation. I wish to read character for myself, and make up my own mind in
                  regard to the people I meet."
               "I am only sorry," rejoined her husband, "that your first effort at reading
                  character and making up independent opinions in regard to men and principles had
                  not found scope in another direction. I am afraid that, in trying to get close
                  enough to the people you meet at Mrs. Talbot's for accurate observation, you will
                  draw so near to dangerous fires as to scorch your garments."
               "Complimentary to Mrs. Talbot!"
               "The remark simply gives you my estimate of some of her favored visitors."
               "And complimentary to your wife," added Irene.
               "My wife," said Hartley, in a serious voice, "is, like myself, young and
                  inexperienced, and should be particularly cautious in regard to all new
                  acquaintances quaintances—men or women—particularly if they be some years her
                  senior, and particularly if they show any marked desire to cultivate her
                  acquaintance. People with a large worldly experience, like most of those we have
                  met at Mrs. Talbot's, take you and I at disadvantage. They read us through at a
                  single sitting, while it may take us months, even years, to penetrate the
                  disguises they know so well how to assume."
               "Nearly all of which, touching the pleasant people we meet at Mrs. Talbot's, is
                  assumed," replied Irene, not at all moved by her husband's earnestness.
               "You may learn to your sorrow, when the knowledge comes too late," he responded,
                  "that even more than I have assumed is true."
               "I am not in fear of the sorrow," was answered lightly.
               As Irene, against all argument, persuasion and remonstrance on the part of her
                  husband, persisted in her determination to go to Mrs. Talbot's, he engaged a
                  carriage to take her there and to call for her at eleven o'clock.
               "Come away alone," he said, with impressive earnestness, as he parted from her.
                  "Don't let any courteous offer induce you to accept an attendant when you return
                  home."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               A STARTLING EXPERIENCE.
               
                  MRS. EMERSON did not feel altogether comfortable in mind as she rode
                  away from her door alone. She was going unattended by her husband, and against his
                  warmly-spoken remonstrance, to pass an evening with people of whom she knew but
                  little, and against whom he had strong prejudices.
               "It were better to have remained at home," she said to herself more than once
                  before her arrival at Mrs. Talbot's. The marked attentions she received, as well
                  from Mrs. Talbot as from several of her guests, soon brought her spirits up to the
                  old elevation. Among those who seemed most attracted by her was Major Willard, to
                  whom reference has already been made.
               "Where is your husband?" was almost his first inquiry on meeting her. "I do not
                  see him in the room."
               "He had to meet a gentleman on business over in Brooklyn this evening," replied
                  Irene.
               "Ah, business!" said the major, with a shrug, a movement of the eyebrows and a
                  motion in the corners of his mouth which were not intelligible signs to Mrs.
                  Emerson. That they meant something more than he was prepared to utter in words,
                  she was satisfied, but whether of favorable or unfavorable import touching her
                  absent husband, she could not tell. The impression on her mind was not agreeable,
                  and she could not help remembering what Hartley had said about the major.
               "I notice," remarked the latter, "that we have several ladies here who come
                  usually without their husbands. Gentlemen are not always attracted by the feast of
                  reason and the flow of soul. They require something more substantial. Oysters and
                  terrapin are nearer to their fancy."
               "Not more to my husband's fancy," replied Mrs. Emerson, in a tone of vindication,
                  as well as rebuke at such freedom of speech.
               "Beg your pardon a thousand times, madam!" returned Major Willard, "if I have even
                  seemed to speak lightly of one who holds the honored position of your husband.
                  Nothing could have been farther from my thought. I was only trifling."
               Mrs. Emerson smiled her forgiveness, and the major became more polite and
                  attentive than before. But his attentions were not wholly agreeable. Something in
                  the expression of his eyes as he looked at her produced an unpleasant repulsion.
                  She was constantly remembering some of the cautions spoken by Hartley in reference
                  to this man, and she wished scores of times that he would turn his attentions to some one else. But the major
                  seemed to have no eyes for any other lady in the room.
               In spite of the innate repulsion to which we have referred, Mrs. Emerson was
                  flattered by the polished major's devotion of himself almost wholly to her during
                  the evening, and she could do no less in return than make herself as agreeable as
                  possible.
               At eleven o'clock she had notice that her carriage was at the door. The major was
                  by, and heard the communication. So, when she came down from the dressing-room, he
                  was waiting for her in the hall, ready cloaked and gloved.
               "No, Major Willard, I thank you," she said, on his making a movement to accompany
                  her. She spoke very positively.
               "I cannot see you go home unattended." And the major bowed with graceful
                  politeness.
               "Oh no," said Mrs. Talbot. "You must not leave my house alone. Major, I shall
                  expect you to attend my young friend."
               It was in vain that Mrs. Emerson objected and remonstrated, the gallant major
                  would listen to nothing; and so, perforce, she had to yield. After handing her
                  into the carriage, he spoke a word or two in an undertone to the driver, and then
                  entering, took his place by her side.
               Mrs. Emerson felt strangely uncomfortable and embarrassed, and shrunk as far from
                  her companion as the narrow space they occupied would permit; while he, it seemed
                  to her, approached as she receded. There was a different tone in his voice when he
                  spoke as the carriage moved away from any she had noticed heretofore. He drew his
                  face near to hers in speaking, but the rattling of the wheels made hearing
                  difficult. He had, during the evening, referred to a star actress then occupying
                  public attention, of whom some scandalous things had been said, and declared his
                  belief in her innocence. To Mrs. Emerson's surprise—almost disgust—his first
                  remark after they were seated in the carriage was about this actress. Irene did
                  not respond to his remark.
               "Did you ever meet her in private circles?" he next inquired.
               "No, sir," she answered, coldly.
               "I have had that pleasure," said Major Willard.
               There was no responsive word.
               "She is a most fascinating woman," continued the major. "That Juno-like beauty
                  which so distinguishes her on the stage scarcely shows itself in the drawing-room.
                  On the stage she is queenly—in private, soft, voluptuous and winning as a houri. I
                  don't wonder that she has crowds of admirers."
               The major's face was close to that of his companion, who felt a wild sense of
                  repugnance, so strong as to be almost suffocating. The carriage bounded as the
                  wheels struck an inequality in the
                  street, throwing them together with a slight concussion. The major laid his hand
                  upon that of Mrs. Emerson, as if to support her. But she instantly withdrew the
                  hand he had presumed to touch. He attempted the same familiarity again, but she
                  placed both hands beyond the possibility of accidental or designed contact with
                  his, and shrank still closer into the corner of the carriage, while her heart
                  fluttered and a tremor ran through her frame.
               Major Willard spoke again of the actress, but Mrs. Emerson made no reply.
               "Where are we going?" she asked, after the lapse of some ten minutes, glancing
                  from the window and seeing, instead of the tall rows of stately houses which lined
                  the streets along the whole distance between Mrs. Talbot's residence and her own
                  house, mean-looking tenements.
               "The driver knows his route, I presume," was answered.
               "This is not the way, I am sure," said Mrs. Emerson, a slight quiver of alarm in
                  her voice.
               "Our drivers know the shortest cuts," replied the major, "and these do not always
                  lead through the most attractive quarters of the town."
               Mrs. Emerson shrunk back again in her seat and was silent. Her heart was throbbing
                  with a vague fear. Suddenly the carriage stopped and the driver alighted.
               "This is not my home," said Mrs. Emerson, as the driver opened the door, and the
                  major stepped out upon the pavement.
               "Oh, yes. This is No. 240 L—— street. Yes, ma'am," added the driver, "this is the
                  number that the gentleman told me."
               "What gentleman?" asked Mrs. Emerson.
               "This gentleman, if you please, ma'am."
               "Drive me home instantly, or this may cost you dear!" said Mrs. Emerson, in as
                  stern a voice as surprise and fear would permit her to assume.
               "Madam—" Major Willard commenced speaking.
               "Silence, sir! Shut the door, driver, and take me home instantly!"
               The major made a movement as if he were about to enter the carriage, when Mrs.
                  Emerson said, in a low, steady, threatening voice—
               "At your peril, remain outside! Driver, shut the door. If you permit that man to
                  enter, my husband will hold you to a strict account."
               "Stand back!" exclaimed the driver, in a resolute voice.
               But the major was not to be put off in this way. He did not move from the open
                  door of the carriage. In the next moment the driver's vigorous arm had hurled him
                  across the pavement. The door was shut, the box mounted and the carriage whirled
                  away, before the astonished man could rise, half stunned, from the place where he
                  fell. A few low, bitter, impotent
                  curses fell from his lips, and then he walked slowly away, muttering threats of
                  vengeance.
               It was nearly twelve o'clock when Irene reached home.
               "You are late," said her husband, as she came in.
               "Yes," she replied, "later than I intended."
               "What's the matter?" he inquired, looking at her narrowly.
               "Why do you ask?" She tried to put on an air of indifference.
               "You look pale and your voice is disturbed."
               "The driver went through parts of the town in returning that made me feel nervous,
                  as I thought of my lonely and unprotected situation."
               "Why did he do that?"
               "It wasn't to make the way shorter, for the directest route would have brought me
                  home ten minutes ago. I declare! The fellow's conduct made me right nervous. I
                  thought a dozen improbable things."
               "It is the last time I will employ him," said Hartley. "How dare he go a single
                  block away from a direct course, at this late hour?" He spoke with rising
                  indignation.
               At first, Irene resolved to inform her husband of Major Willard's conduct, but it
                  will be seen by this conversation that she had changed her mind, at least for the
                  present. Two or three things caused her to hesitate until she could turn the
                  matter over in her thoughts more carefully. Pride had its influence. She did not
                  care to admit that she had been in error and Hartley right as to Major Willard.
                  But there was a more sober aspect of the case. Hartley was excitable, brave and
                  strong-willed. She feared the consequences that might follow if he were informed
                  of Major Willard's outrageous conduct. A personal collision she saw to be almost
                  inevitable in this event. Mortifying publicity, if not the shedding of blood,
                  would ensue.
               So, for the present at least, she resolved to keep her own secret, and evaded the
                  close queries of her husband, who was considerably disturbed by the alleged
                  conduct of the driver.
               One good result followed this rather startling experience. Irene said no more
                  about attending the conversaziones of Mrs. Talbot. She did not care to meet Major
                  Willard again, and as he was a regular visitor at Mrs. Talbot's, she couldn't go
                  there without encountering him. Her absence on the next social evening was
                  remarked by her new friend, who called on her the next day.
               "I didn't see you last night," said the agreeable Mrs. Talbot.
               "No, I remained at home," replied Mrs. Emerson, the smile with which she had
                  received her friend fading partly away.
               
               "Not indisposed, I hope?"
               "No."
               "But your husband was! Talk it right out, my pretty one!" said Mrs. Talbot, in a
                  gay, bantering tone. "Indisposed in mind. He don't like the class of people one
                  meets at my house. Men of his stamp never do."
               It was on the lips of Mrs. Emerson to say that there might be ground for his
                  dislike of some who were met there. But she repressed even a remote reference to
                  an affair that, for the gravest of reasons, she still desired to keep as her own
                  secret. So she merely answered—
               "The indisposition of mind was on my part."
               "On your part? Oh dear! That alters the case. And, pray, what occasioned this
                  indisposition? Not a previous mental surfeit, I hope."
               "Oh no. I never get a surfeit in good company. But people's states vary, as you
                  are aware. I had a stay-at-home feeling last night, and indulged myself."
               "Very prettily said, my dear. I understand you entirely, and like your frank,
                  outspoken way. This is always best with friends. I desire all of mine to enjoy the
                  largest liberty—to come and see me when they feel like it, and to stay away when
                  they don't feel like coming. We had a delightful time. Major Willard was there.
                  He's a charming man! Several times through the evening he asked for you. I really
                  think your absence worried him. Now, don't blush! A handsome, accomplished man may
                  admire a handsome and accomplished woman, without anything wrong being involved.
                  Because one has a husband, is she not to be spoken to or admired by other men?
                  Nonsense! That is the world's weak prudery, or rather the common social sentiment
                  based on man's tyranny over woman."
               As Mrs. Talbot ran on in this strain, Mrs. Emerson had time to reflect and school
                  her exterior. Toward Major Willard her feelings were those of disgust and
                  detestation. The utterance of his name shocked her womanly delicacy, but when it
                  was coupled with a sentiment of admiration for her, and an intimation of the
                  probable existence of something reciprocal on her part, it was with difficulty
                  that she could restrain a burst of indignant feeling. But her strong will helped
                  her, and she gave no intelligible sign of what was really passing in her thoughts.
                  The subject being altogether disagreeable, she changed it as soon as possible.
               In this interview with Mrs. Talbot a new impression in regard to her was made on
                  the mind of Mrs. Emerson. Something impure seemed to pervade the mental atmosphere
                  with which she was surrounded, and there seemed to be things involved in what she
                  said that shadowed a latitude in morals wholly outside of Christian duty. When
                     they separated, much of the
                  enthusiasm which Irene had felt for this specious, unsafe acquaintance was gone,
                  and her power over her was in the same measure lessened.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               CAPTIVATED AGAIN.
               
                  BUT it is not so easily escaping from a woman like Mrs. Talbot, when
                  an acquaintanceship is once formed. In less than a week she called again, and this
                  time in company with another lady, a Mrs. Lloyd, whom she introduced as a very
                  dear friend. Mrs. Lloyd was a tall, spare woman, with an intellectual face,
                  bright, restless, penetrating eyes, a clear musical voice, subdued, but winning
                  manners. She was a little past thirty, though sickness of body or mind had stolen
                  the bloom of early womanhood, and carried her forward, apparently, to the verge of
                  forty. Mrs. Emerson had never before heard of this lady. But half an hour's
                  conversation completely captivated her. Mrs. Lloyd had traveled through Europe,
                  and spoke in a familiar way of the celebrated personages whom she had met
                  abroad,—talked of art, music and architecture, literature, artists and literary
                  men—displayed such high culture and easy acquaintance with themes quite above the
                  range usually met with among ordinary people, that Mrs. Emerson felt really
                  flattered with the compliment of a visit.
               
               "My good friend, Mrs. Talbot," said Mrs. Lloyd, during their conversation, "has
                  spoken of you so warmly that I could do no less than make overtures for an
                  acquaintance, which I trust may prove agreeable. I anticipated the pleasure of
                  seeing you at her house last week, but was disappointed."
               "The interview of to-day," remarked Mrs. Talbot, coming in adroitly, "will only
                  make pleasanter your meeting on to-morrow night."
               "At your house?" said Mrs. Lloyd.
               "Yes." And Mrs. Talbot threw a winning smile upon Mrs. Emerson. "You will be
                  there?"
               "I think not," was replied.
               "Oh, but you must come, my dear Mrs. Emerson! We cannot do without you."
               "I have promised my husband to go out with him."
               "Your husband!" The voice of Mrs. Talbot betrayed too plainly her contempt of
                  husbands.
               "Yes, my husband." Mrs. Emerson let her voice dwell with meaning on the word.
               The other ladies looked at each other for a moment or two with meaning glances;
                  then Mrs. Talbot remarked, in a quiet way, but with a little pleasantry in her
                  voice, as if she were not right clear in regard to her young friend's state of
                  feeling,
               "Oh dear! these husbands are dreadfully in the way, sometimes! Haven't you found
                  it so, Mrs. Lloyd?"
               The eyes of Mrs. Emerson were turned instantly to the face of her new
                  acquaintance. She saw a slight change of expression in her pale face that took
                  something from its agreeable aspect. And yet Mrs. Lloyd smiled as she answered, in
                  a way meant to be pleasant,
               "They are very good in their place."
               "The trouble," remarked Mrs. Talbot, in reply, "is to make them keep their
                  place."
               "At our feet." Mrs. Emerson laughed as she said this.
               "No," answered Mrs. Lloyd—"at our sides, as equals."
               "And beyond that," said Mrs. Talbot, "we want them to give us as much freedom in
                  the world as they take for themselves. They come in and go out when they please,
                  and submit to no questioning on our part. Very well; I don't object; only I claim
                  the same right for myself. 'I will ask my husband.' Don't you hear this said every
                  day? Pah! I'm always tempted to cut the acquaintance of a woman when I hear these
                  words from her lips. Does a man, when a friend asks him to do anything or go
                  anywhere, say, 'I'll ask my wife?' Not he. A lady who comes occasionally to our
                  weekly reunions, but whose husband is too much of a man to put himself down to the
                  level of our set, is permitted the enjoyment of an evening with us, now and then,
                  on one condition."
               "Condition!" There was a throb of indignant feeling in the voice of Mrs.
                  Lloyd.
               
               "Yes, on condition that no male visitor at my house shall accompany her home. A
                  carriage is sent for her precisely at ten o'clock, when she must leave, and
                  alone."
               "Humiliating!" ejaculated Mrs. Lloyd.
               "Isn't it? I can scarcely have patience with her. Major Willard has, at my
                  instance, several times made an effort to accompany her, and once actually entered
                  her carriage. But the lady commanded him to retire, or she would leave the
                  carriage herself. Of course, when she took that position, the gallant major had to
                  leave the field."
               "Such a restriction would scarce have suited my fancy," said Mrs. Lloyd.
               "Nor mine. What do you think of that?" And Mrs. Talbot looked into the face of
                  Mrs. Emerson, whose color had risen beyond its usual tone.
               "Circumstances alter cases," replied the latter, crushing out all feeling from her
                  voice and letting it fall into a dead level of indifference.
               "But circumstances don't alter facts, my dear. There are the hard facts of
                  restrictions and conditions, made by a man, and applied to his equal, a woman.
                  Does she say to him, You can't go to your club unless you return alone in your
                  carriage, and leave the club-house precisely at ten o'clock? Oh no. He would laugh
                  in her face, or, perhaps, consult the family physician touching her sanity."
               This mode of putting the question rather bewildered the mind of our young wife,
                  and she dropped her eyes from those of Mrs. Talbot and sat looking upon the floor
                  in silence.
               "Can't you get your husband to release you from this engagement of which you have
                  spoken?" asked Mrs. Lloyd. "I should like above all things to meet you to-morrow
                  evening."
               Mrs. Emerson smiled as she answered,
               "Husbands have rights, young know, as well as wives. We must consult their
                  pleasure sometimes, as well as our own."
               "Certainly—certainly." Mrs. Lloyd spoke with visible impatience.
               "I promised to go with my husband to-morrow night," said Mrs. Emerson; "and, much
                  as I may desire to meet you at Mrs. Talbot's, I am not at liberty to go
                  there."
               "In bonds! Ah me! Poor wives!" sighed Mrs. Talbot, in affected pity. "Not at
                  liberty! The admission which comes to us from all sides."
               She laughed in her gurgling, hollow way as she said this.
               "Not bound to my husband, but to my word of promise," replied Mrs. Emerson, as
                  pleasantly as her disturbed feelings would permit her to speak. The ladies were
                  pressing her a little too closely, and she both saw and felt this. They were
                  stepping beyond the bounds of reason and delicacy.
               Mrs. Lloyd saw the state of mind which had been produced, and at once changed the
                  subject.
               "May I flatter myself with the prospect of having ing this call returned?" she said, handing Mrs.
                  Emerson her card as she was about leaving.
               "It will give me great pleasure to know you better, and you may look to seeing me
                  right early," was the bland reply. And yet Mrs. Emerson was not really attracted
                  by this woman, but, on the contrary, repelled. There was something in her keen,
                  searching eyes, which seemed to be looking right into the thoughts, that gave her
                  a feeling of doubt.
               "Thank you. The favor will be all on my side," said Mrs. Lloyd, as she held the
                  hand of Mrs. Emerson and gave it a warm pressure.
               The visit of these ladies did not leave the mind of Irene in a very satisfactory
                  state. Some things that were said she rejected, while other things lingered and
                  occasioned suggestions which were not favorable to her husband. While she had no
                  wish to be present at Mrs. Talbot's on account of Major Willard, she was annoyed
                  by the thought that Hartley's fixing on the next evening for her to go out with
                  him was to prevent her attendance at the weekly conversazione.
               Irene did not mention to her husband the fact that she bad received a visit from
                  Mrs. Talbot, in company with a pleasant stranger, Mrs. Lloyd. It would have been
                  far better for her if she had done so. Many times it was on her lips to mention
                  the call, but as often she kept silent, one or the other of two considerations
                  having influence. Hartley did not like Mrs. Talbot, and therefore the mention of
                  her name, and the fact of her calling, would not be pleasant theme. The other
                  consideration had reference to a woman's independence.
               "He doesn't tell me of every man he meets through the day, and why should I feel
                  under obligation to speak of every lady who calls?" So she thought. "As to Mrs.
                  Lloyd, he would have a hundred prying question's to ask, as if I we not competent
                  to judge of the character of my own friends and acquaintances?"
               Within a week the call of Mrs. Lloyd was reciprocated by Mrs. Emerson; not in
                  consequence of feeling drawn toward that lady, but she had promised to return the
                  friendly visit, and must keep her word. She found her domiciliated in a
                  fashionable boarding-house, and was received in the common parlor, in which were
                  two or three ladies and a gentleman, besides Mrs. Lloyd. The greeting she received
                  was warm, almost affectionate. In spite of the prejudice that was creeping into
                  her mind in consequence of an unfavorable first impression, Mrs. Emerson was
                  flattered by her reception, and before the termination of her visit she was
                  satisfied that she had not, in the beginning, formed a right estimate of this
                  really fascinating woman.
               "I hope to see you right soon," she said, as she bade Mrs. Lloyd good-morning. "It
                  will not be my fault if we do not soon know each other better."
               "Nor mine either," replied Mrs. Lloyd. "I think I shall find you just after my own
                  heart."
               
               The voice of Mrs. Lloyd was a little raised as she said this, and Mrs. Emerson
                  noticed that a gentleman who was in the parlor when she entered, but to whom she
                  had not been introduced, turned and looked at her with a steady, curious gaze,
                  which struck her at the time as being on the verge of impertinence.
               Only two or three days passed before Mrs. Lloyd returned this visit. Irene found
                  her more interesting than ever. She had seen a great deal of society, and had met,
                  according to her own story, with most of the distinguished men and women of the
                  country, about whom she talked in a very agreeable manner. She described their
                  personal appearance, habits, peculiarities and manners, and related pleasant
                  anecdotes about them. On authors and books she was entirely at home.
               But there was an undercurrent of feeling in all she said that a wiser and more
                  experienced woman than Irene would have noted. It was not a feeling of admiration
                  for moral, but for intellectual, beauty. She could dissect a character with
                  wonderful skill, but always passed the quality of goodness as not taken into
                  account. In her view this quality did not seem to be a positive element.
               When Mrs. Lloyd went away, she left the mind of Irene stimulated, restless and
                  fluttering with vague fancies. She felt envious of her new friend's
                  accomplishments, and ambitious to move in as wide a sphere as she had compassed.
                  The visit was returned at an early period, and, as before, Mrs. Emerson met Mrs.
                  Lloyd in the public parlor of her boarding-house. The same gentleman whose manner
                  had a little annoyed her was present, and she noticed several times, on glancing
                  toward him, that his eyes were fixed upon her, and with an expression that she did
                  not understand.
               After this, the two ladies met every day or two, and sometimes walked Broadway
                  together. The only information that Mrs. Emerson had in regard to her attractive
                  friend she received from Mrs. Talbot. According to her statement, she was a widow
                  whose married life had not been a happy one. The husband, like most husbands, was
                  an overbearing tyrant, and the wife, having a spirit of her own, resisted his
                  authority. Trouble was the consequence, and Mrs. Talbot thought, though she was
                  not certain, that a separation took place before Mr. Lloyd's death. She had a
                  moderate income, which came from her husband's estate, on which she lived in a
                  kind of idle independence. So she had plenty of time to read, visit and enjoy
                  herself in the ways her fancy or inclination might prompt.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               WEARY OF CONSTRAINT.
               
                  TIME moved on, and Mrs. Emerson's intimate city friends were those
                  to whom she had been introduced, directly or indirectly, through Mrs. Talbot. Of
                  these, the one who had most influence over her was Mrs. Lloyd, and that influence
                  was not of the right kind. Singularly enough, it so happened that Mr. Emerson
                  never let this lady at his house, though she spent hours there every week; and,
                  more singular still, Irene had never spoken about her to her husband. She had
                  often been on the point of doing so, but an impression that Hartley would take up
                  an unreasonable prejudice against her kept the name of this friend back from her
                  lips.
               Months now succeeded each other without the occurrence of events marked by special
                  interest. Mr. Emerson grew more absorbed in his profession as cases multiplied on
                  his hands, and Irene, interested in her circle of bright-minded,
                  independent-thoughted women, found the days and weeks gliding on pleasantly
                  enough. But habits of estimating things a little differently from the common
                  sentiment, and views of life not by any means consonant with those prevailing
                  among the larger numbers of her sex, were gradually taking root.
               Young, inexperienced, self-willed and active in mind, Mrs. Emerson had most
                  unfortunately been introduced among a class of persons whose influence upon her
                  could not fail to be hurtful. Their conversation was mainly of art, literature,
                  social progress and development; the drama, music, public sentiment on leading
                  topics of the day; the advancement of liberal ideas, the necessity of a larger
                  liberty and a wider sphere of action for woman, and the equality of the sexes. All
                  well enough, all to be commended when viewed in their just relation to other
                  themes and interests, but actually pernicious when separated from the homely and
                  useful things of daily life, and made so to overshadow these as to warp them into
                  comparative insignificance. Here lay the evil. It was this elevation of her ideas
                  above the region of use and duty into the mere æsthetic and reformatory that was
                  hurtful to one like Irene—that is, in fact, hurtful to any woman, for it is always
                  hurtful to take away from the mind its interest in common life—the life, we mean,
                  of daily useful work.
               Work! We know the word has not a pleasant sound to many ears, that it seems to
                  include degradation, and a kind of social slavery, and lies away down in a region
                  to which your fine, cultivated, intellectual woman cannot descend without, in her
                  view, soiling her garments. But for all
                  this, it is alone in daily useful work of mind or hands, work in which service and
                  benefits to others are involved, that a woman (or a man) gains any true perfection
                  of character. And this work must be her own, must lie within the sphere of her own
                  relations to others, and she must engage in it from a sense of duty that takes its
                  promptings from her own consciousness of right. No other woman can judge of her
                  relation to this work, and she who dares to interfere or turn her aside should be
                  considered an enemy—not a friend.
               No wonder, if this be true, that we have so many women of taste, cultivation, and
                  often brilliant intellectual powers, blazing about like comets or shooting stars
                  in our social firmament. They attract admiring attention, excite our wonder, give
                  us themes for conversation and criticism; but as guides and indicators while we
                  sail over the dangerous sea of life, what are they in comparison with some humble
                  star of the sixth magnitude that ever keeps its true place in the heavens, shining
                  on with its small but steady ray, a perpetual blessing? And so the patient,
                  thoughtful, loving wife and mother, doing her daily work for human souls and
                  bodies, though her intellectual powers be humble, and her taste but poorly
                  cultivated, fills more honorably her sphere than any of her more brilliant
                  sisters, who cast off what they consider the shackles by which custom and tyranny
                  have bound them down to mere home duties and the drudgery of household care. If
                  down into these they would bring their superior powers, their cultivated tastes,
                  their larger knowledge, how quickly would some desert homes in our land put on
                  refreshing greenness, and desolate gardens blossom like the rose! We should have,
                  instead of vast imaginary Utopias in the future, model homes in the present, the
                  light and beauty of which, shining abroad, would give higher types of social life
                  for common emulation.
               Ah, if the Genius of Social Reform would only take her stand centrally! If she
                  would make the regeneration of homes the great achievement of our day, then would
                  she indeed come with promise and blessing. But, alas! she is so far vagrant in her
                  habits—a fortune-telling gipsy, not a true, loving, useful woman.
               Unhappily for Mrs. Emerson, it was the weird-eyed, fortune-telling gipsy whose
                  Delphic utterances had bewildered her mind.
               The reconciliation which followed the Christmas-time troubles of Irene and her
                  husband had given both more prudent self-control. They guarded themselves with a
                  care that threw around the manner of each a certain reserve which was often felt
                  by the other as coldness. To both this was, in a degree, painful. There was tender
                  love in their hearts, but it was overshadowed by self-will and false ideas of
                  independence on the one side, and by a brooding spirit of accusation and
                     unaccustomed restraint on the other.
                  Many times, each day of their lives, did words and sentiments, just about to be
                  uttered by Hartley Emerson, die unspoken, lest in them something might appear
                  which would stir the quick feelings of Irene into antagonism.
               There was no guarantee of happiness in such a state of things. Mutual forbearance
                  existed, not from self-discipline and tender love, but from fear of consequences.
                  They were burnt children, and dreaded, as well they might, the fire.
               With little change in their relations to each other, and few events worthy of
                  notice, a year went by. Mr. Delancy came down to New York several times during
                  this period, spending a few days at each visit, while Irene went frequently to Ivy
                  Cliff, and stayed there, occasionally, as long as two or three weeks. Hartley
                  always came up from the city while Irene was at her father's, but never stayed
                  longer than a single day, business requiring him to be at his office or in court.
                  Mr. Delancy never saw them together without closely observing their manner, tone
                  of speaking and language. Both, he could see, were maturing rapidly. Irene had
                  changed most. There was a style of thinking, a familiarity with popular themes and
                  a womanly confidence in her expression of opinions that at times surprised him.
                  With her views on some subjects his own mind was far from being in agreement, and
                  they often had warm arguments. Occasionally, when her husband was at Ivy Cliff a
                  difference of sentiment would arise between them. Mr. Delancy noticed, when this
                  was the case, that Irene always pressed her view with ardor, and that her husband,
                  after a brief but pleasant combat, retired from the field. He also noticed that in
                  most cases, after this giving up of the contest by Hartley, he was more than
                  usually quiet and seemed to be pondering things not wholly agreeable.
               Mr. Delancy was gratified to see that there was no jarring between them. But he
                  failed not at the same time to notice something else that gave him uneasiness. The
                  warmth of feeling, the tenderness, the lover-like ardor which displayed itself in
                  the beginning, no longer existed. They did not even show that fondness for each
                  other which is so beautiful a trait in young married partners. And yet he could
                  trace no signs of alienation. The truth was, the action of their lives had been
                  inharmonious. Deep down in their hearts there was no defect of love. But this love
                  was compelled to hide itself away; and so, for the most part, it lay concealed
                  from even their own consciousness.
               During the second year of their married life there came a change of state in both
                  Irene and her husband. They had each grown weary of constraint when together. It
                  was irksome to be always on guard, lest some word, tone or act should be
                  misunderstood. In consequence, old collisions were renewed, and Hartley often grew
                  impatient and even contemptuous toward his wife, when she ventured to speak of social progress, woman's
                  rights, or any of the kindred themes in which she still took a warm interest.
                  Angry retort usually followed on these occasions, and periods of coldness ensued,
                  the effect of which was to produce states of alienation.
               If a babe had come to soften the heart of Irene, to turn thought and feeling in a
                  new direction, to awaken a mother's love with all its holy tenderness, how
                  different would all have been!—different with her, and different with him. There
                  would then have been an object on which both could centre interest and affection,
                  and thus draw lovingly together again, and feel, as in the beginning, heart
                  beating to heart in sweet accordings. They would have learned their love-lessons
                  over again, and understood their meanings better. Alas that the angels of infancy
                  found no place in their dwelling!
               With no central attraction at home, her thoughts stimulated by association with a
                  class of intellectual, restless women, who were wandering on life's broad desert
                  in search of green places and refreshing springs, each day's journey bearing them
                  farther and farther away from landscapes of perpetual verdure, Irene grew more and
                  more interested in subjects that lay for the most part entirely out of the range
                  of her husband's sympathies; while he was becoming more deeply absorbed in a
                  profession that required close application of thought, intellectual force and
                  clearness, and cold, practical modes of looking at all questions that came up for
                  consideration. The consequence was that they were, in all their common interests,
                  modes of thinking and habits of regarding the affairs of life, steadily receding
                  from each other. Their evenings were now less frequently spent together. If home
                  had been a pleasant place to him, Mr. Emerson would have usually remained at home
                  after the day's duties were over; or, if he went abroad, it would have been
                  usually in company with his wife. But home was getting to be dull, if not
                  positively disagreeable. If a conversation was started, it soon involved
                  disagreement in sentiment, and then came argument, and perhaps ungentle words,
                  followed by silence and a mutual writing down in the mind of bitter things. If
                  there was no conversation, Irene buried herself in a book—some absorbing novel,
                  usually of the heroic school.
               Naturally, under this state of things, Mr. Emerson, who was social in disposition,
                  sought companionship elsewhere, and with his own sex. Brought into contact with
                  men of different tastes, feelings and habits of thinking, he gradually selected a
                  few as intimate friends, and, in association with these, formed, as his wife was
                  doing, a social point of interest outside of his home; thus widening still further
                  the space between them.
               The home duties involved in housekeeping, indifferently as they had always been
                  discharged by Irene, were now becoming more and more distasteful ful to her. This daily care about mere eating and
                  drinking seemed unworthy of a woman who had noble aspirations, such as burned in
                  her breast. That was work for women-drudges who had no higher ambition; "and
                  Heaven knows," she would often say to herself, "there are enough and to spare of
                  these."
               "What's the use of keeping up an establishment like this just for two people?" she
                  would often remark to her husband; and he would usually reply,
               "For the sake of having a home into which one may retire and shut out the
                  world."
               Irene would sometimes suggest the lighter expense of boarding.
               "If it cost twice as much I would prefer to live in my own house," was the
                  invariable answer.
               "But see what a burden of care it lays on my shoulders."
               Now Hartley could only with difficulty repress a word of impatient rebuke when
                  this argument was used. He thought of his own daily devotion to business,
                  prolonged often into the night, when an important case was on hand, and mentally
                  charged his wife with a selfish love of ease. On the other hand, it seemed to
                  Irene that her husband was selfish in wishing her to bear the burdens of
                  housekeeping just for his pleasure or convenience, when they might live as
                  comfortably in a hotel or boarding-house.
               On this subject Hartley would not enter into a discussion. "It's no use talking,
                  Irene," he would say, when she grew in earnest. "You cannot tempt me to give up my
                  home. It includes many things that with me are essential to comfort. I detest
                  boarding-houses; they are only places for sojourning, not living."
               As agreement on this subject was out of the question, Irene did not usually urge
                  considerations in favor of abandoning their pleasant home.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               GONE FOR EVER!
               
                  ONE evening—it was nearly three years from the date of their
                  marriage—Hartley Emerson and his wife were sitting opposite to each other at the
                  centre-table, in the evening. She had a book in her hand and he held a newspaper
                  before his face, but his eyes were not on the printed columns. He had spoken only
                  a few words since he came in, and his wife noticed that he had the manner of one
                  whose mind is in doubt or perplexity.
               Letting the newspaper fall upon the table at length, Hartley looked over at his
                  wife and said, in a quiet tone,
               "Irene, did you ever meet a lady by the name of Mrs. Lloyd?"
               The color mounted to the face of Mrs. Emerson as she replied,
               "Yes, I have met her often."
               "Since when?"
               "I have known her intimately for the past two years."
               "What!"
               Emerson started to his feet and looked for some moments steadily at his wife, his
                  countenance expressing the profoundest astonishment.
               "And never once mentioned to me her name! Has she ever called here?"
               "Yes."
               "Often?"
               "As often as two or three times a week."
               "Irene!"
               Mrs. Emerson, bewildered at first by her husband's manner of interrogating her,
                  now recovered her self-possession, and, rising, looked steadily at him across the
                  table.
               "I am wholly at a loss to understand you," she now said, calmly.
               "Have you ever visited that person at her boarding-house?" demanded Hartley.
               "I have, often."
               "And walked Broadway with her?"
               "Certainly."
               "Good heavens! can it be possible!" exclaimed the excited man.
               "Pray, sir," said Irene, "who is Mrs. Lloyd?"
               "An infamous woman!" was answered passionately.
               "That is false!" said Irene, her eyes flashing as she spoke. "I don't care who
                  says so, I pronounce the words false!"
               Hartley stood still and gazed at his wife for some moments without speaking; then
                  he sat down at the table from which he had arisen and, shading his face with his hands, remained motionless for a
                  long time. He seemed like a man utterly confounded.
               "Did you ever hear of Jane Beaufort?" he asked at length, looking up at his
                  wife.
               "Oh yes; everybody has heard of her."
               "Would you visit Jane Beaufort?"
               "Yes, if I believed her innocent of what the world charges against her."
               "You are aware, then, that Mrs. Lloyd and Jane Beaufort are the same person?"
               "No, sir, I am not aware of any such thing."
               "It is true."
               "I do not believe it. Mrs. Lloyd I have known intimately for over two years, and
                  can verify her character."
               "I am sorry for you, then, for a viler character it would be difficult to find
                  outside the haunts of infamy," said Emerson.
               Contempt and anger were suddenly blended in his manner.
               "I cannot hear one to whom I am warmly attached thus assailed. You must not speak
                  in that style of my friends, Hartley Emerson!"
               "Your friends!" There was a look of intense scorn on his face. "Precious friends,
                  if she represent them, truly! Major Willard is another, mayhap?"
               The face of Irene turned deadly pale at the mention of this name.
               "Ha!"
               Emerson bent eagerly toward his wife.
               "And is that true, also?"
               "What? Speak out, sir!" Irene caught her breath, and grasped the rein of
                  self-control which had dropped, a moment, from her hands.
               "It is said that Major Willard bears you company, at times, in your rides home
                  from evening calls upon your precious friends."
               "And you believe the story?"
               "I didn't believe it," said Hartley, but in a tone that showed doubt.
               "But have changed your mind?"
               "If you say it is not true—that Major Willard never entered your carriage—I will
                  take your word in opposition to the whole world's adverse testimony."
               But Irene could not answer. Major Willard, as the reader knows, had ridden with
                  her at night, and alone. But once, and only once. A few times since then she had
                  encountered, but never deigned to recognize, him. In her pure heart the man was
                  held in utter detestation.
               Now was the time for a full explanation; but pride was aroused—strong, stubborn
                  pride. She knew herself to stand triple mailed in innocency—to be free from
                  weakness or taint; and the thought that a mean, base suspicion had entered the
                  mind of her husband aroused her indignation and put a seal upon her lips as to all
                  explanatory utterances.
               
               "Then I am to believe the worst?" said Hartley, seeing that his wife did not
                  answer. "The worst, and of you!"
               The tone in which this was said, as well as the words themselves, sent a strong
                  throb to the heart of Irene. "The worst, and of you!" This from her husband! and
                  involving far more in tone and manner than in uttered language. "Then I am to
                  believe the worst!" She turned the sentences over in her mind. Pride, wounded
                  self-love, a smothered sense of indignation, blind anger, began to gather their
                  gloomy forces in her mind. "The worst, and of you!" How the echoes of these words
                  came back in constant repetition! "The worst, and of you!"
               "How often has Major Willard ridden with you at night?" asked Hartley, in a cold,
                  resolute way.
               No answer.
               "And did you always come directly home?"
               Hartley Emerson was looking steadily into the face of his wife, from which he saw
                  the color fall away until it became of an ashen hue.
               "You do not care to answer. Well, silence is significative," said the husband,
                  closing his lips firmly. There was a blending of anger, perplexity, pain, sorrow
                  and scorn in his face, all of which Irene read distinctly as she fixed her eyes
                  steadily upon him. He tried to gaze back until her eyes should sink beneath his
                  steady look, but the effort was lost; for not a single instant did they waver. He
                  was about turning away, when she arrested the movement by saying,
               "Go on, Hartley Emerson! Speak of all that is in your mind. You have now an
                  opportunity that may never come again."
               There was a dead level in her voice that a little puzzled her husband.
               "It is for you to speak," he answered. "I have put my interrogatories."
               Unhappily, there was a shade of imperiousness in his voice.
               "I never answer insulting interrogatories; not even from the man who calls himself
                  my husband," replied Irene, haughtily.
               "It may be best for you to answer," said Hartley. There was just the shadow of
                  menace in his tones.
               "Best!" The lip of Irene curled slightly. "On whose account, pray?"
               "Best for each of us. Whatever affects one injuriously must affect both."
               "Humph! So we are equals!" Irene tossed her head impatiently, and laughed a short,
                  mocking laugh.
               "Nothing of that, if you please!" was the husband's impatient retort. The sudden
                  change in his wife's manner threw him off his guard.
               "Nothing of what?" demanded Irene.
               "Of that weak, silly nonsense. We have graver matters in hand for consideration
                  now."
               
               "Ah?" She threw up her eyebrows, then contracted them again with an angry
                  severity.
               "Irene," said Mr. Emerson, his voice falling into a calm but severe tone, "all
                  this is but weakness and folly. I have heard things touching your good name—"
               "And believe them," broke in Irene, with angry impatience.
               "I have said nothing as to belief or disbelief. The fact is grave enough."
               "And you have illustrated your faith in the slander—beautifully, becomingly,
                  generously!"
               "Irene!"
               "Generously, as a man who knew his wife. Ah, well!" This last ejaculation was made
                  almost lightly, but it involved great bitterness of spirit.
               "Do not speak any longer after this fashion," said Hartley, with considerable
                  irritation of manner; "it doesn't suit my present temper. I want something in a
                  very different spirit. The matter is of too serious import. So pray lay aside your
                  trifling. I came to you as I had a right to come, and made inquiries touching your
                  associations when not in my company. Your answers are not satisfactory, but tend
                  rather to con—"
               "Sir!" Irene interrupted him in a stern, deep voice, which came so suddenly that
                  the word remained unspoken. Then, raising her finger in a warning manner, she said
                  with menace,
               "Beware!"
               For some moments they stood looking at each other, more like two animals at bay
                  than husband and wife.
               "Touching my associations when not in your company?" said Irene at length,
                  repeating his language slowly.
               "Yes," answered the husband.
               "Touching, my associations? Well, Mr. Emerson—so far, I say well." She was
                  collected in manner and her voice steady. "But what touching your associations
                  when not in my company?"
               The very novelty of this interrogation caused Emerson to start and change
                  color.
               "Ha!" The blood leaped to the forehead of Irene, and her eyes, dilating suddenly,
                  almost glared upon the face of her husband.
               "Well, sir?" Irene drew her slender form to its utmost height. There
                  was an impatient, demanding tone in her voice. "Speak!" she added, without change
                  of manner. "What touching your associations when not in
                     my company? As a wife, I have some interest in this matter. Away
                  from home often until the brief hours, have I no right to put the question—where
                  and with whom? It would seem so if we are equal. But if I am the slave and
                  dependant—the creature of your will and pleasure—why, that alters the case!"
               "Have you done?"
               Emerson was recovering from his surprise, but not gaining clear sight or prudent
                  self-possession.
               
               "You have not answered," said Irene, looking coldly, but with glittering eyes,
                  into his face. "Come! If there is to be a mutual relation of acts and associations
                  outside of this our home, let us begin. Sit down, Hartley, and compose yourself.
                  You are the man, and claim precedence. I yield the prerogative. So let me have
                  your confession. After you have ended I will give as faithful a narrative as if on
                  my death-bed. What more can you ask? There now, lead the way!"
               This coolness, which but thinly veiled a contemptuous air, irritated Hartley
                  almost beyond the bounds of decent self-control.
               "Bravely carried off! Well acted!" he retorted with a sneer.
               "You do not accept the proposal," said Irene, growing a little sterner of aspect.
                  "Very well. I scarcely hoped that you would meet me on this even ground. Why
                  should I have hoped it? Were the antecedents encouraging? No! But I am sorry. Ah,
                  well! Husbands are free to go and come at their own sweet will—to associate with
                  anybody and everybody. But wives—oh dear!"
               She tossed her head in a wild, scornful way, as if on the verge of being swept
                  from her feet by some whirlwind of passion.
               "And so," said her husband, after a long silence, "you do not choose to answer my
                  questions as to Major Willard?"
               That was unwisely pressed. In her heart of hearts Irene loathed this man. His name
                  was an offence to her. Never, since the night he had forced himself into her
                  carriage, had she even looked into his face. If he appeared in the room where she
                  happened to be, she did not permit her eyes to rest upon his detested countenance.
                  If he drew near to her, she did not seem to notice his presence. If he spoke to
                  her, as he had ventured several times to do, she paid no regard to him whatever.
                  So far as any response or manifestation of feeling on her part was concerned, it
                  was as if his voice had not reached her ears. The very thought of this man was a
                  foul thing in her mind. No wonder that the repeated reference by her husband was
                  felt as a stinging insult.
               "If you dare to mention that name again in connection with mine," she said,
                  turning almost fiercely upon him, "I will—"
               She caught the words and held them back in the silence of her wildly reeling
                  thoughts.
               "Say on!"
               Emerson was cool, but not sane. It was madness to press his excited young wife
                  now. Had he lost sense and discrimination? Could he not see, in her strong,
                  womanly indignation, the signs of innocence? Fool! fool! to thrust sharply at her
                  now!
               "My father!" came in a sudden gush of strong feeling from the lips of Irene, as
                  the thought of him whose name was thus ejaculated came into her mind. She struck
                  her hands together, and stood like one
                  in wild bewilderment. "My father!" she added, almost mournfully; "oh, that I had
                  never left you!"
               "It would have been better for you and better for me." No, he was not sane, else
                  would no such words have fallen from his lips.
               Irene, with a slight start and a slight change in the expression of her
                  countenance, looked up at her husband:
               "You think so?" Emerson was a little surprised at the way in which Irene put this
                  interrogation. He looked for a different reply.
               "I have said it," was his cold answer.
               "Well." She said no more, but looked down and sat thinking for the space of more
                  than a minute.
               "I will go back to Ivy Cliff." She looked up, with something strange in the
                  expression of her face. It was a blank, unfeeling, almost unmeaning
                  expression.
               "Well." It was Emerson's only response.
               "Well; and that is all?" Her tones were so chilling that they came over the spirit
                  of her husband like the low waves of an icy wind.
               "No, that is not all." What evil spirit was blinding his perceptions? What evil
                  influence pressing him on to the brink of ruin?
               "Say on." How strangely cold and calm she remained! "Say on," she repeated. Was
                  there none to warn him of danger?
               "If you go a third time to your father—" He paused.
               "Well?" There was not a quiver in her low, clear, icy tone.
               "You must do it with your eyes open, and in full view of the consequences."
               "What are the consequences?"
               Beware, rash man! Put a seal on your lips! Do not let the thought so sternly held
                  find even a shadow of utterance!
               "Speak, Hartley Emerson. What are the consequences?"
               "You cannot return!" It was said without a quiver of feeling.
               "Well." She looked at him with an unchanged countenance, steadily, coldly,
                  piercingly.
               "I have said the words, Irene; and they are no idle utterances. Twice you have
                  left me, but you cannot do it a third time and leave a way open between us. Go,
                  then, if you will; but, if we part here, it must be for ever!"
               The eyes of Irene dropped slowly. There was a slight change in the expression of
                  her face. Her hands moved one within the other nervously.
               For ever! The words are rarely uttered without leaving on the mind a shade of
                  thought. For ever! They brought more than a simple shadow to the mind of Irene. A
                  sudden darkness fell upon her soul, and for a little while she groped about like
                  one who had lost her way. But her husband's threat of consequences, his cold, imperious manner,
                  his assumed superiority, all acted as sharp spurs to pride, and she stood up,
                  strong again, in full mental stature, with every power of her being in full force
                  for action and endurance.
               "I go." There was no sign of weakness in her voice. She had raised her eyes from
                  the floor and turned them full upon her husband. Her face was not so pale as it
                  had been a little while before. Warmth had come back to the delicate skin,
                  flushing it with beauty. She did not stand before him an impersonation of anger,
                  dislike or rebellion. There was not a repulsive attitude or expression; no
                  flashing of the eyes, nor even the cold, diamond glitter seen a little while
                  before. Slowly turning away, she left the room; but, to her husband, she seemed
                  still standing there, a lovely vision. There had fallen, in that instant of time,
                  a sunbeam which fixed the image upon his memory in imperishable colors. What
                  though he parted company here with the vital form, that effigy would be, through
                  all time, his inseparable companion!
               "Gone!" Hartley Emerson held his breath as the word came into mental utterance.
                  There was a motion of regret in his heart; a wish that he had not spoken quite so
                  sternly—that he had kept back a part of the hard saying. But it was too late now.
                  He could not, after all that had just passed between them—after she had refused to
                  answer his questions touching Major Willard—make any concessions cessions. Come
                  what would, there was to be no retracing of steps now.
               "And it may be as well," said he, rallying himself, "that we part here. Our
                  experiment has proved a sad failure. We grow colder and more repellant each day,
                  instead of drawing closer together and becoming more lovingly assimilated. It is
                  not good—this life—for either of us. We struggle in our bonds and hurt each other.
                  Better apart! better apart! Moreover"—his face darkened—"she has fallen into
                  dangerous companionship, and will not be advised or governed. I have heard her
                  name fall lightly from lips that cannot utter a woman's name without leaving it
                  soiled. She is pure now—pure as snow. I have not a shadow of suspicion, though I
                  pressed her close. But this contact is bad; she is breathing an impure atmosphere;
                  she is assorting with some who are sensual and evil-minded, though she will not
                  believe the truth. Mrs. Lloyd! Gracious heavens! My wife the intimate companion of
                  that woman! Seen with her in Broadway! A constant visitor at my house! This, and I
                  knew it not!"
               Emerson grew deeply agitated as he rehearsed these things. It was after midnight
                  when he retired. He did not go to his wife's apartment, but passed to a room in
                  the story above that in which he usually slept.
               Day was abroad when Emerson awoke the next morning, and the sun shining from an
                  angle that showed him to be nearly two
                  hours above the horizon. It was late for Mr. Emerson. Rising hurriedly, and in
                  some confusion of thought, he went down stairs. His mind, as the events of the
                  last evening began to adjust themselves, felt an increasing sense of oppression.
                  How was he to meet Irene? or was he to meet her again? Had she relented? Had a
                  night of sober reflection wrought any change? Would she take the step he had
                  warned her as a fatal one?
               With such questions crowding upon him, Hartley Emerson went down stairs. In
                  passing their chamber-door he saw that it stood wide open, and that Irene was not
                  there. He descended to the parlors and to the sitting-room, but did not find her.
                  The bell announced breakfast; he might find her at the table. No—she was not at
                  her usual place when the morning meal was served.
               "Where is Mrs. Emerson?" he asked of the waiter.
               "I have not seen her," was replied.
               Mr. Emerson turned away and went up to their chambers. His footsteps had a
                  desolate, echoing sound to his ears, as he bent his way thither. He looked through
                  the front and then through the back chamber, and even called, faintly, the name of
                  his wife. But all was still as death. Now a small envelope caught his eye, resting
                  on a casket in which Irene had kept her jewelry. He lifted it, and saw his name
                  inscribed thereon. The handwriting writing was not strange. He broke the seal and
                  read these few words:
               
                  "I have gone. IRENE."
               
               The narrow piece of tinted paper on which this was written dropped from his
                  nerveless fingers, and he stood for some moments still as if death-stricken, and
                  rigid as stone.
               "Well," he said audibly, at length, stepping across the floor, "and so the end has
                  come!"
               He moved to the full length of the chamber and then stood still—turned, in a
                  little while, and walked slowly back across the floor—stood still again, his face
                  bent down, his lips closely shut, his finger-ends gripped into the palms.
               "Gone!" He tried to shake himself free of the partial stupor which had fallen upon
                  him. "Gone!" he repeated. "And so this calamity is upon us! She has dared the
                  fatal leap! has spoken the irrevocable decree! God help us both, for both have
                  need of help; I and she, but she most. God help her to bear the burden she has
                  lifted to her weak shoulders; she will find it a match for her strength. I shall
                  go into the world and bury myself in its cares and duties—shall find, at least, in
                  the long days a compensation in work—earnest, absorbing, exciting work. But she?
                  Poor Irene! The days and nights will be to her equally desolate. Poor Irene! Poor
                  Irene!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               YOUNG, BUT WISE.
               
                  THE night had passed wearily for Mr. Delancy, broken by fitful
                  dreams, in which the image of his daughter was always present—dreams that he could
                  trace to no thoughts or impressions of the day before; and he arose unrefreshed,
                  and with a vague sense of trouble in his heart, lying there like a weight which no
                  involuntary deep inspirations would lessen or remove. No June day ever opened in
                  fresher beauty than did this one, just four years since the actors in our drama
                  came smiling before us, in the flush of youth and hope and confidence in the
                  far-off future. The warmth of early summer had sent the nourishing sap to every
                  delicate twig and softly expanding leaf until, full foliaged, the trees around Ivy
                  Cliff stood in kingly attire, lifting themselves up grandly in the sunlight which
                  flooded their gently-waving tops in waves of golden glory. The air was soft and of
                  crystal clearness; and the lungs drank it in as if the draught were ethereal
                  nectar.
               On such a morning in June, after a night of broken and unrefreshing sleep, Mr.
                  Delancy walked forth, with that strange pressure on his heart which he had been
                  vainly endeavoring to push aside since the singing birds awoke him, in the faint
                  auroral dawn, with their joyous welcome to the coming day. He drew in long
                  draughts of the delicious air; expanded his chest; moved briskly through the
                  garden; threw his arms about to hurry the sluggish flow of blood in his veins;
                  looked with constrained admiration on the splendid landscape that stretched far
                  and near in the sweep of his vision; but all to no purpose. The hand still lay
                  heavy upon his heart; he could not get it removed.
               Returning to the house, feeling more uncomfortable for this fruitless effort to
                  rise above what he tried to call an unhealthy depression of spirits consequent on
                  some morbid state of the body, Mr. Delancy was entering the library, when a fresh
                  young face greeted him with light and smiles.
               "Good-morning, Rose," said the old gentleman, as his face brightened in the glow
                  of the young girl's happy countenance. "I am glad to see you;" and he took her
                  hand and held it tightly.
               "Good-morning, Mr. Delancy. When did you hear from Irene?"
               "Ten days ago."
               "She was well?"
               "Oh yes. Sit down, Rose; there." And Mr. Delancy drew a chair before the sofa for
                  his young visitor, and took a seat facing her.
               "I haven't had a letter from her in six months," said Rose, a sober hue falling on
                  her countenance. "I don't think she is
                  quite thoughtful enough of her old friends."
               "And too thoughtful, it may be, of new ones," replied Mr. Delancy, his voice a
                  little depressed from the cheerful tone in which he had welcomed his young
                  visitor.
               "These new friends are not always the best friends, Mr. Delancy."
               "No, Rose. For my part, I wouldn't give one old friend, whose heart I had proved,
                  for a dozen untried new ones."
               "Nor I, Mr. Delancy. I love Irene. I have always loved her. You know we were
                  children together."
               "Yes, dear, I know all that; and I'm not pleased with her for treating you with so
                  much neglect, and all for a set of—"
               Mr. Delancy checked himself.
               "Irene," said Miss Carman, whom the reader will remember as one of Mrs. Emerson's
                  bridemaids, "has been a little unfortunate in her New York friends. I'm afraid of
                  these strong-minded women, as they are called, among whom she has fallen."
               "I detest them!" replied Mr. Delancy, with suddenly aroused feelings. "They have
                  done my child more harm than they will ever do good in the world by way of
                  atonement. She is not my daughter of old."
               "I found her greatly changed at our last meeting ing," said Rose. "Full of vague
                  plans of reforms and social reorganizations, and impatient of opposition, or even
                  mild argument, against her favorite ideas."
               "She has lost her way," sighed the old man, in a low, sad voice, "and I'm afraid
                  it will take her a long, long time to get back again to the old true paths, and
                  that the road will be through deep suffering. I dreamed about her all night, Rose,
                  and the shadow of my dreams is upon me still. It is foolish, I know, but I cannot
                  get my heart again into the sunlight."
               And Rose had been dreaming troubled dreams of her old friend, also; and it was
                  because of the pressure that lay upon her feelings that she had come over to Ivy
                  Cliff this morning to ask if Mr. Delancy had heard from Irene. She did not,
                  however, speak of this, for she saw that he was in an unhappy state on account of
                  his daughter.
               "Dreams are but shadows," she said, forcing a smile to her lips and eyes.
               "Yes—yes." The old man responded with an abstracted air. "Yes; they are only
                  shadows. But, my dear, was there ever a shadow without a substance?"
               "Not in the outside world of nature. Dreams are unreal things—the fantastic images
                  of a brain where reason sleeps."
               "There have been dreams that came as warnings, Rose."
               
               "And a thousand, for every one of these, that signified nothing."
               "True. But I cannot rise out of these shadows. They lie too heavily on my spirit.
                  You must bear with me, Rose. Thank you for coming over to see me; but I cannot
                  make your visit a pleasant one, and you must leave me when you grow weary of the
                  old man's company."
               "Don't talk so, Mr. Delancy. I'm glad I came over. I meant this only for a call;
                  but as you are in such poor spirits I must stay a while and cheer you up."
               "You are a good girl," said Mr. Delancy, taking the hand of Rose, "and I am vexed
                  that Irene should neglect you for the false friends who are leading her mind
                  astray. But never mind, dear; she will see her error one of these days, and learn
                  to prize true hearts."
               "Is she going to spend much of her time at Ivy Cliff this summer?" asked Rose.
               "She is coming up in July to stay three or four weeks."
               "Ah? I'm pleased to hear you say so. I shall then revive old-time memories in her
                  heart."
               "God grant that it may be so!" Rose half started at the solemn tone in which Mr.
                  Delancy spoke. What could be the meaning of his strangely troubled manner? Was
                  anything seriously wrong with Irene? She remembered the confusion into which her
                  impulsive conduct had thrown the wedding-party ding-party; and there was a vague
                  rumor afloat that Irene had left her husband a few months afterward and returned
                  to Ivy Cliff. But she had always discredited this rumor. Of her life in New York
                  she knew but little as to particulars. That it was not making of her a truer,
                  better, happier woman, nor a truer, better, happier wife, observation had long ago
                  told her.
               "There is a broad foundation of good principles in her character," said Miss
                  Carman, "and this gives occasion for hope in the future. She will not go far
                  astray, with her wily enticers, who have only stimulated and given direction, for
                  a time, to her undisciplined impulses. You know how impatient she has always been
                  under control—how restively her spirit has chafed itself when a restraining hand
                  was laid upon her. But there are real things in life of too serious import to be
                  set aside for idle fancies, such as her new friends have dignified with imposing
                  names—real things, that take hold upon the solid earth like anchors, and hold the
                  vessel firm amid wildly rushing currents."
               "Yes, Rose, I know all that," replied Mr. Delancy. "I have hope in the future of
                  Irene; but I shudder in heart to think of the rough, thorny, desolate ways through
                  which she may have to pass with bleeding feet before she reaches that serene
                  future. Ah! if I could save my child from the pain she seems resolute on plucking
                  down and wearing in her heart!"
               
               "Your dreams have made you gloomy, Mr. Delancy," said Rose, forcing a smile to her
                  sweet young face. "Come now, let us be more hopeful. Irene has a good husband. A
                  little too much like her in some things, but growing manlier and broader in mental
                  grasp, if I have read him aright. He understands Irene, and, what is more, loves
                  her deeply. I have watched them closely."
               "So have I." The voice of Mr. Delancy was not so hopeful as that of his
                  companion.
               "Still looking on the darker side." She smiled again.
               "Ah, Rose, my wise young friend," said Mr. Delancy, "to whom I speak my thoughts
                  with a freedom that surprises even myself, a father's eyes read many signs that
                  have no meaning for others."
               "And many read them, through fond suspicion, wrong," replied Rose.
               "Well—yes—that may be." He spoke in partial abstraction, yet doubtfully.
               "I must look through your garden," said the young lady, rising; "you know how I
                  love flowers."
               "Not much yet to hold your admiration," replied Mr. Delancy, rising also. "June
                  gives us wide green carpets and magnificent draperies of the same deep color, but
                  her red and golden broideries are few; it is the hand of July that throws them in
                  with rich profusion."
               "But June flowers are sweetest and dearest— tender nurslings of the summer,
                  first-born of her love," said Rose, as they stepped out into the portico. "It may
                  be that the eye gets sated with beauty, as nature grows lavish of her gifts; but
                  the first white and red petals that unfold themselves have a more delicate
                  perfume—seem made of purer elements and more wonderful in perfection—than their
                  later sisters. Is it not so?"
               "If it only appears so it is all the same as if real," replied Mr. Delancy,
                  smiling.
               "How?"
               "It is real to you. What more could you have? Not more enjoyment of summer's gifts
                  of beauty and sweetness."
               "No; perhaps not."
               Rose let her eyes fall to the ground, and remained silent.
               "Things are real to us as we see them; not always as they are," said Mr.
                  Delancy.
               "And this is true of life?"
               "Yes, child. It is in life that we create for ourselves real things out of what to
                  some are airy nothings. Real things, against which we often bruise or maim
                  ourselves, while to others they are as intangible as shadows."
               "I never thought of that," said Rose.
               "It is true."
               "Yes, I see it. Imaginary evils we thus make real things, and hurt ourselves by
                  contact, as, maybe, you have done this morning, Mr. Delancy."
               
               "Yes—yes. And false ideas of things which are unrealities in the abstract—for only
                  what is true has actual substance—become real to the perverted understanding. Ah,
                  child, there are strange contradictions and deep problems in life for each of us
                  to solve."
               "But, God helping us, we may always reach the true solution," said Rose Carman,
                  lifting a bright, confident face to that of her companion.
               "That was spoken well, my child," returned Mr. Delancy, with a new life in his
                  voice; "and without Him we can never be certain of our way."
               "Never—never." There was a tender, trusting solemnity in the voice of Rose.
               "Young, but wise," said Mr. Delancy.
               "No! Young, but not wise. I cannot see the way plain before me for a single week,
                  Mr. Delancy. For a week? No, not for a day!"
               "Who does?" asked the old man.
               "Some."
               "None. There are many who walk onward with erect heads and confident bearing. They
                  are sure of their way, and smile if one whisper a caution as to the ground upon
                  which they step so fearlessly. But they soon get astray or into pitfalls. God
                  keeping and guiding us, Rose, we may find our way safely through this world. But
                  we will soon lose ourselves if we trust in our own wisdom."
               Thus they talked—that old man and gentle-hearted girl—as they moved about the
                  garden-walks, every new flower, or leaf, or opening bud they paused to admire or
                  examine, suggesting themes for wiser words than usually pass between one so old
                  and one so young. At Mr. Delancy's earnest request, Rose stayed to dinner, the
                  waiting-man being tent to her father's, not far distant, to take word that she
                  would not be at home until in the afternoon.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE SHIPWRECKED LIFE.
               
                  OFTEN, during that morning, did the name of Irene come to their
                  lips, for the thought of her was all the while present to both.
               "You must win her heart back again, Rose," said Mr. Delancy. "I will lure her to
                  Ivy Cliff often this summer, and keep her here as long as possible each time. You
                  will then be much together." They had risen from the dinner-table and were
                  entering the library.
               "Things rarely come out as we plan them," answered Rose. "But I love Irene truly,
                  and will make my own place in her heart again, if she will give me the key of
                  entrance."
               "You must find the key, Rose."
               Miss Carman smiled.
               "I said if she would give it to me."
               "She does not carry the key that opens the door for you," replied Mr. Delancy. "If
                  you do not know where it lies, search for it in the secret places of your own
                  mind, and it will be found, God helping you, Rose."
               Mr. Delancy looked at her significantly.
               "God helping me," she answered, with a reverent sinking of her voice, "I will find
                  the key."
               "Who is that?" said Mr. Delancy, in a tone of surprise, turning his face to the
                  window.
               Rose followed his eyes, but no one was visible.
               "I saw, or thought I saw, a lady cross the portico this moment."
               Both stood still, listening and expectant.
               "It might have been fancy," said Mr. Delancy, drawing a deep breath.
               Rose stepped to one of the library windows, and throwing it up, looked out upon
                  the portico.
               "There is no one," she remarked, coming back into the room.
               "Could I have been so mistaken?"
               Mr. Delancy looked bewildered.
               Seeing that the impression was so strong on his mind, Miss Carman went out into
                  the hall, and glanced from there into the parlor and dining-room.
               "No one came in, Mr. Delancy," she said, on returning to the library.
               "A mere impression," remarked the old man, soberly. "Well, these impressions are
                  often very singular. My face was partly turned to the window, so that I saw out,
                  but not so distinctly as if both eyes had been in the range of vision. The form of
                  a woman came to my sight as distinctly as if the presence had been real—the form
                  of a woman going swiftly past the window."
               "Did you recognize the form?"
               It was some time before Mr. Delancy replied.
               
               "Yes." He looked anxious.
               "You thought of Irene?"
               "I did."
               "We have talked and thought of Irene so much to-day," said Rose, "that your
                  thought of her has made you present to her mind with more than usual distinctness.
                  Her thought of you has been more intent in consequence, and this has drawn her
                  nearer. You saw her by an inward, not by an outward, vision. She is now present
                  with you in spirit, though her body be many miles distant. These things often
                  happen. They startle us by their strangeness, but are as much dependent on laws of
                  the mind as bodily nearness is dependent on the laws of matter."
               "You think so?" Mr. Delancy looked at his young companion curiously.
               "Yes, I think so."
               The old man shook his head. "Ingenious, but not satisfactory."
               "You will admit," said Rose, "that as to our minds we may be present in any part
                  of the world, and in an instant of time, though our bodies move not."
               "Our thought may be," replied Mr. Delancy. "Or, in better words, the eyes of our
                  minds may be; for it is the eyes that see objects," said Rose.
               "Well; say the eyes of our minds, then."
               "We cannot see objects in London, for instance, with our bodily eyes unless our
                  bodies be in London?" resumed Rose.
               "Of course not."
               "Nor with our mental eyes, unless our spirits be there."
               Mr. Delancy looked down thoughtfully.
               "It must be true, then, that our thought of any one brings us present to that
                  individual, and that such presence is often recognized."
               "That is pushing the argument too far."
               "I think not. Has it not often happened that suddenly the thought of an absent one
                  came into your mind, and that you saw him or her for a moment or two almost as
                  distinctly as if in bodily presence before you?"
               "Yes. That has many times been the case."
               "And you had not been thinking of that person, nor had there been any incident as
                  a reminder?"
               "I believe not."
               "My explanation is, that this person from some cause had been led to think of you
                  intently, and so came to you in spirit. There was actual presence, and you saw
                  each other with the eyes of your minds."
               "But, my wise reasoner," said Mr. Delancy, "it was the bodily form—with face,
                  eyes, hands, feet and material garments—that was seen, not the spirit. If our
                  spirits have eyes that see, why they can only see spiritual things."
               
               "Has not a spirit a face,, and hands, and feet?" asked Rose, with a confidence
                  that caused the old man to look at her almost wonderingly.
               "Not a face, and hands, and feet like these of mine," he answered.
               "Yes, like them," she replied, "but of spiritual substance."
               "Spiritual substance! That is a novel term. This is substance." And Mr. Delancy
                  grasped the arm of a chair.
               "No, that is material and unsubstantial," she calmly replied; "it is subject to
                  change and decay. A hundred years from now and there may be no visible sign that
                  it had ever been. But the soul is imperishable and immortal; the only thing about
                  man that is really substantial. And now," she added, "for the faces of our
                  spirits. What gives to our natural faces their form, beauty and expression? Is it
                  not the soul-face within? Remove that by death, and all life, thought and feeling
                  are gone from the stolid effigy. And so you see, Mr. Delancy, that our minds must
                  be formed of spiritual substance, and that our bodies are but the outward material
                  clothing which the soul puts on for action and use in this world of nature."
               "Why, you are a young philosopher!" exclaimed Mr. Delancy, looking in wonder at
                  his fair companion.
               "No," she answered, with simplicity, "I talk with my father about these things,
                  and it all seems very plain to me. I cannot see how any one can question what
                  appears to me so plain. That the mind is substantial we see from this fact
                  alone—it retains impressions longer than the body."
               "You think so?"
               "Take an instance," said Rose. "A boy is punished unjustly by a passionate
                  teacher, who uses taunting words as well as smarting blows. Now the pain of these
                  blows is gone in less than an hour, but the word-strokes received on his spirit
                  hurt him, maybe, to the end of his mortal life. Is it not so? And if so, why?
                  There must be substance to hold impressions so long."
               "You silence, if you do not fully convince," replied Mr. Delancy. "I must dream
                  over what you have said. And so your explanation is, that my thought of Irene has
                  turned her thought to me, and thus we became really present?"
               "Yes."
               "And that I saw her just now by an inner, and not by an outer, sight?"
               "Yes."
               "But why was the appearance an outward manifestation, so to speak?"
               "Sight is in the mind, even natural sight. The eye does not go out to a tree, but
                  the image of the tree comes to the eye, and thence is presented, in a wonderful
                  and mysterious way, to the mind, which takes note of its form. The appearance is,
                     that the soul looks out at the tree;
                  but the fact is, the image of the tree comes to the brain, and is there seen. Now
                  the brain may be impressed, and respond by natural vision, from an internal as
                  well as from an external communication. We see this in cases of visual
                  aberrations, the instances of which given in books, and clearly authenticated, are
                  innumerable. Things are distinctly seen in a room which have no existence in
                  nature; and the illusion is so perfect that it seems impossible for eyes to be
                  mistaken."
               "Well, well, child," said Mr. Delancy, "this is curious, and a little bewildering.
                  Perhaps it is all just as you say about Irene; but I feel very heavy here;" and he
                  laid his hand on his breast and sighed deeply.
               At this moment the library door was pushed gently open, and the form of a woman
                  stood in the presence of Mr. Delancy and Rose. She was dressed in a dark silk, but
                  had on neither bonnet nor shawl. Both started; Mr. Delancy raised his hands and
                  bent forward, gazing at her eagerly, his lips apart. The face of the woman was
                  pale and haggard, yet familiar as the face of an old friend; but in it was
                  something so strange and unnatural that for a moment or two it was not
                  recognized.
               "Father!" It was Irene. She advanced quietly and held but her hand.
               "My daughter!" He caught the extended hand and kissed her, but she showed no
                  emotion.
               "Rose, dear, I am glad to see you." There was truth in the dead level tone with
                  which "I am glad to see you" was spoken, and Rose, who perceived this, took her
                  hand and kissed her. Both hands and lips were cold.
               "What's the matter, Irene? Have you been sick?" asked Mr. Delancy, in a choking
                  voice.
               "No, father, I'm very well." You would never have recognized that voice as the
                  voice of Irene.
               "No, child, you are not well. What ails you? Why are you here in so strange a way
                  and looking so strangely?"
               "Do I look strangely?" There was a feeble effort to awaken a smile, which only
                  gave her face a ghastly expression.
               "Is Hartley with you?"
               "No." Her voice was fuller and more emphatic as she uttered this word. She tried
                  to look steadily at her father, but her eyes moved aside from the range of his
                  vision.
               For a little while there was a troubled silence with all. Rose had placed an arm
                  around the waist of Irene and drawn her to the sofa, on which they were now
                  sitting; Mr. Delancy stood before them. Gradually the cold, almost blank,
                  expression of Irene's face changed and the old look came back.
               "My daughter," said Mr. Delancy.
               "Father"—Irene interrupted him—"I know what you are going to say. My sudden,
                     unannounced nounced appearance, at
                  this time, needs explanation. I am glad dear Rose is here—my old, true friend"—and
                  she leaned against Miss Carman—"I can trust her."
               The arm of Rose tightened around the waist of Irene.
               "Father"—the voice of Irene fell to a deep, solemn tone; there was no emphasis on
                  one word more than on another; all was a dead level; yet the meaning was as full
                  and the involved purpose as fixed as if her voice had run through the whole range
                  of passionate intonation—"Father, I have come back to Ivy Cliff and to you, after
                  having suffered shipwreck on the voyage of life. I went out rich, as I supposed,
                  in heart-treasures; I come back poor. My gold was dross, and the sea has swallowed
                  up even that miserable substitute for wealth. Hartley and I never truly loved each
                  other, and the experiment of living together as husband and wife has proved a
                  failure. We have not been happy; no, not from the beginning. We have not even been
                  tolerant or forbearing toward each other. A steady alienation has been in progress
                  day by day, week by week, and month by month, until no remedy is left but
                  separation. That has been, at length, applied, and here I am! It is the third time
                  that I have left him, and to both of us the act is final. He will not seek me, and
                  I shall not return."
               There had come a slight flush to the countenance nance of Irene before she
                  commenced speaking, but this retired again, and she looked deathly pale. No one
                  answered her—only the arm of Rose tightened like a cord around the waist of her
                  unhappy friend.
               "Father," and now her voice fluttered a little, "for your sake I am most
                  afflicted. I am strong enough to bear my fate—but you!"
               There was a little sob—a strong suppression of feeling—and silence.
               "Oh, Irene! my child! my child!" The old man covered his face with his hands,
                  sobbed, and shook like a fluttering leaf. "I cannot bear this! It is too much for
                  me!" and he staggered backward. Irene sprung forward and caught him in her arms.
                  He would have fallen, but for this, to the floor. She stood clasping and kissing
                  him wildly, until Rose came forward and led them both to the sofa.
               Mr. Delancy did not rally from this shock. He leaned heavily against his daughter,
                  and she felt a low tremor in his frame.
               "Father!" She spoke tenderly, with her lips to his ear. "Dear father!"
               But he did not reply.
               "It is my life-discipline, father," she said; "I will be happier and better, no
                  doubt, in the end for this severe trial. Dear father, do not let what is
                  inevitable so break down your heart. You are my strong, brave, good father, and I
                  shall need now more than ever, your
                  sustaining arm. There was no help for this. It had to come, sooner or later. It is
                  over now. The first bitterness is past. Let us be thankful for that, and gather up
                  our strength for the future. Dear father! Speak to me!"
               Mr. Delancy tried to rally himself, but he was too much broken down by the shock.
                  He said a few words, in which there was scarcely any connection of ideas, and
                  then, getting up from the sofa, walked about the room, turning one of his hands
                  within the other in a distressed way.
               "Oh dear, dear, dear!" he murmured to himself, in a feeble manner. "I have dreaded
                  this, and prayed that it might not be. Such wretchedness and disgrace! Such
                  wretchedness and disgrace! Had they no patience with each other—no forbearance—no
                  love, that it must come to this? Dear! dear! dear! Poor child!"
               Irene, with her white, wretched face, sat looking at him for some time, as he
                  moved about, a picture of helpless misery; then, going to him again, she drew an
                  arm around his neck and tried to comfort him. But there was no comfort in her
                  words. What could she say to reach with a healing power the wound
                  from which his very life-blood was pouring.
               "Don't talk! don't talk!" he said, pushing Irene away, with slight impatience of
                  manner. "I am heart-broken. Words are nothing!"
               "Mr. Delancy," said Rose, now coming to his side, and laying a hand upon his arm,
                  "you must not speak so to Irene. This is not like you."
               There was a calmness of utterance and a firmness of manner which had their right
                  effect.
               "How have I spoken, Rose, dear? What have I said?" Mr. Delancy stopped and looked
                  at Miss Carman in a rebuked, confused way, laying his hand upon his forehead at
                  the same time.
               "Not from yourself," answered Rose.
               "Not from myself!" He repeated her words, as if his thoughts were still in a maze.
                  "Ah, child, this is dreadful!" he added. "I am not myself! Poor Irene! Poor
                  daughter! Poor father!"
               And the old man lost himself again.
               A look of fear now shadowed darkly the face of Irene, and she glanced anxiously
                  from her father's countenance to that of Rose. She did not read in the face of her
                  young friend much that gave assurance or comfort.
               "Mr. Delancy," said Rose, with great earnestness of manner, "Irene is in sore
                  trouble. She has come to a great crisis in her life. You are older and wiser than
                  she is, and must counsel and sustain her. Be calm, dear sir—calm, clear-seeing,
                  wise and considerate, as you have always been."
               "Calm—clear-seeing—wise." Mr. Delancy repeated the words, as if endeavoring to
                  grasp the rein of thought and get possession of himself again.
               
               "Wise to counsel and strong to sustain," said Rose. "You must not fail us
                  now."
               "Thank you, my sweet young monitor," replied Mr. Delancy, partially recovering
                  himself; "it was the weakness of a moment. Irene," and he looked toward his
                  daughter, "leave me with my own thoughts for a little while. Take her, Rose, to
                  her own room, and God give you power to speak words of consolation; I have
                  none."
               Rose drew her arm within that of Irene, and said, "Come." But Irene lingered,
                  looking tenderly and anxiously at her father.
               "Go, my love." Mr. Delancy waved his hand.
               "Father! dear father!" She moved a step toward him, while Rose held her back.
               "I cannot help myself, father. The die is cast. Oh bear up with me! I will be to
                  you a better daughter than I have ever been. My life shall be devoted to your
                  happiness. In that I will find a compensation. All is not lost—all is not ruined.
                  My heart is as pure as when I left you three years ago. I come back bleeding from
                  my life-battle it is true, but not in mortal peril—wounded, but not unto
                  death—cast down, but not destroyed."
               All the muscles of Mr. Delancy's face quivered with suppressed feeling as he stood
                  looking at his daughter, who, as she uttered the words, "cast down, but not
                  destroyed," flung herself in wild abandonment on his breast.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE PALSIED HEART.
               
                  THE shock to Mr. Delancy was a fearful one, coming as it did on a
                  troubled, foreboding state of mind; and reason lost for a little while her firm
                  grasp on the rein of government. If the old man could have seen a ray of hope in
                  the case it would have been different. But from the manner and language of his
                  daughter it was plain that the dreaded evil had found them; and the certainty of
                  this falling suddenly, struck him as with a heavy blow.
               For several days he was like one who had been stunned. All that afternoon on which
                  his daughter returned to Ivy Cliff he moved about in a bewildered way, and by his
                  questions and remarks showed an incoherence of thought that filled the heart of
                  Irene with alarm.
               On the next morning, when she met him at the breakfast-table, he smiled on her in
                  his old affectionate way. As she kissed him, she said,
               "I hope you slept well last night, father?"
               A slight change was visible in his face.
               "I slept soundly enough," he replied, "but my dreams were not agreeable."
               
               Then he looked at her with a slight closing of the brows and a questioning look in
                  his eyes.
               They sat down, Irene taking her old place at the table. As she poured out her
                  father's coffee, he said, smiling,
               "It is pleasant to have you sitting there, daughter."
               "Is it?"
               Irene was troubled by this old manner of her father. Could he have forgotten why
                  she was there?
               "Yes, it is pleasant," he replied, and then his eye dropped in a thoughtful
                  way.
               "I think, sometimes, that your attractive New York friends have made you
                  neglectful of your lonely old father. You don't come to see him as often as you
                  did a year ago."
               Mr. Delancy said this with simple earnestness.
               "They shall not keep me from you any more, dear father," replied Irene, meeting
                  his humor, yet heart-appalled at the same time with this evidence that his mind
                  was wandering from the truth.
               "I don't think them safe friends," added Mr. Delancy, with seriousness.
               "Perhaps not," replied Irene.
               "Ah! I'm glad to hear you say so. Now, you have one true, safe friend. I wish you
                  loved her better than you do."
               "What is her name?"
               "Rose Carman," said Mr. Delancy, with a slight hesitation of manner, as if he
                  feared repulsion on the part of his daughter.
               "I love Rose, dearly; she is the best of girls; and I know her to be a true
                  friend," replied Irene.
               "Spoken like my own daughter!" said the old man with a brightening countenance.
                  "You must not neglect her any more. Why, she told me you hadn't written to her in
                  six months. Now, that isn't right. Never go past old, true friends for the sake of
                  new, and maybe false ones. No—no. Rose is hurt; you must write to her often—every
                  week."
               Irene could not answer. Her heart was beating wildly. What could this mean? Had
                  reason fled? But she struggled hard to preserve a calm exterior.
               "Will Hartley be up to-day?"
               Irene tried to say "No," but could not find utterance.
               Mr. Delancy looked at her curiously, and now in a slightly troubled way. Then he
                  let his eyes fall, and sat holding his cup like one who was turning perplexed
                  thoughts in his mind.
               "You are not well this morning, father," said Irene, speaking only because silence
                  was too oppressive for endurance.
               "I don't know; perhaps I'm not very well; and Mr. Delancy looked across the table
                  at his daughter very earnestly. "I had bad dreams all last night, and they seem to
                  have got mixed up in my thoughts with real things. How is it? When did you come up from New York? Don't smile at me.
                  But really I can't think."
               "I came yesterday," said Irene, as calmly as she could speak.
               "Yesterday!" He looked at her with a quickly changing face.
               "Yes, father, I came up yesterday."
               "And Rose was here?"
               "Yes."
               Mr. Delancy's eyes fell again, and he sat very still.
               "Hartley will not be here to-day?"
               Mr. Delancy did not look up as he asked this question.
               "No, father."
               "Nor to-morrow?"
               "I think not."
               A sigh quivered on the old man's lips.
               "Nor the day after that?"
               "He did not say when he was coming," replied Irene, evasively.
               "Did not say when? Did not say when?" Mr. Delancy repeated the sentence two or
                  three times, evidently trying all the while to recall something which had faded
                  from his memory.
               "Don't worry yourself about Hartley," said Irene, forcing herself to pronounce a
                  name that seemed like fire on her lips. "Isn't it enough that I am here?"
               "No, it is not enough." And her father put his hand to his forehead and looked
                  upward in an earnest, searching manner.
               What could Irene say? What could she do? The mind of her father was groping about
                  in the dark, and she was every moment in dread lest he should discover the truth
                  and get farther astray from the shock.
               No food was taken by either Mr. Delancy or his daughter. The former grew more
                  entangled in his thoughts, and finally arose from the table, saying, in a
                  half-apologetic way,
               "I don't know what ails me this morning."
               "Where are you going?" asked Irene, rising at the same time.
               "Nowhere in particular. The air is close here—I'll sit a while in the portico," he
                  answered, and throwing open one of the windows he stepped outside. Irene followed
                  him.
               "How beautiful!" said Mr. Delancy, as he sat down and turned his eyes upon the
                  attractive landscape. Irene did not trust her voice in reply.
               "Now go in and finish your breakfast, child. I feel better; I don't know what came
                  over me." He added the last sentence in an undertone.
               Irene returned into the house, but not to resume her place at the table. Her mind
                  was in an agony of dread. She had reached the dining-room, and was about to ring
                  for a servant, when she heard her name called by her father. Running back quickly
                  to the portico, she found him standing
                  in the attitude of one who had been suddenly startled; his face all alive with
                  question and suspense.
               "Oh, yes! yes! I thought you were here this moment! And so it's all true?" he
                  said, in a quick, troubled way.
               "True? What is true, father?" asked Irene, as she paused before him.
               "True, what you told me yesterday."
               She did not answer.
               "You have left your husband?" He looked soberly into her face.
               "I have, father." She thought it best to use no evasion.
               He groaned, sat down in the chair from which he had arisen, and let his head fall
                  upon his bosom.
               "Father!" Irene kneeled before him and clasped his hands. "Father! dear
                  father!"
               He laid a hand on her head, and smoothed her hair in a caressing manner.
               "Poor child! poor daughter!" he said, in a fond, pitying voice, "don't take it so
                  to heart. Your old father loves you still."
               She could not stay the wild rush of feeling that was overmastering her. Passionate
                  sobs heaved her breast, and tears came raining from her eyes.
               "Now, don't, Irene! Don't take on so, daughter! I love you still, and we will be
                  happy here, as in other days."
               "Yes, father," said Irene, holding down her head and calming her voice, "we will
                  be happy here, as in the dear old time. Oh we will be very happy together. I won't
                  leave you any more."
               "I wish you had never left me," he answered, mournfully; "I was always afraid of
                  this—always afraid. But don't let it break your heart; I'm all the same; nothing
                  will ever turn me against you. I hope he hasn't been very unkind to you?" His
                  voice grew a little severe.
               "We wont say anything against him," replied Irene, trying to understand exactly
                  her father's state of mind and accommodate herself thereto. "Forgive and forget is
                  the wisest rule always."
               "Yes, dear, that's it. Forgive and forget—forgive and forget. There's nothing like
                  it in this world. I'm glad to hear you talk so."
               The mind of Mr. Delancy did not again wander from the truth. But the shock
                  received when it first came upon him with stunning force had taken away his keen
                  perception of the calamity. He was sad, troubled and restless, and talked a great
                  deal about the unhappy position of his daughter—sometimes in a way that indicated
                  much incoherence of thought. To this state succeeded one of almost total silence,
                  and he would sit for hours, if not aroused from reverie and inaction by his
                  daughter, in apparent dreamy listlessness. His conversation, when he did talk on
                  any subject, showed, however, that his mind had regained its old clearness.
               On the third day after Irene's arrival at Ivy Cliff, her trunks came up from New York. She had
                  packed them on the night before leaving her husband's house, and marked them with
                  her name and that of her father's residence. No letter or message accompanied
                  them. She did not expect nor desire any communication, and was not therefore
                  disappointed, but rather relieved from what would have only proved a cause of
                  disturbance. All angry feelings toward her husband had subsided; but no tender
                  impulses moved in her heart, nor did the feeblest thought of reconciliation
                  breathe over the surface of her mind. She had been in bonds; now the fetters were
                  cast off, and she loved freedom too well to bend her neck again to the yoke.
               No tender impulses moved, we have said, in her heart, for it lay like a palsied
                  thing, dead in her bosom—dead, we mean, so far as the wife was concerned. It was
                  not so palsied on that fatal evening when the last strife with her husband closed.
                  But in the agony that followed there came, in mercy, a cold paralysis; and now
                  toward Hartley Emerson her feelings were as calm as the surface of a frozen
                  lake.
               And how was it with the deserted husband? Stern and unyielding also. The past year
                  had been marked by so little of mutual tenderness, there had been so few passages
                  of love between them—green spots in the desert of their lives—that memory brought
                  hardly a relic from the past over which the heart could brood. For the sake of
                  worldly appearances, Emerson most regretted the unhappy event. Next, his trouble
                  was for Irene and her father, but most for Irene.
               "Willful, wayward one!" he said many, many times. "You, of all, will suffer most.
                  No woman can take a step like this without drinking of pain to the bitterest
                  dregs. If you can hide the anguish, well. But I fear the trial will be too hard
                  for you—the burden too heavy. Poor, mistaken one!"
               For a month the household arrangements of Mr. Emerson continued as when Irene left
                  him. He did not intermit for a day or an hour his business duties, and came home
                  regularly at his usual times—always, it must be said, with a feeble expectation of
                  meeting his wife in her old places; we do not say desire, but simply expectation.
                  If she had returned, well. He would not have repulsed, nor would he have received
                  her with strong indications of pleasure. But a month went by, and she did not
                  return nor send him any word. Beyond the brief "I have gone," there had come from
                  her no sign.
               Two months elapsed, and then Mr. Emerson dismissed the servants and shut up the
                  house, but he neither removed nor sold the furniture; that remained as it was for
                  nearly a year, when he ordered a sale by auction and closed the establishment.
               
               Hartley Emerson, under the influence of business and domestic trouble, matured
                  rapidly, and became grave, silent and reflective beyond men of his years.
                  Companionable he was by nature, and during the last year that Irene was with him,
                  failing to receive social sympathy at home, he had joined a club of young men,
                  whose association was based on a declared ambition for literary excellence. From
                  this club he withdrew himself; it did not meet the wants of his higher nature, but
                  offered much that stimulated the grosser appetites and passions. Now he gave
                  himself up to earnest self-improvement, and found in the higher and wider range of
                  thought which came as the result a partial compensation for what he had lost. But
                  he was not happy; far, very far from it. And there were seasons when the past came
                  back upon him in such a flood that all the barriers of indifference which he had
                  raised for self-protection were swept away, and he had to build them up again in
                  sadness of spirit. So the time wore on with him, and troubled life-experiences
                  were doing their work upon his character.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE IRREVOCABLE DECREE.
               
                  IT is two years since the day of separation between Irene and her
                  husband. Just two years. And she is sitting in the portico at Ivy Cliff with her
                  father, looking down upon the river that lies gleaming in sunshine—not thinking of
                  the river, however, nor of anything in nature.
               They are silent and still—very still, as if sleep had locked their senses. He is
                  thin and wasted as from long sickness, and she looks older by ten years. There is
                  no fine bloom on her cheeks, from which the fullness of youth has departed.
               It is a warm June day, the softest, balmiest, brightest day the year has given.
                  The air comes laden with delicate odors and thrilling with bird melodies, and,
                  turn the eye as it will, there is a feast of beauty.
               Yet, the odors are not perceived, nor the music heard, nor the beauty seen by that
                  musing old man and his silent daughter. Their thoughts are not in the present, but
                  far back in the unhappy past, the memories of which, awakened by the scene and
                  season, have come flowing in a strong tide upon them.
               
               Two years! They have left the prints of their heavy feet upon the life of Irene,
                  and the deep marks will never be wholly obliterated. She were less than human if
                  this were not so. Two years! Yet, not once in that long, heart-aching time had she
                  for a single moment looked backward in weakness. Sternly holding to her act as
                  right, she strengthened herself in suffering, and bore her pain as if it were a
                  decree of fate. There was no anger in her heart, nor anything of hardness toward
                  her husband. But there was no love, nor tender yearning for conjunction—at least,
                  nothing recognized as such in her own consciousness.
               Not since the days Irene left the house of her husband had she heard from him
                  directly; and only two or three times indirectly. She had never visited the city
                  since her flight therefrom, and all her pleasant and strongly influencing
                  associations there were, in consequence, at an end. Once her very dear friend Mrs.
                  Talbot came up to sympathize with and strengthen her in the fiery trial through
                  which she was passing. She found Irene's truer friend, Rosa Carman, with her; and
                  Rose did not leave them alone for a moment at a time. All sentiments that she
                  regarded as hurtful to Irene in her present state of mind she met with her calm,
                  conclusive mode of reasoning, that took away the specious force of the sophist's
                  dogmas. But her influence was chiefly used in the repression of unprofitable
                  themes, and the introduction of such as tended to tranquilize the feelings, and
                  turn the thoughts of her friend away from the trouble that was lying upon her soul
                  like a suffocating nightmare. Mrs. Talbot was not pleased with her visit, and did
                  not come again. But she wrote several times. The tone of her letters was not,
                  however, pleasant to Irene, who was disturbed by it, and more bewildered than
                  enlightened by the sentiments that were announced with oracular vagueness. These
                  letters were read to Miss Carman, on whom Irene was beginning to lean with
                  increasing confidence. Rose did not fail to expose their weakness or fallacy in
                  such clear light that Irene, though she tried to shut her eyes against the truth
                  presented by Rose, could not help seeing it. Her replies were not, under these
                  circumstances, very satisfactory, for she was unable to speak in a free,
                  assenting, confiding spirit. The consequence was natural. Mrs. Talbot ceased to
                  write, and Irene did not regret the broken correspondence. Once Mrs. Lloyd wrote.
                  When Irene broke the seal and let her eyes rest upon the signature, a shudder of
                  repulsion ran through her frame, and the letter dropped from her hands to the
                  floor. As if possessed by a spirit whose influence over her she could not control,
                  she caught up the unread sheet and threw it into the fire. As the flames seized
                  upon and consumed it, she drew a long breath and murmured,
               "So perish the memory of our acquaintance!"
               
               Almost a dead letter of suffering had been those two years. There are no events to
                  record, and but little progress to state. Yes, there had been a dead level of
                  suffering—a palsied condition of heart and mind; a period of almost sluggish
                  endurance, in which pride and an indomitable will gave strength to bear.
               Mr. Delancy and his daughter were sitting, as we have seen, on that sweet June
                  day, in silent abstraction of thought, when the serving-man, who had been to the
                  village, stepped into the portico and handed Irene a letter. The sight of it
                  caused her heart to leap and the blood to crimson suddenly her face. It was not an
                  ordinary letter—one in such a shape had never come to her hand before.
               "What is that?" asked her father, coming back as it were to life.
               "I don't know," she answered, with an effort to appear indifferent.
               Mr. Delancy looked at his daughter with a perplexed manner, and then let his eyes
                  fall upon the legal envelope in her hand, on which a large red seal was
                  impressed.
               Rising in a quiet way, Irene left the portico with slow steps; but no sooner was
                  she beyond her father's observation than she moved toward her chamber with winged
                  feet.
               "Bless me, Miss Irene!" exclaimed Margaret, who met her on the stairs, "what has
                  happened?"
               But Irene swept by her without a response, and, entering her room, shut the door
                  and locked it. Margaret stood a moment irresolute, and then, going back to her
                  young lady's chamber, knocked for admission. There was no answer to her summons,
                  and she knocked again.
               "Who is it?"
               She hardly knew the voice.
               "It is Margaret. Can't I come in?"
               "Not now," was answered.
               "What's the matter, Miss Irene?"
               "Nothing, Margaret. I wish to be alone now."
               "Something has happened, though, or you'd never look just like that," said
                  Margaret to herself, as she went slowly down stairs. "Oh dear, dear! Poor child!
                  there's nothing but trouble for her in this world."
               It was some minutes before Irene found courage to break the imposing seal and look
                  at the communication within. She guessed at the contents, and was not wrong. They
                  informed her, in legal phrase, that her husband had filed an application for a
                  divorce on the ground of desertion, and gave notice that any resistance to this
                  application must be on file on or before a certain date.
               The only visible sign of feeling that responded to this announcement was a deadly
                  paleness and a slight, nervous crushing of the paper in her hands. Moveless as a
                  thing inanimate, she sat with fixed, dreamy eyes for a long, long time.
               
               A divorce! She had looked for this daily for more than a year, and often wondered
                  at her husband's tardiness. Had she desired it? Ah, that is the probing question.
                  Had she desired an act of law to push them fully asunder—to make the separation
                  plenary in all respects? No. She did not really wish for the irrevocable sundering
                  decree.
               Since her return to her father's house, the whole life of Irene had been marked by
                  great circumspection. The trial through which she had passed was enough to sober
                  her mind and turn her thoughts in some new directions; and this result had
                  followed. Pride, self-will and impatience of control found no longer any spur to
                  reactive life, and so her interest in woman's rights, social reforms and all their
                  concomitants died away, for lack of a personal bearing. At first there had been
                  warm arguments with Miss Carman on these subjects, but these grew gradually less
                  earnest, and were finally avoided by both, as not only unprofitable, but
                  distasteful. Gradually this wise and true friend had quickened in the mind of
                  Irene an interest in things out of herself. There are in every neighborhood
                  objects to awaken our sympathies, if we will only look at and think of them. "The
                  poor ye have always with you." Not the physically poor only, but, in larger
                  numbers, the mentally and spiritually poor. The hands of no one need lie idle a
                  moment for lack of work, for it is no vague form of speech to say that the harvest
                  is great and the laborers few.
               There were ripe harvest-fields around Ivy Cliff, though Irene had not observed the
                  golden grain bending its head for the sickle until Rose led her feet in the right
                  direction. Not many of the naturally poor were around them, yet some required even
                  bodily ministrations—children, the sick and the aged. The destitution that most
                  prevailed was of the mind; and this is the saddest form of poverty. Mental hunger!
                  how it exhausts the soul and debases its heaven-born faculties, sinking it into a
                  gross corporeal sphere, that is only a little removed from the animal! To feed the
                  hungry and clothe the naked mean a great deal more than the bestowal of food and
                  raiment; yes, a great deal more; and we have done but a small part of Christian
                  duty—have obeyed only in the letter—when we supply merely the bread that
                  perishes.
               Rose Carman had been wisely instructed, and she was an apt scholar. Now, from a
                  learner she became a teacher, and in the suffering Irene found one ready to accept
                  the higher truths that governed her life, and to act with her in giving them a
                  real ultimation. So, in the two years which had woven their web of new experiences
                  for the heart of Irene, she had been drawn almost imperceptibly by Rose into
                  fields of labor where the work that left her hands was, she saw, good work, and
                  must endure for ever. What peace it often brought to her striving spirit, when,
                  but for the sustaining and protecting power of good deeds, she would have been swept out upon the waves of turbulent
                  passion—tossed and beaten there until her exhausted heart sunk down amid the
                  waters, and lay dead for a while at the bottom of her great sea of trouble!
               It was better—oh, how much better!—when she laid her head at night on her lonely
                  pillow, to have in memory the face of a poor sick woman, which had changed from
                  suffering to peace as she talked to her of higher things than the body's needs,
                  and bore her mind up into a region of tranquil thought, than to be left with no
                  image to dwell upon but an image of her own shattered hopes. Yes, this was far
                  better; and by the power of such memories the unhappy one had many peaceful
                  seasons and nights of sweet repose.
               All around Ivy Cliff, Irene and Rose were known as ministrant spirits to the poor
                  and humble. The father of Rose was a man of wealth, and she had his entire
                  sympathy and encouragement. Irene had no regular duties at home, Margaret being
                  housekeeper and directress in all departments. So there was nothing to hinder the
                  free course of her will as to the employment of time. With all her pride of
                  independence, the ease with which Mrs. Talbot drew Irene in one direction, and now
                  Miss Carman in another, showed how easily she might be influenced when off her
                  guard. This is true in most cases of your very self-willed people, and the reason
                  why so many of them get astray. Only conceal the hand that leads them, and you may
                  often take them where you will. Ah, if Hartley Emerson had been wise enough,
                  prudent enough and loving enough to have influenced aright the fine young spirit
                  he was seeking to make one with his own, how different would the result have
                  been!
               In the region round about, our two young friends came in time to be known as the
                  "Sisters of Charity." It was not said of them mockingly, nor in gay depreciation,
                  nor in mean ill-nature, but in expression of a common sentiment, that recognized
                  their high, self-imposed mission.
               Thus it had been with Irene since her return to the old home at Ivy Cliff.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               STRUCK DOWN.
               
                  YES, Irene had looked for this—looked for it daily for now more than
                  a year. Still it came upon her with a shock that sent a strange, wild shudder
                  through all her being. A divorce! She was less prepared for it than she had ever
                  been.
               What was beyond? Ah! that touched a chord which gave a thrill of pain. What was
                  beyond? A new alliance, of course. Legal disabilities removed, Hartley Emerson
                  would take upon himself new marriage vows. Could she say, "Yea, and amen" to this?
                  No, alas! no. There was a feeling of intense, irrepressible anguish away down in
                  heart-regions that lay far beyond the lead-line of prior consciousness. What did
                  it mean? She asked herself the question with a fainting spirit. Had she not known
                  herself? Were old states of tenderness, which she had believed crushed out and
                  dead along ago, hidden away in secret places of her heart, and kept there safe
                  from harm?
               No wonder she sat pale and still, crumpling nervously that fatal document which
                  had startled her with a new revelation of herself. There was love in her heart
                  still, and she knew it not. For a long time she sat like one in a dream.
               "God help me!" she said at length, looking around her in a wild, bewildered
                  manner. "What does all this mean?"
               There came at this moment a gentle tap at her door. She knew whose soft hand had
                  given the sound.
               "Irene," exclaimed Rose Carman, as she took the hand of her friend and looked into
                  her changed countenance, "what ails you?"
               Irene turned her face partly away to get control of its expression.
               "Sit down, Rose," she said, as soon as she could trust herself to speak.
               They sat down together, Rose troubled and wondering. Irene then handed her friend
                  the notice which she had received. Miss Carman read it, but made no remark for
                  some time.
               "It has disturbed you," she said at length, seeing that Irene continued
                  silent.
               "Yes, more than I could have believed," answered Irene. Her voice had lost its
                  familiar tones.
               "You have expected this?"
               "Yes."
               "I thought you were prepared for it."
               "And I am," replied Irene, speaking with more firmness of manner. "Expectation
                  grows so nervous, sometimes, that when the event comes it falls upon us with a painful shock. This is my case now.
                  I would have felt it less severely if it had occurred six months ago."
               "What will you do?" asked Rose.
               "Do?"
               "Yes."
               "What can I do?"
               "Resist the application, if you will."
               "But I will not," answered Irene, firmly. "He signifies his wishes in the case,
                  and those wishes must determine everything. I will remain passive."
               "And let the divorce issue by default of answer?"
               "Yes."
               There was a faintness of tone which Rose could not help remarking.
               "Yes," Irene added, "he desires this complete separation, and I can have nothing
                  to say in opposition. I left him, and have remained ever since a stranger to his
                  home and heart. We are nothing to each other, and yet are bound together by the
                  strongest of bonds. Why should he not wish to be released from these bonds? And if
                  he desires it, I have nothing to say. We are divorced in fact—why then retain the
                  form?"
               "There may be a question of the fact," said Rose.
               "Yes; I understand you. We have discussed that point fully. Your view may be
                  right, but I do not see it clearly. I will at least retain passive. The
                  responsibility shall rest with him."
               No life or color came back to the face of Irene. She looked as cold as marble; not
                  cold without feeling, but with intense feeling recorded as in a piece of
                  sculpture.
               There were deeds of kindness and mercy set down in the purposes of our young
                  friend, and it was to go forth and perform them that Rose had called for Irene
                  this morning. But only one Sister of Charity went to the field that day, and only
                  one for many days afterward.
               Irene could not recover from the shock of this legal notice. It found her less
                  prepared than she had been at any time during the last two years of separation.
                  Her life at Ivy Cliff had not been favorable to a spirit of antagonism and
                  accusation, nor favorable to a self-approving judgment of herself when the past
                  came up, as it often came, strive as she would to cover it as with a veil. She had
                  grown in this night of suffering, less self-willed and blindly impulsive. Some
                  scales had dropped from her eyes, and she saw clearer. Yet no repentance for that
                  one act of her life, which involved a series of consequences beyond the reach of
                  conjecture, had found a place in her heart. There was no looking back from this—no
                  sober questioning as to the right or necessity which had been involved. There had
                  been one great mistake—so she decided the case—and that was the marriage. From this fatal error all subsequent
                  evil was born.
               Months of waiting and expectation followed, and then came a decree annulling the
                  marriage.
               "It is well," was the simple response of Irene when notice of the fact reached
                  her.
               Not even to Rose Carman did she reveal a thought that took shape in her mind, nor
                  betray a single emotion that trembled in her heart. If there had been less
                  appearance of indifference—less avoidance of the subject—her friends would have
                  felt more comfortable as to her state of mind. The unnatural repose of, exterior
                  was to them significant of a strife within which she wished to conceal from all
                  eyes.
               About this time her true, loving friend, Miss Carman, married. Irene did not stand
                  as one of the bridesmaids at the ceremony. Rose gently hinted her wishes in the
                  case, but Irene shrunk from the position, and her feeling was respected. The
                  husband of Rose was a merchant, residing in New York, named Everet. After a short
                  bridal tour she went to her new home in the city. Mr. Everet was five or six years
                  her senior, and a man worthy to be her life-companion. No sudden attachment had
                  grown up between them. For years they had been in the habit of meeting, and in
                  this time the character of each had been clearly read by the other. When Mr.
                  Everet asked the maiden's hand, it, was yielded without a sign of hesitation.
               The removal of Rose from the neighborhood of Ivy Cliff greatly disturbed the
                  even-going tenor of Irene's life. It withdrew also a prop on which she had leaned
                  often in times of weakness, which would recur very heavily.
               "How can I live without you?" she said in tears, as she sat alone with the
                  new-made bride on the eve of her departure; "you have been everything to me,
                  Rose—strength in weakness; light, when all around was cold and dark; a guide when
                  I had lost my way. God bless and make you happy, darling! And he will. Hearts like
                  yours create happiness wherever they go."
               "My new home will only be a few hours' distant," replied Rose; "I shall see you
                  there often."
               Irene sighed. She had been to the city only a few times since that sad day of
                  separation from her husband. Could she return again and enter one of its bright
                  social circles? Her heart said no. But love drew her too strongly. In less than a
                  month after Rose became the mistress of a stately mansion, Irene was her guest.
                  This was just six years from the time when she set up her home there, a proud and
                  happy young wife. Alas! that hearth was desolate, "its bright fire quenched and
                  gone."
               It was best for Irene thus to get back again into a wider social sphere—to make
                  some new friends, and those of a class that such a woman as Mrs. Everet would
                  naturally draw around her. Three years of suffering, and the effort to lead a life
                     of self-denial and active interest
                  in others, had wrought in Irene a great change. The old, flashing ardor of manner
                  was gone. If she grew animated in conversation, as she often did from temperament,
                  her face would light up beautifully, but it did not show the radiance of old
                  times. Thought, more than feeling, gave its living play to her countenance. All
                  who met her were attracted; as her history was known, observation naturally took
                  the form of close scrutiny. People wished to find the angular and repellant sides
                  of her character in order to see how far she might be to blame. But they were not
                  able to discover them. On the subjects of woman's rights, domestic tyranny, sexual
                  equality and all kindred themes she was guarded in speech. She never introduced
                  them herself, and said but little when they formed the staple of conversation.
               Even if, in three years of intimate, almost daily, association with Rose, she had
                  not learned to think in some new directions on these bewildering questions,
                  certain womanly instincts must have set a seal upon her lips. Not for all the
                  world would she, to a stranger—no, nor to any new friend—utter a sentiment that
                  could in the least degree give color to the thought that she wished to throw even
                  the faintest shadow of blame on Hartley Emerson. Not that she was ready to take
                  blame to herself, or give the impression that fault rested by her door. No. The
                  subject was sacred to herself, and she asked no sympathy and granted no
                  confidences. There were those who sought to draw her out, who watched her face and
                  words with keen intentness when certain themes were discussed. But they were
                  unable to reach the penetralia of her heart. There was a chamber of record there
                  into which no one could enter but herself.
               Since the separation of Irene from her husband, Mr. Delancy had shown signs of
                  rapid failure. His heart was bound up in his daughter, who, with all her captious
                  self-will and impulsiveness, loved him with a tenderness and fervor that never
                  knew change or eclipse. To see her make shipwreck of life's dearest hopes—to know
                  that her name was spoken by hundreds in reprobation—to look daily on her quiet,
                  changing, suffering face, was more than his fond heart could bear. It broke him
                  down. This fact, more perhaps, than her own sad experiences, tended to sober the
                  mind of Irene, and leave it almost passive under the right influences of her wise
                  young friend.
               After the removal of Rose from the neighborhood of Ivy Cliff, the health of Mr.
                  Delancy failed still more rapidly, and in a few months the brief visits of Irene
                  to her friend in New York had to be intermitted. She could no longer venture to
                  leave her father, even under the care of their faithful Margaret. A sad winter for
                  Irene succeeded. Mr. Delancy drooped about until after Christmas, in a weary,
                  listless way, taking little interest in anything thing, and bearing both physical and mental
                  consciousness as a burden it would be pleasant to lay down. Early in January he
                  had to give up and go to bed; and now the truth of his condition startled the mind
                  of Irene and filled her with alarm. By slow, insidious encroachments, that
                  dangerous enemy, typhoid fever, had gained a lodgment in the very citadel of life,
                  and boldly revealed itself, defying the healer's art. For weeks the dim light of
                  mortal existence burned with a low, wavering flame, that any sudden breath of air
                  might extinguish; then it grew steady again, increased, and sent a few brighter
                  rays into the darkness which had gathered around Ivy Cliff.
               Spring found Mr. Delancy strong enough to sit, propped up with pillows, by the
                  window of his chamber, and look out upon the newly-mantled trees, the green
                  fields, and the bright river flashing in the sunshine. The heart of Irene took
                  courage again. The cloud which had lain upon it all winter like a funereal pall
                  dissolved, and went floating away and wasting itself in dim expanses.
               Alas, that all this sweet promise was but a mockery of hope! A sudden cold, how
                  taken it was almost impossible to tell—for Irene guarded her father as tenderly as
                  if he were a new-born infant—disturbed life's delicate equipoise, and the scale
                  turned fatally the wrong way.
               Poor Irene! She had only staggered under former blows—this one struck her down.
                  Had life anything to offer now? "Nothing! nothing!" she said in her heart, and
                  prayed that she might die and be at rest with her father.
               Months of stupor followed this great sorrow; then her heart began to beat again
                  with some interest in life. There was one friend, almost her only friend—for she
                  now repelled nearly every one who approached her—who never failed in hopeful,
                  comforting, stimulating words and offices, who visited her frequently in her
                  recluse life at Ivy Cliff, and sought with untiring assiduity to win her once more
                  away from its dead seclusion. And she was at last successful. In the winter after
                  Mr. Delancy's death, Irene, after much earnest persuasion, consented to pass a few
                  weeks in the city with Mrs. Everet. This gained, her friend was certain of all the
                  rest.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE HAUNTED VISION.
               
                  GRADUALLY the mind of Irene attained clearness of perception as to
                  duty, and a firmness of will that led her to act in obedience to what reason and
                  religion taught her was right. The leading idea which Mrs. Everet endeavored to
                  keep before her was this: that no happiness is possible, except in some work that
                  removes self-consciousness and fills our minds with an interest in the well-being
                  of others. While Rose was at Ivy Cliff, Irene acted with her, and was sustained by
                  her love and companionship. After her marriage and removal to New York, Irene was
                  left to stand alone, and this tried her strength. It was feeble. The sickness and
                  death of her father drew her back again into herself, and for a time extinguished
                  all interest in what was on the outside. To awaken a new and higher life was the
                  aim of her friend, and she never wearied in her generous efforts. During this
                  winter plans were matured for active usefulness in the old spheres, and Mrs.
                  Everet promised to pass as much time in the next summer with her father as
                  possible, so as to act with Irene in the development of these schemes.
               The first warm days of summer found Irene back again in her home at Ivy Cliff. Her
                  visit in New York had been prolonged far beyond the limit assigned to it in the
                  beginning, but Rose would not consent to an earlier return. This winter of daily
                  life with Mrs. Everet, in the unreserved intercourse of home, was of great use to
                  Irene. Affliction had mellowed all the harder portions of her disposition, which
                  the trouble and experiences of the past few years could not reach with their
                  softening influences. There was good soil in her mind, well prepared, and the
                  sower failed not in the work of scattering good seed upon it with a liberal
                  hand—seed that felt soon a quickening life and swelled in the delight of coming
                  germination.
               It is not our purpose to record the history of Irene during the years of her
                  discipline at Ivy Cliff, where she lived, nun-like, for the larger part of her
                  time. She had useful work there, and in its faithful performance peace came to her
                  troubled soul. Three or four times every year she paid a visit to Rose, and spent
                  on each occasion from one to three or four weeks. It could not but happen that in
                  these visits congenial friendship would be made, and tender remembrances go back
                  with her into the seclusion of her country home, to remain as sweet companions in
                  her hours of loneliness.
               It was something remarkable that, during the six or seven years which followed
                  Irene's separation tion from her
                  husband, she had never seen him. He was still a resident of New York, and well
                  known as a rapidly advancing member of the bar. Occasionally his name met her eyes
                  in the newspapers, as connected with some important suit; but, beyond this, his
                  life was to her a dead letter. He might be married again, for all she knew to the
                  contrary. But she never dwelt on that thought; its intrusion always disturbed her,
                  and that profoundly.
               And how was it with Hartley Emerson? Had he again tried the experiment which once
                  so signally failed? No; he had not ventured upon the sea whose depths held the
                  richest vessel he had freighted in life. Visions of loveliness had floated before
                  him, and he had been lured by them, a few times, out of his beaten path. But he
                  carried in his memory a picture that, when his eyes turned inward, held their gaze
                  so fixedly that all other images grew dim or unlovely. And so, with a sigh, he
                  would turn again to the old way and move on as before.
               But the past was irrevocable. "And shall I," he began to say to himself, "for this
                  one great error of my youth—this blind mistake—pass a desolate and fruitless
                  life?"
               Oftener and oftener the question was repeated in his thoughts, until it found
                  answer in an emphatic No! Then he looked around with a new interest, and went more
                  into society. Soon one fair face came more frequently before the eyes of his mind
                  than any other face. He saw it as he sat in his law-office, saw it on the page of
                  his book as he read in the evening, lying over the printed words and hiding from
                  his thoughts their meaning; saw it in dreams. The face haunted him. How long was
                  this since that fatal night of discord and separation? Ten years. So long? Yes, so
                  long. Ten weary years had made their record upon his book of life and upon hers.
                  Ten weary years! The discipline of this time had not worked on either any moral
                  deterioration. Both were yet sound to the core, and both were building up
                  characters based on the broad foundations of virtue.
               Steadily that face grew into a more living distinctness, haunting his daily
                  thoughts and nightly visions. Then new life-pulses began to throb in his heart;
                  new emotions to tremble over its long calm surface; new warmth to flow,
                  spring-like, into the indurated soil. This face, which had begun thus to dwell
                  with him, was the face of a maiden, beautiful to look upon. He had met her often
                  during a year, and from the beginning of their acquaintance she had interested
                  him. If he erred not, the interest was mutual. prom all points of view he now
                  commenced studying her character. Having made one mistake, he was fearful and
                  guarded. Better go on a lonely man to the end of life than again have his
                  love-freighted bark buried in mid-ocean.
               
               At last, Emerson was satisfied. He had found the sweet being whose life could
                  blend in eternal oneness with his own; and it only remained for him to say to her
                  in words what she had read as plainly as written language in his eyes. So far as
                  she was concerned, no impediment existed. We will not say that she was ripe enough
                  in soul to wed with this man, who had passed through experiences of a kind that
                  always develop the character broadly and deeply. No, for such was not the case.
                  She was too young and inexperienced to understand him; too narrow in her range of
                  thought; too much a child. But something in her beautiful, innocent, sweet young
                  face had won his heart; and in the weakness of passion, not in the manly strength
                  of a deep love, he had bowed down to a shrine at which he could never worship and
                  be satisfied.
               But even strong men are weak in woman's toils, and Hartley Emerson was a
                  captive.
               There was to be a pleasure-party on one of the steamers that cut the bright waters
                  of the fair Hudson, and Emerson and the maiden, whose face was now his daily
                  companion, were to be of the number. He felt that the time had come for him to
                  speak if he meant to speak at all—to say what was in his thought, or turn aside
                  and let another woo and win the lovely being imagination had already pictured as
                  the sweet companion of his future home. The night that preceded this excursion was
                  a sleepless one for Hartley Emerson. Questions and doubts, scarcely defined in his
                  thoughts before, pressed themselves upon him and demanded a solution. The past
                  came up with a vividness not experienced for years. In states of
                  semi-consciousness—half-sleeping, half-waking—there returned to him such life-like
                  realizations of events long ago recorded in his memory, and covered over with the
                  dust of time, that he started from them to full wakefulness, with a heart
                  throbbing in wild tumult. Once there was presented so vivid a picture of Irene
                  that for some moments he was unable to satisfy himself that all these ten years of
                  loneliness were not a dream. He saw her as she stood before him on that
                  ever-to-be-remembered night and said, "I go!" Let us turn back and
                  read the record of her appearance as he saw her then and now:
               "She had raised her eyes from the floor, and turned them full upon her husband.
                  Her face was not so pale. Warmth had come back to the delicate skin, flushing it
                  with beauty. She did not stand before him an impersonation of anger, dislike or
                  rebellion. There was not a repulsively attitude or expression. No flashing of the
                  eyes, nor even the cold, diamond glitter seen a little while before. Slowly
                  turning away, she left the room. But to her husband she seemed still standing
                  there, a lovely vision. There had fallen, in that instant of time, a sunbeam,
                  which fixed the image upon his memory in imperishable colors."
               Emerson groaned as he fell back upon his pillow and shut his eyes. What would he not then have
                  given for one full draught of Lethe's fabled waters.
               Morning came at last, its bright beams dispersing the shadows of night; and with
                  it came back the warmth of his new passion and his purpose on that day, if the
                  opportunity came, to end all doubt, by offering the maiden his hand—we do not say
                  heart, for of that he was not the full possessor.
               The day opened charmingly, and the pleasure-party were on the wing betimes.
                  Emerson felt a sense of exhilaration as the steamer passed out from her moorings
                  and glided with easy grace along the city front. He stood upon her deck with a
                  maiden's hand resting on his arm, the touch of which, though light as the pressure
                  of a flower, was felt with strange distinctness. The shadows of the night, which
                  had brooded so darkly over his spirit, were gone, and only a dim remembrance of
                  the gloom remained. Onward the steamer glided, sweeping by the crowded line of
                  buildings and moving grandly along, through palisades of rock on one side and
                  picturesque landscapes on the other, until bolder scenery stretched away and
                  mountain barriers raised themselves against the blue horizon.
               There was a large number of passengers on board, scattered over the decks or
                  lingering in the cabins, as inclination prompted. The observer of faces and
                  character had field enough for study; but Hartley Emerson was not inclined to read
                  in the book of character on this occasion. One subject occupied his thoughts to
                  the exclusion of all others. There had come a period that was full of interest and
                  fraught with momentous consequences which must extend through all of his after
                  years. He saw little but the maiden at his side—thought of little but his purpose
                  to ask her to walk with him, a soul-companion, in the journey of life.
               During the first hour there was a constant moving to and fro and the taking up of
                  new positions by the passengers—a hum and buzz of
                  conversation—laughing—exclamations—gay talk and enthusiasm. Then a quieter tone
                  prevailed. Solitary individuals took places of observation; groups seated
                  themselves in pleasant circles to chat, and couples drew away into cabins or
                  retired places, or continued the promenade.
               Among the latter were Emerson and his companion. Purposely he had drawn the fair
                  girl away from their party, in order to get the opportunity he desired. He did not
                  mean to startle her with an abrupt proposal here,in the very eye of observation,
                  but to advance toward the object by slow approaches, marking well the effect of
                  his words, and receding the moment he saw that, in beginning to comprehend him,
                  her mind showed repulsion or marked disturbance.
               Thus it was with them when the boat entered the Highlands and swept onward with
                  wind-like speed. They were in one of the gorgeously furnished nished cabins, sitting together on a sofa. There
                  had been earnest talk, but on some subject of taste. Gradually Emerson changed the
                  theme and began approaching the one nearest to his heart. Slight embarrassment
                  followed; his voice took on a different tone; it was lower, tenderer, more
                  deliberate and impressive. He leaned closer, and the maiden did not retire; she
                  understood him, and was waiting the pleasure of his speech with heart-throbbings
                  that seemed as if they must be audible in his ears as well as her own.
               The time had come. Everything was propitious. The words that would have sealed his
                  fate and hers were on his lips, when, looking up, he knew not why, but under an
                  impulse of the moment, he met two calm eyes resting upon him with an expression
                  that sent the blood leaping back to his heart. Two calm eyes and a pale, calm face
                  were before him for a moment; then they vanished in the crowd. But he knew them,
                  though ten years lay between the last vision and this.
               The words that were on his lips died unspoken. He could not have uttered them if
                  life or death hung on the issue. No—no—no. A dead silence followed.
               "Are you ill?" asked his companion, looking at him anxiously.
               "No, oh no," he replied, trying to rally himself.
               "But you are ill, Mr. Emerson. How pale your face is!"
               "It will pass off in a moment." He spoke with an effort to appear self-possessed.
                  "Let us go on deck," he added, rising. "There are a great many people in the
                  cabin, and the atmosphere is oppressive."
               A dead weight fell upon the maiden's heart as she arose and went on deck by the
                  side of Mr. Emerson. She had noticed his sudden pause and glance across the cabin
                  at the instant she was holding her breath for his next words, but did not observe
                  the object, a sight of which had wrought on him so remarkable a change. They
                  walked nearly the entire length of the boat, after getting on deck, before Mr.
                  Emerson spoke. He then remarked on the boldness of the scenery and pointed out
                  interesting localities, but in so absent and preoccupied a way that his companion
                  listened without replying. In a little while he managed to get into the
                  neighborhood of three or four of their party, with whom he left her, and, moving
                  away, took a position on the upper deck just over the gangway from which the
                  landings were made. Here he remained until the boat came to at a pier on which his
                  feet had stepped lightly many, many times. Ivy Cliff was only a little way
                  distant, hidden from view by a belt of forest trees. The ponderous machinery stood
                  still, the plunging wheels stopped their muffled roar, and in the brooding silence
                  that followed three or four persons stepped on the plank which had been thrown out
                  and passed to the shore. A single form
                  alone fixed the eyes of Hartley Emerson. He would have known it on the instant
                  among a thousand. It was that of Irene. Her step was slow, like one abstracted in
                  mind or like one in feeble health. After gaining the landing, she stood still and
                  turned toward the boat, when their eyes met again—met, and held each other, by a
                  spell which neither had power to break. The fastenings were thrown off, the
                  engineer rung his bell; there was a clatter of machinery, a rush of waters and the
                  boat glanced onward. Then Irene started like one suddenly aroused from sleep and
                  walked rapidly away.
               And thus they met for the first time after a separation of ten years.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               THE MINISTERING ANGEL.
               
                  A CLATTER of machinery, a rush of waters, and the boat glanced
                  onward but still Hartley Emerson stood motionless and statue-like, his eyes fixed
                  upon the shore, until the swiftly-gliding vessel bore him away, and the object
                  which had held his vision by a kind of fascination was concealed from view.
               "An angel, if there ever was one on this side of heaven!" said a voice close to
                  his ear. Emerson gave a start and turned quickly. A man plainly dressed stood
                  beside him. He was of middle age, and had a mild, grave, thoughtful
                  countenance.
               "Of whom do you speak?" asked Emerson, not able entirely to veil his surprise.
               "Of the lady we saw go ashore at the landing just now. She turned and looked at
                  us. You could not help noticing her."
               "Who is she?" asked Emerson, and then held his breath awaiting the answer. The
                  question was almost involuntary, yet prompted by a suddenly awakened desire to
                  bear the world's testimony regard to Irene.
               
               "You don't know her, then?" remarked the stranger.
               "I asked who she was." Emerson intended to say this firmly, but his voice was
                  unsteady. "Let us sit down," he added, looking around, and then leading the way to
                  where some unoccupied chairs were standing. By the time they were seated he had
                  gained the mastery over himself.
               "You don't know her, then?" said the man, repeating his words. "She is well known
                  about these parts, I can assure you. Why, that was old Mr. Delancy's daughter. Did
                  you never hear of her?"
               "What about her?" was asked.
               "Well, in the first place, she was married some ten or twelve years ago to a
                  lawyer down in New York; and, in the second place, they didn't live very happily
                  together—why, I never heard. I don't believe it was her fault, for she's the
                  sweetest, kindest, gentlest lady it has ever been my good fortune to meet. Some
                  people around Ivy Cliff call her the 'Angel,' and the word has meaning in it as
                  applied to her. She left her husband, and he got a divorce, but didn't charge
                  anything wrong against her. That, I suppose, was more than he dared to do, for a
                  snow-flake is not purer."
               "You have lived in the neighborhood?" said Emerson, keeping his face a little
                  averted.
               "Oh yes, sir. I have lived about here pretty much all my life."
               "Then you knew Miss Delancy before she was married?"
               "No, sir; I can't say that I knew much about her before that time. I used to see
                  her now and then as she rode about the neighborhood. She was a gay, wild girl,
                  sir. But that unhappy marriage made a great change in her. I cannot forget the
                  first time I saw her after she came back to her father's. She seemed to me older
                  by many years than when I last saw her, and looked like one just recovered from a
                  long and serious illness. The brightness had passed from her face, the fire from
                  her eyes, the spring from her footsteps. I believe she left her husband of her own
                  accord, but I never knew that she made any complaint against him. Of course,
                  people were very curious to know why she had abandoned him. But her lips must have
                  been sealed, for only a little vague talk went floating around. I never heard a
                  breath of wrong charged against him as coming from her."
               Emerson's face was turned still more away from his companion, his eyes bent down
                  and his brows firmly knit. He did not ask farther, but the man was on a theme that
                  interested him, and so continued.
               "For most of the time since her return to Ivy Cliff the life of Miss Delancy has
                  been given to Christian charities. The death of her father was a heavy stroke. It
                  took the life out of her for a while. Since her recovery from that shock she
                     has been constantly active among us
                  in good deeds. Poor sick women know the touch of her gentle hand and the music of
                  her voice. She has brought sunlight into many wintry homes, and kindled again on
                  hearths long desolate the fires of loving kindness. There must have been some lack
                  of true appreciation on the part of her husband, sir. Bitter fountains do not send
                  forth sweet waters like these. Don't you think so?"
               "How should I know?" replied Emerson, a little coldly. The question was sprung
                  upon him so suddenly that his answer was given in confusion of thought.
               "We all have our opinions, sir," said the man, "and this seems a plain case. I've
                  heard said that her husband was a hot-headed, self-willed, ill-regulated young
                  fellow, no more fit to get married than to be President. That he didn't understand
                  the woman—or, maybe, I should say child—whom he took for his wife is very certain,
                  or he never would have treated her in the way he did!"
               "How did he treat her?" asked Mr. Emerson.
               "As to that," replied his talkative companion, "we don't know anything certain.
                  But we shall not go far wrong in guessing that it was neither wise nor
                  considerate. In fact, he must have outraged her terribly."
               "This, I presume, is the common impression about Ivy Cliff?"
               "No," said the man; "I've heard him well spoken of. The fact is, people are
                  puzzled about the matter. We can't just understand it. But, I'm all on her
                  side."
               "I wonder she has not married again?" said Emerson. "There are plenty of men who
                  would be glad to wed so perfect a being as you represent her to be."
               "She marry!" There was indignation and surprise in the man's voice.
               "Yes; why not?"
               "Sir, she is a Christian woman!"
               "I can believe that, after hearing your testimony in regard to her," said Emerson.
                  But he still kept his face so much turned aside that its expression could not be
                  seen.
               "And reads her Bible."
               "As we all should."
               "And, what is more, believes in it," said the man emphatically.
               "Don't all Christian people believe in the Bible?" asked Mr. Emerson.
               "I suppose so, after a fashion; and a very queer fashion it is, sometimes."
               "How does this lady of whom you speak believe in it differently from some
                  others?"
               "In this, that it means what it says on the subject of divorce."
               "Oh, I understand. You think that if she were to marry again it would be in the
                  face of conscientious scruples?"
               
               "I do."
               Mr. Emerson was about asking another question when one of the party to which he
                  belonged joined him, and so the strange interview closed. He bowed to the man with
                  whom he had been conversing, and then passed to another part of the boat.
               With slow steps, that were unsteady from sudden weakness, Irene moved along the
                  road that led to her home. After reaching the grounds of Ivy Cliff she turned
                  aside into a small summer-house, and sat down at one of the windows that looked
                  out upon the river as it stretched upward in its gleaming way. The boat she bad
                  just left was already far distant, but it fixed her eyes, and they saw no other
                  object until it passed from view around a wooded point of land. And still she sat
                  motionless, looking at the spot where it had vanished from her sight.
               "Miss Irene!" exclaimed Margaret, the faithful old domestic, who still bore rule
                  at the homestead, breaking in upon her reverie, "what in the world are you doing
                  here? I expected you up to-day, and when the boat stopped at the landing and you
                  didn't come, I was uneasy and couldn't rest. Why child, what is the matter? You're
                  sick!"
               "Oh no, Margaret, I'm well enough," said Irene, trying to smile indifferently. And
                  she arose and left the summer-house.
               Kind, observant old Margaret was far from being ing satisfied, however. She saw
                  that Irene was not as when she departed for the city a week before. If she were
                  not sick in body, she was troubled in her mind, for her countenance was so changed
                  that she could not look upon it without feeling a pang in her heart.
               "I'm sure you're sick, Miss Irene," she said as they entered the house. "Now, what
                  is the matter? What can I do or get for you? Let me send over for Dr.
                  Edmondson?"
               "No, no, my good Margaret, don't think of such a thing," replied Irene. "I'm not
                  sick."
               "Something's the matter with you, child," persisted Margaret.
               "Nothing that won't cure itself," said Irene, trying to speak cheerfully. "I'll go
                  up to my room for a little while."
               And she turned away from her kind-hearted domestic. On entering her chamber Irene
                  locked the door in order to be safe from intrusion, for she knew that Margaret
                  would not let half an hour pass without coming up to ask how she was. Sitting down
                  by the window, she looked out upon the river, along whose smooth surface had
                  passed the vessel in which, a little while before, she met the man once called by
                  the name of husband—met him and looked into his face for the first time in ten
                  long years! The meeting had disturbed her profoundly. In the cabin of that vessel
                  she had seen him by the side of a fair young girl in earnest est conversation; and she had watched with a
                  strange, fluttering interest the play of his features. What was he saying to that
                  fair young girl that she listened with such a breathless, waiting air? Suddenly he
                  turned toward her, their eyes met and were spell-bound for moments. What did she
                  read in his eyes in those brief moments? What did he read in hers? Both questions
                  pressed themselves upon her thoughts as she retreated among the crowd of
                  passengers, and then hid herself from the chance of another meeting until the boat
                  reached the landing at Ivy Cliff. Why did she pause on the shore, and turn to look
                  upon the crowded decks? She knew not. The act was involuntary. Again their eyes
                  met—met and held each other until the receding vessel placed dim distance between
                  them.
               In less than half an hour Margaret's hand was on the door, but she could not
                  enter. Irene had not moved from her place at the window in all that time.
               "Is that you, Margaret?" she called, starting from her abstraction.
               "Do you want anything, Miss Irene?"
               "No, thank you, Margaret."
               She answered in as cheerful a tone as she could assume, and the kind old
                  waiting-woman retired.
               From that time every one noted a change in Irene. But none knew, or even guessed,
                  its cause or meaning. Not even to her friend, Mrs. Everet, did she speak of her
                  meeting with Hartley Emerson. Her face did not light up as before, and her eyes
                  seemed always as if looking inward or gazing dreamily upon something afar off. Yet
                  in good deeds she failed not. If her own heart was heavier, she made other hearts
                  lighter by her presence.
               And still the years went on in their steady revolutions—one, two, three, four,
                  five more years, and in all that time the parted ones did not meet again.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               BORN FOR EACH OTHER.
               
                  I SAW Mr. Emerson yesterday," said Mrs. Everet. She was sitting with
                  Irene in her own house in New York.
               "Did you?" Irene spoke evenly and quietly, but did not turn her face toward Mrs.
                  Everet.
               "Yes. I saw him at my husband's store. Mr. Everet has engaged him to conduct an
                  important suit, in which many thousands of dollars are at stake."
               "How does be look?" inquired Irene, without showing any feelings but still keeping
                  her face turned from Mrs Everet.
               "Well, I should say, though rather too much frosted for a man of his years."
               "Gray, do you mean?" Irene manifested some surprise.
               "Yes; his hair and beard are quite sprinkled with time's white snow-flakes."
               "He is only forty," remarked Irene.
               "I should say fifty, judging from his appearance."
               "Only forty." And a faint sigh breathed on the lips of Irene. She did not look
                  around at her friend but sat very still, with her face turned partly away. Mrs.
                  Everet looked at her closely, to read, if possible, what was passing in her mind.
                  But the countenance of Irene was too much hidden. Her attitude, however, indicated
                  intentness of thought, though not disturbing thought.
               "Rose," she said at length, "I grow less at peace with myself as the years move
                  onward."
               "You speak from some passing state of mind," suggested Mrs. Everet.
               "No; from a gradually forming permanent state. Ten years ago I looked back upon
                  the past in a stern, self-sustaining, martyr-spirit. Five years ago all things
                  wore a different aspect. I began to have misgivings; I could not so clearly make
                  out my case. New thoughts on the subject—and not very welcome ones—began to
                  intrude. I was self-convicted of wrong; yes, Rose, of a great and an irreparable
                  wrong. I shut my eyes; I tried to look in other directions; but the truth, once
                  seen, could not pass from the range of mental vision. I have never told you that I
                  saw Mr. Emerson five years ago. The effect of that meeting was such that I could
                  not speak of it, even to you. We met on one of the river steamboats—met and looked
                  into each other's eyes for just a moment. It may only be a fancy of mine, but I
                  have thought sometimes that, but for this seemingly accidental meeting, he would
                  have married again."
               
               "Why do you think so?" asked Mrs. Everet.
               Irene did not answer for some moments. She hardly dared venture to put what she
                  had seen in words. It was something that she felt more like hiding even from her
                  own consciousness, if that were possible. But, having ventured so far, she could
                  not well hold back. So she replied, keeping her voice into as dead a level as it
                  was possible to assume:
               "He was sitting in earnest conversation with a young lady, and from the expression
                  of her face, which I could see, the subject on which he was speaking was evidently
                  one in which more than her thought was interested. I felt at the time that he was
                  on the verge of a new life-experiment—was about venturing upon a sea on which he
                  had once made shipwreck. Suddenly he turned half around and looked at me before I
                  had time to withdraw my eyes—looked at me with a strange, surprised, startled
                  look. In another moment a form came between us; when it passed I was lost from his
                  gaze in the crowd of passengers. I have puzzled myself a great many times over
                  that fact of his turning his eyes, as if from some hidden impulse, just to the
                  spot where I was sitting. There are no accidents—as I have often heard you say—in
                  the common acceptation of the term; therefore this was no accident."
               "It was a providence," said Rose.
               "And to what end?" asked Irene.
               Mrs. Everet shook her head.
               "I will not even presume to conjecture."
               Irene sighed, and then sat lost in thought. Recovering herself, she said:
               "Since that time I have been growing less and less satisfied with that brief,
                  troubled portion of my life which closed so disastrously. I forgot how much the
                  happiness of another was involved. A blind, willful girl, struggling in imaginary
                  bonds, I thought only of myself, and madly rent apart the ties which death only
                  should have sundered. For five years, Rose, I have carried in my heart the
                  expression which looked out upon me from the eyes of Mr. Emerson at that brief
                  meeting. Its meaning was not then, nor is it now, clear. I have never set myself
                  to the work of interpretation, and believe the task would be fruitless. But
                  whenever it is recalled I am affected with a tender sadness. And so his head is
                  already frosted, Rose?"
               "Yes."
               "Though in years he has reached only manhood's ripened state. How I have marred
                  his life! Better, far better, would it have been for him if I had been the bride
                  of Death on my wedding-day!"
               A shadow of pain darkened her face.
               "No," replied Mrs. Everet; "it is better for both you and him that you were not
                  the bride of Death. There are deeper things hidden in the events of life than our
                  reason can fathom. We die when it is
                  best for ourselves and best for others that we should die—never before. And the
                  fact that we live is in itself conclusive that we are yet needed in the world by
                  all who can be affected by our mortal existence."
               "Gray hairs at forty!" This seemed to haunt the mind of Irene.
               "It may be constitutional," suggested Mrs. Everet; "some heads begin to whiten at
                  thirty."
               "Possibly."
               But the tone expressed no conviction.
               "How was his face?" asked Irene.
               "Grave and thoughtful. At least so it appeared to me."
               "At forty." It was all Irene said. 
               Mrs. Everet might have suggested that a man of his legal position would naturally
                  be grave and thoughtful, but she did not.
               "It struck me," said Mrs. Everet, "as a true, pure, manly face. It was
                  intellectual and refined; delicate, yet firm about the mouth and expansive in the
                  upper portions. The hair curled softly away from his white temples and
                  forehead."
               "Worthy of a better fate!" sighed Irene. "And it is I who have marred his whole
                  life! How blind is selfish passion! Ah, my friend, the years do not bring peace to
                  my soul. There have been times when to know that he had sought refuge from a
                  lonely life in marriage would have been a relief to me. Were this the case, the
                  thought of his isolation tion, of his imperfect life, would not be for ever
                  rebuking me. But now, while no less severely rebuked by this thought, I feel glad
                  that he has not ventured upon an act no clear sanction for which is found in the
                  Divine law. He could not, I feel, have remained so true and pure a man as I trust
                  he is this day. God help him to hold on, faithful to his highest intuitions, even
                  unto the end."
               Mrs. Everet looked at Irene wonderingly as she spoke. She had never before thus
                  unveiled her thoughts.
               "He struck me," was her reply, "as a man who had passed through years of
                  discipline and gained the mastery of himself."
               "I trust that it may be so," Irene answered, rather as if speaking to herself than
                  to another.
               "As I grow older," she added, after a long pause, now looking with calm eyes upon
                  her friend, "and life-experiences correct my judgment and chasten my feelings, I
                  see all things in a new aspect. I understand my own heart better—its needs,
                  capacities and yearnings; and self-knowledge is the key by which we unlock the
                  mystery of other souls. So a deeper self-acquaintance enables me to look deeper
                  into the hearts of all around me. I erred in marrying Mr. Emerson. We were both
                  too hasty, self-willed and tenacious of rights and opinions to come together in a
                  union so sacred and so intimate. But, after I had become his wife, after I had taken upon myself such holy vows, it
                  was my duty to stand fast. I could not abandon my place and be innocent before God
                  and man. And I am not innocent, Rose."
               The face of Irene was strongly agitated for some moments; but she recovered
                  herself and went on:
               "I am speaking of things that have hitherto been secrets of my own heart. I could
                  not bring them out even for you to look at, my dearest, truest, best of friends.
                  Now it seems as if I could not bear the weight of my heavy thoughts alone; as if,
                  in admitting you beyond the veil, I might find strength to suffer, if not ease
                  from pain. There is no such thing as living our lives over again and correcting
                  their great errors. The past is an irrevocable fact. Ah, if conscience would
                  sleep, if struggles for a better life would make atonement for wrong—then, as our
                  years progress, we might lapse into tranquil states. But gradually clearing vision
                  increases the magnitude of a fault like mine, for its fatal consequences are seen
                  in broader light. There is a thought which has haunted me for a year past like a
                  spectre. It comes to me unbidden; sometimes to disturb the quiet of my lonely
                  evenings, sometimes in the silent night-watches to banish sleep from my pillow;
                  sometimes to place silence on my lips as I sit among cherished friends. I never
                  imagined that I would put this thought in words for any mortal ear; yet it is
                  coming to my lips now, and I feel impelled to go on. You believe lieve that there
                  are, as you call them 'conjugal partners,' or men and women born for each other,
                  who, in a true marriage of souls, shall become eternally one. They do not always
                  meet in this life; nay, for the sake of that discipline which leads to
                  purification, may form other and uncongenial ties in the world, and live
                  unhappily; but in heaven they will draw together by a divinely-implanted
                  attraction, and be there united for ever. I have felt that something like this
                  must be true; that every soul must have its counterpart. The thought which has so
                  haunted me is, that Hartley Emerson and unhappy I were born for each
                  other."
               She paused and looked with a half-startled air upon Mrs. Everet to mark the effect
                  of this revelation. But Rose made no response and showed no surprise, however she
                  might have been affected by the singular admission of her friend.
               "It has been all in vain," continued Irene "that I have pushed the thought
                  aside—called it absurd, insane, impossible—back it would come and take its old
                  place. And, stranger still, out of facts that I educed to prove its fallacy would
                  come corroborative suggestions. I think it is well for my peace of mind that I
                  have not been in the way of hearing about him or of seeing him. Since we parted it
                  has been as if a dark curtain had fallen between us; and, so far as I am
                  concerned, that curtain has been lifted up but once or twice, and then only for a
                  moment of time. So all my thoughts of him are joined to the past. Away back in that sweet time
                  when the heart of girlhood first thrills with the passion of love are some
                  memories that haunt my soul like dreams from Elysium. He was, in my eyes, the
                  impersonation of all that was lovely and excellent; his presence made my sense of
                  happiness complete; his voice touched my ears as the blending of all rich
                  harmonies. But there fell upon him a shadow; there came hard discords in the music
                  which had entranced my soul; the fine gold was dimmed. Then came that period of
                  mad strife, of blind antagonism, in which we hurt each other by rough contact.
                  Finally, we were driven far asunder, and, instead of revolving together around a
                  common centre, each has moved in a separate orbit. For years that dark period of
                  pain has held the former period of brightness in eclipse; but of late gleams from
                  that better time have made their way down to the present. Gradually the shadows
                  are giving away. The first state is coming to be felt more and more as the true
                  state—as that in best agreement with what we are in relation to each other. It was
                  the evil in us that met in such fatal antagonism—not the good; it was something
                  that we must put off if we would rise from natural and selfish life into spiritual
                  and heavenly life. It was our selfishness and passion that drove us asunder. Thus
                  it is, dear Rose, that my thoughts have been wandering about in the maze of life
                  that entangles me. In my isolation I have time enough for mental tal inversion—for
                  self-exploration—for idle fancies, if you will. And so I have lifted the veil for
                  you; uncovered my inner life; taken you into the sanctuary over whose threshold no
                  foot but my own had ever passed."
               There was too much in all this for Mrs. Everet to venture upon any reply that
                  involved suggestion or advice. It was from a desire to look deeper into the heart
                  of her friend that she had spoken of her meeting with Mr. Emerson. The glance she
                  obtained revealed far more than her imagination had ever reached.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               LOVE NEVER DIES.
               
                  THE brief meeting with Mrs. Everet had stirred the memory of old
                  times in the heart of Mr. Emerson. With a vividness unknown for years, Ivy Cliff
                  and the sweetness of many life-passages there came back to him, and set
                  heart-pulses that he had deemed stilled for ever beating in tumultuous waves. When
                  the business of the day was over he sat down in the silence of his chamber and
                  turned his eyes inward. He pushed aside intervening year after year, until the
                  long-ago past was, to his consciousness, almost as real as the living present.
                  What he saw moved him deeply. He grew restless, then showed disturbance of manner.
                  There was an effort to turn away from the haunting fascination of this
                  long-buried, but now exhumed period; but the dust and scoria were removed, and it
                  lifted, like another Pompeii, its desolate walls and silent chambers in the clear
                  noon-rays of the present.
               After a long but fruitless effort to bury the past again, to let the years close
                  over it as the waves close over a treasure-laden ship, Mr. Emerson gave himself up
                  to its thronging memories and let them bear him whither they would.
               In this state of mind he unlocked one of the drawers in a secretary and took
                  therefrom a small box or casket. Placing this on a table, he sat down and looked
                  at it for some minutes, as if in doubt whether it were best for him to go further
                  in this direction. Whether satisfied or not, he presently laid his fingers upon
                  the lid of the casket and slowly opened it. It contained only a morocco case. He
                  touched this as if it were something precious and sacred. For some moments after
                  it was removed he sat holding it in his hand and looking at the dark, blank
                  surface, as a long-expected letter is sometimes held before the seal is broken and
                  the contents devoured with impatient eagerness. At last his finger pressed the
                  spring on which it had been resting, and he looked upon a young, sweet face, whose
                  eyes gazed back into his with a living tenderness. In a little while his hand so
                  trembled, and his eyes grew so dim, that the face was veiled from his sight.
                  Closing the miniature, but still retaining it in his hand, he leaned back in his
                  chair and remained motionless, with shut eyes, for a long time; then he looked at
                  the fair young face again, conning over every feature and expression, until sad
                  memories came in and veiled it again with tears.
               "Folly! weakness!" he said at last, pushing the picture from him and making a
                  feeble effort to get back his manly self-possession. "The past is gone for ever.
                  The page on which its sad history is
                  written was closed long ago, and the book is sealed. Why unclasp the volume and
                  search for that dark record again?"
               Yet, even as he said this, his hand reached out for the miniature, and his eyes
                  were on it ere the closing words had parted from his lips.
               "Poor Irene!" he murmured, as he gazed on her pictured face. "You had a pure,
                  tender, loving heart—" then, suddenly shutting the miniature, with a sharp click
                  of the spring, he tossed it from him upon the table and said,
               "This is folly! folly! folly!" and, leaning back in his chair, he shut his eyes
                  and sat for a long time with his brows sternly knitted together and his lips
                  tightly compressed. Rising, at length, he restored the miniature to its casket,
                  and the casket to its place in the drawer. A servant came to the door at this
                  moment, bringing the compliments of a lady friend, who asked him, if not engaged,
                  to favor her with his company on that evening, as she had a visitor, just arrived,
                  to whom she wished to introduce him. He liked the lady, who was the wife of a
                  legal friend, very well; but he was not always so well pleased with her lady
                  friends, of whom she had a large circle. The fact was, she considered him too fine
                  a man to go through life companionless, and did not hesitate to use every art in
                  her power to draw him into an entangling alliance. He saw this, and was often more
                  amused than annoyed by her finesse.
               It was on his lips to send word that he was engaged, but a regard for truth would
                  not let him make this excuse; so, after a little hesitation and debate, he
                  answered that he would present himself during the evening. The lady's visitor was
                  a widow of about thirty years of age—rich, educated, accomplished and personally
                  attractive. She was from Boston, and connected with one of the most distinguished
                  families in Massachusetts, whose line of ancestry ran back among the nobles of
                  England. In conversation this lady showed herself to be rarely gifted, and there
                  was a charm about her manners that was irresistible. Mr. Emerson, who had been
                  steadily during the past five years growing less and less attracted by the fine
                  women he met in society, found himself unusually interested in Mrs. Eager.
               "I knew you would like her," said his lady friend, as Mr. Emerson was about
                  retiring at eleven o'clock.
               "You take your conclusion for granted," he answered, smiling. "Did I say that I
                  liked her?"
               "We ladies have eyes," was the laughing rejoinder. "Of course you like her. She's
                  going to spend three or four days with me. You'll drop in to-morrow evening. Now
                  don't pretend that you have an engagement. Come; I want you to know her better. I
                  think her charming."
               Mr. Emerson did not promise positively, but said that he might look in during the
                     evening. For a new acquaintance,
                  Mrs. Eager had attracted him strongly; and his thoughtful friend was not
                  disappointed in her expectation of seeing him at her house on the succeeding
                  night. Mrs. Eager, to whom the lady she was visiting had spoken of Mr. Emerson in
                  terms of almost extravagant eulogy, was exceedingly well pleased with him, and
                  much gratified at meeting him again, A second interview gave both an opportunity
                  for closer observation, and when they parted it was with pleasant thoughts of each
                  other lingering in their minds. During the time that Mrs. Eager remained in New
                  York, which was prolonged for a week beyond the period originally fixed, Mr.
                  Emerson saw her almost every day, and became her voluntary escort in visiting
                  points of local interest. The more he saw of her the more he was charmed with her
                  character. She seemed in his eyes the most attractive woman he had ever met.
                  Still, there was something about her that did not wholly satisfy him, though what
                  it was did not come into perception.
               Five years had passed since any serious thought of marriage had troubled the mind
                  of Mr. Emerson. After his meeting with Irene he had felt that another union in
                  this world was not for him—that he had no right to exchange vows of eternal
                  fidelity with any other woman. She had remained unwedded, and would so remain, he
                  felt, to the end of her life. The legal contract between them was dissolved; but,
                  since his brief talk with the stranger on the boat, he had not felt so clear as to
                  the higher law obligations which were upon them. And so he had settled it in his
                  mind to bear life's burdens alone.
               But Mrs. Eager had crossed his way, and filled, in many respects, his ideal of a
                  woman. There was a charm about her that won him against all resistance.
               "Don't let this opportunity pass," said his interested lady friend, as the day of
                  Mrs. Eager's departure drew nigh. "She is a woman in a thousand, and will make one
                  of the best of wives. Think, too, of her social position, her wealth and her large
                  cultivation. An opportunity like this is never presented more than once in a
                  lifetime."
               "You speak," replied Mr. Emerson, "as if I had only to say the word and this fair
                  prize would drop into my arms."
               "She will have to be wooed if she is won. Were this not the case she would not be
                  worth having," said the lady. "But my word for it, if you turn wooer the winning
                  will not be hard. If I have not erred in my observation, you are about mutually
                  interested. There now, my cautious sir, if you do not get handsomely provided for,
                  it will be no fault of mine."
               In two days from this time Mrs. Eager was to return to Boston.
               "You must take her to see those new paintings at the rooms of the Society Library
                  to-morrow. I heard her express a desire
                  to examine them before returning to Boston. Connoisseurs are in ecstasies over
                  three or four of the pictures, and, as Mrs. Eager is something of an enthusiast in
                  matters of art, your favor in this will give her no light pleasure."
               "I shall be most happy to attend her," replied Mr. Emerson. "Give her my
                  compliments, and say that, if agreeable to herself, I will call for her at twelve
                  to-morrow."
               "No verbal compliments and messages," replied the lady; "that isn't just the
                  way."
               "How then? Must I call upon her and deliver my message? That might not be
                  convenient to me nor agreeable to her."
               "Oh!" ejaculated the lady, with affected impatience, "you men are so stupid at
                  times! You know how to write?"
               "Ah! yes, I comprehend you now."
               "Very well. Send your compliments and your message in a note; and let it be
                  daintily worded; not in heavy phrases, like a legal document."
               "A very princess in feminine diplomacy!" said Mr. Emerson to himself, as he turned
                  from the lady and took his way homeward. "So I must pen a note."
               Now this proved a more difficult matter than he had at first thought. He sat down
                  to the task immediately on returning to his room. On a small sheet of tinted
                  note-paper he wrote a few words, but they did not please him, and the page was
                  thrown into the fire. He tried again, but with no better success—again and again;
                  but still, as he looked at the brief sentences, they seemed to express too much or
                  too little. Unable to pen the note to his satisfaction, he pushed, at last, his
                  writing materials aside, saying,
               "My head will be clearer and cooler in the morning."
               It was drawing on to midnight, and Mr. Emerson had not yet retired. His thoughts
                  were too busy for sleep. Many things were crowding into his mind—questions,
                  doubts, misgivings—scenes from the past and imaginations of the future. And amid
                  them all came in now and then, just for a moment, as he had seen it five years
                  before, the pale, still face of Irene.
               Wearied in the conflict, tired nature at last gave way, and Mr. Emerson fell
                  asleep in his chair.
               Two hours of deep slumber tranquilized his spirit. He awoke from this, put off his
                  clothing and laid his head on his pillow. It was late in the morning when he
                  arose. He had no difficulty now in penning a note to Mrs. Eager. It was the work
                  of a moment, and satisfactory to him in the first effort.
               At twelve he called with a carriage for the lady, whom he found all ready to
                  accompany him, and in the best possible state of mind. Her smile, as he presented
                  himself, was absolutely fascinating;
                  and her voice seemed like a freshly-tuned instrument, every tone was so rich in
                  musical vibration, and all the tones came chorded to his ear.
               There were not many visitors at the exhibition rooms—a score, perhaps—but they
                  were art-lovers, gazing in rapt attention or talking in hushed whispers. They
                  moved about noiselessly here and there, seeming scarcely conscious that others
                  were present. Gradually the number increased, until within an hour after they
                  entered it was more than doubled. Still, the presence of art subdued all into
                  silence or subdued utterances.
               Emerson was charmed with his companion's appreciative admiration of many pictures.
                  She was familiar with art-terms and special points of interest, and pointed out
                  beauties and harmonies that to him were dead letters without an interpreter. They
                  came, at last, to a small but wonderfully effective picture, which contained a
                  single figure, that of a man sitting by a table in a room which presented the
                  appearance of a library. He held a letter in his hand—a old letter; the artist had
                  made this plain—but was not reading. He had been reading; but the words, proving
                  conjurors, had summoned the dead past before him, and he was now looking far away,
                  with sad, dreamy eyes, into the long ago. A casket stood open. Time letter had
                  evidently been taken from this repository. There was a miniature; a bracelet of
                  auburn hair; a ring and a chain of gold lying on the table ble. Mr. Emerson turned
                  to the catalogue and read,
               "WITH THE BURIED PAST."
               And below this title the brief sentiment—
               "Love never dies."
               A deep, involuntary sigh came through his lips and stirred the pulseless air
                  around him. Then, like an echo, there came to his ears an answering sigh, and,
                  turning, he looked into the face of Irene! She had entered the rooms a little
                  while before, and in passing from picture to picture had reached this one a few
                  moments after Mr. Emerson. She had not observed him, and was just beginning to
                  feel its meaning, when the sigh that attested its power over him reached her ears
                  and awakened an answering sigh. For several moments their eyes were fixed in a
                  gaze which neither had power to withdraw. The face of Irene had grown thinner,
                  paler and more shadowy—if we may use that term to express something not of the
                  earth, earthy—than it was when he looked upon it five years before. But her eyes
                  were darker in contrast with her colorless face, and had a deeper tone of
                  feeling.
               They did not speak nor pass a sign of recognition. But the instant their eyes
                  withdrew from each other Irene turned from the picture and left the rooms.
               When Mr. Emerson looked back into the face of his companion, its charm was gone.
                  Beside that of the fading countenance, so still and nun-like like, upon which he had gazed a moment before, it
                  looked coarse and worldly. When she spoke, her tones no longer came in chords of
                  music to his ears, but jarred upon his feelings. He grew silent; cold, abstracted.
                  The lady noted the change, and tried to rally him; but her efforts were vain. He
                  moved by her side like an automaton, and listened to her comments on the pictures
                  they paused to examine in such evident absent-mindedness that she became annoyed,
                  and proposed returning home. Mr. Emerson made no objection, and they left the
                  quiet picture-gallery for the turbulence of Broadway. The ride home was a silent
                  one, and they separated in mutual embarrassment, Mr. Emerson going back to his
                  rooms instead of to his office, and sitting down in loneliness there, with a
                  shuddering sense of thankfulness at his heart for the danger he had just
                  escaped.
               "What a blind spell was on me!" he said, as he gazed away down into his soul—far,
                  far deeper than any tone or look from Mrs. Eager had penetrated—and saw needs,
                  states and yearnings there which must be filled or there could be no completeness
                  of life. And now the still, pale face of Irene stood out distinctly; and her deep,
                  weird, yearning eyes looked into his with a fixed intentness that stirred his
                  heart to its profoundest depths.
               Mr. Emerson was absent from his office all that day. But on the next morning he
                  was at his post, and it would have taken a close observer to have detected any
                  change in his usually quiet face. But there was a change in the man—a great
                  change. He had gone down deeper into his heart than he had ever gone before, and
                  understood himself better. There was little danger of his ever being tempted again
                  in this direction.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               EFFECTS OF THE STORM.
               
                  IT was more than a week before Mr. Emerson called again upon the
                  lady friend who had shown so strong a desire to procure him a wife. He expected
                  her to introduce the name of Mrs. Eager, and came prepared to talk in a way that
                  would for ever close the subject of marriage between them. The lady expressed
                  surprise at not having seen him for so long a time, and then introduced the
                  subject nearest her thought.
               "What was the matter with you and Mrs. Eager?" she asked, her face growing
                  serious.
               Mr. Emerson shook his head, and said, "Nothing," with not a shadow of concern in
                  his voice.
               "Nothing? Think again. I could hardly have been deceived."
               "Why do you ask? Did the lady charge anything ungallant against me?"
               Mr. Emerson was unmoved.
               "Oh no, no! She scarcely mentioned your name after her return from viewing the
                  pictures. But she was not in so bright a humor as when she went out, and was dull
                  up to the hour of her departure for Boston. I'm afraid you offended her in some
                  way—unconsciously on your part, of course."
               "No, I think not," said Mr. Emerson. "She would be sensitive in the extreme if
                  offended by any word or act of mine."
               "Well, letting that all pass, Mr. Emerson, what do you think of Mrs. Eager?"
               "That she is an attractive and highly accomplished woman."
               "And the one who reaches your ideal of a wife?"
               "No, ma'am," was the unhesitating answer, and made in so emphatic a tone that
                  there was no mistaking his sincerity. There was a change in his countenance and
                  manner. He looked unusually serious.
               The lady tried to rally him, but he had come in too sober a state of mind for
                  pleasant trifling on this subject, of all others.
               "My kind, good friend," he said, "I owe you many thanks for the interest you have
                  taken in me, and for your efforts to get me a companion. But I do not intend to
                  marry."
               "So you have said—"
               "Pardon me for interrupting you." Mr. Emerson checked the light speech that was on
                  her tongue. "I am going to say to you some things that have never passed my lips
                  before. You will understand me; this I know, or I would not let a sentence come
                  into utterance. And I know more, that you will not make light of what to me is
                  sacred."
               
               The lady was sobered in a moment.
               "To make light of what to you is sacred would be impossible," she replied.
               "I believe it, and therefore I am going to speak of things that are to me the
                  saddest of my life, and yet are coming to involve the holiest sentiments. I have
                  more than one reason for desiring now to let another look below the quiet surface;
                  and I will lift the veil for your eyes alone. You know that I was married nearly
                  twenty years ago, and that my wife separated herself from me in less than three
                  years after our union; and you also know that the separation was made permanent by
                  a divorce. This is all that you or any other one knows, so far as I have made
                  communication on the subject; and I have reason to believe that she who was my
                  wife has been as reserved in the matter as myself.
               "The simple facts in the case are these: We were both young and undisciplined,
                  both quick-tempered, self-willed, and very much inclined to have things our own
                  way. She was an only child, and so was I. Each had been spoiled by long
                  self-indulgence. So, when we came together in marriage, the action of our lives,
                  instead of taking a common pulsation, was inharmonious. For a few years we strove
                  together blindly in our bonds, and then broke madly asunder. I think we were about
                  equally in fault; but if there was a preponderance of blame, it rested on my side,
                  for, as a man, I should have kept a cooler head and shown greater forbearance. But
                  the time for blame has long since passed. It is with the stern, irrevocable facts
                  that we are dealing now.
               "So bitter had been our experience, and so painful the shock of separation, that I
                  think a great many years must have passed before repentance came into either
                  heart—before a feeling of regret that we had not held fast to our marriage vows
                  was born. How it was with me you may infer from the fact that, after the lapse of
                  two years, I deliberately asked for and obtained a divorce on the ground of
                  desertion. But doubt as to the propriety of this step stirred uneasily in my mind
                  for the first time when I held the decree in my hand; and I have never felt wholly
                  satisfied with myself since. There should be something deeper than incompatibility
                  of temper to warrant a divorce. The parties should correct what is wrong in
                  themselves, and thus come into harmony. There is no excuse for pride, passion and
                  self-will. The law of God does not make these justifiable causes of divorce, and
                  neither should the law of man. A purer woman than my wife never lived; and she had
                  elements of character that promised a rare development. I was proud of her. Ah, if
                  I had been wiser and more patient! If I had endeavored to lead, instead of
                  assuming the manly prerogative! But I was young, and blind, and willful!
               "Fifteen years have passed since the day we parted, and each has remained single. If we had not
                  separated, we might now be living in a true heart-union; for I believe, strange as
                  it may sound to you, that we were made for each other—that, when the false and
                  evil of our lives are put off, the elements of conjunction will appear. We have
                  made for ourselves of this world a dreary waste, when, if we had overcome the evil
                  of our hearts, our paths would have been through green and fragrant places. It may
                  be happier for us in the next; and it will be. I am a better man, I think, for the
                  discipline through which I have passed, and she is a better woman."
               Mr. Emerson paused.
               "She? Have you seen her?" the lady asked.
               "Twice since we parted, and then only for a moment. Suddenly each time we met, and
                  looked into each other's eyes for a single instant; then, as if a curtain had
                  dropped suddenly between us, we were separated. But the impression of her face
                  remained as vivid and permanent as a sun-picture. She lives, for most of her time,
                  secluded at Ivy Cliff, her home on the Hudson; and her life is passed there, I
                  hear, in doing good. And, if good deeds, from right ends, write their history on
                  the human face, then her countenance bears the record of tenderest charities. It
                  was pale when I last saw it—pale, but spiritual—I can use no other word; and I
                  felt a sudden panic at the thought that she was growing into a life so pure and
                  heavenly that I must stand afar off as unworthy. It had sometimes come into my
                  thought that we were approaching each other, as both put off, more and more, the
                  evil which had driven us apart and held us so long asunder. But this illusion our
                  last brief meeting dispelled. She has passed me on the road of self-discipline and
                  self-abnegation, and is journeying far ahead. And now I can but follow through
                  life at a distance. 
               "So much, and no more, my friend. I drop the veil over my heart. You will
                  understand me better hereafter. I shall not marry. That legal divorce is invalid.
                  I could not perjure my soul by vows of fidelity toward another. Patiently and
                  earnestly will I do my allotted work here. My better hopes lie all in the heavenly
                  future.
               "And now, my friend, we will understand each other better. You have looked deeper
                  into my thoughts and experiences than any other human being. Let the revelation be
                  sacred to yourself. The knowledge you possess may enable you to do me justice
                  sometimes, and sometimes to save me from an intrusion of themes that cannot but
                  touch me unpleasantly. There was a charm about Mrs. Eager that, striking me
                  suddenly, for a little while bewildered my fancy. She is a woman of rare
                  endowments, and I do not regret the introduction and passing influence she
                  exercised over me. It was a dream from which the awakening was certain. Suddenly
                  the illusion vanished, as I saw her beside side my lost Irene. The one was of the earth,
                  earthy—the other of heaven, heavenly; and as I looked back into her brilliant
                  face, radiant with thought and feeling, I felt a low, creeping shudder, as if just
                  freed from the spell of a siren. I cannot be enthralled again, even for a
                  moment."
               Back again into his world's work Mr. Emerson returned after this brief, exciting
                  episode, and found in its performance from high and honorable motives that calmly
                  sustaining power which comes only as the reward of duties faithfully done.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               AFTER THE STORM.
               
                  AFTER the storm! How long the treasure remained buried in deep
                  waters! How long the earth showed unsightly furrows and barren places! For nearly
                  twenty years there had been warm sunshine, and no failure of the dews nor the
                  early and latter rain. But grass had not grown nor flowers blossomed in the path
                  of that desolating tempest. Nearly twenty years! If the history of these two lives
                  during that long period could be faithfully written, it would flood the soul with
                  tears.
               Four years later than the time when we last presented Irene to the reader we
                  introduce her again. That meeting in the picture-gallery had disturbed profoundly
                  the quiet pulses of her life. She did not observe Mr. Emerson's companion. The
                  picture alone had attracted her attention; and she had just began to feel its
                  meaning when an audible sigh reached her ears. The answering sigh was involuntary.
                  Then they looked into each other's faces again—only for an instant—but with what a
                  volume of mutual revelations!
               It was four years subsequent to this time that Irene, after a brief visit in New York to her
                  friend, Mrs. Everet, returned to her rural home. Mrs. Everet was to follow on the
                  next day, and spend a few weeks with her father. It was yet in the early summer,
                  and there were not many passengers on the- boat. As was usual, Irene provided
                  herself with a volume, and soon after going on board took a retired place in one
                  of the cabins and buried herself in its pages. For over three hours she remained
                  completely absorbed in what she was reading. Then her mind began to wander and
                  dwell on themes that made the even pulses of her heart beat to a quicker measure;
                  yet still her eyes remained fixed on the book she held in her hand. At length she
                  became aware that some one was near her, by the falling of a shadow on the page
                  she was trying to read. Lifting her head, she met the eyes of Hartley Emerson. He
                  was standing close to her, his hand resting on the back of a chair, which he now
                  drew nearly in front of her.
               "Irene," he said, in a low, quiet voice, "I am glad to meet you again in this
                  world." And he reached out his hand as he spoke.
               For a moment Irene sat very still, but she did not take her eyes from Mr.
                  Emerson's face; then she extended her hand and let it lie in his. He did not fail
                  to notice that it had a low tremor.
               Thus received, he sat down.
               "Nearly twenty years have passed, Irene, since a word or sign has passed between
                  us."
               Her lips moved, but there was no utterance.
               "Why should we not, at least, be friends?"
               Her lips moved again, but no words trembled on the air.
               "Friends, that may meet now and then, and feel kindly one toward the other."
               His voice was still event in tone—very even, but very distinct and impressive.
               At first Irene's face had grown pale, but now a warm flush was pervading it.
               "If you desire it, Hartley," she answered, in a voice that trembled in the
                  beginning, but grew firm ere the sentence closed, "it is not for me to say, 'No.'
                  As for kind feelings, they are yours always—always. The bitterness passed from my
                  heart long ago."
               "And from mine," said Mr. Emerson.
               They were silent for a few moments, and each showed embarrassment.
               "Nearly twenty years! That is a long, long time, Irene." His voice showed signs of
                  weakness.
               "Yes, it is a long time." It was a mere echo of his words, yet full of
                  meaning.
               "Twenty years!" he repeated. "There has been full time for reflection, and, it may
                  be, for repentance. Time for growing wiser and better."
               Irene's eyelids drooped until the long lashes lay in a dark fringed line on her
                  pale cheeks. When she lifted them they were wet.
               "Yes, Hartley," she answered with much feeling, "there has been, indeed, time for reflection and
                  repentance. It is no light thing to shadow the whole life of a human being."
               "As I have shadowed yours."
               "No, no," she answered quickly, "I did not mean that; as I have shadowed
                  yours."
               She could not veil the tender interest that was in her eyes; would not, perhaps,
                  if it had been in her power.
               At this moment a bell rang out clear and loud. Irene started and glanced from the
                  window; then, rising quickly, she said—
               "We are at the landing."
               There was a hurried passage from cabin to deck, a troubled confusion of thought, a
                  brief period of waiting, and then Irene stood on the shore and Hartley Emerson on
                  the receding vessel. In a few hours miles of space lay between them.
               "Irene, darling," said Mrs. Everet, as they met at Ivy Cliff on the next day, "how
                  charming you look! This pure, sweet, bracing air has beautified you like a
                  cosmetic. Your cheeks are warm and your eyes are full of light. It gives me
                  gladness of heart to see in your face something of the old look that faded from it
                  years ago."
               Irene drew her arm around her friend and kissed her lovingly.
               "Come and sit down here in the library. I have something to tell you," she
                  answered, "that will make your heart beat quicker, as it has mine."
               "I have met him," she said, as they sat down and looked again into each other's
                  faces.
               "Him! Who?"
               "Hartley."
               "Your husband?"
               "He who was my husband. Met him face to face; touched his hand; listened to his
                  voice; almost felt his heart beat against mine. Oh, Rose darling, it has sent the
                  blood bounding in new life through my veins. He was on the boat yesterday, and
                  came to me as I sat reading. We talked together for a few minutes, when our
                  landing was reached, and we parted. But in those few minutes my poor heart had
                  more happiness than it has known for twenty years. We are at peace. He asked why
                  we might not be as friends who could meet now and then, and feel kindly toward
                  each other? God bless him for the words! After a long, long night of tears, the
                  sweet morning has broken!"
               And Irene laid her head down against Rose, hiding her face and weeping from excess
                  of joy.
               "What a pure, true, manly face he has!" she continued, looking up with swimming
                  eyes. "How full it is of thought and feeling! You called him my husband just now,
                  Rose. My husband!" The light went back from her face. "Not for time, but—" and she
                  glanced upward, with eyes full of hope—"for the everlasting ages! Oh is it not a
                  great gain to have met here in forgiveness giveness of the past—to have looked kindly into
                  each other's faces—to have spoken words that cannot die?"
               What could Rose say to all this? Irene had carried her out of her depth. The even
                  tenor of her life-experiences gave no deep sea-line that could sound these waters.
                  And so she sat silent, bewildered and half afraid.
               Margaret came to the library, and, opening the door, looked in. There was a
                  surprised expression on her face.
               "What is it?" Irene asked.
               "A gentleman has called, Miss Irene."
               "A gentleman!"
               "Yes, miss; and wants to see you."
               "Did he send his name?"
               "No, miss."
               "Do you know him, Margaret?"
               "I can't say, miss, for certain, but—" she stopped.
               "But what, Margaret?"
               "It may be just my thought, miss; but he looks for all the world as if he might
                  be—"
               She paused again. 
               "Well?"
               "I can't say it, Miss Irene, no how, and I won't. But the gentleman asked for you.
                  What shall I tell him?"
               "That I will see him in a moment," answered Irene.
               Margaret retired.
               The face of Irene, which flushed at first, now became pale as ashes. A wild hope
                  trembled in her heart.
               "Excuse me for a few minutes," she said to Mrs. Everet, and, rising, left the
                  room.
               It was as Irene had supposed. On entering the parlor, a gentleman advanced to meet
                  her, and she stood face to face with Hartley Emerson!
               "Irene," he said, extending his hand.
               "Hartley," fell in an irrepressible throb from her lips as she put her hand in
                  his.
               "I could not return to New York without seeing you again," said Mr. Emerson, as he
                  stood holding the hand of Irene. "We met so briefly, and were thrown apart again
                  so suddenly, that some things I meant to say were left unspoken."
               He led her to a seat and sat down beside her, still looking intently in her face.
                  Irene was far from being as calm as when they sat together the day before. A world
                  of new hopes had sprung up in her heart since then. She had lain half asleep and
                  half awake nearly all night, in a kind of delicious dream, from which the morning
                  awoke her with a cold chill of reality. She had dreamed again since the sun had
                  risen; and now the dream was changing into the actual.
               "Have I done wrong in this, Irene?" he asked.
               And she answered,
               "No, it is a pleasure to meet you, Hartley." She had passed through years of self-discipline,
                  and the power acquired during this time came to her aid. And so she was able to
                  answer with womanly dignity. It was a pleasure to meet him there, and she said
                  so.
               "There are some things in the past, Irene," said Mr. Emerson, "of which I must
                  speak, now that I can do so. There are confessions that I wish to make. Will you
                  hear me?"
               "Better," answered Irene, "let the dead past bury its dead."
               "I do not seek to justify myself, but you, Irene."
               "You cannot alter the estimate I have made of my own conduct," she replied. "A
                  bitter stream does not flow from a sweet fountain. That dead, dark, hopeless past!
                  Let it sleep if it will!"
               "And what, then, of the future?" asked Mr. Emerson.
               "Of the future!" The question startled her. She looked at him with a glance of
                  eager inquiry.
               "Yes, of the future, Irene. Shall it be as the past? or have we both come up
                  purified from the fire? Has it consumed the dross, and left only the fine gold? I
                  can believe it in your case, and hope that it is so in mine. But this I do know,
                  Irene: after suffering and trial have done their work of abrasion, and I get down
                  to the pure metal of my heart, I find that your image is fixed there in the
                  imperishable substance. I did not hope to meet you again in this world as now—to
                  look into your face, to hold your hand, to listen to your voice as I have done
                  this day—but I have felt that God was fitting us through earthly trial, for a
                  heavenly union. We shall be one hereafter, dear Irene—one and for ever!"
               The strong man broke down. His voice fell into low sobs—tears blinded his vision.
                  He groped about for the hand of Irene, found it, and held it wildly to his
                  lips.
               Was it for a loving woman to hold back coldly now? No, no, no! That were
                  impossible.
               "My husband!" she said, tenderly and reverently, as she placed her saintly lips on
                  his forehead.
               There was a touching ceremonial at Ivy Cliff on the next day—one never to be
                  forgotten by the few who were witnesses. A white-haired minister—the same who,
                  more than twenty years before, had said to Hartley Emerson and Irene Delancy, "May
                  your lives flow together like two pure streams that meet in the same
                  valley,"—again joined their hands and called them "husband and wife." The long,
                  dreary, tempestuous night had passed away, and the morning arisen in brightness
                  and beauty.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            
            JUST ISSUED.
            
               HORSE TRAINING MADE EASY. A new and practical System of Teaching and Educating
                  the Horse. By Robert Jennings, V. S., author of "The Horse and his Diseases," etc.
                  With portrait in steel, and illustrations. 16mo., cloth. Price $1 25.
               THE HISTORY OF PALESTINE, from the Patriarchal ages to the present time. By
                  John Kitto. With illustrations. 16mo., cloth. Price $1 50.
               THE WREATH OF GEMS. A Gift Book for the Young of both Sexes. By Emily Percival.
                  16mo., cloth. Price $1 50.
            
            These volumes sent post-paid, to any address, on receipt of price, by JOHN E. POTTER
               & CO., Publishers, 617 Sansom Street, Philadelphia.
         
         
            
            LIST OF NEW PUBLICATIONS.
            MAILING NOTICE.—Single copies of any of these Books will be seat to any address,
               post-paid, on receipt of price. This very convenient mode may be adopted where your
               neighboring bookseller is not supplied with the work. Address, JOHN E. POTTER &
               CO., Publishers, No. 617 Sansom Street, Philadelphia.
            
               LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Containing his early History and
                  Political Career. By Frank Crosby, of the Philadelphia Bar. With Portrait on
                  steel. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE SAME TRANSLATED INTO THE GERMAN LANGUAGE. By Professor Carl Theodor Eben.
                  12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES OF STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS. To which are added his Speeches
                  and Reports. By H. M. Flint. With Portrait on steel. 12mo., cloth. Price $1
                  75.
               LIFE OF DANIEL BOONE, the Great Western Hunter and Pioneer. By Cecil B.
                  Hartley. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price, $1 75.
               LIFE OF KIT CARSON, the Great Western Hunter and Guide. By Charles Burdett.
                  With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               LIFE OF DAVID CROCKETT, the Original Humorist and Irrepressible Backwoodsman.
                  With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF MISS MAJOR PAULINE CUSHMAN, the Celebrated Union Spy and
                  Scout. By F L Sarmiento, Esq., of the Philadelphia Bar. With Portrait and
                  illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               
               THRILLING STORIES OF THE GREAT REBELLION. Including an Account of the Death of
                  President Lincoln, and Capture of the Assassins. By Lieutenant-Colonel Charles S.
                  Greene, late of the United States Army. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1
                  75.
               THRILLING ADVENTURES AMONG THE EARLY SETTLERS. Embracing Desperate Encounters
                  with Indians, Refugees, Gamblers, Desperadoes, etc. etc. By Warren Wildwood, Esq.
                  Illustrated by 200 engravings. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THRILLING INCIDENTS IN THE WARS OF THE UNITED STATES. Embracing all the Wars
                  previous to the Rebellion. With 300 engravings. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               OUR BOYS. The rich and racy scenes of Army and Camp Life, as seen and
                  participated in by one of the Rank and File. By A. F. Hill, of the Eighth Pa.
                  Reserves. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               OUR CAMPAIGNS; or, a Three Years' Term of Service in the War. By E. M.
                  Woodward, Adjutant Second Pennsylvania Reserves. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE BEAUTIFUL SPY. An exciting story of Army and High Life in New York in 1776.
                  By Charles Burdett. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE ROYALIST'S DAUGHTER AND THE REBELS. A tale of the Revolution of unusual
                  power and interest. By Rev. David Murdoch, D. D. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE HERO GIRL, and how she became a Captain in the Army. By Thrace Talmon. With
                  illustrations. 12mo., cloth Price $1 75.
               HUNTING ADVENTURES IN THE NORTHERN WILDS. By S. H. Hammond. Illustrated. Cloth.
                  Price $1 75.
               WILD NORTHERN SCENES. By S. H. Hammond, author of "Hunting Adventures in the
                  Northern Wilds." Illustrated. Cloth. Price $1 75.
               FANNY HUNTER'S WESTERN ADVENTURES. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth. Price $1
                  75.
               WONDERFUL ADVENTURES BY LAND AND SEA of the Seven Queer Travellers who met at
                  an Inn. By Josiah Barnes 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE EARLY DAYS OF CALIFORNIA. By Col. J. T. Farnham. 12mo., illustrated, cloth.
                  Price $1 75.
               NICARAGUA, PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE. By Peter F. Stout, Esq., late United
                  States Vice-Consul. With a Map. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               FEMALE LIFE AMONG THE MORMONS. By Maria Ward, the Wife of a Mormon Elder.
                  Illustrated. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               MALE LIFE AMONG THE MORMONS. By Austin N. Ward. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth.
                  Price $1 75.
               THE WHITE ROCKS; or, the Robber's Den. A Tragedy of the Mountains of thrilling
                  interest. By A. F. Hill, author of "Our Boys," etc. 12mo., cloth. Price $1
                  75.
               TUPPER'S COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS. With Portrait on steel. 12mo., cloth. Price
                  $1 75.
               THE YOUNG LADY'S OWN BOOK. An offering of Love and Sympathy. By Emily
                  Thornwell. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               SUNLIGHT AND SHADOW; or, the Poetry of Home. By Harry Penciller. 12mo., cloth.
                  Price $1 75.
               GREAT EXPECTATIONS. By Charles Dickens. With steel engravings. 12mo., cloth.
                  Price $1 75.
               THE SOLDIER AND THE SORCERESS; or, the Adventures of Jane Seton. 12mo., cloth.
                  Price $1 75.
               THE ORPHAN BOY; or, Lights and Shadows of Humble Life. By Jeremy Loud. 12mo.,
                  cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE ORPHAN GIRLS. A Tale of Southern Life. By James S. Peacooke, M. D., of
                  Mississippi. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               
               BOOK OF ANECDOTES AND JOKER'S KNAPSACK. Including Witticisms of the late
                  President Lincoln, and Humors, Incidents, and Absurdities of the War. 12mo.,
                  cloth. Price $1 75.
               WAY DOWN EAST; or, Portraitures of Yankee Life. By Seba Smith, the original
                  Major Jack Downing. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE LADIES' MEDICAL GUIDE AND MARRIAGE FRIEND. By S. Pancoast, M. D., Professor
                  of Physiology in Penn Medical University, Philadelphia. With upwards of 100
                  illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               BOYHOOD'S PERILS AND MANHOOD'S CURSE. An earnest appeal to the young men of
                  America. By S. Pancoast, M. D. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1
                  75.
               THE CURABILITY OF CONSUMPTION by Medicated Inhalation and Adjunct Remedies. By
                  S. Pancoast, M. D. With illustrations. Cloth. Price $1 50.
               THE AMERICAN TEXT-BOOK. Containing the Constitution of the United States, the
                  Declaration of Independence, and Washington's Farewell Address. 24mo., cloth.
                  Price 25 cents.
               HORSE TRAINING MADE EASY. A New and Practical System of Teaching and Educating
                  the Horse. By Robert Jennings, V. S. of the Veterinary College of Philadelphia,
                  author of "The Horse and his Diseases," etc. etc. With illustrations. 16mo.,
                  cloth. Price $1 25.
               THE HORSE AND HIS DISEASES. By Robert Jennings, V. S., author of "Horse
                  Training Made Easy," etc. etc. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1
                  75.
               CATTLE AND THEIR DISEASES. By Robert Jennings, V. S. With numerous
                  illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 45. (Uniform with the above.)
               SHEEP, SWINE, AND POULTRY. By Robert Jennings, V. S. With numerous
                  illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. (Uniform with the above.)
               EVERYBODY'S LAWYER AND COUNSELLOR IN BUSINESS. By Frank Crosby,. Esq., of the
                  Philadelphia Bar. 12mo; Price $1 75.
               THE FAMILY DOCTOR; containing, in Plain Language, free from Medical Terms, the
                  Causes, Symptoms, and Cure of Disease in all forms. By Henry S. Taylor, M. D. With
                  illustrations. Cloth. Price $1 50.
               MODERN COOKERY in all its Branches. By Miss Eliza Acton. Carefully revised by
                  Mrs. S. J. Hale. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75.
               THE EARLY MORN. An Address to the Young on the Importance of Religion. By John
                  Foster. 24mo., cloth. Price 25 cts.
               FAMILY PRAYERS. Adapted to every day in the week. By the late Rev. William
                  Wilberforce. Cloth. Price 37 cents.
               THE HISTORY OF PALESTINE from the Patriarchal Ages to the Present Time. By John
                  Kitto. With illustrations. Cloth. Price $1 50.
               THE WREATH OF GEMS. A gift book for the young of both sexes. By Emily Percival.
                  Cloth. Price $1 50.
               THE RAINBOW AROUND THE TOMB; or, Rays of Hope for those who Mourn. By Emily
                  Thornwell. Cloth. Price $1 50.
               THE LIFE OF OUR LORD AND SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST, from his Incarnation to his
                  Ascension into Heaven. By Rev. John Fleetwood, D. D. With steel and colored
                  plates. Crown 8vo., library style. Price $4.
               THE RELIGIOUS DENOMINATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES. Their History, Doctrine,
                  Government, and Statistics. By Rev. Joseph Belcher, D. D., author of "William
                  Carey, a Biography," and editor of the "Complete Works of Andrew Fuller," "Works
                  of Robert Hall," etc. With nearly 200 engravings. Crown 8vo., library style. Price
                  $4 50.
               THE GOOD CHILD'S ILLUSTRATED INSTRUCTION BOOK. With more than sixty
                  illustrations. Quarto, bound in cloth. Plain pictures, $1. Illuminated, $1
                  25.
               THE LITTLE FOLKS' OWN BOOK. With sixty illustrations. Quarto, cloth. Plain
                  pictures, $1. Illuminated, $1 25.
               
               UNCLE JOHN'S OWN BOOK OF MORAL AND INSTRUCTIVE STORIES. With more than fifty
                  illustrations. Crown quarto, cloth. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2.
               GRANDFATHER'S STORIES. With sixty illustrations. Crown quarto. Plain pictures,
                  $1 50. Illuminated, $2.
               NATIONAL NURSERY TALES. With sixty illustrations. Folio, bound in cloth. Plain
                  pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2.
               NATIONAL FAIRY TALES. With more than seventy illustrations. Folio, cloth. Plain
                  pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2.
               THE LITTLE KITTEN STORIES. With fifty beautiful illustrations. Folio, cloth.
                  Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2.
               THE FUNNY ANIMALS. With more than sixty illustrations. Folio, cloth. Plain
                  pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2.
               OUR NINA'S PET STORIES. With fifty beautiful illustrations. Folio, cloth. Plain
                  pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2.
               FAMILY AND PULPIT BIBLES. Nearly sixty different styles; with Family Record and
                  with and without Photograph Record. With clasps or otherwise, and ranging in price
                  from $5 to $30.
               JUVENILE AND TOY BOOKS. Embracing 150 varieties, beautifully illustrated and
                  adapted to the tastes of the little ones everywhere; at prices ranging from 10
                  cents to $2.
               PHOTOGRAPH ALBUMS in every size and variety, holding from twelve to two hundred
                  pictures, and ranging in price from 75 cents to $20.
            
            Persons wishing a full catalogue of all our Books, Albums, and Bibles, will please
               send two red stamps to pay return postage.
            The trade everywhere supplied on favorable terms.
            Address, JOHN E. POTTER & CO., Publishers, 617 Sansom Street,
               Philadelphia.
         
      
   
