
    ----CITATION----
        Alcott, Louisa May (1832-1888). On Picket Duty .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5551 wright2-0033
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               ON PICKET DUTY,
               AND OTHER TALES.
            
            BY L. M. ALCOTT.
            
            
               Boston:
               JAMES REDPATH, PUBLISHER, 221 WASHINGTON STREET.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               H. DEXTER, HAMILTON & Co.
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1864, BY JAMES REDPATH, In
                  the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts. GEO. C. RAND &
                  AVERY, STEREOTYPERS AND PRINTERS, BOSTON.
            
         
      
      
         
            On picket duty
            
               ON PICKET DUTY.
               
                  WHAT air you thinkin' of, Phil?
               "My wife, Dick."
               "So was I! Aint it odd how fellers fall to thinkin' of thar little women, when
                  they get a quiet spell like this?"
               "Fortunate for us that we do get it, and have such gentle bosom guests to keep us
                  brave and honest through the trials and temptations of a life like ours."
               October moonlight shone clearly on the solitary tree, draped with gray moss,
                  scarred by lightning and warped by wind, looking like a venerable warrior, whose
                  long campaign was nearly done; and underneath was posted the guard of four. Behind
                  them twinkled many camp-fires on a distant plain, before them wound a road
                  ploughed by the passage of an army, strewn with the relics of a rout. On the
                  right, a sluggish river glided, like a serpent, stealthy, sinuous, and dark, into
                  a seemingly impervious jungle; on the left, a Southern swamp filled the air with
                  malarial damps, swarms of noisome life, and discordant sounds that robbed the hour
                  of its repose. The men were friends as well as comrades, for though gathered from
                  the four quarters of the Union, and dissimilar in education, character, and
                  tastes, the same spirit animated all; the routine of camp life threw them much
                  together, and mutual esteem soon grew into a bond of mutual good fellowship.
               
               Thorn was a Massachusetts volunteer; a man who seemed too early old, too early
                  embittered by some cross, for though grim of countenance, rough of speech, cold of
                  manner, a keen observer would have soon discovered traces of a deeper, warmer
                  nature hidden, behind the repellent front he turned upon the world. A true New
                  Englander, thoughtful, acute, reticent, and opinionated; yet earnest withal,
                  intensely patriotic, and often humorous, despite a touch of Puritan austerity.
               Phil, the "romantic chap," as he was called, looked his character to the life.
                  Slender, swarthy, melancholy eyed, and darkly bearded; with feminine features,
                  mellow voice and, alternately languid or vivacious manners. A child of the South
                  in nature as in aspect, ardent, impressible, and proud; fitfully aspiring and
                  despairing; without the native energy which moulds character and ennobles life.
                  Months of discipline and devotion had done much for him, and some deep experience
                  was fast ripening the youth into a man.
               Flint, the long-limbed lumberman, from the wilds of Maine, was a conscript who,
                  when government demanded his money or his life, calculated the cost, and decided
                  that the cash would be a dead loss and the claim might be repeated, whereas the
                  conscript would get both pay and plunder out of government, while taking excellent
                  care that government got precious little out of him. A shrewd, slow-spoken,
                  self-reliant specimen, was Flint; yet something of the fresh flavor of the
                  backwoods lingered in him still, as if Nature were loath to give him up, and left
                  the mark of her motherly hand upon him, as she leaves it in a dry, pale lichen, on
                  the bosom of the roughest stone.
               Dick "hailed" from Illinois, and was a comely young fellow, full of dash and
                  daring; rough and rowdy, generous and jolly, overflowing with spirits and ready
                  for a free fight with all the world.
               Silence followed the last words, while the friendly moon climbed up the sky. Each
                  man's eye followed it, and each man's heart was busy with remembrances of other
                  eyes and hearts that might be watching and wishing as theirs watched and wished.
                  In the silence, each shaped for himself that vision of home that brightens so many
                  camp-fires, haunts so many dreamers under canvas roofs, and keeps so many
                  turbulent natures tender by memories which often are both solace and
                  salvation.
               Thorn paced to and fro, his rifle on his shoulder, vigilant and soldierly, however
                  soft his heart might be. Phil leaned against the tree, one hand in the breast of
                  his blue jacket, on the painted presentment of the face his fancy was picturing in
                  the golden circle of the moon. Flint lounged on the sward, whistling softly as he
                  whittled at a fallen bough. Dick was flat on his back, heels in air, cigar in
                  mouth, and some hilarious notion in his mind, for suddenly he broke into a
                  laugh.
               "What is it, lad?" asked Thorn, pausing in his tramp, as if willing to be drawn
                  from the disturbing thought that made his black brows lower and his mouth look
                  grim.
               "Thinkin' of my wife, and wishin' she was here, bless her heart! set me
                  rememberin' how I see her fust, and so I roared, as I always do when it comes into
                  my head."
               "How was it? Come, reel off a yarn and let's hear houw yeou hitched teams," said
                  Flint, always glad to get information concerning his neighbors, if it could be
                  cheaply done.
               "Tellin' how we found our wives wouldn't be a bad game, would it, Phil?"
               "I'm agreeable; but let us have your romance first."
               "Devilish little of that about me or any of my doin's. I hate sentimental bosh as
                  much as you hate slang, and should have been a bachelor to this day if I hadn't
                  seen Kitty jest as I did. You see, I'd been
                  too busy larkin' round to get time for marryin', till a couple of years ago, when
                  I did up the job double-quick, as I'd like to do this thunderin' slow one, hang it
                  all!"
               "Halt a minute till I give a look, for this picket isn't going to be driven in or
                  taken while I'm on guard."
               Down his beat went Thorn, reconnoitring river, road, and swamp, as thoroughly as
                  one pair of keen eyes could do it, and came back satisfied, but still growling
                  like a faithful mastiff on the watch; performances which he repeated at intervals
                  till his own turn came.
               "I didn't have to go out of my own State for a wife, you'd better believe," began
                  Dick, with a boast, as usual; "for we raise as fine a crop of girls thar as any
                  State in or out of the Union, and don't mind raisin' Cain with any man who denies
                  it. I was out on a gunnin' tramp with Joe Partridge, a cousin of mine,—poor old
                  chap! he fired his last shot at Gettysburg, and died game in a way he didn't dream
                  of the day we popped off the birds together. It ain't right to joke that way; I
                  won't if I can help it; but a feller gets awfully kind of heathenish these times,
                  don't he?"
               "Settle up them scores byme-by; fightin' Christians scurse raound here. Fire away,
                  Dick."
               "Well, we got as hungry as hounds half a dozen mile from home, and when a
                  farm-house hove in sight, Joe said he'd ask for a bite and leave some of the
                  plunder for pay. I was visitin' Joe, didn't know folks round, and backed out of
                  the beggin' part of the job; so he went ahead alone. We'd come up the woods behind
                  the house, and while Joe was foragin', I took are connoissance. The view was
                  fust-rate, for the main part of it was a girl airin' beds on the roof of a stoop.
                  Now, jest about that time, havin' a leisure spell, I'd begun to think of marryin',
                  and took a look at all the girls I met, with an eye to business. I s'pose every
                  man has some sort of an idee or pattern of the wife he wants; pretty and plucky,
                  good and gay was mine, but I'd never found it till I see Kitty; and as she didn't
                  see me, I had the advantage and took an extra long stare."
               "What was her good pints, hey?"
               "Oh, well, she had a wide-awake pair of eyes, a bright, jolly sort of a face, lots
                  of curly hair tumblin' out of her net, a trig little figger, and a pair of the
                  neatest feet and ankles that ever stepped. 'Pretty,' thinks I; 'so far so good.'
                  The way she whacked the pillers, shooked the blankets, and pitched into the beds
                  was a caution; specially one blunderin' old featherbed that wouldn't do nothin'
                  but sag round in a pig-headed sort of way, that would have made most girls get mad
                  and give up. Kitty didn't, but just wrastled with it like a good one, till she got
                  it turned, banged, and spread to suit her; then she plumped down in the middle of
                  it, with a sarcy little nod and chuckle to herself, that tickled me mightily.
                  'Plucky,' thinks I, 'better 'n' better.' Jest then an old woman came flyin' out
                  the back-door, callin', 'Kitty! Kitty! Squire Partridge's son's here, 'long with a
                  friend; been gunnin', want luncheon, and I'm all in the suds; do come down and see
                  to 'em.'
               "'Where are they ?' says Kitty, scrambling up her hair and settlin' her gown in a
                  jiffy, as women have a knack of doin', you know.
               "'Mr. Joe's in the front entry; the other man's somewheres round, Billy says,
                  waitin' till I send word whether they can stop. I darsn't till I'd seen you, for I
                  can't do nothin', I'm in such a mess,' says the old lady.
               "'So am I, for I can't get in except by the 
                     the
                     
                   entry window, and he'll see me,' says Kitty, gigglin' at the thoughts of
                  Joe.
               
               "'Come down the ladder, there's a dear. I'll pull it round and keep it stiddy,'
                  says her mother.
               "'Oh, ma, don't ask me!' says Kitty, with a shiver. 'I'm dreadfully scared of
                  ladders since I broke my arm off this very one. It's so high, it makes me dizzy
                  jest to think of.'
               "'Well, then, I'll do the best I can; but I wish them boys was to Jericho!' says
                  the old lady, with a groan, for she was fat and hot, had her gown pinned up, and
                  was in a fluster generally. She was goin' off rather huffy, when Kitty called
                  out,—
               "'Stop, ma! I'll come down and help you, only ketch me if I tumble.'
               "She looked scared but stiddy, and I'll bet it took as much grit for her to do it
                  as for one of us to face a battery. It don't seem much to tell of, but I wish I
                  may be hit if it wasn't a right down dutiful and clever thing to see done. When
                  the old lady took her off at the bottom, with a good motherly hug, I found myself
                  huggin' my rifle like a fool, but whether I thought it was the ladder, or Kitty, I
                  ain't clear about. 'Good,' thinks I; 'what more do you want?'
               "A snug little property wouldn't a ben bad, I reckon. Well she had it, old
                  skin-flint, though I didn't know or care about it then. What a jolly row she'd
                  make if she knew I was tellin' the ladder part of the story! She always does when
                  I get to it, and makes believe cry, with her head in my breast-pocket, or any such
                  handy place, till I take it out and swear I'll never do so ag'in. Poor little Kit,
                  I wonder what she's doin' now. Thinkin' of me, I'll bet."
               Dick paused, pitched his cap lower over his eyes, and smoked a minute with more
                  energy than enjoyment, for his cigar was out and he did not perceive it.
               "That's not all, is it?" asked Thorn, taking a fatherly interest in the younger
                  man's love passages.
               "Not quite. 'Fore long, Joe whistled, and as I always take short cuts everywhar, I
                  put in at the back-door, jest as Kitty come trottin' out of the pantry with a big
                  berry-pie in her hand. I startled her, she tripped over the sill and down she
                  come; the dish flew one way, the pie flopped into her lap, the juice spatterin' my
                  boots and her clean gown. I thought she'd cry, scold, have hysterics, or some
                  confounded thing or other; but she jest sat still a minute, then looked up at me
                  with a great blue splosh on her face, and went off into the good-naturedest gale
                  of laughin' you ever heard in your life. That finished me. 'Gay,' thinks I; 'go in
                  and win.' So I, did; made love hand over hand, while I stayed with Joe; pupposed a
                  fortnight after, married her in three months, and there she is, a tip-top little
                  woman, with a pair of stunnin' boys in her arms!"
               Out came a well-worn case, and Dick proudly displayed the likeness of a stout,
                  much bejewelled young woman, with two staring infants on her knee. In his sight,
                  the poor picture was a more perfect work of art than any of Sir Joshua's
                  baby-beauties, or Raphael's Madonnas, and the little story needed no better sequel
                  than the young father's praises of his twins, the covert kiss he gave their mother
                  when he turned as if to get a clearer light upon the face. Ashamed to show the
                  tenderness that filled his honest heart, he hummed "Kingdom Coming," while
                  relighting his cigar, and presently began to talk again.
               "Now, then, Flint, it's your turn to keep guard, and Thorn's to tell his romance.
                  Come, don't try to shirk; it does a man good to talk of such things, and we're all
                  mates here."
               "In some cases it don't do any good to talk of such things; better let 'em alone," muttered Thorn, as
                  he reluctantly sat down, while Flint as reluctantly departed.
               With a glance and gesture of real affection, Phil laid his hand upon his comrade's
                  knee, saying, in his persuasive voice, "Old fellow, it will do you
                  good, because I know you often long to speak of something that weighs upon you.
                  You've kept us steady many a time, and done us no end of kindnesses; why be too
                  proud to let us give our sympathy in return, if nothing more?"
               Thorn's big hand closed over the slender one upon his knee, and the mild
                  expression, so rarely seen upon his face, passed over it as he replied,—
               "I think I could tell you almost anything if you asked me that way, my boy. It
                  isn't that I'm too proud,—and you're right about my sometimes wanting to free my
                  mind,—but it's because a man of forty don't just like to open out to young
                  fellows, if there is any danger of their laughing at him, though he may deserve
                  it. I guess there isn't now, and I'll tell you how I found my wife."
               Dick sat up, and Phil drew nearer, for the earnestness that was in the man
                  dignified his plain speech, and inspired an interest in his history, even before
                  it was begun. Looking gravely at the river and never at his hearers, as if still a
                  little shy of confidants, yet grateful for the relief of words, Thorn began
                  abruptly,—
               "I never hear the number eighty-four without clapping my hand to my left breast
                  and missing my badge. You know I was on the police in New York, before the war,
                  and that's about all you do know yet. One bitter cold night, I was going my rounds
                  for the last time, when, as I turned a corner, I saw there was a trifle of work to
                  be done. It was a bad part of the city, full of dirt and deviltry; one of the
                  streets led to a ferry, and at the corner an old woman had an apple-stall stall.
                  The poor soul had dropped asleep, worn out with the cold, and there were her goods
                  left, with no one to watch 'em. Somebody was watching 'em, however; a girl, with a
                  ragged shawl over her head, stood at the mouth of an alley close by, waiting for a
                  chance to grab something. I'd seen her there when I went by before, and mistrusted
                  she was up to some mischief; as I turned the corner, she put out her hand and
                  cribbed an apple. She saw me the minute she did it, but neither dropped it nor
                  ran, only stood stocks still with the apple in her hand till came up.
               "'This won't do, my girl,' said I. I never could be harsh with 'em, poor things!
                  She laid it back and looked up at me with a miserable sort of a smile, that made
                  me put my hand in my pocket to fish for a ninepence before she spoke.
               "'I know it won't,' she says. 'I didn't want to do it, it's so mean, but I'm awful
                  hungry, sir.'
               "'Better run home and get your supper then.'
               "'I've got no home.'
               "'Where do you live?'
               "'In the street.'
               "'Where do you sleep?'
               "'Anywhere; last night in the lock-up, and I thought I'd get in there again, if I
                  did that when you saw me. I like to go there, it's warm and safe.'
               "'If I don't take you there, what will you do?'
               "'Don't know. I want to go over there and dance again, as I used to; but being
                  sick has made me ugly, so they won't have me, and no one else will take me because
                  I have been there once.'
               "I looked where she pointed, and thanked the Lord that they wouldn't take her. It
                  was one of those low theatres that do so much damage to the like of her; there was
                  a gambling den one side of it, an eating saloon the other, and at the door of it lounged a scamp I knew very well,
                  looking like a big spider watching for a fly. I longed to fling my billy at him;
                  but as I couldn't, I held on to the girl. I was new to the thing then, but though
                  I'd heard about hunger and homelessness often enough, I'd never had this sort of
                  thing, nor seen that look on a girl's face. A white, pinched face hers was, with
                  frighted, tired-looking eyes, but so innocent; she wasn't more than sixteen, had
                  been pretty once I saw, looked sick and starved now, and seemed just the most
                  helpless, hopeless little thing that ever was.
               "'You'd better come to the Station for to-night, and we'll see to you to-morrow,'
                  says I.
               "'Thank you, sir,' says she, looking as grateful as if I'd asked her home. I
                  suppose I did speaks kind of fatherly. I ain't ashamed to say I felt so, seeing
                  what a child she was; nor to own that when she put her little hand in mine, it
                  hurt me to feel how thin and cold it was. We passed the eating-house where the red
                  lights made her face as rosy as it ought to have been; there was meat and pies in
                  the window, and the poor thing stopped to look. It was too much for her; off came
                  her shawl, and she said in that coaxing way of hers,—
               "'I wish you'd let me stop at the place close by and sell this; they'll give a
                  little for it, and I'll get some supper. I've had nothing since yesterday morning,
                  and maybe cold is easier to bear than hunger.'
               "'Have you nothing better than that to sell?" I says, not quite sure that she
                  wasn't all a humbug, like so many of 'em. She seemed to see that, and looked up at
                  me again with such innocent eyes, I couldn't doubt her when she said, shivering
                  with something beside the cold,—
               "'Nothing but myself.' Then the tears came, and she laid her head down on my arm,
                  sobbing,—'Keep me! oh, do keep me safe somewhere!'"
               Thorn choked here, steadied his voice with a resolute hem! but could only add one
                  sentence more:
               "That's how I found my wife."
               "Come, don't stop thar? I told the whole o' mine, you do the same. Whar did you
                  take her? how'd it all come round?"
               "Please tell us, Thorn."
               The gentler request was answered presently, very steadily, very quietly.
               "I was always a soft-hearted fellow, though you wouldn't think it now, and when
                  that little girl asked me to keep her safe, I just did it. I took her to a good
                  woman whom I knew, for I hadn't any women belonging to me, nor any place but that
                  to put her in. She stayed there till spring working for her keep, growing
                  brighter, prettier, every day, and fonder of me I thought. If I believed in
                  witchcraft, I shouldn't think myself such a cursed fool as I do now, but I don't
                  believe in it, and to this day I can't understand how I came to do it. To be sure
                  I was a lonely man, without kith or kin, had never had a sweetheart in my life, or
                  been much with women since my mother died. Maybe that's why I was so bewitched
                  with Mary, for she had little ways with her that took your fancy and made you love
                  her whether you would or no. I found her father was an honest fellow enough, a
                  fiddler in the some theatre, that he'd taken good care of Mary till he died,
                  leaving precious little but advice for her to live on. She'd tried to get work,
                  failed, spent all she had, got sick, and was going to the devil, as the poor souls
                  can hardly help doing with so many ready to give them a shove. It's no use trying
                  to make a bad job better; so the long and short of it was, I thought she loved me;
                  God knows I loved her, and I married her before the year was out."
               
               "Show us her picture; I know you've got one; all the fellows have, though half of
                  'em won't own up."
               "I've only got part of one. I once saved my little girl, and her picture once
                  saved me."
               From an inner pocket Thorn produced a woman's housewife, carefully untied it,
                  though all its implements were missing but a little thimble and from one of its
                  compartments took a flattened bullet and the remnants of a picture.
               "I gave her that the first Christmas after I found her. She wasn't as tidy about
                  her clothes as I liked to see, and I thought if I gave her a handy thing like
                  this, she'd be willing to sew. But she only made one shirt for me, and then got
                  tired, so I keep it like an old fool, as I am. Yes, that's the bit of lead that
                  would have done for me, if Mary's likeness hadn't been just where it was."
               "You'll like to show her this when you go home, won't you?" said Dick, as he took
                  up the bullet, while Phil examined the marred picture, and Thorn poised the little
                  thimble on his big finger, with a sigh.
               "How can I, when I don't know where she is, and camp is all the home I've
                  got?"
               The words broke from him like a sudden cry, when some old wound is rudely touched.
                  Both of the young men started, both laid back the relics they had taken up, and
                  turned their eyes from Thorn's face, across which swept a look of shame and
                  sorrow, too significant to be misunderstood. Their silence assured him of their
                  sympathy, and, as if that touch of friendlessness unlocked his heavy heart, he
                  eased it by a full confession. When he spoke again, it was with the calmness of
                  repressed emotion; and calmness more touching to his mates than the most
                  passionate outbreak, the most pathetic lamentation; for the coarse camp-phrases
                  seemed to drop from his vocabulary; more than once his softened voice grew
                  tremulous, and to the words "my little girl," there went a tenderness that proved
                  how dear a place she still retained in that deep heart of his.
               "Boys, I've gone so far; I may as well finish; and you'll see I'm not without some
                  cause for my stern looks and ways; you'll pity me, and from you I'll take the
                  comfort of it. It's only the old story,—I married her, worked for her, lived for
                  her, and kept my little girl like a lady. I should have known that I was too old,
                  too sober, for a young thing like that; the life she led before the pinch came
                  just suited her. She liked to be admired, to dress and dance and make herself
                  pretty for all the world to see; not to keep house for a quiet man like me.
                  Idleness wasn't good for her, it bred discontent; then some of her old friends,
                  who'd left her in her trouble, found her out when better times came round, and
                  tried to get her back again. I was away all day, I didn't know how things were
                  going, and she wasn't open with me, afraid, she said; I was so grave, and hated
                  theatres so. She got courage, finally, to tell me that she wasn't happy; that she
                  wanted to dance again, and asked me if she mightn't. I'd rather have had her ask
                  me to put her in a fire, for I did hate theatres, and was bred to;
                  others think they're no harm. I do; and knew it was a bad life for a girl like
                  mine. It pampers vanity, and vanity is the Devil's help with such; so I said No,
                  kindly at first, sharp and stern when she kept on teasing. That roused her spirit.
                  'I will go!' she said, one day. 'Not while you're my wife,' I answered back; and
                  neither said any more, but she gave me a look I didn't think she could, and I
                  resolved to take her away from temptation before worse came of it.
               "I didn't tell her my plan; but I resigned my place, spent a week or more finding
                  and fixing a little home for her out in
                  the wholesome country, where she'd be safe from theatres and disreputable friends,
                  and maybe learn to love me better when she saw how much she was to me. It was
                  coming summer, and I made things look as home-like and as pretty as I could. She
                  liked flowers, and I fixed a garden for her; she was fond of pets, and I got her a
                  bird, a kitten, and a dog to play with her; she fancied gay colors and tasty
                  little matters, so I filled her rooms with all the handsome things I could afford,
                  and when it was done, I was as pleased as any boy, thinking what happy times we'd
                  have together and how pleased she'd be. Boys, when I went to tell her and to take
                  her to her little home, she was gone."
               "Who with?"
               "With those cursed friends of hers; a party of them left the city just then; she
                  was wild to go; she had money now, and all her good looks back again. They teased
                  and tempted her; I wasn't there to keep her, and she went, leaving a line behind
                  to tell me that she loved the old life more than the new; that my house was a
                  prison, and she hoped I'd let her go in peace. That almost killed me; but I
                  managed to bear it, for I knew most of the fault was mine; but it was awful bitter
                  to think I hadn't saved her, after all."
               "Oh, Thorn! what did you do?"
               "Went straight after her; found her dancing in Philadelphia, with paint on her
                  cheeks, trinkets on her neck and arms, looking prettier than ever; but the
                  innocent eyes were gone, and I couldn't see my little girl in the bold, handsome
                  woman twirling there before the 
                     foolights
                     footlights
                  . She saw me, looked scared at first, then smiled, and danced on with her
                  eyes upon me, as if she said,—
               "'See! I'm happy now; go away and let me be.'
               "I couldn't stand that, and got out somehow. People thought me mad, or drunk; I
                  didn't care, I only wanted to see her once in quiet and try to get her home. I
                  couldn't do it then nor afterwards by fair means, and I wouldn't try force. I
                  wrote to her, promised to forgive her, begged her to come back, or let me keep her
                  honestly somewhere away from me. But she never answered, never came, and I have
                  never tried again."
               "She wasn't worthy of you, Thorn; you jest forgit her."
               "I wish I could! I wish I could!" in his voice quivered an almost passionate
                  regret, and a great sob heaved his chest, as he turned his face away to hide the
                  love and longing, still so tender and so strong.
               "Don't say that, Dick; such fidelity should make us charitable for its own sake.
                  There is always time for penitence, always a certainty of pardon. Take heart,
                  Thorn, you may not wait in vain, and she may yet return to you."
               "I know she will! I've dreamed of it, I've prayed for it; every battle I come out
                  of safe makes me surer that I was kept for that, and when I've borne enough to
                  atone for my part of the fault, I'll be repaid for all my patience, all my pain,
                  by finding her again. She knows how well I love her still, and if there comes a
                  time when she is sick and poor and all alone again, then she'll remember her old
                  John, then she'll come home and let me take her in."
               Hope shone in Thorn's melancholy eyes, and long-suffering all-forgiving love
                  beautified the rough, brown face, as he folded his arms and bent his gray head on
                  his breast, as if the wanderer were already come.
               The emotion which Dick scorned to show on his own account was freely manifested
                  for another, as he sniffed audibly, and, boy-like, drew his sleeve across his
                  eyes. But Phil, with the delicate perception of a finer nature, felt that the
                  truest kindness he could show his friend was to distract his thoughts from
                  himself, to spare him any comments, and
                  lessen the embarrassment which would surely follow such unwonted confidence.
               "Now I'll relieve Flint, and he will give you a laugh. Come on Hiram and tell us
                  about your Beulah."
               The gentleman addressed had performed his duty, by sitting on a fence and "
                  righting up" his pockets, to beguile the tedium of his exile. Before his
                  multitudinous possessions could be restored to their native sphere, Thorn was
                  himself again, and on his feet.
               "Stay where you are Phil; I like to tramp, it seems like old times, and I know
                  you're tired. Just forget all this I've been saying, and go on as before. Thank
                  you, boys! thank you!" and with a grasp of the two hands extended to him, he
                  strode away along the path already worn by his own restless feet.
               "It's done him good, and I'm glad of that; but I'd like to see the little baggage
                  that bewitched the poor old boy, wouldn't you, Phil?"
               "Hush! here's Flint."
               "What's up naow? want me tew address the meetin', hey? I'm willin', only the
                  laugh's ruther ag'inst me, ef I tell that story; expect yeu'll like it all the
                  better fer that." Flint coiled up his long limbs, put his hands in his pockets,
                  chewed meditatively for a moment, and then began with his slowest drawl—
               "Waal, sir, it's pretty nigh ten year ago, I was damster daown tew Oldtaown,
                  clos't tew Banggore. My folks lived tew Bethel; there was only the old man, and
                  Aunt Siloam, keepin' house fer him, seein' as I was the only chick he hed. I
                  hedn't heared from 'em fer a long spell, when there come a letter sayin' the old
                  man was breakin' up. He'd said it every spring fer a number er years, and I didn't
                  mind it no more'n the breakin' up er the river; not so much jest then; fer the
                  gret spring drive was comin' on, and my hands was tew full to quit work all tew
                  oncet. I sent word I'd be 'long fore a gret while, and bymeby I went. I ought tew
                  hev gone at fust; but they'd sung aout 'Wolf!' so often I wasn't scared; an' sure
                  'nuff the wolf did come at last. Father hed been dead an' berried a week when I
                  got there, and aunt was so mad she wouldn't write, nor scurcely speak tew me fer a
                  consider'ble spell. I didn't blame her a mite, and felt jest the wust kind; so I
                  give in every way, and fetched her raound. Yeou see I hed a cousin who'd kind er
                  took my place tew hum while I was off, an' the old man hed left him a good slice
                  er his money, an' me the farm, hopin' to keep me there. He'd never liked the
                  lumberin' bizness, an' hankered arfter me a sight, I faound. Waal, seein' haow
                  'twas, I tried tew please him, late as it was; but ef there was ennything I did
                  spleen ag'inst, it was farmin, 'specially arfter the smart times I'd ben hevin, up
                  Oldtaown way. Yeou don't know nothin' abaout it; but ef yeou want tew see high
                  dewin's, jest hitch onto a timber-drive an' go it daown along them lakes and
                  rivers, say from Kaumchenungamooth tew Punnobscot Bay. Guess yeou'd see a thing or
                  tew, an' find livin' on a log come as handy as ef yeou was born a turtle.
               "Waal, I stood it one summer; but it was the longest kind of a job. Come fall I
                  turned contrary, darned the farm, and vaowed I'd go back tew loggin'. Aunt hed got
                  fond er me by that time, and felt dreadful bad abaout my leavin' on her. Cousin
                  Siah, as we called Josiah, didn't cotton tew the old woman, though he did tew her
                  cash; but we hitched along fust-rate. She was 'tached tew the place, hated tew hev
                  it let or sold, thought I'd go to everlastin' rewin ef I took tew lumberin' ag'in,
                  an' hevin' a tidy little sum er money all her own, she took a notion tew buy me
                     off. 'Hiram,' sez she, 'ef yeou'll
                  stay tew hum, merry some smart gal, an' kerry on the farm, I'll leave yeou the
                  hull er my fortin. Ef yeou don't, I'll leave every cent on't tew Siah, though he
                  ain't done as waal by me as yeou hev. Come,' sez she, 'I'm breakin' up like
                  brother; I shan't wurry any one a gret while, and 'fore spring I dessay you'll hev
                  cause tew rejice that yeou done as Aunt Si counselled yeou.'
               "Now, that idee kinder took me, seein' I hedn't no overpaourin' love fer cousin;
                  but I brewdid over it a spell 'fore I 'greed. Fin'lly, I said I'd dew it, as it
                  warn't a hard nor a bad trade; and begun to look raound fer Mis Flint, Jr. Aunt
                  was dreadf'l pleased; but 'mazin pertickler as tew who was goan tew stan' in her
                  shoes, when she was fetched up ag'inst the etarnal boom. There was a sight er
                  lovely women-folks raound taown; but aunt she set her foot daown that Mis Flint
                  must be smart, pious, an' good-natered; harnsome she didn't say nothin' abaout,
                  bein' the humliest woman in the State er Maine. I hed my own calk'lations on that
                  pint, an' went sparkin' two or three er the pootiest gals, all that winter. I
                  warn't in no hurry, fer merryin' is an awful resky bizness; an' I warn't goan to
                  be took in by nobuddy. Some haouw I couldn't make up my mind which I'd hev, and
                  kept dodgin', all ready to slew raound, an' hitch on tew ary one that seemed
                  likeliest. 'Long in March, aunt, she ketched cold, took tew her bed, got wuss, an'
                  told me tew hurry up, fer nary red should I hev, ef I warn't safely merried 'fore
                  she stepped out. I thought that was ruther craoudin' a feller; but I see she was
                  goan sure, an' I'd got intew a way er considerin' the cash mine, so that it come
                  hard to hear abaout givin' on't up. Off I went that evenin' an' asked Almiry Nash
                  ef she'd hev me. No, she wouldn't; I'd shilly-shallyed so long, she'd got tired er
                  waitin' and took tew keepin' company with a doctor daown tew BanggoreBang- gore,
                  where she'd ben visitin' a spell. I didn't find that as hard a rub to swaller, as
                  I'd a thought I would, though Almiry was the richest, pootiest, and good-naterest
                  of the lot. Aunt larfed waal, an' told me tew try agin; so a couple er nights
                  arfter, I spruced up, an' went over to Car'line Miles's; she was as smart as old
                  cheese, an' waal off intew the barg'in. I was just as sure she'd hev me, as I be
                  that I'm gittin' the rewmatiz a settin' in this ma'sh. But that minx, Almiry, hed
                  ben and let on abaout her own sarsy way er servin' on me, an' Car'line jest up an'
                  said she warn't goan to hev annybuddy's leavin's; so daown I come ag'in.
               "Things was gettin' desper't by that time; for aunt was failin' rapid, an' the
                  story hed leaked aout some way, so the hull taown was gigglin' over it. I thought
                  I'd better quit them parts; but aunt she showed me her will all done complete,
                  'sceptin' the fust name er the legatee. 'There,' sez she, 'it all depends on yeou,
                  whether that place is took by Hiram or Josiah. It's easy done, an' so it's goan
                  tew stan' till the last minnit.' That riled me consid'able, an' I streaked off tew
                  May Jane Simlin's. She want very waal off, nor extra harnsome, but she was pious
                  the wust kind, an' dreadf'l clever to them she fancied. But I was daown on my luck
                  agin; fer at the fust word I spoke of merryin', she showed me the door, an' give
                  me to understan' that she couldn't think er hevin' a man that warn't a
                  church-member, that hadn't experienced religion, or even ben struck with
                  conviction, an' all the rest on't. Ef anny one hed a wanted tew hev seen a walkin'
                  hornet's nest, they could hev done it cheap that night, as I went hum. I jest
                  stramed intew the kitchen, chucked my hat intew one corner, my coat intew 'nother,
                  kicked the cat, cussed the fire, drawed up a chair, and set scaoulin' like sixty,
                  bein' tew mad for talkin'. The young woman that was nussin' aunt,—Bewlah Blish,
                     by name,—was a cookin' grewel on the
                  coals, and 'peared tew understan' the mess I was in; but she didn't say nothin',
                  only blowed up the fire, fetched me a mug er cider, an' went raound so kinder
                  quiet, and sympathizin', that I faound the wrinkles in my temper gettin' smoothed
                  aout 'mazin' quick; an' 'fore long I made a clean breast er the hull thing. Bewlah
                  larfed, but I didn't mind her doin' on't, for she sez, sez she, real sort o'
                  cunnin',—
               "'Poor Hiram! they didn't use yeou waal. Yeou ought to hev tried some er the poor
                  an' humly girls; they'd a' been glad an' grateful fer such a sweetheart as yeou
                  be.'
               "I was good-natered agin by that time, an' I sez, larfin' along with her, 'Waal
                  I've got three mittens, but I guess I might's waal hev 'nother, and that will make
                  two pair complete. Say, Bewlah, will yeou hev me?'
               "'Yes, I will,' sez she.
               "'Reelly?' sez I.
               "'Solemn trew,' sez she.
               "Ef she'd up an' slapped me in the face, I shouldn't hev ben more throwed aback,
                  fer I never mistrusted she cared two chips for me. I jest set an' gawped; fer she
                  was solemn trew, I see that with half an eye, an' it kinder took my breath away.
                  Bewlah drawed the grewel off the fire, wiped her hands, an' stood lookin' at me a
                  minnet, then she sez, slow an' quiet, but tremblin' a little, as women hev a way
                  er doin', when they've consid'able steam aboard,—
               "'Hiram, other folks think lumberin' has spilt yeou; I don't; they call yeou rough
                  an' rewd; I know you've got a real kind heart fer them as knows haow tew find it.
                  Them girls give yeou up so easy, 'cause they never loved yeou, an' yeou give them
                  up 'cause yeou only thought abaout their looks an' money. I'm humly, an' I'm poor;
                  but I've loved yeou ever sence we went a-nuttin' years ago, an' yeou shook daown
                  fer me, kerried my bag, and kissed me tew the gate, when all the others shunned
                  me, 'cause my father drank an' I was shably dressed, ugly, an' shy. Yeou asked me
                  in sport, I answered in airnest; but I don't expect nothin' unless yeou mean as I
                  mean. Like me, Hiram, or leave me, it won't make no odds in my lovin' er yeou, nor
                  helpin' er yeou, ef I kin.'
               "'Tain't easy tew say haouw I felt, while she was goin' on that way; but my idees
                  was tumblin' raound inside er me, as ef half a dozen dams was broke loose all tew
                  oncet. One thing was ruther stiddier 'n the rest, an' that was that I liked Bewlah
                  morn'n I knew. I begun tew see what kep me loopin' tew hum so much, sence aunt was
                  took daown; why I want in no hurry tew git them other gals, an' haow I come tew
                  pocket my mittens so easy arfter the fust rile was over. Bewlah was humly, poor in
                  flesh, dreadful freckled, hed red hair, black eyes, an' a gret mold side er her
                  nose. But I'd got wonted tew her; she knowed my ways, was a fust rate housekeeper,
                  real good-tempered, and pious without flingin' on't in yer face. She was a lonely
                  creeter,—her folks bein' all dead but one sister, who didn't use her waal, an'
                  somehow I kinder yearned over her, as they say in Scripter. For all I set an'
                  gawped, I was coming raound fast, though I felt as I used tew, when I was goin' to
                  shoot the rapids, kinder breathless an' oncertin, whether Id come aout right side
                  up or not. Queer, warn't it?"
               "Love, Flint; that was a sure symptom of it."
               "Waal, guess 'twas; anyway I jumped up all er a sudden, ketched Bewlah raound the
                  neck, give her a hearty kiss, and sung aout, 'I'll dew it sure's my name's Hi
                  Flint!' The words was scurcely aout er my maouth, 'fore daown come Dr. Parr. He'd
                  ben up tew see aunt, an' said she wouldn't last the night threw, prob'ly. That
                  give me a scare er the wust kind; an'
                  when I told doctor haow things was, he sez, kinder jokin',—
               "'Better git merried right away, then. Parson Dill is tew come an' see the old
                  lady, an' he'll dew both jobs tew oncet.'
               "'Will yeou, Bewlah?' sez I.
               "'Yes, Hiram, to 'blige yeou,' sez she.
               "With that, I put it fer the parson and the license; got 'em both, an' was back in
                  less'n half an haour, most tuckered aout with the flurry er the hull concern.
                  Quick as I'd been, Bewlah hed faound time tew whip on her best gaoun, fix up her
                  hair, and put a couple er white chrissanthymums intew her hank'chif pin. Fer the
                  fust time in her life, she looked harnsome,—leastways I thought so,—with a pretty
                  color in her cheeks, somethin' brighter'n a larf shinin' in her eyes, an' her lips
                  smilin' an' tremblin', as she come to me an' whispered so's't none er the rest
                  could hear,—
               "'Hiram, don't yeou dew it, ef yeou'd ruther not. I've stood it a gret while
                  alone, an' I guess I can ag'in.'
               "Never yeou mind what I said or done abaout that; but we was married ten minutes
                  arfter, 'fore the kitchen fire, with Dr. Parr an' oaur hired man, fer witnesses;
                  an' then we all went up tew aunt. She was goan fast, but she understood what I
                  told her, hed strength tew fill up the hole in the will, an' to say, a-kissin'
                  Bewlah, 'Yeou'll be a good wife, an' naouw yeou ain't a poor one.'
               "I couldn't help givin' a peek tew the will, and there I see not Hiram Flint, nor
                  Josiah Flint, but Bewlah Flint, wrote every which way, but as plain as the nose on
                  yer face. 'It won't make no odds dear,' whispered my wife, peekin' over my
                  shoulder. 'Guess it won't!' sez I, aout laoud; 'I'm glad on't, and it ain't a cent
                  more'n yeou derserve.'
               "That pleased aunt. 'Riz me, Hiram,' sez she; an' when I'd got her easy, she put
                  her old arms raound my neck, an' tried to say, 'God bless you, dear—,' but died a
                  doin' of it; an' I ain't ashamed tew say I boo-hooed real hearty, when I laid her
                  daown, fer she was dreadf'l good tew me, an' I don't forgit her in a hurry."
               "How's Bewlah?" asked Dick, after the little tribute of respect all paid to Aunt
                  Siloam's memory, by a momentary silence.
               "Fust-rate! that harum scarum venter er mine was the best I ever made. She's done
                  waal by me, hes Bewlah; ben a grand good haousekeeper, kin kerry on the farm
                  better'n me, any time, an' is as dutif'l an' lovin' a wife as,—waal as annything
                  that is extra dutif'l and lovin'."
               "Got any boys to brag of?"
               "We don't think much o' boys daown aour way; they're 'mazin resky stock to fetch
                  up,—alluz breakin' baounds, gittin' intew the paound, and wurry your life aout
                  somehaow 'nother. Gals naow doos waal; I got six o' the likeliest the is goin',
                  every one on 'em is the very moral of Bewlah,—red hair, black eyes, quiet ways,
                  an' a mold side the nose. Baby's ain't growed yet; but I expect tew see it in a
                  consid'able state o' forrardness, when I git hum, an' wouldn't miss it fer the
                  world."
               The droll expressions of Flint's face, and the satisfied twang of his last words,
                  were irresistable. Dick and Phil went off into a shout of laughter; and even
                  Thorn's grave lips relapsed into a smile at the vision of six little Flints with
                  their six little moles. As if the act were an established ceremony, the "paternal
                  head" produced his pocket-book, selected a worn, black and white paper, which he
                  spread in his broad palm, and displayed with the air of a connoisseur.
               "There, thets Bewlah! we call it a cuttin'; but the proper name's a silly-hoot I
                  b'leeve. I've got a harnsome big
                  degarrytype tew hum but the heft on't makes it bad tew kerry raound, so I took
                  this. I don't tote it abaout inside my shirt as some dew,—it aint my way; but I
                  keep it in my puss long with my other valleu'bles, and guess I set as much stoxe
                  by it as ef it was all painted up, and done off to keell."
               The "silly-hoot" was examined with interest, and carefully stowed away again in
                  the old brown wallet which was settled in its place with a satisfied slap, then
                  Flint said briskly,—
               "Naouw, Phil, yeou close this interestin' and instructive meeting; and be spry,
                  fer time's most up."
               ""I haven't much to tell, but must begin with a confession which I have often
                  longed but never dared to make before, because I am a coward."
               "Sho! who's goan to b'leeve that o' a man who fit like a wild cat, wuz offered fer
                  permotion on the field, and wuz reported tew headquarters arfter his fust
                  scrimmage. Try ag'in, Phil."
               "Physical courage is as plentiful as brass buttons, nowadays, but moral courage is
                  a rarer virtue; and I'm lacking in it, as I'll prove. You think me a Virginian;
                  I'm an Alabamian by birth, and was a reb three months ago."
               This confession startled his hearers, as he knew it would, for he had kept his
                  secret well. Thorn laid his hand involuntarily upon his rifle, Dick drew off a
                  little, and Flint illustrated one of his own expressions, for he "gawped." Phil
                  laughed that musical laugh of his, and looked up at them with his dark face waking
                  into sudden life as he went on:—
               "There's no treason in the camp, for I'm as fierce a Federalist as any of you now,
                  and you may thank a woman for it. When Lee made his raid into Pennsylvania, I was
                  a lieutenant in the—well, never mind what regiment, it hasn't signalized itself
                  since, and I'd rather not hit my old neighbors when they are down. In one of the
                  skirmishes during our retreat, I got a wound and was left for dead. A kind old
                  Quaker found and took me home; but though I was too weak to talk, I had my senses
                  by that time, and knew what went on about me. Everything was in confusion, even in
                  that well-ordered place; no surgeon could be got at first, and a flock of
                  frightened women thee'd and thou'd one another over me, but hadn't wit enough to
                  see that I was bleeding to death. Among the faces that danced before my dizzy eyes
                  was one that seemed familiar, probably because no cap surrounded it. I was glad to
                  have it bending over me, to hear a steady voice say, 'Give me a bandage, quick!'
                  and when none was instantly forthcoming to me, the young lady stripped up a little
                  white apron she wore, and stanched the wound in my shoulder. I was not as badly
                  hurt as I supposed, but so worn-out, and faint from loss of blood, they believed
                  me to be dying, and so did I, when the old man took off his hat and said,—
               "'Friend, if thee has anything to say, thee had better say it, for thee probably
                  has not long to live.'
               "I thought of my little sister, far away in Alabama, fancied she came to me, and
                  muttered, 'Amy, kiss me, good-by.' The women sobbed at that; but the girl bent her
                  sweet compassionate face to mine, and kissed me on the forehead. That was my
                  wife." 
               "So you seceded from Secession right away, to pay for that lip-service, hey?"
               "No, Thorn, not right away,—to my shame be it spoken. I'll tell you how it came
                  about. Margaret was not old Bent's daughter, but a Virginia girl on a visit, and a
                  long one it proved, for she couldn't go till things were quieter. While she waited, she helped take care of me; for
                  the good souls petted me like a baby when they found that a Rebel could be a
                  gentleman. I held my tongue, and behaved my best to prove my gratitude, you know.
                  Of course, I loved Margaret very soon. How could I help it? She was the sweetest
                  woman I had ever seen, tender, frank, and spirited; all I had ever dreamed of and
                  longed for. I did not speak of this, nor hope for a return, because I knew she was
                  a hearty Unionist, and thought she only tended me from pity. But suddenly she
                  decided to go home, and when I ventured to wish she would stay longer, she would
                  not listen, and said, "I must not stay; I should have gone before."
               "The words were nothing, but as she uttered them the color came up beautifully
                  over all her face, and her eyes filled as they looked away from mine. Then I knew
                  that she loved me, and my secret broke out half against my will. Margaret was
                  forced to listen, for I would not let her go, but she seemed to harden herself
                  against me, growing colder, stiller, statelier, as I went on, and when I said in
                  my desperate way,—
               "'You should love me, for we are bid to love our enemies,' she flashed an
                  indignant look at me and said,—
               "'I will not love what I cannot respect! Come to me a loyal man, and see what
                  answer I shall give you.'
               "Then she went away. It was the wisest thing she could have done, for absence did
                  more to change me than an ocean of tears, a year of exhortations. Lying there, I
                  missed her every hour of the day, recalled every gentle act, kind word, and fair
                  example she had given me. I contrasted my own belief with hers, and found a new
                  significance in the words honesty and honor, and, remembering her fidelity to
                  principle, was ashamed of my own treason to God and to herself. Education,
                  prejudice, and interest, are difficult things to overcome come, and that was the
                  hottest fight I ever passed through, for, as I tell you, I was a coward. But love
                  and loyalty won the day, and, asking no quarter, the Rebel surrendered."
               "Phil Beaufort, you're a brick!" cried Dick, with a sounding slap on his comrade's
                  shoulder.
               "A brand snatched from the burnin'. Hallelujah!" chanted Flint, seesawing with
                  excitement.
               "Then you went to find your wife? How? Where?" asked Thorn, forgetting vigilance
                  in interest.
               "Friend Bent hated war so heartily that he would have nothing to do with paroles,
                  exchanges, or any martial process whatever, but bade me go when and where I liked,
                  remembering to do by others as I had been done by. Before I was well enough to go,
                  however, I managed, by means of Copperhead influence and returned prisoners, to
                  send a letter to my father and receive an answer. You can imagine what both
                  contained; and so I found myself penniless, but not poor, an outcast, but not
                  alone. Old Bent treated me like a prodigal son, and put money in my purse; his
                  pretty daughters loved me for Margaret's sake, and gave me a patriotic salute all
                  round when I left them, the humblest, happiest man in Pennsylvania. Margaret once
                  said to me that this was the time for deeds, not words; that no man should stand
                  idle, but serve the good cause with head, heart, and hand, no matter in what rank;
                  for in her eyes a private fighting for liberty was nobler than a dozen generals
                  defending slavery. I remembered that, and, not having influential friends to get
                  me a commission, enlisted in one of her own Virginia regiments, knowing that no
                  act of mine would prove my sincerity like that. You should have seen her face when
                  I walked in upon her, as she sat alone, busied with the army work, as I'd so often
                  seen her sitting by my bed; it showed me all she had been suffering in silence,
                  all I should have lost had I chosen
                  darkness instead of light. She hoped and feared so much she could not speak,
                  neither could I, but dropped my cloak, and showed her that, through love of her, I
                  had become a soldier of the Flag. How I love the coarse blue uniform! for when she
                  saw it, she came to me without a word and kept her promise in a month."
               "Thunder! what a harnsome woman!" exclaimed Flint, as Phil, opening the golden
                  case that held his talisman, showed them the beautiful, beloved face of which be
                  spoke.
               "Yes! and a right noble woman too. I don't deserve her, but I will. We parted on
                  our wedding-day, for orders to be off came suddenly, and she would not let me go
                  until I had given her my name to keep. We were married in the morning, and at noon
                  I had to go. Other women wept as we marched through the town, but my brave
                  Margaret kept her tears till we were gone, smiling, and waving her hand to me,—the
                  hand that wore the wedding-ring,—till I was out of sight. That image of her is
                  before me day and night, and day and night her last words are ringing in my
                  ears,—
               "'I give you freely, do your best. Better a true man's widow than a traitor's
                  wife.'
               "Boys, I've only stood on the right side for a month; I've only fought one battle,
                  earned one honor; but I believe these poor achievements are an earnest of the long
                  atonement I desire to make for five and twenty years of blind transgression. You
                  say I fight well. Have I not cause to dare much?—for in owning many slaves, I too
                  became a slave; in helping to make many freemen, I liberate myself. You wonder why
                  I refused promotion. Have I any right to it yet? Are there not men who never
                  sinned as I have done, and beside whose sacrifices mine look pitifully small? You
                  tell me I have no ambition. I have the highest, for I desire to become God's
                  noblest work,—an honest man,—living, to make Margaret happy, in a love that every
                  hour grows worthier of her own,—dying, to make death proud to take me."
               Phil had risen while he spoke, as if the enthusiasm of his mood lifted him into
                  the truer manhood he aspired to attain. Straight and strong he stood up in the
                  moonlight, his voice deepened by unwonted energy, his eye clear and steadfast, his
                  whole face ennobled by the regenerating power of this late loyalty to country,
                  wife, and self, and bright against the dark blue of his jacket shone the pictured
                  face, the only medal he was proud to wear.
               Ah, brave, brief moment, cancelling years of wrong! Ah, fair and fatal decoration,
                  serving as a mark for a hidden foe! The sharp crack of a rifle broke the stillness
                  of the night, and with those hopeful words upon his lips, the young man sealed his
                  purpose with his life.
            
            
               
               THE KING OF CLUBS AND THE QUEEN OF HEARTS.
               A STORY FOR YOUNG AMERICA.
               
                  FIVE and twenty ladies, all in a row, sat on one side of the hall,
                  looking very much as if they felt like the little old woman who fell asleep on the
                  king's highway and awoke with abbreviated drapery, for they were all arrayed in
                  gray tunics and Turkish continuations, profusely adorned with many-colored
                  trimmings. Five and twenty gentleman, all in a row, sat on the opposite side of
                  the hall, looking somewhat subdued, as men are apt to do when they fancy they are
                  in danger of making fools of themselves. They, also, were en costume, for all the dark ones had grown piratical in red shirts,
                  the light ones nautical in blue; and a few boldly appeared in white, making up in
                  starch and studs what they lost in color, while all were more or less Byronic as
                  to collar.
               On the platform appeared a pile of dumb-bells, a regiment of clubs, and a pyramid
                  of bean-bags, and stirring nervously among them a foreign-looking gentleman, the
                  new leader of a class lately formed by Dr. Thor Turner, whose mission it was to
                  strengthen the world's spine, and convert it to a belief in air and exercise, by
                  setting it to balancing its poles and spinning merrily, while enjoying the
                  "Sun-cure" on a large scale. His advent formed an epoch in the history of the
                  town; for it was a quiet old village, guiltless of bustle, fashion, or parade,
                  where each man stood for what he was; and, being a sagacious set, every one's true
                  value was pretty accurately known. It was a neighborly town, with gossip enough to
                  stir the social atmosphere with small gusts of interest or wonder, yet do no harm.
                  A sensible, free-and-easy town, for the wisest man in it wore the worst boots, and
                  no one thought the less of his understanding; the belle of the village went
                  shopping with a big sun-bonnet and tin pail, and no one found her beauty lessened;
                  oddities of all sorts ambled peacefully about on their various hobbies, and no one
                  suggested the expediency of a trip on the wooden horse upon which the chivalrous
                  South is always eager to mount an irrepressible abolitionist. Restless people were
                  soothed by the lullaby the river sang in its slow journey to the sea, old people
                  found here a pleasant place to make ready to die in, young people to survey the
                  world from, before taking their first flight, and strangers looked back upon it,
                  as a quiet nook full of ancient legends and modern lights, which would keep its
                  memory green when many a gayer spot was quite forgotten. Anything based upon
                  common sense found favor with the inhabitants, and Dr. Turner's theories, being
                  eminently so, were accepted at once and energetically carried out. A sort of
                  heathen revival took place, for even the ministers and deacons turned Musclemen;
                  old ladies tossed bean-bags till their caps were awry, and winter roses blossomed
                  on their cheeks; school-children proved the worth of the old proverb, "An ounce of
                  prevention is worth a pound of cure," by getting their backs ready before the
                  burdens came; pale girls grew blithe and strong swinging their dumb namesakes; and
                  jolly lads marched to and fro embracing clubs as if longevity were corked up in
                  those wooden bottles, and they all took "modest quenchers" by the way.
               August Bopp, the new leader of the class, was a German possessing but a small
                  stock of English, though a fine gynmast; and, being also a bashful man, the
                  appointed moment had no sooner arrived than he found his carefully prepared sentences slipping away from his memory
                  as the ice appears to do from under unhappy souls first mounted upon skates. An
                  awful silence reigned; Mr. Bopp glanced nervously over his shoulder at the staring
                  rows, more appalling in their stillness than if they had risen up and hooted at
                  him, then piling up the bags for the seventh time, he gave himself a mental shake,
                  and, with a crimson visage, was about to launch his first "Ladees und gentlemen,"
                  when the door opened, and a small, merry-faced figure appeared, looking quite at
                  ease in the novel dress, as, with a comprehensive nod, it marched straight across
                  the hall to its place among the weaker vessels.
               A general glance of approbation followed from the gentlemen's side, a welcoming
                  murmur ran along the ladies', and the fifty pairs of eyes changed their focus for
                  a moment. Taking advantage of which, Mr. Bopp righted himself, and burst out with
                  a decided,—
               "Ladees und gentlemen: the time have arrived that we shall begin. Will the
                  gentlemen serve the ladees to a wand, each one, then spread theirselves about the
                  hall, and follow the motions I will make as I shall count."
               Five minutes of chaos, then all fell into order, and nothing was heard but the
                  leader's voice and the stir of many bodies moving simultaneously. An uninitiated
                  observer would have thought himself in Bedlam; for as the evening wore on, the
                  laws of society seemed given to the winds, and humanity gone mad. Bags flew in all
                  directions, clubs hurtled through the air, and dumb-bells played a castinet
                  accompaniment to peals of laughter that made better music than any band. Old and
                  young gave themselves up to the universal merriment, and, setting dignity aside,
                  played like happy-hearted children for an hour. Stout Dr. Quackenboss gasped twice
                  round the hall on one toe; stately Mrs. Primmins ran like a girl of fifteen to get
                  her pins home before her competitor; Tommy Inches, four feet three, trotted away
                  with Deacon Stone on his shoulder, while Mr. Steepleton and Miss Maypole hopped
                  together like a pair of lively young ostriches, and Ned Amandine, the village
                  beau, blew arrows through a pop-gun, like a modern Cupid in pegtops instead of
                  pinions.
               The sprightly young lady whose entrance had been so opportune seemed a universal
                  favorite, and was overwhelmed with invitations to "bag," "hop," and "blow" from
                  the gentlemen who hovered about her, cheerfully distorting themselves to the verge
                  of dislocation in order to win a glance of approbation from the merry black eyes
                  which were the tapers where all these muscular moths singed their wings. Mr. Bopp
                  had never seen such a little piece of earnestness before, and began to think the
                  young lady must be training for a boat-race or the ring. Her dumb-bells flew about
                  till a pair of white arms looked like the sails of a windmill; she hit out from
                  the shoulder with a vigor that would have done execution had there been anything
                  but empty air to "punish;" and the "one, two, three!" of the Zouave movement went
                  off with a snap; while the color deepened from pink to scarlet in her cheeks, the
                  black braids tumbled down upon her shoulders, and the clasp of her belt flew
                  asunder; but her eye seldom left the leader's face, and she followed every motion
                  with an agility and precision quite inspiring. Mr. Bopp's courage rose as he
                  watched her, and a burning desire to excel took possession of him, till he felt as
                  if his muscles were made of India-rubber, and his nerves of iron. He went into his
                  work heart and soul, shaking a brown mane out of his eyes, issuing commands like
                  general at the head of his troops, and keeping both interest and fun in full blast
                  till people laughed who had not laughed heartily for years; lungs got their fill for once, unsuspected muscles
                  were suddenly developed, and, when the clock struck ten, all were bubbling over
                  with that innocent jollity which makes youth worth possessing, and its memory the
                  sunshine of old age.
               The last exercise was drawing to a close, and a large ring of respectable members
                  of society were violently sitting down and rising up in a manner which would have
                  scandalized Miss Wilhelmina Carolina Amelia S. Keggs to the last degree, when Mr.
                  Bopp was seen to grow very pale, and drop in a manner which it was evident his
                  pupils were not expected to follow.
               At this unexpected performance, the gentlemen took advantage of their
                  newly-acquired agility to fly over all obstacles and swarm on to the platform,
                  while the ladies successfully lessened their unusual bloom by staring wildly at
                  one another and suggesting awful impossibilities. The bustle subsided, as suddenly
                  as it arose; and Mr. Bopp, rather damp about the head and dizzy about the eye, but
                  quite composed, appeared, saying, with the broken English and appealing manner
                  which caused all the ladies to pronounce him "a dear" on the spot,—
               "I hope you will excoose me for making this lesson to be more short than it
                  should; but I have exercise nine hours this day, and being just got well from a
                  illness, I have not recover the strength I have lost. Next week I shall be able to
                  take time by the hair, so that I will not have so much engagements in one day. I
                  thank you for your kindness, and say good-efening.
               After a round of applause, as a last vent for their spirits, the class dispersed,
                  and Mr. Bopp was wrestling with a vicious pin as he put on his collar ("a sure
                  sign he has no ma to see to his buttons, poor lamb!" thought Mrs. Fairbairn,
                  watching him from afar); when the sprightly young lady, accompanied by a lad the
                  masculine image of herself, appeared upon the platform, saying, with an aspect as
                  cordial as her words,—
               "Good-evening, Professor. Allow me to introduce my brother and myself, Dick and
                  Dolly Ward, and ask you in my mother's name, to come home with us; for the tavern
                  is not a cosy place, and after all this exertion you should be made comfortable.
                  Please come, for Dr. Turner always stayed with us, and we promised to do the
                  honors of the town to any gentleman he might send to supply his place."
               "Of course we did; and mother is probably freezing her blessed nose off watching
                  for us; so don't disappoint her, Bopp. It's all settled, the sleigh's at the door,
                  and here's your coat; so, come on!"
               Dick was a fine sample of young America in its best aspect, and would have said
                  "How are you?" to Louis Napoleon if he had been at hand, and have done it so
                  heartily that the great Frenchman would have found it hard to resist giving as
                  frank an answer. Therefore no wonder that Mr. Bopp surrendered at once; for the
                  young gentleman took possession of him bodily, and shook him into his coat with an
                  amiable impetuosity which developed a sudden rent in the well-worn sleeve thereof,
                  and caused an expression of dismay, to dawn upon the owner's countenance.
               "Beg pardon; never mind; mother'll sew you up in two seconds, and your overcoat
                  will hide the damage. Where is it? I'll get it, and then we'll be off."
               Mr. Bopp colored distressfully, looked up, looked down, and then straight into the
                  lad's face, saying simply,—
               "Thank you; I haf no coat but one."
               Dick opened his eyes, and was about opening his mouth also, for the exit of some
                  blunderingly good-natured reply, when a warning poke from his sister restrained
                  him, while Dolly, with the innocent
                  hypocrisy which is as natural to some women as the art of tying bows, said, as she
                  led the way out,—
               "You see the worth of gymnastics, Dick, in this delightful indifference to cold. I
                  sincerely hope we may reach a like enviable state of health, and look upon
                  great-coats as effeminate, and mufflers a weakness of the flesh. Do you think we
                  shall, Mr. Bopp?"
               He shook his head with a perceptible shiver as the keen north wind smote him in
                  the face, but answered, with a look half merry, half sad,—
               "It is not choice, but what you call necessitee, with me; and I truly hope you may
                  never haf to exercise to keep life in you when you haf sold your coat to pay a
                  doctor's bill, or teach the art of laughing while your heart is heavy as one
                  stone. You would not like that, I think, yet it is good, too; for small things
                  make much happiness for me, and a kind word is often better than a rix
                  dollar."
               There was something in the young man's tone and manner which touched and won his
                  hearers at once. Dolly secretly resolved to put an extra blanket on his bed, and
                  shower kind words upon him, while Dick tucked him up in buffalo robes where he sat
                  helplessly beaming down upon the red hood at his side.
               A roaring fire shone out hospitably as they came, and glorified the pleasant room,
                  dancing on ancient furniture and pictured walls till the jolly old portraits
                  seemed to wink a visible welcome. A cheery-faced little woman, like an elder
                  Dolly, in a widow's cap, stood on the threshold, with a friendly greeting for the
                  stranger, which warmed him as no fine could have done.
               If August Bopp had been an Englishman, he would have felt much, but said less on
                  that account; if he had been an American, he would have tried to conceal his
                  poverty, and impress the family with his past grandeur, present importance, or
                  future prospects; being a German, he showed exactly what he was, with the
                  childlike frankness of his race. Having had no dinner, he ate heartily of what was
                  offered him; being cold, he basked in the generous warmth; being homesick and
                  solitary, he enjoyed the genial influences that surrounded him, and told his
                  story, sure of sympathy; for even in prosaic Yankeedom he had found it, as
                  travellers find Alpine flowers among the snow.
               It was a simple story of a laborious boyhood, being early left an orphan, with a
                  little sister dependent on him, till an opening in America tempted him to leave
                  her and come to try and earn a home for her and for himself. Sickness, misfortune,
                  and disappointment had been his companions for a year; but he still worked, still
                  hoped, and waited for the happy hour when little Ulla should come to him across
                  the sea. This was all; yet as he told it, with the magical accompaniments of
                  gesture, look, and tone, it seemed full of pathos and romance to his listeners,
                  whose faces proved their interest more flatteringly than their words.
               Mrs. Ward mended the torn coat with motherly zeal, and gave it many of those
                  timely stitches which thrifty women love to sew. The twins devoted themselves to
                  their guest, each in a characteristic manner. Dick, as host, offered every article
                  of refreshment the house afforded, goaded the fire to a perpetual roar, and
                  discussed gymnastics, with bursts of boyish admiration for the grace and skill of
                  his new leader, whom he christened King of Clubs on the spot. Dolly made the
                  stranger one of them at once by talking bad German, as an offset to his bad
                  English, called him Professor in spite of all denials, and unconsciously
                  symbolized his future bondage by giving
                  him a tangled skein to hold for the furtherance of her mother's somewhat
                  lengthened job.
               The Cupid of the present day was undoubtedly "raised" in Connecticut; for the
                  ingenuity and shrewdness of that small personage could have sprung from no other
                  soil. In former times his stratagems were of the romantic order. Colin bleated
                  forth his passion in rhyme, and cast sheep's eyes from among his flock, while
                  Phyllis coquetted with her crook and stuck posies in his hat; royal Ferdinand and
                  Miranda played at chess; Ivanhoe upset his fellow-men like ninepins for love of
                  lackadaisical Rowena; and "sweet Moll" turned the pages while her lover, Milton,
                  sang. But in our day the jolly little god, though still a heathen in the severe
                  simplicity of his attire, has become modernized in his arts, and invented
                  huskings, apple-bees, sleigh-rides, "drop-ins," gymnastics, and, among his finer
                  snares, the putting on of skates, drawing of patterns, and holding skeins,—the
                  last-named having superior advantages over the others, as all will testify who
                  have enjoyed one of those hand-to-hand skirmishes.
               August Bopp was three and twenty, imaginative, grateful, and heart-whole;
                  therefore, when he found himself sitting opposite a blooming little damsel, with a
                  head, bound by a pretty red snood, bent down before him, and very close to his own
                  a pair of distracting hands, every finger of which had a hit to make, and made it,
                  it is not to be denied that he felt himself entering upon a new and very agreeable
                  experience. Where could he look but in the face opposite, sometimes so girlishly
                  merry and sometimes so beautifully shy? It was a winning face, full of smooth
                  curves, fresh colors, and sunshiny twinkles,—a face every one liked, for it was as
                  changeful as an April day, and always pleasant, whether mischievous, mournful, or
                  demure.
               Like one watching a new picture, Mr. Bopp inspected every feature of the
                  countenance so near his own; and, as his admiration "grew by what it fed on," he
                  fell into a chronic state of stammer and blush; for the frank eyes were very kind,
                  the smooth cheeks reflected a pretty shade of his own crimson, and the smiling
                  lips seemed constantly suggesting, with mute eloquence, that they were made for
                  kissing, while the expressive hands picked at the knots till the Professor felt
                  like a very resigned fly in the web of a most enticing young spider.
               If the King of Clubs saw a comely face, the Queen of Hearts saw what observing
                  girls call a "good face;" and with a womanly respect for strength, the manliest
                  attribute of man, she admired the broad shoulders and six feet one of her new
                  master. This face was not handsome, for, true to his fatherland, the Professor had
                  an eminent nose, a blonde beard, and a crop of "bonny brown hair" long enough to
                  have been gathered into a ribbon, as in the days of Schiller and Jean Paul; but
                  Dolly liked it, for its strength was tempered with gentleness; patience and
                  courage gave it dignity, and the glance that met her own was both keen and
                  kind.
               The silk was wound at last, the coat repaired. Dick with difficulty concealed the
                  growing stiffness of his shoulders, while Dolly turned up the lamp, which bluntly
                  hinted bedtime, and Mrs. Ward successfully devoured six gapes behind her hand, but
                  was detected in the seventh by Mr. Bopp, who glanced at the clock, stopped in the
                  middle of a sentence, and, with a hurried "goot-night," made for the door without
                  the least idea whither he was going. Piloted by Dick, he was installed in the
                  "best chamber," where his waking dreams were enlivened by a great fire, and his
                  sleeping ones by an endless succession of skeins, each rapturously concluded in the style of Sam Weller when folding
                  carpets with the pretty maid.
               
               "I tell you, Dolly, it won't do, and I'm not going to have it."
               "Oh, indeed; and how will you help it, you absurd boy?"
               "Why, if you don't stop it, I'll just say to Bopp,— 'Look here, my dear fellow;
                  this sister of mine is a capital girl, but she will flirt and'"—
               "And it's a family failing, Dick," cut in Dolly.
               "Not a bit of it. I shall say, 'Take care of your heart, Bopp, for she has a bad
                  habit of playing battle-door and shuttle-cock with these articles; and, though it
                  may be very good fun for a time, it makes them ache when they get a last knock and
                  are left to lie in a corner.'"
               "What eloquence! But you'd never dare to try it on Mr. Bopp; and I shouldn't like
                  to predict what would happen to you if you did."
               "If you say 'dare,' I'll do it the first minute I see him. As for consequences, I
                  don't care that for 'em;" and Dick snapped his fingers with an aspect of much
                  disdain. But something in his sister's face suggested the wisdom of moderation,
                  and moved him to say, less like a lord of creation, and more like a brother who
                  privately adored his sister, but of course was not going to acknowledge such a
                  weakness,—
               "Well, but soberly, now, I wish you wouldn't plague Bopp; for it's evident to me
                  that he is hit; and from the way you've gone on these two months, what else was to
                  be expected? Now, as the head of the family,—you needn't laugh, for I am,—I think
                  I ought to interfere; and so I put it to you,—do you like him, and will you have
                  him? or are you merely amusing yourself, as you have done ever since you were out
                  of pinafores? If you like him, all serene. I'd rather have him for a brother than
                  any one I know, for he's a regular trump though he is poor; but if
                  you don't, I won't have the dear old fellow floored just because you like to see
                  it done."
               It may here be remarked that Dolly quite glowed to hear her brother praise Mr.
                  Bopp, and that she indorsed every word with mental additions of double warmth; but
                  Dick had begun all wrong, and, manlike, demanded her confidence before she had
                  made up her mind to own she had any to bestow; therefore nothing came of it but
                  vexation of spirit; for it is a well-known fact that, on some subjects, if boys
                  will tease, girls will fib, and both maintain that it is right. So Dolly whetted
                  her feminine weapon, and assumed a lofty superiority.
               "Dear me! what a sudden spasm of virtue; and why, if it is such a sin, has not the
                  'head of the house' taken his sister to task before, instead of indulging in a
                  like degeneracy, and causing several interesting persons to tear their hair, and
                  bewail his forgetfulness, when they ought to have blessed their stars he was out
                  of the way?"
               Dick snowballed a dozing crow and looked nettled; for he had attained that age
                  when "Tom Brown at Oxford" was the book of books, the twelfth chapter being the
                  favorite, and five young ladies having already been endowed with the significant
                  heliotrope flower; all of which facts Dolly had skilfully brought to mind, as a
                  return-shot for his somewhat personal remarks.
               "Bah! they were only girls, and it don't amount to anything among us young folks;
                  but Bopp is a grown man, and you ought to respect him too much to play such pranks
                  with him. Besides, he's a German, and more tender-hearted than we rough Yankees,
                  as any one can see by the way he acts
                  when you snub him. He is proud, too, for all his meekness, and waits till he's
                  sure you like him before he says anything; and he'll need the patience of a family
                  of Jobs at the rate you're going on,—a honey-pot one day and a pickle-jar the
                  next. Do make up your mind, and say yes or no, right off, Dolly."
               "Would you have me meet him at the door with a meek courtesy, and say, 'Oh, if you
                  please, I'm ready to say Yes, thank you, if you'll be good enough to say, Will
                  you'?"
               "Don't be a goose, child; you know I mean nothing of the kind; only you girls
                  never will do anything straight ahead if you can dodge and fuss and make a mess of
                  it. Just tell me one thing: Do you, or don't you, like old Bopp?"
               "What an elegant way to put it! Of course I like him well enough as a leader; he
                  is clever, and sort of cunning, and I enjoy his funny ways; but what in the world
                  should I do with a great yellow-haired laddie who could put me in his pocket, and
                  yet is so meek that I should never find the heart to henpeck him? You are welcome
                  to him; and since you love him so much, there's no need of my troubling myself on
                  his account; for with you for a friend, be can have no earthly wish
                  ungratified."
               "Don't try to be cutting, Dolly, because you look homely when you do, and it's a
                  woman's business to be pretty, always. All I've got to say is, you will be in a
                  nice state of mind if you damage Bopp; for every one likes him, and will be down
                  upon you for a heartless little wretch; and I shan't blame them, I promise
                  you."
               "I wish the town wouldn't put its fingers in other people's pies, and you may tell
                  it so, with my compliments; and all I have to say is, that you men
                  have more liberty than you know what to do with, and we women haven't enough; so
                  it's perfectly fair that we should show you the worth of the thing by taking it
                  away now and then. I shall do exactly as I please; dance, walk, ride, and flirt,
                  whenever and with whomever I see fit; and the whole town, with Mr. Dick Ward at
                  their head, can't stop me if I choose to go on. Now, then, what next?" After which
                  declaration of independence, Dolly folded her arms, wheeled about and faced her
                  brother, a spirited statuette of Self Will, in a red hood and mittens.
               Dick sternly asked,—
               "Is that your firm decision, ma'am?"
               "Yes."
               "And you will not give up your nonsense?"
               "No."
               "You are quite sure you don't care for Bopp?"
               "I could slap him with all my heart."
               "Very good. I shall see that you don't get a chance."
               "I wouldn't try a skirmish, for you'll get beaten, Dick."
               "We'll prove that, ma'am."
               "We will, sir."
               And the belligerents loftily paced up the lawn, with their purpose so well
                  expressed by outward signs, that Mrs. Ward knew, by the cock of Dick's hat and the
                  decided tap of Dolly's heels, that a storm was brewing, before they entered the
                  door.
               This fraternal conversation took place some two months from the evening of Mr.
                  Bopp's advent, as the twins were strolling home from school, which school must be
                  briefly alluded to in order to explain the foregoing remarks. It was an excellent
                  institution in all respects; for its presiding genius stood high in the townfolks'
                  esteem, and might have served as an example to Dr. Watts' "busy bee," in the zeal
                  with which he improved his "shining hours," and laid up honey against the winter,
                  which many hoped would be long in coming. All manner of aids were provided for
                  sprouting souls and bodies, diversions
                  innumerable, and society, some members of which might have polished off Alcibiades
                     a la Socrates, or entertained Plato with
                  "æsthetic tea." But, sad to relate, in spite of all these blessings, the students
                  who resorted to this academy possessed an Adam-and-Eve-like proclivity for exactly
                  what they hadn't got and didn't need; and, not contented with the pleasures
                  provided, must needs play truant with that young scamp Eros, and turn the ancient
                  town topsy-turvy with modern innovations, till scandalized spinsters predicted
                  that the very babies would catch the fever, refuse their panada in jealous gloom,
                  send billet-doux in their rattles, elope in wicker-carriages, and set up
                  housekeeping in dolls' houses, after the latest fashion.
               Certain inflammable Southerners introduced the new game, and left such romantic
                  legends of their loves behind them that their successors were fired with an
                  ambition to do the like, and excel in all things, from cricket to captivation.
               This state of things is not to be wondered at; for America, being renowned as a
                  "fast" nation, has become a sort of hotbed, and seems to force humanity into early
                  bloom. Therefore, past generations must not groan over the sprightly present, but
                  sit in the chimney-corner and see boys and girls play the game which is too apt to
                  end in a checkmate for one of the players. To many of the lookers-on, the new
                  order of things was as good as a puppet-show; for, with the enthusiasm of youth,
                  the actors performed their parts heartily, forgetting the audience in their own
                  earnestness. Bless us! what revolutions went on under the round jackets, and what
                  love-tokens lay in the pockets thereof. What plots and counterplots occupied the
                  heads that wore the innocent-looking snoods, and what captives were taken in the
                  many-colored nets that would come off and have to be taken care of. What romances
                  blossomed like dandelions along the road to school, and what tales the river might
                  have told if any one could have learned its musical speech. How certain gates were
                  glorified by daily lingerings thereat, and what tender memories hung about dingy
                  desks, old pens, and books illustrated with all manner of symbolical designs.
               Let those laugh who will; older and wiser men and women might have taken lessons
                  of these budding heroes and heroines; for here all was honest, sincere, and fresh;
                  the old world had not taught them falsehood, self-interest, or mean ambitions.
                  When they lost or won, they frankly grieved or rejoiced, and wore no masks except
                  in play, and then got them off as soon as possible. If blue-eyed Lizzie frowned,
                  or went home with Joe, Ned, with a wisdom older lovers would do well to imitate,
                  went in for another game of foot-ball, gave the rejected apple to little Sally,
                  and whistled "Glory Hallelujah," instead of "Annie Laurie," which was better than
                  blowing a rival's brains out, or glowering at woman-kind forever after. Or, when
                  Tom put on Clara's skates three successive days, and danced with her three
                  successive evenings, leaving Kitty to freeze her feet in the one instance and fold
                  her hands in the other, she just had a "good cry," gave her mother an extra kiss,
                  and waited till the recreant Tom returned to his allegiance, finding his little
                  friend a sweetheart in nature as in name.
               Dick and Dolly were foremost in the ranks, and expert in all the new amusements.
                  Dick worshipped at many shrines, but most faithfully at that of a meek divinity,
                  who returned charming answers to the ardent epistles which he left in her father's
                  garden wall, where, Pyramus and Thisbe-like, they often chatted through a chink;
                  and Dolly was seldom seen without a staff of aids who would have "fought, bled,
                  and died" for her as cheerfully as the Little Corporal's Old Guard, though she paid them only in words; for her
                  Waterloo had not yet come.
               
               With the charming, perversity of her sex in such matters, no sooner had Dolly
                  declared that she didn't like Mr. Bopp, than she began to discover that she did;
                  and so far from desiring "to slap him," a tendency to regard him with peculiar
                  good-will and tenderness developed itself, much to her own surprise; for with all
                  her coquetry and seeming coldness, Dolly had a right womanly heart of her own,
                  though she had never acknowledged the fact till August Bopp looked at her with so
                  much love and longing in his honest eyes. Then she found a little fear mingling
                  with her regard, felt a strong desire to be respected by him, discovered a certain
                  something which she called conscience, restraining a reckless use of her power,
                  and, soon after her lofty denial to Dick, was forced to own that Mr. Bopp had
                  become her master in the finer species of gymnastics that came in with Adam and
                  Eve, and have kept all creation turning somersets ever since. Of course these
                  discoveries were unconfessed, even to that best bosom friend which any of us can
                  have; yet her mother suspected them, and, with much anxiety, saw all, yet held her
                  peace, knowing that her little daughter would, sooner or later, give her a fuller
                  confidence than could be demanded; and remembering the happiest moments of her own
                  happy past, when an older Dick wooed another Dolly, she left that flower, which
                  never can be forced, to open at its own sweet will.
               Meanwhile, Mr. Bopp, though carrying his heart upon his sleeve, believed his
                  secret buried in the deepest gloom, and enjoyed all the delightful miseries lovers
                  insist upon making for themselves. When Dolly was quiet and absent, he became came
                  pensive, the lesson dragged, and people fancied they were getting tired of the
                  humbug; when Dolly was blithe and bland, he grew radiant, exercised within an inch
                  of his life as a vent for his emotions, and people went home declaring gymnastics
                  to be the crowning triumph of the age; and when Dolly was capricious, Mr. Bopp,
                  became a bewildered weathercock, changing as the wind changed, and dire was the
                  confusion occasioned thereby.
               Like the sage fowl in the story, Dick said nothing, but "kept up a terrible
                  thinking," and, not having had experience enough to know that when a woman says No
                  she is very apt to mean Yes, he took Dolly at her word. Believing it to be his
                  duty to warn "Old Bopp," he resolved to do it like a Roman brother, regardless of
                  his own feelings or his sister's wrath, quite unconscious that the motive power in
                  the affair was a boyish love of ruling the young person who ruled every one
                  else.
               Matters stood thus, when the town was electrified by a general invitation to the
                  annual jubilee at Jollyboys Hall, which this spring flowered into a masquerade,
                  and filled the souls of old and young with visions of splendor, frolic, and fun.
                  Being an amiable old town, it gave itself up, like a kind grandma, to the wishes
                  of its children, let them put its knitting away, disturb its naps, keep its hands
                  busy with vanities of the flesh, and its mind in a state of chaos for three mortal
                  weeks. Young ladies were obscured by tarletan fogs, behind which they concocted
                  angels' wings, newspaper gowns, Minnehaha's wampum, and Cinderella's slippers.
                  Inspired but incapable boys undertook designs that would have daunted a costumer
                  of the first water, fell into sloughs of despond, and, emerging, settled down from
                  peers and paladins into jovial tars, friar waterproofs, and officers in
                  miscellaneous uniforms. Fathers laughed or grumbled at the whole thing and advanced pecuniary loans with good
                  or ill grace, as the case might be; but the mothers, whose interest in their
                  children's pleasure is a sort of evergreen that no snows of time can kill, sewed
                  spangles by the bushel, made wildernesses of tissue-paper blossom as the rose,
                  kept tempers sweet, stomachs full, and domestic machinery working smoothly through
                  it all, by that maternal magic which makes them the human providences of this
                  naughty world.
               "What shall I go as?" was the universal cry. Garrets were taken by storm,
                  cherished relics were teased out of old ladies' lavendered chests (happy she who
                  saw them again!), hats were made into boots, gowns into doublets, cloaks into
                  hose, Sunday bonnets despoiled of their plumage, silken cauliflowers sown
                  broadcast over the land, and cocked-up caps erected in every style of
                  architecture, while "Tag, Rag, and Bobtail" drove a smashing business, and
                  everybody knew what everybody else was going to be, and solemnly vowed they
                  didn't—which transparent falsehood was the best joke of the whole.
               Dolly allowed her mates to believe she was to be the Queen of Hearts, but
                  privately laid hold of certain brocades worn by a trim grandmother half a century
                  ago, and one evening burst upon her brother in a charming "Little Bo-Peep"
                  costume, which, for the benefit of future distressed damsels, may be described as
                  a white silk skirt, scarlet overdress neatly bundled up behind," as ancient ladies
                  expressed it, blue hose with red clocks, high-heeled shoes with silver buckles, a
                  nosegay in the tucker, and a fly-way hat perched in this case on the top of black
                  curls, which gave additional archness to Dolly's face as she entered, singing that
                  famous ditty.
               Dick surveyed her with approval, turning her about like a lay figure, and
                  expressing his fraternal opinion that she was "the sauciest little turn-out he
                  ever saw," and then wet-blanketed the remarks by adding, "Of course you don't call
                  it a disguise, do you? and don't flatter yourself that you won't be known; for
                  Dolly Ward is as plainly written in every curl, bow, and gimcrack, as if you wore
                  a label on your back."
               "Then I shan't wear it;" and off went the hat at one fell blow, as Dolly threw her
                  crook in one corner, her posy in another, and sat down an image of despair.
               "Now don't be a goose, and rip everything to bits; just wear a domino over all, as
                  Fan is going to, and then, when you've had fun enough, take it off and do the
                  pretty. It will make two rigs, you see, and bother the boys to your heart's
                  content."
               "Dick, I insist upon kissing you for that brilliant suggestion; and then you may
                  run and get me eight yards of cambric, just the color of Fan's; but if you tell
                  any one, I'll keep her from dancing with you the whole evening;" with which bribe
                  and threat Dolly embraced her brother, and shut the door in his face, while he,
                  putting himself in good humor by imagining she was somebody else, departed on his
                  muddy mission.
               If the ghosts of the first settlers had taken their walks abroad on the eventful
                  Friday night, they would have held up their shadowy hands at the scenes going on
                  under their venerable noses; for strange figures flitted through the quiet
                  streets, and instead of decorous slumber, there was decidedly,— "A sound of
                     revelry by night"
               
               Spurs clanked and swords rattled over the frosty ground, as if the British were
                  about to make another flying call; hooded monks and nuns paced along, on carnal
                  thoughts intent; ancient ladies and bewigged gentlemen seemed hurrying rying to enjoy a social cup of tea, and
                  groan over the tax; barrels staggered and stuck through narrow ways, as if
                  temperance were still among the lost arts, while bears, apes, imps, and elves
                  pattered or sparkled by, as if a second Walpurgis Night had come, and all were
                  bound for Blocksberg.
               "Hooray for the Rooster!" shouted young Ireland, encamped on the sidewalk to see
                  the show, as Mephistopheles' red cock's feather skimmed up the stairs, and he left
                  a pink domino at the ladies' dressing-room door, with the brief warning, "Now cut
                  your own capers and leave me to mine," adding, as he paused a moment at the great
                  door,—
               "By Jove! isn't it a jolly sight, though?"
               And so it was; for a mammoth boot stood sentinel at the entrance; a Bedouin Arab
                  leaned on his spear in one corner, looking as if ready to say,—"Fly to the
                     desert, fly with me," to the pretty Jewess on his arm; a stately Hamlet,
                  with irreproachable legs, settled his plumage in another, still undecided to which
                  Ophelia he would first address "The honey of his music vows." Bluff King
                  Hal's representative was waltzing in a way that would have filled that stout
                  potentate with respectful admiration, while Queen Katherine flirted with a Fire
                  Zouave. Alcipades whisked Mother Goose about the room till the old lady's conical
                  hat tottered on her head, and the Union held fast to a very little Mac. Flocks of
                  friars, black, white, and gray, pervaded the hall, with flocks of ballet girls,
                  intended to represent peasants, but failing for lack of drapery; morning and
                  evening stars rose or set, as partners willed; lively red demons harassed meek
                  nuns, and knights of the Leopard, the Lion or Griffin, flashed by, looking
                  heroically uncomfortable, in their gilded cages; court ladies promenaded with Jack
                  tars, and dukes danced with dairy-maids, while Brother Jonathan whittled, Aunt
                  Dinah jabbered, Ingomar flourished his club, and every one felt warmly
                  enthusiastic and vigorously jolly.
               "Ach himmel! Das ist wunder schön!" murmured a tall, gray monk, looking in, and
                  quite unconscious that he spoke aloud.
               "Hullo, Bopp! I thought you weren't coming," cried Mephistopheles in an emphatic
                  whisper.
               "Ah, I guess you! yes, you are well done. I should like to be a Faust for you, but
                  I haf no time, no purse for a dress, so I throw this on, and run up for a hour or
                  two. Where is—who is all these people? Do you know them?"
               The one with the Pope, Fra Diavolo; the telegraph, and two knights asking her to
                  dance, is Dolly, if that's what you want to know. Go in and keep it up, Bopp,
                  while you can; I am off for Fan;" and Mephistopheles departed over the banisters
                  with a weird agility that delighted the beholders; while the gray friar stole into
                  a corner and watched the pink domino for half an hour, at the end of which time
                  his regards were somewhat confused by discovering that there were two pink damsels
                  so like that he could not tell which was the one pointed out by Dick and which the
                  new-comer.
               "She thinks I will not know her, but I shall go now and find out for myself;" and,
                  starting into sudden activity, the gray brother strode up to the nearest pink
                  lady, bowed, and offered his arm. With a haughty little gesture of denial to
                  several others, she accepted it, and they joined the circle of many-colored
                  promenaders that eddied round the hall. As they went, Mr. Bopp scrutinized his
                  companion, but saw only a slender figure shrouded from head to foot, and the tip
                  of a white glove resting on his arm.
               
               "I will speak; then her voice will betray her," he thought, forgetting that his
                  own was undisguisable.
               "Madame, permit me that I fan you, it is so greatly warm."
               A fan was surrendered with a bow, and the masked face turned fully toward his own,
                  while the hood trembled as if its wearer laughed silently.
               "Ah, it is you,—I know the eyes, the step, the laugh. Miss Dolly, did you think
                  you could hide from me?"
               "I did not wish to," was the whispered answer.
               "Did you think I would come?"
               "I hoped so."
               "Then you are not displease with me?"
               "No; I am very glad; I wanted you."
               The pink head drooped a little nearer, and another white glove went to meet its
                  mate upon his arm with a pretty, confiding gesture. Mr. Bopp instantly fell into a
                  state of bliss,—the lights, music, gay surroundings, and, more than all, this
                  unwonted demonstration, put the crowning glory to the moment; and, fired with the
                  hopeful omen, he allowed his love to silence his prudence, and lead him to do,
                  then and there, the very thing he had often resolved never to do at all.
               "Ah, Miss Dolly, if you knew how much, how very much you haf enlarged my
                  happiness, and made this efening shine for me, you would more often be a little
                  friendly, for this winter has been all summer to me, since I knew you and your
                  kind home, and now I haf no sorrow but that after the next lesson I come no more
                  unless you gif me leaf. See now I must say this even here, when so much people are
                  about us, because I cannot stop it; and you will forgif me that I cannot wait any
                  longer."
               "Mr. Bopp, please don't, please stop!" began the pink domino in a hurried whisper.
                  But Mr. Bopp was not to be stopped. He had dammed up the stream so long, that now
                  it rushed on fast, full, and uncontrollable; for, leading her into one of the
                  curtained recesses near by, he sat down beside her, and, still plying the fan,
                  went on impetuously,—
               "I feel to say that I lofe you, and tho' I try to kill it, my love will not die,
                  because it is more strong than my will, more dear than my pride, for I haf much,
                  and I do not ask you to be meine Frau till I can gif you more than my heart and my
                  poor name. But hear now; I will work, and save, and wait a many years if at the
                  end you will take all I haf and say, 'August, I lofe you.' Do not laugh at me
                  because I say this in such poor words; you are my heart's dearest, and I must tell
                  it or never come again. Speak to me one kind yes, and I will thank Gott in himmel
                  for so much joy."
               The pink domino had listened to this rapid speech with averted head, and, when it
                  ended, started up, saying eagerly, "You are mistaken, sir, I am not Dolly;" but as
                  she spoke her words were belied, for the hasty movement displaced her mask, and
                  Mr. Bopp saw Dolly's eyes, a lock of dark hair, and a pair of burning cheeks,
                  before the screen was readjusted. With redoubled earnestness he held her back,
                  whispering,—
               "Do not go mitout the little word, Yes, or No; it is not much to say."
               "Well then, No!"
               "You mean it? Dolly! truly mean it?"
               "Yes, let me go at once, sir."
               Mr. Bopp stood up, saying slowly,—"Yes, go now; they told me you had no heart; I
                  beliefe it, and thank you for that No;" then bowed, and walked straight out of the
                  hall, while the pink domino broke into a fit of laughter, saying to herself,—
               
               "I've done it! I've done it! but what a piece of work there'll be to-morrow."
               
               "Dick, who was that tall creature Fan was parading with last night? No one knew,
                  and he vanished before the masks were taken off," asked Dolly, as she and her
                  brother lounged in opposite corners of the sofa the morning after the masquerade,
                  "talking it over."
               "That was old Bopp, Mrs. Peep."
               "Gracious me! why, he said he wasn't coming."
               "People sometimes say what they don't mean, as you may have discovered."
               "But why didn't he come and speak to a body, Dick?"
               "Better employed, I suppose."
               "Now don't be cross, dear, but tell me all about it, for I don't understand how
                  you allowed him to monopolize Fan so."
               "Oh, don't bother, I'm sleepy."
               "No you're not; you look wicked; I know you've been in mischief, and I insist upon
                  hearing all about it, so come and 'fess' this instant."
               Dolly proceeded to enforce her command by pulling away his pillow and dragging her
                  brother into a sitting posture in spite of his laughing resistance and evident
                  desire to exhaust her patience; for Dick excelled in teasing, and kept his sister
                  in a fidget from morning till night, with occasional fits of penitence and petting
                  which lasted till next time. Therefore, though dying to 'fess,' he was undecided
                  as to the best method of executing that task in the manner most aggravating to his
                  listener and most agreeable to himself, and sat regarding her with twinkling eyes,
                  and his curly pate in a high state of rumple, trying to appear innocently meek,
                  but failing signally.
               "Now, then, up and tell," commanded Dolly.
               "Well, if you won't take my head off till I'm done, I'll tell you the best joke of
                  the season. Are you sure the pink domino with Bopp wasn't yourself,—for she looked
                  and acted very like you?"
               "Of course I am. I didn't even know he was there, and think it very rude and
                  ungentlemanly in him not to come and speak to me. You know it was Fan, so do go
                  on."
               "But it wasn't, for she changed her mind and wore a black domino; I saw her put it
                  on myself. Her Cousin Jack came unexpectedly, and she thought if she altered her
                  dress and went with him, you wouldn't know her."
               "Who could it have been, Dick?"
               "That's the mystery, for, do you know, Bopp proposed to her."
               "He didn't!" and Dolly flew up with a startled look that, to adopt a phrase from
                  his own vocabulary, was "nuts" to her brother.
               "Yes he did; I heard him."
               "When, where, and how?"
               "In one of these flirtation boxes; they dropped the curtain, but I heard him do
                  it, on my honor I did."
               "Persons of honor don't listen at curtains and key-holes. What did they say?"
               "Oh, if it wasn't honorable to listen, it isn't to hear; so I won't tell, though I
                  could not help knowing it."
               "Mercy! don't stop now, or I shall die with curiosity. I dare say I should have
                  done the same; no one minds at such a place, you know. But I don't see the joke
                  yet," said Dolly dismally.
               "I do," and Dick went off into a shout.
               
               "You idiotic boy, take that pillow out of your mouth, and tell me the whole
                  thing,—what he said, what she said, and what they both did. It was all fun of
                  course, but I'd like to hear about it."
               "It may have been fun on her part, but it was solemn earnest on his, for he went
                  it strong I assure you. I'd no idea the old fellow was so sly, for he appeared
                  smashed with you, you know, and there he was finishing up with this unknown lady.
                  I wish you could have heard him go on, with tears in his eyes"——
               "How do you know if you didn't see him?"
               "Oh, well, that's only a figure of speech; I thought so from his voice. He was
                  ever so tender, and took to Dutch when English was too cool for him. It was really
                  touching, for I never heard a fellow do it before; and, upon my word, I should
                  think it was rather a tough job to say that sort of thing to a pretty woman, mask
                  or no mask."
               "What did she say?" asked Dolly, with her hands pressed tight together, and a
                  curious little quiver of the lips.
               "She said, No, as short as pie-crust; and when he rushed out with his heart broken
                  all to bits apparently, she just burst out laughing, and went and polked at a
                  two-forty pace for half an hour."
               
                  
                     Dora
                     Dolly
                   unclasped her hands, took a long breath, and cried out,—
               "She was a wicked, heartless hussy! and if I know her, I'll never speak to her
                  again; for if he was really in earnest, she ought to be killed for laughing at
                  him."
               "So ought you, then, for making fun of poor Fisher when he went down on his knees
                  behind the huckleberry bushes last summer. He was earnest enough, for he looked as
                  black-and-blue as his berries when he got home. Your theory is all right, ma'am,
                  but your practice is all bosh."
               "Hold your tongue about that silly thing. Boys in college think they know
                  everything, can do everything, have everything, and only need beckon, and all
                  womankind will come and adore. It made a man of him, and he'll thank me for taking
                  the sentimental nonsense and conceit out of him. You will need just such a lesson
                  at the rate you go on, and I hope Fan will give it to you."
               "When the lecture is over, I'll go on with the joke, if you want to know it."
               "Isn't this enough?"
               "Oh, bless you, no! the cream of it is to come. What would you give to know who
                  the lady was?"
               "Five dollars, down, this minute."
               "Very good, hand 'em over, and I'll tell you."
               "Truly, Dick?"
               "Yes, and prove it."
               Dolly produced her purse, and, bill in hand, sat waiting for the disclosure. Dick
                  rose with a melo-dramatic bow,—
               "Lo, it was I."
               "That's a great fib, for I saw you flying about the whole evening."
               "You saw my dress, but I was not in it."
               "Oh! oh! who did I keep going to, then? and what did I
                  do to make a fool of myself, I wonder?"
               Purse and bill dropped out of Dolly's hand, and she looked at her brother with a
                  distracted expression of countenance. Dick rubbed his hands and chuckled.
               "Here's a jolly state of things. Now I'll tell you the whole story. I never
                  thought of doing it till I saw Bopp and told him who you were; but on my way for
                  Fan I wondered if he'd get puzzled between you two; and then a grand idea popped
                  into my head to puzzle him myself, for I can take you off to the life. Fan didn't want me to, but I made
                  her, so she lent me hoops and gown and the pink domino, and if ever I thanked my
                  stars I wasn't tall, I did then, for the things fitted capitally as to length,
                  tho' I kept splitting something down the back, and scattering hooks and eyes in
                  all directions. I wish you could have heard Jack roar while they rigged me. He had
                  no dress, so I lent him mine, till just before the masks were taken off, when we
                  cut home and changed. He told me how you kept running to him to tie up your
                  slippers, find your fan, and tell him funny things, thinking it was me. I never
                  enjoyed anything so much in my life."
               "Go on," said Dolly in a breathless sort of voice, and the deluded boy obeyed.
               "I knew Bopp, and hovered near till he came to find out who I was. I took you off
                  in style, and it deceived him, for I'm only an inch or two taller than you, and
                  kept my head down in the lackadaisical way you girls do; I whispered, so my voice
                  didn't betray me; and was very clinging, and sweet, and fluttery, and that blessed
                  old goose was sure it was you. I thought it was all over once, for when he came
                  the heavy in the recess, I got a bit flustered, he was so serious about it, my
                  mask slipped, but I caught it, so he only saw my eyes and forehead, which are just
                  like yours, and that finished him, for I've no doubt I looked as red and silly as
                  you would have done in a like fix."
               "Why did you say No?" and Dolly looked as stern as fate.
               "What else should I say? You told me you wouldn't have him, and I thought it would
                  save you the bother of saying it, and him the pain of asking twice. I told him
                  some time ago that you were a born flirt; he said he knew it; so I was surprised
                  to hear him go on at such a rate, but supposed that I was too amiable, and that
                  misled him. Poor old Bopp, I kept thinking of him all night, as he looked when he
                  said, 'They told me you had no heart, now I believe it, and I thank you for that
                  No.' It was rather a hard joke for him, but it's over now, and he won't have to do
                  it again. You said I wouldn't dare tell him about you; didn't I? and haven't I won
                  the"——
               The rest of the sentence went spinning dizzily through Dick's head, as a sudden
                  tingling sensation pervaded his left ear, followed by a similar smart in the
                  right; and, for a moment, chaos seemed to have come again. Whatever Dolly did was
                  thoroughly done: when she danced, the soles of her shoes attested the fact; when
                  she flirted, it was warm work while it lasted; and when she was angry, it
                  thundered, lightened, and blew great guns till the shower came, and the whole
                  affair ended in a rainbow. Therefore, being outwitted, disappointed, mortified,
                  and hurt, her first impulse was to find a vent for these conflicting emotions, and
                  possessing skillful hands, she left them to avenge the wrong done her heart, which
                  they did so faithfully, that if ever a young gentleman's ears were vigorously and
                  completely boxed, Dick was that young individual. As the thunder-clap ceased, the
                  gale began and blew steadily for several minutes.
               "You think it a joke, do you? I tell you, it's a wicked, cruel thing; you've told
                  a lie; you've broken August's heart, and made me so angry that I'll never forgive
                  you as long as I live. What do you know about my feelings? and how dare you take
                  it upon yourself to answer for me? You think because we are the same age that I am
                  no older than you, but you're mistaken, for a boy of eighteen is a
                  boy, a girl is often a woman, with a woman's hopes and plans; you don't understand
                  this any more than you do August's love for me, which you listened to and laughed
                  at. I said I didn't like him, and I
                  didn't find out till afterward that I did; then I was afraid to tell you lest
                  you'd twit me with it. But now I care for no one, and I say I do like him,—yes, I
                  love him with all my heart and soul and might and I'd die this minute if I could
                  undo the harm you've done, and see him happy. I know I've been selfish, vain, and
                  thoughtless, but I am not now; I hoped he'd love me, hoped he'd see I cared for
                  him, that I'd done trifling, and didn't mind if he was poor, for I'd
                  enough for both; that I longed to make his life pleasant after all his troubles;
                  that I'd send for the little sister he loves so well, and never let him suffer any
                  more; for he is so good, so patient, so generous, and dear to me, I cannot do
                  enough for him. Now it's all spoilt; now I can never tell him this, never comfort
                  him in any way, never be happy again all my life, and you have done it."
               As Dolly stood before her brother, pouring out her words with glittering eyes,
                  impetuous voice, and face pale with passionate emotion, he was scared; for as his
                  scattered wits returned to him, he felt that he had been playing with edge tools,
                  and had cut and slashed in rather a promiscuous manner. Dazed and dizzy, he sat
                  staring at the excited figure before him, forgetting the indignity he had
                  received, the mistake he had made, the damage he had done, in simple wonder at the
                  revolutions going on under his astonished eyes. When Dolly stopped for breath, he
                  muttered with a contrite look,—
               "I'm very sorry,—it was only fun; and I thought it would help you both, for how
                  the deuce should I know you liked the man when you said you hated him?"
               "I never said that, and if I'd wanted advice I should have gone to mother. You men
                  go blundering off with half an idea in your heads, and never see your stupidity
                  till you have made a mess that can't be mended; we women don't work so, but save
                  people's feelings, and are called hypocrites for our pains. I never meant to tell
                  you, but I will now, to show you how I've been serving you, while you've been
                  harming me: every one of those notes from Fan which you admire so much, answer so
                  carefully, and wear out in your pocket, though copied by her, were written by
                  me."
               "The devil they were!" Up flew Dick, and clapping his hand on the left
                  breast-pocket, out came a dozen pink notes tied up with a blue ribbon, and much
                  the worse for wear. He hastily turned them over as Dolly went on.
               "Yes, I did it, for she didn't know how to answer your notes, and came to me. I
                  didn't laugh at them, or make fun of her, but helped her silly little wits, and
                  made you a happy boy for three months, though you teased me day and night, for I
                  loved you, and hadn't the heart to spoil your pleasure."
               "You've done it now with a vengeance, and you're a pair of deceitful minxes. I've
                     paid you off. I'll give Fan one more note that will keep her eyes
                  red for a month; and I'll never love or trust a girl again as long as I
                  live,—never! never!"
               Red with wrath, Dick flung the treasured packet into the fire, punched it well
                  down among the coals, flung away the poker, and turned about with a look and
                  gesture which would have been comically tragic if they had not been decidedly
                  pathetic, for, in spite of his years, a very tender heart beat under the blue
                  jacket, and it was grievously wounded at the perfidy of the gentle little divinity
                  whom he worshipped with daily increasing ardor. His eyes filled, but he winked
                  resolutely; his lips trembled, but he bit them hard; his hands doubled themselves
                  up, but he remembered his adversary was a woman; and, as a last effort to preserve
                  his masculine dignity, he began to whistle.
               As if the inconsistencies of womankind were to be shown him as rapidly as
                  possible, at this moment the shower came
                  on, for, taking him tenderly about the neck, Dolly fell to weeping so
                  infectiously, that, after standing rigidly erect till a great tear dropped off the
                  end of his nose, ignominiously announcing that it was no go, Dick gave in, and
                  laying his head on Dolly's shoulder, the twins quenched their anger, washed away
                  their malice, and soothed their sorrow by one of those natural processes, so
                  kindly provided for poor humanity, and so often despised as a weakness when it
                  might prove a better strength than any pride.
               
               Dick cleared up first, with no sign of the tempest but a slight mist through which
                  his native sunshine glimmered pensively.
               "Don't dear, don't cry so; it will make you sick, and won't do any good, for
                  things will come right, or I'll make 'em, and we'll be comfortable all round."
               "No, we never can be as we were, and it's all my fault. I've betrayed Fan's
                  confidence, I've spoiled your little romance, I've been a thoughtless, wicked
                  girl, I've lost August; and, oh, dear me, I wish I was dead!" with which funereal
                  climax Dolly cried so despairingly that, like the youngest Miss Pecksniff, she was
                  indeed "a gushing creature."
               "Oh, come now, don't be dismal, and blame yourself for every trouble under the
                  sun. Sit down and talk it over, and see what can be done. Poor old girl, I forgave
                  you the notes, and say I was wrong to meddle with Bopp. I got you
                  into the scrape, and I'll get you out if the sky don't fall, or Bopp blow his
                  brains out, like a second Werther, before to-morrow."
               Dick drew the animated fountain to the wide chair, where they had sat together
                  since they were born, wiped her eyes, laid her wet cheek against his own, and
                  patted her back, with an idea that it was soothing to babies, and why not to
                  girls?
               "I wish mother was at home," sighed Dolly, longing for that port which was always
                  a haven of refuge in domestic squalls like this.
               "Write, and tell her not to stay till Saturday."
               "No; it would spoil her visit, and you know she deferred it to help us through
                  this dreadful masquerade. But I don't know what to do."
               "Why, bless your heart, it's simple enough. I'll tell Bopp, beg his pardon, say
                  'Dolly's willing,' and there you are all taut and ship-shape again."
               "I wouldn't for the world, Dick. It would be very hard for you, very awkward for
                  me, and do no good in the end; for August is so proud he'd never forgive you for
                  such a trick, would never believe that I 'had a heart' after all you've said and
                  I've done; and I should only hear with my own ears that he thanked me for that No.
                  Oh, why can't people know when they are in love, and not go heels over head before
                  they are ready!"
               "Well, if that don't suit, I'll let it alone, for that is all I can suggest; and
                  if you like your woman's way better, try it, only you'll have to fly round,
                  because to-morrow is the last night, you know."
               "I shan't go, Dick."
               "Why not? we are going to give him the rose-wood set of things, have speeches,
                  cheers for the King of Clubs, and no end of fun."
               "I can't help it; there would be no fun for me, and I couldn't look him in the
                  face after all this."
               "Oh, pooh! yes, you could, or it will be the first time you dared not do damage
                  with those wicked eyes of yours."
               "It is the first time I ever loved any one." Dolly's voice was so low, and her
                  head drooped so much, that this brief confession was apparently put away in Dick's
                  pocket, and being ing an exceedingly
                  novel one, filled that inflammable youth with a desire to deposit a similar one in
                  the other pocket, which, being emptied of its accustomed contents, left a somewhat
                  aching void in itself and the heart underneath. After a moment's silence, he
                  said,—
               "Well, if you won't go, you can settle it when he comes here, though I think we
                  should all do better to confess coming home in the dark."
               "He won't come here again, Dick."
               "Won't he! that shows you don't know Bopp as well as I. He'll come to say good-by,
                  to thank mother for her kindness, and you and me for the little things we've done
                  for him (I wish I'd left the last undone!), and go away like a gentleman, as he
                  is,—see if he don't."
               "Do you think so? Then I must see him."
               "I'm sure he will, for we men don't bear malice and sulk and bawl when we come to
                  grief this way, but stand up and take it without winking, like the young Spartan
                  brick when the fox was digging into him, you know."
               "Then, of course, you'll forgive Fan."
               "I'll be hanged if I do," growled Dick.
               "Ah ha! your theory is very good, sir, but your practice is bosh," quoted Dolly,
                  with a gleam of the old mischief in her face.
               Dick took a sudden turn through the room, burst out laughing, and came back,
                  saying heartily,—
               "I'll own up; it is mean to feel so, and I'll think about forgiving you both; but
                  she may stop up the hole in the wall, for she won't get any more letters just yet;
                  and you may devote your epistolary powers to A. Bopp in future. Well, what is it?
                  free your mind, and have done with it; but don't make your nose red, or take the
                  starch out of my collar with any more salt water, if you please."
               "No, I won't; and I only want to say that, as you owe the explanation to us both,
                  perhaps it would be best for you to tell August your part of the thing as you come
                  home to-morrow, and then leave the rest to fate. I can't let him go away thinking
                  me such a heartless creature, and once gone it will be too late to mend the
                  matter. Can you do this without getting me into another scrape, do you think?"
               "I haven't a doubt of it, and I call that sensible. I'll fix it capitally,—go down
                  on my knees in the mud, if it is necessary; treat you like eggs for fear of
                  another smash-up; and bring him home in such a tip-top state, you'll only have to
                  nod and find yourself Mrs. B. any day you like. Now let's kiss and be friends, and
                  then go pitch into that pie for luncheon."
               So they did, and an hour afterward were rioting in the garret under pretence of
                  putting grandma's things away; for at eighteen, in spite of love and mischief,
                  boys and girls have a spell to exorcise blue devils, and a happy faculty of
                  forgetting that "the world is hollow, and their dolls stuffed with saw-dust."
               Dick was right, for on the following evening, after the lesson, Mr. Bopp did go
                  home with him, "to say good-by, like a gentleman as he was." Dolly got over the
                  first greeting in the dusky hall, and as her guest passed on to the parlor, she
                  popped her head out to ask anxiously,—
               "Did you say anything, Dick?"
               "I couldn't; something has happened to him; he'll tell you about it. I'm going to
                  see to the horse, so take your time, and do what you like," with which vague
                  information Dick vanished, and Dolly wished herself anywhere but where she
                  was.
               Mr. Bopp sat before the fire, looking so haggard and worn out that the girl's
                  conscience pricked her sorely for her part in the change, but plucking up her courage, she
                  stirred briskly among the tea-cups, asking,—
               "What shall I give you, sir?"
               "Thank you, I haf no care to eat."
               Something in his spiritless mien and sorrowful voice made Dolly's eyes fill; but
                  knowing she must depend upon herself now, and make the best of her position, she
                  said kindly, yet nervously,—
               "You look tired; let me do something for you if I can; shall I sing for you a
                  little? you once said music rested you."
               "You are kind; I could like that I think. Excoose me if I am dull, I haf—yes, a
                  little air if you please."
               More and more disturbed by his absent, troubled manner, Dolly began a German song
                  he had taught her, but before the first line was sung he stopped her with an
                  imploring—
               "For Gott sake not that! I cannot hear it this night; it was the last I sung her
                  in the Vaterland."
               "Mr. Bopp, what is it? Dick says you have a trouble; tell me, and let us help you
                  if we can. Are you ill, in want, or has any one wronged or injured you in any way?
                  Oh, let me help you!"
               Tears had been streaming down Mr. Bopp's cheeks, but as she spoke he checked them,
                  and tried to answer steadily,—
               "No, I am not ill; I haf no wants now, and no one has hurt me but in kindness; yet
                  I haf so great a grief, I could not bear it all alone, and so I came to ask a
                  little sympathy from your good Mutter, who has been kind to me as if I was a son.
                  She is not here, and I thought I would stop back my grief; but that moosic was too
                  much; you pity me, and so I tell you. See, now! when I find things go bright with
                  me, and haf a hope of much work, I take the little store I saved, I send it to my
                  friend Carl Hoffman, who is coming from my home, and say, 'Bring Ulla to me now,
                  for I can make life go well to her, and I am hungry till I haf her in my arms
                  again.' I tell no one, for I am bold to think that one day I come here with her in
                  my hand, to let her thank you in her so sweet way for all you haf done for me.
                  Well, I watch the wind, I count the days, I haf no rest for joy; and when Carl
                  comes, I fly to him. He gifs me back my store, he falls upon my neck and does not
                  speak, then I know my little Kind will never come, for she has gone to Himmel
                  before I could make a home for her on earth. Oh, my Ulla! it is hard to bear;"
                  and, with a rain of bitter tears, poor Mr. Bopp covered up his face and laid it
                  down on his empty plate, as if he never cared to lift it up again.
               Then Dolly forgot herself in her great sympathy, and, going to him, she touched
                  the bent head with a soothing hand; let her tears flow to comfort his; and
                  whispered in her tenderest voice,—
               "Dear Mr. Bopp, I wish I could heal this sorrow, but as I cannot, let me bear it
                  with you; let me tell you how we loved the little child, and longed to see her;
                  how we should have rejoiced to know you had so dear a friend to make your life
                  happy in this strange land; how we shall grieve for your great loss, and long to
                  prove our respect and love for you. I cannot say this as I ought, but, oh, be
                  comforted, for you will see the child again, and, remembering that she waits for
                  you, you will be glad to go when God calls you to meet your Ulla in that other
                  Fatherland."
               "Ah, I will go now! I haf no wish to stay, for all my life is black to me. If I
                  had found that other little friend to fill her place, I should not grieve so much,
                  because she is weller there above than I could make her here; but no; I wait for
                  that other one; I save all my heart for her; I send it, but it comes back to me;
                  then I know my hope is dead, and I am all alone in the strange land."
               
               There was neither bitterness nor reproach in these broken words, only a patient
                  sorrow, a regretful pain, as if he saw the two lost loves before him and uttered
                  over them an irrepressible lament. It was too much for Dolly and with sudden
                  resolution she spoke out fast and low,—
               "Mr. Bopp, that was a mistake. It was not I you saw at the masque; it was Dick. He
                  played a cruel trick; he insulted you and wronged me by that deceit, and I find it
                  very hard to pardon him."
               "What! what is that!" and Mr. Bopp looked up with tears still shining in his
                  beard, and intense surprise in every feature of his face.
               Dolly turned scarlet, and her heart beat fast as she repeated with an unsteady
                  voice,—
               "It was Dick, not I."
               A cloud swept over Mr. Bopp's face, and he knit his brows a moment as if Dolly had
                  not been far from right when she said "he never would forgive the joke."
                  Presently, he spoke in a tone she had never heard before,—cold and quiet,—and in
                  his eye she thought she read contempt for her brother and herself,—
               "I see now, and I say no more but this; it was not kind when I so trusted you. Yet
                  it is well, for you and Richart are so one, I haf no doubt he spoke your
                  wish."
               Here was a desperate state of things. Dolly had done her best, yet he did not, or
                  would not, understand, and, before she could restrain them, the words slipped over
                  her tongue,—
               "No! Dick and I never agree."
               Mr. Bopp started, swept three spoons and a tea-cup off the table as he turned, for
                  something in the hasty whisper reassured him. The color sprang up to his cheek,
                  the old warmth to his eye, the old erectness to his figure, and the eager accent
                  to his voice. He rose, drew Dolly nearer, took her face between tween his hands,
                  and bending, fixed on her a look tender yet masterful, as he said with an
                  earnestness that stirred her as words had never done before,—
               "Dollee, he said No! do you say, Yes?"
               She could not speak, but her heart stood up in her eyes and answered him so
                  eloquently that he was satisfied.
               "Thank the Lord, it's all right!" thought Dick, as, peeping in at the window ten
                  minutes later, be saw Dolly enthroned upon Mr. Bopp's knee, both her hands in his,
                  and an expression in her April countenance which proved that she found it natural
                  and pleasant to be sitting there, with her head on the kind heart that loved her;
                  to hear herself called "meine 
                        leibchen
                        liebchen
                     ;" to know that she alone could comfort him for little
                  Ulla's loss, and fill her empty place.
               "They make a very pretty landscape, but too much honey isn't good for 'em, so I'll
                  go in, and we'll eat, drink, and be merry, in honor of the night."
               He rattled the latch and tramped on the mat to warn them of his approach, and
                  appeared just as Dolly was skimming into a chair, and Mr. Bopp picking up the
                  spoons, which he dropped again to meet Dick, with a face "clear shining after
                  rain;" and kissing him on both cheeks after the fashion of his country, he said,
                  pointing to Dolly,—
               "See, it is all fine again. I forgif you, and leave all blame to that bad spirit,
                  Mephistopheles, who has much pranks like that, but never pays one for their pain,
                  as you haf me. Heart's dearest, come and say a friendly word to Richart, then we
                  will haf a little health,—Long life and happiness to the King of Clubs and the
                  Queen of Hearts."
               "Yes, August, and as he's to be a farmer, we'll add another,—'Wiser wits and
                  better manners to the Knave of Spades.'"
            
            
               
               THE CROSS ON THE OLD CHURCH TOWER.
               
               
                  UP the dark stairs that led to his poor home strode a gloomy-faced
                  young man with despair in his heart and these words on his lips:—
               "I will struggle and suffer no longer; my last hope has failed, and life, become a
                  burden, I will rid myself of at once."
               As he muttered his stern purpose, he flung wide the door and was about to enter,
                  but paused upon the threshold; for a glance told him that he had unconsciously
                  passed his own apartment and come up higher, till he found himself in a room
                  poorer but more cheerful than his own.
               Sunshine streamed in through the one small window, where a caged bird was blithely
                  singing, and a few flowers blossomed in the light. But blither than the bird's
                  song, sweeter than the flowers, was the little voice and wan face of a child, who
                  lay upon a bed placed where the warmest sunbeams fell.
               The face turned smiling on the pillow, and the voice said pleasantly,—
               "Come in, sir, Bess will soon be back if you will wait."
               "I want nothing of Bess. Who is she and who are you?" asked the intruder pausing
                  as he was about to go.
               "She is my sister, sir, and I'm 'poor Jamie' as they call me. But indeed, I am not
                  to be pitied, for I am a happy child, though it may not seem so."
               "Why do you lie there? are you sick?"
               "No, I am not sick, though I shall never leave my bed again. See, this is why;"
                  and, folding back the covering, the child showed his little withered limbs.
               "How long have you lain here, my poor boy?" asked the stranger, touched and
                  interested in spite of himself.
               "Three years, sir."
               "And yet you are happy! What in Heaven's name have you to render you contented,
                  child?"
               "Come sit beside me, and I'll tell you, sir; that is, if you please I should love
                  to talk with you, for it's lonely here when Bess is gone."
               Something in the child's winning voice, and the influence of the cheerful room,
                  calmed the young man's troubled spirit and seemed to lighten his despair. He sat
                  down at the bedside looking gloomily upon the child, who lay smiling placidly as
                  with skilful hands he carved small figures from the bits of wood scattered round
                  him on the coverlid.
               "What have you to make you happy, Jamie? Tell me your secret, for I need the
                  knowledge very much," said his new friend earnestly.
               "First of all I have dear Bess," and the child's voice lingered lovingly upon the
                  name; "she is so good, so very good to me, no one can tell how much we love each
                  other. All day, she sits beside my bed singing to ease my pain, or reading while I
                  work; she gives me flowers and birds, and all the sunshine that comes in to us,
                  and sits there in the shadow that I may be warm and glad. She waits on me all day;
                  but when I wake at night, I always see her sewing busily, and know it is for
                  me,—my good kind Bess!
               "Then I have my work, sir, to amuse me; and it helps a little too, for kind
                  children always buy my toys, when Bess tells them of the little boy who carved
                  them lying here at home while they play out among the grass and flowers where he
                  can never be."
               
               "What else, Jamie?" and the listener's face grew softer as the cheerful voice went
                  on.
               "I have my bird, sir, and my roses, I have books, and best of all, I have the
                  cross on the old church tower. I can see it from my pillow and it shines there all
                  day long, so bright and beautiful, while the white doves coo upon the roof below.
                  I love it dearly."
               The young man looked out through the narrow window and saw, rising high above the
                  house-tops, like a finger pointing heavenward, the old gray tower and the gleaming
                  cross. The city's din was far below, and through the summer air the faint coo of
                  the doves and the flutter of their wings came down, like peaceful country
                  sounds.
               "Why do you love it, Jamie?" he asked, looking at the thoughtful face that lit up
                  eagerly as the boy replied,—
               "Because it does me so much good, sir. Bess told me long ago about the blessed
                  Jesus who bore so much for us, and I longed to be as like him as a little child
                  could grow. So when my pain was very sharp, I looked up there, and, thinking of
                  the things he suffered, tried so hard to bear it that I often could; but sometimes
                  when it was too bad, instead of fretting Bess, I'd cry softly, looking up there
                  all the time and asking him to help me be a patient child. I think he did; and now
                  it seems so like a friend to me, I love it better every day. I watch the sun climb
                  up along the roofs in the morning, creeping higher and higher till it shines upon
                  the cross and turns it into gold. Then through the day I watch the sunshine fade
                  away till all the red goes from the sky, and for a little while I cannot see it
                  through the dark. But the moon comes, and I love it better then; for lying awake
                  through the long nights, I see the cross so high and bright with stars all shining
                  round it, and I feel still and happy in my heart as when Bess sings to me in the
                  twilight."
               "But when there is no moon, or clouds hide it from you, what then, Jamie?" asked
                  the young man, wondering if there were no cloud to darken the cheerful child's
                  content.
               "I wait till it is clear again, and feel that it is there, although I cannot see
                  it, sir. I hope it never will be taken down, for the light upon the cross seems
                  like that I see in dear Bessie's eyes when she holds me in her arms and calls me
                  her 'patient Jamie.' She never knows I try to bear my troubles for her sake, as
                  she bears hunger and cold for mine. So you see, sir, how many things I have to
                  make me a happy child."
               "I would gladly lie down on your pillow to be half as light of heart as you are,
                  little Jamie, for I have lost my faith in everything and with it all my
                  happiness;" and the heavy shadow which had lifted for a while fell back darker
                  than before upon the anxious face beside the bed.
               "If I were well and strong like you, sir, I think I should be so thankful nothing
                  could trouble me;" and with a sigh the boy glanced at the vigorous frame and
                  energetic countenance of his new friend, wondering at the despondent look he
                  wore.
               "If you were poor, so poor you had no means wherewith to get a crust of bread, nor
                  a shelter for the night; if you were worn-out with suffering and labor, soured by
                  disappointment and haunted by ambitious hopes never to be realized, what would you
                  do, Jamie?" suddenly asked the young man, prompted by the desire that every human
                  heart has felt for sympathy and counsel, even from the little creature before him
                  ignorant and inexperienced as he was.
               But the child, wiser in his innocence than many an older counsellor, pointed
                  upward, saying with a look of perfect trust,—
               "I should look up to the cross upon the tower and think of what Bess told me about God, who feeds the birds
                  and clothes the flowers, and I should wait patiently, feeling sure he would
                  remember me."
               The young man leaned his head upon his folded arms and nothing stirred in the
                  room, but the wind that stole in through the roses to fan the placid face upon the
                  pillow.
               "Are you weary waiting for me, Jamie dear? I could not come before;" and as her
                  eager voice broke the silence, Sister Bess came hastening in.
               The stranger, looking up, saw a young girl regarding him from Jamie's close
                  embrace, with a face whose only beauty was the light her brother spoke of, that
                  beamed warm and bright from her mild countenance and made the poor room fairer for
                  its presence.
               "This is Bess, my Bess, sir," cried the boy, "and she will thank you for your
                  kindness in sitting here so long with me."
               "I am the person who lodges just below you; I mistook this room for my own; pardon
                  me, and let me come again, for Jamie has already done me good," replied the
                  stranger as he rose to go.
               "Bess, dear, will you bring me a cup of water?" Jamie said; and as she hastened
                  away, he beckoned his friend nearer, saying with a timid wistful look,—
               "Forgive me, if it's wrong, but I wish you would let me give you this; it's very
                  little, but it may help some; and I think you'll take it to please 'poor Jamie.'
                  Won't you, sir?" and as he spoke, the child offered a bright coin, the proceeds of
                  his work.
               Tears sprung into the proud man's eyes; he held the little wasted hand fast in his
                  own a moment, saying seriously,—
               "I will take it, Jamie, as a loan wherewith to begin anew the life I
                  was about to fling away as readily as I do this; and with a quick motion he sent a
                  vial whirling down into the street. "I'll try the world once more in a humbler
                  spirit, and have faith in you, at least, my little Providence."
               With an altered purpose in his heart, and a brave smile on his lips, the young man
                  went away, leaving the child with another happy memory, to watch the cross upon
                  the old church tower.
               
               It was mid-winter; and in the gloomy house reigned suffering and want. Sister Bess
                  worked steadily to earn the dear daily bread so many pray for and so many need.
                  Jamie lay upon his bed, carving with feeble hands the toys which would have found
                  far readier purchasers, could they have told the touching story of the frail boy
                  lying meekly in the shadow of the solemn change which daily drew more near.
               Cheerful and patient always, poverty and pain seemed to have no power to darken
                  his bright spirit; for God's blessed charity had gifted him with that inward
                  strength and peace it so often brings to those who seem to human eyes most heavily
                  afflicted.
               Secret tears fell sometimes on his pillow, and whispered prayers went up; but Bess
                  never knew it, and like a ray of sunshine, the boy's tranquil presence lit up that
                  poor home; and amid the darkest hours of their adversity, the little rushlight of
                  his childish faith never wavered nor went out.
               Below them lived the young man, no stranger now, but a true friend, whose generous
                  pity would not let them suffer any want he could supply. Hunger and cold were hard
                  teachers, but he learned their lessons bravely, and though his frame grew gaunt
                  and his eye hollow, yet, at heart, he felt a better, happier man for the stern
                  discipline that taught him the beauty of self-denial and the blessedness of loving
                  his neighbor better than himself.
               
               The child's influence remained unchanged, and when anxiety or disappointment
                  burdened him, the young man sat at Jamie's bedside listening to the boy's
                  unconscious teaching, and receiving fresh hope and courage from the childish words
                  and the wan face, always cheerful and serene.
               With this example constantly before him, he struggled on, feeling that if the
                  world were cold and dark, he had within himself one true affection to warm and
                  brighten his hard life.
               "Give me joy, Jamie! Give me joy, Bess! the book sells well, and we shall yet be
                  rich and famous," cried the young author as he burst into the quiet room one
                  wintry night with snow-flakes glittering in his hair, and his face aglow with the
                  keen air which had no chill in it to him now.
               Bess looked up to smile a welcome, and Jamie tried to cry "Hurrah;" but the feeble
                  voice faltered and failed, and he could only wave his hand and cling fast to his
                  friend, whispering, brokenly,—
               "I'm glad, oh, very glad; for now you need not rob yourself for us. I know you
                  have, Walter; I have seen it in your poor thin face and these old clothes. It
                  never would have been so, but for Bess and me."
               "Hush, Jamie, and lie here upon my arm and rest; for you are very tired with your
                  work,—I know by this hot hand and shortened breath. Are you easy now? Then listen;
                  for I've brave news to tell you, and never say again I do too much for you,—the
                  cause of my success."
               "I, Walter," cried the boy; " what do you mean?"
               Looking down upon the wondering face uplifted to his own, the young man answered
                  with deep feeling,—
               "Six months ago I came into this room a desperate and despairing man, weary of
                  life, because I knew not how to use it, and eager to quit the struggle because I
                  had not learned to conquer fortune by energy and patience. You kept me, Jamie,
                  till the reckless mood was passed, and by the beauty of your life showed me what
                  mine should be. Your courage shamed my cowardice; your faith rebuked my fears;
                  your lot made my own seem bright again. I, a man with youth, health, and the world
                  before me, was about to fling away the life which you, a helpless little child,
                  made useful, good, and happy, by the power of your own brave will. I felt how
                  weak, how wicked I had been, and was not ashamed to learn of you the lesson you so
                  unconsciously were teaching. God bless you, Jamie, for the work you did that
                  day."
               "Did I do so much?" asked the boy with innocent wonder; "I never knew it, and
                  always thought you had grown happier and kinder because I had learned to love you
                  more. I'm very glad if I did anything for you, who do so much for us. But tell me
                  of the book; you never would before."
               With a kindling eye Walter replied,—
               "I would not tell you till all was sure; now, listen. I wrote a story, Jamie,—a
                  story of our lives, weaving in few fancies of my own and leaving you
                  unchanged,—the little counsellor and good angel of the ambitious man's hard life.
                  I painted no fictitious sorrows. What I had seen and keenly felt I could truly
                  tell,—your cheerful patience, Bess's faithful love, my struggles, hopes, and
                  fears. This book, unlike the others, was not rejected; for the simple truth, told
                  by an earnest pen, touched and interested. It was accepted, and has been kindly
                  welcomed, thanks to you, Jamie; for many buy it to learn more of you, to weep and
                  smile over artless words of yours, and forget their pity in their reverence and
                  love for the child who taught the man to be, not what he is, but what, with God's
                  help, he will yet become."
               "They are very kind, and so are you, Walter, and I shall be proud to have you rich and great, though I
                  may not be here to see it."
               "You will, Jamie, you must; for it will be nothing without you;" and as he spoke,
                  the young man held the thin hand closer in his own and looked more tenderly into
                  the face upon his arm.
               The boy's eyes shone with a feverish light, a scarlet flush burned on his hollow
                  cheek, and the breath came slowly from his parted lips, but over his whole
                  countenance there lay a beautiful serenity which filled his friend with hope and
                  fear.
               "Walter bid Bess put away that tiresome work; she has sat at it all day long,
                  never stirring but to wait on me;" and as he spoke, a troubled look flitted across
                  the boy's calm face.
               "I shall soon be done, Jamie, and I must not think of rest till then, for there is
                  neither food nor fuel for the morrow. Sleep, yourself, dear, and dream of pleasant
                  things; I am not very tired."
               And Bess bent closer to her work, trying to sing a little song, that they might
                  not guess how near the tears were to her aching eyes.
               From beneath his pillow Jamie drew a bit of bread, whispering to his friend as he
                  displayed it,—
               "Give it to Bess; I saved it for her till you came, for she will not take it from
                  me, and she has eaten nothing all this day."
               "And you, Jamie?" asked Walter, struck by the sharpened features of the boy, and
                  the hungry look which for a moment glistened in his eye.
               "I don't need much, you know, for I don't work like Bess; but yet she gives me
                  all. Oh, how can I bear to see her working so for me, and I lying idle here!"
               As he spoke, Jamie clasped his hands before his face, and through his slender
                  fingers streamed such tears as children seldom shed.
               It was so rare a thing for him to weep that it filled Walter with dismay and a
                  keener sense of his own powerlessness. He could bear any privation for himself
                  alone, but he could not see them suffer. He had nothing to offer them; for though
                  there was seeming wealth in store for him, he was now miserably poor. He stood a
                  moment, looking from brother to sister, both so dear to him, and both so plainly
                  showing how hard a struggle life had been to them.
               With a bitter exclamation, the young man turned away and went out into the night,
                  muttering to himself,—
               "They shall not suffer; I will beg or steal first."
               And with some vague purpose stirring within him, he went swiftly on until he
                  reached a great thoroughfare, nearly deserted now, but echoing occasionally to a
                  quick step as some one hurried home to his warm fireside.
               "A little money, sir, for a sick child and a starving woman;" and with
                  outstretched hand Walter arrested an old man. But he only wrapped his furs still
                  closer and passed on, saying sternly,—
               "I have nothing for vagrants. Go to work, young man."
               A woman poorly clad in widow's weeds passed at that moment, and, as the beggar
                  fell back from the rich man's path, she dropped a bit of silver in his hand,
                  saying with true womanly compassion,—
               "Heaven help you! it is all I have to give."
               "I'll beg no more," muttered Walter, as he turned away burning with shame and
                  indignation; "I'll take from the rich what the poor so freely
                     give. God pardon me; I see no other way, and they must not
                  starve."
               With a vague sense of guilt already upon him, he stole into a more unfrequented
                  street and slunk into the shadow of a doorway to wait for coming steps and nerve
                  himself for his first evil deed.
               
               Glancing up to chide the moonlight for betraying him, he started; for there, above
                  the snow-clad roofs, rose the cross upon the tower. Hastily he averted his eyes,
                  as if they had rested on the mild, reproachful countenance of a friend.
               Far up in the wintry sky the bright symbol shone, and from it seemed to fall a
                  radiance, warmer than the moonlight, clearer than the starlight, showing to that
                  tempted heart the darkness of the yet uncommitted wrong.
               That familiar sight recalled the past; he thought of Jamie, and seemed to hear
                  again the childish words, uttered long ago, "God will remember us."
               Steps came and went along the lonely street, but the dark figure in the shadow
                  never stirred, only stood there with bent head, accepting the silent rebuke that
                  shone down upon it, and murmuring, softly,—
               "God remember little Jamie, and forgive me that my love for him led me
                  astray."
               As Walter raised his hand to dash away the drops that rose at the memory of the
                  boy, his eye fell on the ring he always wore for his dead mother's sake. He had
                  hoped to see it one day on Bess's hand, but now a generous thought banished all
                  others and with the energy of an honest purpose be hastened to sell the ring,
                  purchase a little food and fuel, and borrowing a warm covering of a kindly
                  neighbor, he went back to dispense these comforts with a satisfaction he had
                  little thought to feel.
               The one lamp burned low; a few dying embers lay upon the earth, and no sound broke
                  the silence but the steady rustle of Bess's needle, and the echo of Jamie's hollow
                  cough.
               "Wrap it around Bess; she has given me her cloak, and needs it more than I,—these
                  coverings do very well;" and as he spoke, Jamie put away the blanket Walter
                  offered, and suppressing a shiver, hid his purple hands beneath the old, thin
                  cloak.
               "Here is bread, Jamie; eat for Heaven's sake, no need to save it now;" and Walter
                  pressed it on the boy, but he only took a little, saying he had not much need of
                  food and loved to see them eat far better.
               So in the cheery blaze of the rekindled fire, Bess and Walter broke their long
                  fast, and never saw how eagerly Jamie gathered up the scattered crumbs, nor heard
                  him murmur softly, as he watched them with loving eyes,—
               "There will be no cold nor hunger up in heaven, but enough for all,—enough for
                  all."
               "Walter, you'll be kind to Bess when I am not here?" he whispered earnestly, as
                  his friend came to draw his bed within the ruddy circle of the firelight gleaming
                  on the floor.
               "I will, Jamie, kinder than a brother," was the quick reply. "But why ask me that
                  with such a wistful face?"
               The boy did not answer, but turned on his pillow and kissed his sister's shadow as
                  it flitted by.
               Gray dawn was in the sky before they spoke again. Bess slept the deep, dreamless
                  sleep of utter weariness, her head pillowed on her arms. Walter sat beside the
                  bed, lost in sweet and bitter musings, silent and motionless, fancying the boy
                  slept. But a low voice broke the silence, whispering feebly.
               "Walter, will you take me in your strong arms and lay me on my little couch beside
                  the window? I should love to see the cross again, and it is nearly day."
               So light, so very light, the burden seemed, Walter turned his face aside lest the
                  boy should see the sorrowful emotion painted there, and with a close embrace he
                  laid him tenderly down to watch the first ray climbing up the old gray tower.
               "The frost lies so thickly on the window-panes that you cannot see it, even when
                  the light comes, Jamie," said his friend, vainly trying to gratify the boy's
                  wish.
               
               "The sun will melt it soon, and I can wait,—I can wait, Walter; it's but a little
                  while;" and Jamie, with a patient smile, turned his face to the dim window and lay
                  silent.
               Higher and higher crept the sunshine till it shone through the frostwork on the
                  boy's bright head; his bird awoke and carolled blithely, but he never stirred.
               "Asleep at last, poor, tired little Jamie; I'll not wake him till the day is
                  warmer;" and Walter, folding the coverings closer over the quiet figure, sat
                  beside it, waiting till it should wake.
               "Jamie dear, look up, and see how beautifully your last rose has blossomed in the
                  night when least we looked for it;" and Bess came smiling in with the one white
                  rose, so fragrant but so frail. 
               Jamie did not turn to greet her, for all frost had melted from the boy's life now;
                  another flower had blossomed in the early dawn, and though the patient face upon
                  the pillow was bathed in sunshine, little Jamie was not there to see it gleaming
                  on the cross. God had remembered him.
               
               Spring showers had made the small mound green, and scattered flowers in the
                  churchyard. Sister Bess sat in the silent room alone, working still, but pausing
                  often to wipe away the tears that fell upon a letter on her knee.
               Steps came springing up the narrow stairs and Walter entered with a beaming face,
                  to show the first rich earnings of his pen, and ask her to rest from her long
                  labor in the shelter of his love.
               "Dear Bess, what troubles you? Let me share your sorrow and try to lighten it," he
                  cried with anxious tenderness, sitting beside her on the little couch where Jamie
                  fell asleep.
               In the frank face smiling on her, the girl's innocent eyes read nothing but the
                  friendly interest of a brother, and remembering his care and kindness, she forgot
                  her womanly timidity in her great longing for sympathy, and freely told him
                  all.
               Told him of the lover she left years ago to cling to Jamie, and how this lover
                  went across the sea hoping to increase his little fortune that the helpless
                  brother might be sheltered for love of her. How misfortune followed him, and when
                  she looked to welcome back a prosperous man, there came a letter saying that all
                  was lost and he must begin the world anew and win a home to offer her before he
                  claimed the heart so faithful to him all these years.
               "He writes so tenderly and bears his disappointment bravely for my sake; but it is
                  very hard to see our happiness deferred again when such a little sum would give us
                  to each other."
               As she ceased, Bess looked for comfort into the countenance of her companion,
                  never seeing through her tears how pale it was with sudden grief, how stern with
                  repressed emotion. She only saw the friend whom Jamie loved and that tie drew her
                  toward him as to an elder brother to whom she turned for help, unconscious then
                  how great his own need was.
               "I never knew of this before, Bess; you kept your secret well " he said, trying to
                  seem unchanged.
               The color deepened in her cheek; but she answered simply, "I never spoke of it,
                  for words could do no good, and Jamie grieved silently about it, for he thought it
                  a great sacrifice, though I looked on it as a sacred duty, and he often wearied
                  himself to show in many loving ways how freshly he remembered it. My grateful
                  little Jamie."
               And her eyes wandered to the green tree-tops tossing in the wind, whose shadows
                  flickered pleasantly above the child.
               "Let me think a little, Bess, before I counsel you. Keep a good heart and rest assured that I will help you
                  if I can," said Walter, trying to speak hopefully.
               "But you come to tell me something; at least, I fancied I saw some good tidings in
                  your face just now. Forgive my selfish grief, and see how gladly I will sympathize
                  with any joy of yours."
               "It is nothing, Bess, another time will do as well," he answered, eager to be gone
                  lest he should betray what must be kept most closely now.
               "It never will be told, Bess,—never in this world," he sighed bitterly as he went
                  back to his own room which never in his darkest hours had seemed so dreary; for
                  now the bright hope of his life was gone.
               "I have it in my power to make them happy," he mused as he sat alone, "but I
                  cannot do it, for in this separation lies my only hope. He may die or may grow
                  weary, and then to whom will Bess turn for comfort but to me? I will work on, earn
                  riches and a name, and if that hour should come, then in her desolation I will
                  offer all to Bess and surely she will listen and accept. Yet it were a generous
                  thing to make her happiness at once, forgetful of my own. How shall I bear to see
                  her waiting patiently, while youth and hope are fading slowly, and know that I
                  might end her weary trial and join two faithful hearts? Oh, Jamie, I wish to
                  Heaven I were asleep with you, freed from the temptations that beset me. It is so
                  easy to perceive the right, so hard to do it."
               The sound of that familiar name, uttered despairingly, aloud, fell with a sweet
                  and solemn music upon Walter's ear. A flood of tender memories swept away the
                  present, and brought back the past. He thought of that short life, so full of pain
                  and yet of patience, of the sunny nature which no cloud could overshadow, and the
                  simple trust which was its strength and guide.
               He thought of that last night and saw now with clearer eyes the sacrifices and the
                  trials silently borne for love of Bess.
               The beautiful example of the child rebuked the passion of he man, and through the
                  magic of affection strengthened generous impulses and banished selfish hopes.
               "I promised to be kind to Bess, and with God's help I will keep my vow. Teach me
                  to bear my pain, to look for help where you found it, little Jamie;" and as he
                  spoke, the young man gazed up at the shining cross, striving to see in it not
                  merely an object of the dead boy's love, but a symbol of consolation, hope, and
                  faith.
               "It is a noble thing to see an honest man cleave his own heart in twain to fling
                  away the baser part of it."
               These words came to Walter's mind and fixed the resolution wavering there, and as
                  his glance wandered from the gray tower to the churchyard full of summer
                  stillness, he said within himself,—
               "This is the hardest struggle of my life, but I will conquer and come out from the
                  conflict master of myself at least, and like Jamie, try to wait until the sunshine
                  comes again, even if it only shine upon me, dead like him."
               It was no light task to leave the airy castles built by love and hope, and go back
                  cheerfully to the solitude of a life whose only happiness for a time was in the
                  memory of the past. But through the weeks that bore one lover home, the other
                  struggled to subdue his passion, and be as generous in his sorrow as he would have
                  been in his joy.
               It was no easy conquest; but he won the hardest of all victories, that of self,
                  and found in the place of banished pride and bitterness a patient strength, and
                  the one desire to be indeed more generous
                  than a brother to gentle Bess. He had truly, "cleft his heart in twain and flung
                  away the baser part."
               A few days before the absent lover came, Walter went to Bess, and, with a
                  countenance whose pale serenity touched her deeply, he laid his gift before her,
                  saying,—
               "I owe this all to Jamie; and the best use I can make of it is to secure your
                  happiness, as I promised him I'd try to do. Take it and God bless you, Sister
                  Bess."
               "And you, Walter, what will your future be if I take this and go away to enjoy it
                  as you would have me?" Bess asked, with an earnestness that awoke his wonder.
               "I shall work, Bess, and in that find content and consolation for the loss of you
                  and Jamie. Do not think of me; this money will do me far more good in your hands
                  than my own. Believe me it is best to be so, therefore do not hesitate."
               Bess took it, for she had learned the cause of Walter's restless wanderings and
                  strange avoidance of herself of late, and she judged wisely that the generous
                  nature should be gratified, and the hard-won victory rewarded by the full
                  accomplishment of its unselfish end. Few words expressed her joyful thanks, but
                  from that time Walter felt that he held as dear a place as Jamie in her grateful
                  heart, and was content.
               Summer flowers were blooming when Bess went from the old home a happy wife,
                  leaving her faithful friend alone in the little room where Jamie lived and
                  died.
               
               Years passed, and Walter's pen had won for him an honored name. Poverty and care
                  were no longer his companions; many homes were open to him, many hearts would
                  gladly welcome him, but he still lingered in the gloomy house, a serious, solitary
                  man, for his heart lay beneath the daisies of a child's grave.
               But his life was rich in noble aims and charitable deeds, and with his strong
                  nature softened by the sharp discipline of sorrow, and sweetened by the presence
                  of a generous love, he was content to dwell alone with the memory of little Jamie,
                  in the shadow of "the cross upon the tower."
            
            
               
               THE DEATH OF JOHN.*
               
               FROM "HOSPITAL SKETCHES."
               
                  HARDLYwas I settled again, when the inevitable bowl appeared, and
                  its bearer delivered a message I had expected, yet dreaded to receive:—
               "John is going, ma'am, and wants to see you, if you can come."
               "The moment this boy is asleep; tell him so, and let me know if I am in danger of
                  being too late."
               My Ganymede departed, and while I quieted poor Shaw, I thought of John. He came in
                  a day or two after the others; and, one evening, when I entered my "pathetic
                  room," I found a lately emptied bed occupied by a large, fair man, with a fine
                  face, and the serenest eyes I ever met. One of the earlier comers had often spoken
                  of a friend, who had remained behind, that those apparently worse wounded than
                  himself might reach a shelter first. It seemed a David and Jonathan sort of
                  friendship. The man fretted for his mate, and was never tired of praising
                  John,—his courage, sobriety, self-denial, and unfailing kindliness of heart;
                  always winding up with, "He's an out an' out fine feller, ma'am; you see if he
                  ain't."
               I had some curiosity to behold this piece of excellence, and when he came, watched
                  him for a night or two, before I made friends with him; for, to tell the truth, I
                  was a little afraid of the stately looking man, whose bed had to be lengthened to
                  accommodate his commanding stature; who seldom spoke, uttered no complaint, asked
                  no sympathy, but tranquilly observed what went on about him; and, as he lay high
                  upon his pillows, no picture of dying statesman or warrior was ever fuller of real
                  dignity than this Virginia blacksmith. A most attractive face he had, framed in
                  brown hair and beard, comely featured and full of vigor, as yet unsubdued by pain;
                  thoughtful and often beautifully mild while watching the afflictions of others, as
                  if entirely forgetful of his own. His mouth was grave and firm, with plenty of
                  will and courage in its lines, but a smile could make it as sweet as any woman's;
                  and his eyes were child's eyes, looking one fairly in the face with a clear,
                  straightforward glance, which promised well for such as placed their faith in him.
                  He seemed to cling to life, as if it were rich in duties and delights, and he had
                  learned the secret of content. The only time I saw his composure disturbed was
                  when my surgeon brought another to examine John, who scrutinized their faces with
                  an anxious look, asking of the elder,—"Do you think I shall pull through, sir?" "I
                  hope so, my man." And, as the two passed on, John's eye still followed them, with
                  an intentness which would have won a clearer answer from them, had they seen it. A
                  momentary shadow flitted over his face; then came the usual serenity, as if, in
                  that brief eclipse, he had acknowledged the existence of some hard possibility,
                  and, asking nothing, yet hoping all things, left the issue in God's hands, with
                  that submission which is true piety.
               
                  *This is not a tale, but a true history.—ED.
               
               The next night, as I went my rounds with Dr. P., I happened to ask which man in
                  the room probably suffered most; and, to my great surprise, he glanced at
                  John:—
               "Every breath he draws is like a stab; for the ball pierced the left lung, broke a
                  rib, and did no end of damage here and there; so the poor lad can find neither
                  forgetfulness nor ease, because he must lie on his wounded back or suffocate. It
                  will be a hard struggle and a long one, for he possesses great vitality; but even
                  his temperate life can't save him; I wish it could."
               "You don't mean he must die, Doctor?"
               "Bless you, there's not the slightest hope for him; and you'd better tell him so
                  before long; women have a way of doing such things comfortably, so I leave it to
                  you. He won't last more than a day or two, at furthest."
               I could have sat down on the spot and cried heartily, if I had not learned the
                  wisdom of bottling up one's tears for leisure moments. Such an end seemed very
                  hard for such a man, when half a dozen worn-out, worthless bodies round him were
                  gathering up the remnants of wasted lives, to linger on for years perhaps, burdens
                  to others, daily reproaches to themselves. The army needed men like John,—earnest,
                  brave, and faithful; fighting for liberty and justice with both heart and hand,
                  true soldiers of the Lord. I could not give him up so soon, or think with any
                  patience of so excellent a nature robbed of its fulfilment, and blundered into
                  eternity by the rashness or stupidity of those at whose hands so many lives may be
                  required. It was an easy thing for Dr. P. to say, "Tell him he must die," but a
                  cruelly hard thing to do, and by no means as "comfortable" as he politely
                  suggested. I had not the heart to do it then, and privately indulged the hope that
                  some change for the better might take place, in spite of gloomy prophecies, so,
                  rendering my task unnecessary. A few minutes later, as I came in again with fresh
                  rollers, I saw John sitting erect, with no one to support him, while the surgeon
                  dressed his back. I had never hitherto seen it done; for, having simpler wounds to
                  attend to, and knowing the fidelity of the attendant, I had left John to him,
                  thinking it might be more agreeable and safe; for both strength and experience
                  were needed in his case. I had forgotten that the strong man might long for the gentler tendance
                  of a woman's hands, the sympathetic magnetism of a woman's presence, as well as
                  the feebler souls about him. The Doctor's words caused me to reproach myself with
                  neglect, not of any real duty perhaps, but of those little cares and kindnesses
                  that solace homesick spirits, and make the heavy hours pass easier. John looked
                  lonely and forsaken just then, as he sat with bent head, hands folded on his knee,
                  and no outward sign of suffering, till, looking nearer, I saw great tears roll
                  down and drop upon the floor. It was a new sight there; for though I had seen many
                  suffer, some swore, some groaned, most endured silently, but none wept. Yet it did
                  not seem weak, only very touching, and straightway my fear vanished, my heart
                  opened wide and took him in, as, gathering the bent head in my arms, as freely as
                  if he had been a little child, I said,—"Let me help you bear it, John."
               Never, on any human countenance, have I seen so swift and beautiful a look of
                  gratitude, surprise, and comfort, as that which answered me more eloquently than
                  the whispered,—
               "Thank you ma'am; this is right good! this is what I wanted!"
               "Then why not ask for it before?"
               "I didn't like to be a trouble; you seemed so busy, and I could manage to get on
                  alone."
               "You shall not want it any more, John."
               Nor did he; for now I understood the wistful look that sometimes followed me, as I
                  went out, after a brief pause beside his bed, or merely a passing nod, while
                  busied with those who seemed to need me more than he, because more urgent in their
                  demands; now I knew that to him, as to so many, I was the poor substitute for
                  mother, wife, or sister, and in his eyes no stranger, but a friend who hitherto
                  had seemed neglectful; for, in his modesty, he had never guessed the truth. This
                  was changed now; and, through the tedious operation of probing, bathing, and
                  dressing his wounds, he leaned against me, holding my hand fast, and, if pain
                  wrung further tears from him, no one saw them fall but me. When he was laid down
                  again, I hovered about him, in a remorseful state of mind that would not let me
                  rest, till I had bathed his face, brushed his "bonny brown hair," set all things
                  smooth about him, and laid a knot of heath and heliotrope on his clean pillow.
                  While doing this, he watched me with the satisfied expression I so linked to see;
                  and when I offered the little nosegay, held it carefully in his great hand,
                  smoothed a ruffled leaf or two, surveyed and smelt it with an air of genuine
                  delight, and lay contentedly regarding the glimmer of the sunshine on the green.
                  Although the manliest man among my forty, he said, "Yes, ma'am," like a little
                  boy; received suggestions for his comfort with the quick smile that brightened his
                  whole face; and now and then, as I stood tidying the table by his bed, I felt him
                  softly touch my gown, as if to assure himself that I was there. Anything more
                  natural and frank I never saw, and found this brave John as bashful as brave, yet
                  full of excellences and fine aspirations, which, having no power to express
                  themselves in words, seemed to have bloomed into his character and made him what
                  he was.
               After that night, an hour of each evening that remained to him was devoted to his
                  ease or pleasure. He could not talk much, for breath was precious, and he spoke in
                  whispers; but from occasional conversations, I gleaned scraps of private history
                  which only added to the affection and respect I felt for him. Once he asked me to
                  write a letter, and, as I settled pen and paper, I said, with an irrepressible
                  glimmer of feminine curiosity, "Shall it be addressed to wife, or mother,
                  John?"
               "Neither, ma'am; I've got no wife, and will write to mother myself when I get
                  better. Did you think I was married because of this?" he asked, touching a plain
                  ring he wore, and often turned thoughtfully on his finger when he lay alone.
               "Partly that, but more from a settled sort of look you have,—a look which young
                  men seldom get until they marry."
               "I don't know that; but I'm not so very young, ma'am; thirty in May and have been
                  what you might call settled this ten years; for mother's a widow; I'm the oldest
                  child she has, and it wouldn't do for me to marry until Lizzie has a home of her
                  own, and Laurie's learned his trade; for we're not rich, and I must be father to
                  the children, and husband to the dear old woman, if I can."
               "No doubt but you are both, John; yet how came you to go to war, if you felt so?
                  Wasn't enlisting as bad as marrying?"
               "No, ma'am, not as I see it, for one is helping my neighbor, the other pleasing
                  myself. I went because I couldn't help it. I didn't want the glory or the pay; I
                  wanted the right thing done, and people kept saying the men who were in earnest
                  ought to flight. I was in earnest, the Lord knows! but I held off as long as I
                  could, not knowing which was my duty; mother saw the case, gave me her ring to
                  keep me steady, and said 'Go;' so I went."
               A short story and a simple one, but the man and the mother were portrayed better
                  than pages of fine writing could have done it.
               "Do you ever regret that you came, when you lie here suffering so much?"
               "Never ma'am; I haven't helped a great deal, but I've shown I was willing to give
                  my life, and perhaps I've got to; but I don't blame anybody, and if it was to do
                  over again, I'd do it. I'm a little sorry I wasn't wounded in front; it looks
                  cowardly to be hit in the back, but I obeyed orders, and it doesn't matter in the
                  end, I know."
               
               Poor John! it did not matter now, except that a shot in front might have spared
                  the long agony in store for him. He seemed to read the thought that troubled me,
                  as he spoke so hopefully when there was no hope, for he suddenly added,—
               "This is my first battle; do they think it's going to be my last?"
               "I'm afraid they do, John."
               It was the hardest question I had ever been called upon to answer; doubly hard
                  with those clear eyes fixed on mine, forcing a truthful answer by their own truth.
                  He seemed a little startled at first, pondered over the fateful fact a moment,
                  then shook his head, with a glance at the broad chest and muscular limbs stretched
                  out before him:—
               "I'm not afraid, but it's difficult to believe all at once. I'm so strong it don't
                  seem possible for such a little wound to kill me."
               Merry Mercutio's dying words glanced through my memory as he spoke:—"'Tis not so
                  deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door, but 'tis enough." And John would
                  have said the same, could he have seen the ominous black holes between his
                  shoulders, he never had; and, seeing the ghastly sights about him, could not
                  believe his own wound more fatal than these, for all the suffering it caused
                  him.
               "Shall I write to your mother, now?" I asked, thinking that these sudden tidings
                  might change all plans and purposes; but they did not; for the man received the
                  order of the Divine Commander to march, with the same unquestioning obedience with
                  which the soldier had received that of the human one, doubtless remembering that
                  the first led him to life, and the last to death.
               "No, ma'am; to Laurie just the same; he'll break it to her best, and I'll add a
                  line to her myself when you get done."
               So I wrote the letter which he dictated, finding it better than any I had sent;
                  for, though here and there a little ungrammatical or inelegant, each sentence came
                  to me briefly worded, but most expressive; full of excellent counsel to the boy,
                  tenderly "bequeathing mother and Lizzie" to his care, and bidding him good-by in
                  words the sadder for their simplicity. He added a few lines with steady hand, and,
                  as I sealed it, said, with a patient sort of sigh, "I hope the answer will come in
                  time for me to see it;" then, turning away his face, laid the flowers against his
                  lips, as if to hide some quiver of emotion at the thought of such a sudden
                  sundering of all the dear home-ties.
               These things had happened two days before; now John was dying, and the letter had
                  not come. I had been summoned to many death-beds in my life, but to none that made
                  my heart ache as it did then, since my mother called me to watch the departure of
                  a spirit akin to this in its gentleness and patient strength. As I went in, John
                  stretched out both hands,—
               "I knew you'd come! I guess I'm moving on, ma'am."
               He was; and so rapidly that, even while he spoke, over his face I saw the gray
                  veil falling that no human hand can lift. I sat down by him, wiped the drops from
                  his forehead, stirred the air about him with the slow wave of a fan, and waited to
                  help him die. He stood in sore need of help,—and I could do so little; for, as the
                  doctor had foretold, the strong body rebelled against death, and fought every inch
                  of the way, forcing him to draw each breath with a spasm, and clench his hands
                  with an imploring look, as if he asked, "How long must I endure this, and be
                  still?" For hours he suffered dumbly, without a moment's respite, or a moment's
                  murmuring; his limbs grew cold, his face damp, his lips white, and, again and
                  again, he tore the covering off his breast, as if the lightest weight added to his
                  agony; yet through it all, his eyes never lost their perfect serenity, and the
                  man's soul seemed to sit therein, undaunted by the ills that vexed his flesh.
               One by one the men woke, and round the room appeared a circle of pale faces and
                  watchful eyes, full of awe and pity; for, though a stranger, John was beloved by
                  all. Each man there had wondered at his patience, respected his piety, admired his
                  fortitude, and now lamented his hard death; for the influence of an upright nature
                  had made itself deeply felt, even in one little week. Presently, the Jonathan who
                  so loved this comely David came creeping from his bed for a last look and word.
                  The kind soul was full of trouble, as the choke in his voice, the grasp of his
                  hand betrayed; but there were no tears, and the farewell of the friends was the
                  more touching for its brevity.
               "Old boy, how are you?" faltered the one.
               "Most through, thank heaven!" whispered the other.
               "Can I say or do anything for you anywheres?"
               "Take my things home, and tell them that I did my best."
               "I will! I will!"
               "Good-by, Ned."
               "Good-by, John, good-by!"
               They kissed each other, tenderly as women, and so parted; for poor Ned could not
                  stay to see his comrade die. For a little while, there was no sound in the room
                  but the drip of water from a stump or two, and John's distressful gasps, as he
                  slowly breathed his life away. I thought him nearly gone, and had just laid down
                  the fan, believing its help to be no longer needed, when suddenly he rose up in
                  his bed, and cried out with a bitter cry that broke the silence, sharply startling
                  every one with its agonized appeal,—
               "For God's sake, give me air!"
               It was the only cry pain or death had wrung from him, the only boon he had asked;
                  and none of us could grant it, for all the airs that blew were useless now. Dan flung up the window. The
                  first red streak of dawn was warming the gray east, a herald of the coming sun.
                  John saw it, and with the love of light which lingers in us to the end, seemed to
                  read in it a sign of hope of help, for, over his whole face there broke that
                  mysterious expression, brighter than any smile, which often comes to eyes that
                  look their last. He laid himself gently down; and, stretching out his strong right
                  arm, as if to grasp and bring the blessed air to his lips in a fuller flow, lapsed
                  into a merciful unconsciousness, which assured us that for him suffering was
                  forever past. He died then; for, though the heavy breaths still tore their way up
                  for a little longer, they were but the waves of an ebbing tide that beat unfelt
                  against the wreck, which an immortal voyager had deserted with a smile. He never
                  spoke again, but to the end held my hand close, so close that when he was asleep
                  at last, I could not draw it away. Dan helped me, warning me as he did so, that it
                  was unsafe for dead and living flesh to lie so long together; but though my hand
                  was strangely cold and stiff, and four white marks remained across its back, even
                  when warmth and color had returned elsewhere, I could not but be glad that,
                  through its touch, the presence of human sympathy, perhaps, had lightened that
                  hard hour.
               When they had made him ready for the grave, John lay in state for half an hour, a
                  thing which seldom happened in that busy place; but a universal sentiment of
                  reverence and affection seemed to fill the hearts of all who had known or heard of
                  him; and when the rumor of his death went through the house, always astir, many
                  came to see him, and I felt a tender sort of pride in my lost patient; for he
                  looked a most heroic figure, lying there stately and still as the statue of some
                  young knight asleep upon his tomb. The lovely expression which so often beautifies
                  dead faces soon replaced the marks of pain, and I longed for those who loved him
                  best to see him when half an hour's acquaintance with Death had made them friends.
                  As we stood looking at him, the ward master handed me a letter, saying it had been
                  forgotten the night before. It was John's letter, come just an hour too late to
                  gladden the eyes that had longed and looked for it so eagerly; yet he had it; for,
                  after I had cut some brown locks for his mother, and taken off the ring to send
                  her, telling how well the talisman had done its work, I kissed this good son for
                  her sake, and laid the letter in his hand, still folded as when I drew my own
                  away, feeling that its place was there, and making myself happy with the thought,
                  even in his solitary place in the "Government Lot," he would not be without some
                  token of the love which makes life beautiful and outlives death. Then I left him,
                  glad to have known so genuine a man, and carrying with me an enduring memory of
                  the brave Virginia blacksmith, as he lay serenely waiting for the dawn of that
                  long day which knows no night.
            
         
      
   
