
    ----CITATION----
        Bland, T. A. (b. 1830). Farming as a Profession, or, How Charles Loring Made It Pay .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5833 wright2-0311A
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               FARMING AS A PROFESSION;
               OR, HOW CHARLES LORING MADE IT PAY.
            
            BY T. A. BLAND, Editor North Western Farmer.
            
               LORING, Publisher,
               BOSTON: 319 WASHINGTON STREET.
            
            1870.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by T. A. BLAND, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of Indiana.
            
         
         
            INTRODUCTION.
            IN clothing the truths contained in the following story in the garb of romance, the author has had but one leading object in view, viz., to present in the lives of Charles Loring and his wife Stella, a picture which, although rare, is yet real, and in all its essential features possible to every intelligent and earnest young couple similarly situated, and to inspire such to choose farming as a profession, and thus elevate and dignify that noble, useful and time-honored calling. In the measure of my success in this direction, will my reward come, in the consciousness of having benefited my fellow-farmers, and given an humble tribute to the profession it has ever been my pleasure to honor.
            
               T. A. B.
            
         
      
      
         
            Farming as a profession, or, How Charles Loring made it pay
            
            FARMING AS A PROFESSION;
            OR, HOW CHARLES LORING MADE IT PAY.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               LEAVING COLLEGE.
               "WELL, Charley, what comes next on your programme? You surely do not mean to pursue that idle whim of yours, and bury your brilliant talents in a corn-field, or compost heap. Why, man, you would make a capital lawyer; and if you will join me in the study of that profession, I'll insure you a seat in Congress inside of ten years. Come, what do you say? Shall I inform Quirk & Gammon that I have secured a new and promising student for them?"
               "No, Fred, you need do no such thing. My mind is made up, and has been for years; indeed, ever since I can remember, almost. I shall be a farmer by profession."
               "All nonsense, Charley; but if you are resolved to throw yourself away on so low a calling, don't abuse language by styling your menial business a profession!"
               "Stop, Fred; we have been friends during our whole college life, and I can bear much from you; but you shall not insult the noblest class of men on earth, by sneers at the profession, which, in my opinion, and that of all right-thinking men, is the grandest and most honorable of all professions. I will not bear this even from you."
               "Your pardon, my friend. I did not mean to offend you. Much as we may differ on the choice of a profession, and wide as our paths in life may diverge, I can not bear the thought that we should ever be other than friends. I can not but regret your decision; yet I wish you every success in your (to me) uninviting and unpromising field of labor. Charley, an idea strikes me. Let's you and I agree here and now, that however widely we may be separated, we will exchange visits once in five years, as long as we both live."
               "I like that suggestion, Fred, and here's my hand on it. Excuse me now; I must pack my trunk, and be ready for the early train in the morning."
               So saying, Charles Loring arose to depart; and extending his hand toward his friend and college chum, said:
               "Frederick Holmes, your friendship has been a great blessing to me during the years we have been together here in old Harvard; and I shall cherish the memories of your friendship; and recollections of the pleasant times we've had together will constitute the most pleasing reminiscences of my college life."
               "Dear Charley," said Fred, grasping the hand of his friend, "you are the best fellow alive, and I feel ashamed of not being more worthy of your unselfish friendship. It's very hard to see you go; and Charley, I will now confess to you that much of the ridicule I have so cruelly hurled at your chosen profession was prompted by the selfish hope that I could induce you to remain and study law with me, and finally become my partner in business. I have dreamed of a neat little office, with a shingle on the door, bearing this inscription: 'Loring & Holmes, Attorneys and Counselors at Law.' But my dream is spoiled; so good-by, Charley, and God bless you."
               And thus the student friends parted.
               Charles Loring and Frederick Holmes were both farmers' sons, who had come, the first from the Green Mountain State and the other from the old Commonwealth, having been born and bred not a great distance from Boston. They had pursued their studies together at old Harvard, and graduated in the same class. They were by nature much alike, but their surroundings at home had been widely different. Mr. Loring, Charles' father, was one of the most intelligent and cultivated men of which the little State of Vermont could boast; and although not vastly wealthy, he was in quite easy circumstances. Indeed, his farm was a most remarkably productive one, and everything about him thrived astonishingly, so his less successful neighbors thought. His farm, stock and implements, all told, when invoiced in 1860, amounted to twenty thousand dollars, and his cash book showed that his net profits during the year had been three thousand dollars, or fifteen per cent. on the amount invested.
               Fred's father was a large land owner for that country, but an uncultivated and shiftless sort of man. His landed estate and other wealth came to him by inheritance, and he had not only not increased its value, but had squandered no inconsiderable portion of it. Having but little general education, and no knowledge of any profession or trade, he had been compelled to adopt farming as a business; but so badly did he get on with it, that, under his management, his lands ran down. 
                     his
                     His
                   fences were wrecked, and the buildings became dilapidated and weather-stained; and every year, especially after his children began to be expensive, he was compelled to either borrow funds or sell a portion of his land to make both ends meet. (That's the phrase to use where no books are kept. Where men keep an account of receipts and expenditures, the term "balance the books" takes the place of the vulgar phrase here used.)
               Mr. Holmes had no love for his business. On the contrary, he cursed his unlucky stars, and pronounced farming a dog's life; and vowed, cost what it might, his only son should be raised above it. As to his two daughters, he would advise them to marry well, but they could do as they pleased; for his part, he didn't think girls amounted to a great deal anyway. Fred was his darling, and he must go to college, and then study law and go to Congress, and thereby shed lustre upon the name of Holmes.
               The reader will understand from this brief sketch of their home surroundings, why these two young men differed so widely in their estimate of the profession of agriculture.
               Early on the morning following his farewell interview with his chum, Charles Loring bade adieu to the American Athens, and hurried as fast as the express train could bear him toward his childhood's home. His heart was filled with honest pride and hopeful joy. He had won the honors of the grandest institution of learning in his native land, and was on his way to join a happy home circle, whose every link glistened in his memory like the purest gold. Nor was this all. Just beyond this bright constellation of home lights there arose above the horizon of his memory a bright, particular star, in the graceful and laughing form of Stella Moreland, only daughter of his father's nearest neighbor. Charles and Sella had grown up together from early childhood, and could not remember when they began to be lovers. There were only three years' difference in their ages, Charles being twenty-two, and Stella nineteen years old now. It was the first lengthy separation they had ever endured, when Charles went off to college, and on the evening preceding his departure, they held a long and highly confidential (need I say interesting?) interview, which finally terminated in solemn vows of eternal constancy, sealed with kisses of undying love, at the gate leading out to the woodland path, which formed the pedestrian link between the homes of the Morelands and the Lorings. Charles recalled this memorable interview during that early morning ride, and pictured to himself the meeting that would take place soon after he should have paid his respects to his own family. His impatience to realize this happy dream grew upon him, and he became restless and nervous. Finally, unable to entertain himself satisfactorily with air-castles alone, he opened his portfolio, and taking from it a package of tiny letters, encased in white envelopes and tied into a bundle by a rose-colored ribbon, he busied himself for the next hour with their contents. Then taking from his breast pocket, just over the heart, a miniature portrait of a fair-haired, blue-eyed girl, he gazed earnestly and long upon it, and finally kissing it, he closed the case with apparent reluctance, and returned it to its old place.
               The shrill whistle of the locomotive sounded in his ear, and on looking out, Charles, to his delight, found himself approaching his native village, or rather the village which stands near the place of his nativity.
               Almost immediately the cars drew up to the depot, and stepping from the platform our hero found himself in the arms of his father, who, not satisfied with a grasp of the hand, gave him a paternal embrace. This greeting over and a dozen hands were extended, with, "How are you, Charley?" These were his old comrades, who remembered him with pleasure, and were glad to see him among them again, for Charles was popular with old and young of both sexes. Hurriedly, but cordially returning the greetings of his friends, Charles said to his father:
               "I am ready; let's drive home, for I am so anxious to see mother, and Emma, and Lillian,"—
               "And Stella," whispered the old man,—
               "Yes, and Stella, too, that I am getting real nervous. How are the loved ones at home? All well, I hope."
               "Yes, all well; and all as anxious to see you, Stella included, as you could wish," answered Mr. L.
               I need not dwell upon the details of the meeting between Charles, and his mother and sisters. My readers can imagine the kisses of affection, the tears of joy, and the other manifestations of loving delight.
               Dinner was waiting; and a happier family party seldom, if ever, sat down together to the noonday meal.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
                AT HOME—PLANS FOR THE FUTURE.
               CHARLES' arrival at home occurred on the tenth of July, and after dinner, his father said, "My son, you must excuse me now. I leave you with your mother and sisters while I go to the field to superintend and aid in harvesting my crops. If you choose to walk out after a while, I shall be glad to have you join me there."
               "Thank you, father. I shall be out after a while; and by to-morrow I shall be ready to aid you in your delightful and useful labors. I shall feel it a great relief, after my long confinement to city life and laborious mental toil. My old chum, Fred Holmes, wanted me to join him in the study of law with Messrs. Quirk & Gammon."
               At mention of these names, Lillian laughed and spatted her hands, but checking herself, said:
               "Excuse my rudeness, Charley, but I really could not help laughing at the ludicrous fitness of those names. I really never heard anything so apropos to a lawyer as Quirk or Gammon."
               
               "Why, Lillie, I am not sure but you ought to be a lawyer," said Charles, laughing, "for you see the point to everything so readily."
               "And I am not sure but I will be when women get to voting, for then there will be some chance for me to go to Congress, or run for Governor. Wouldn't that be capital, eh Charley? The honorable Lillian Loring—well, I don't know what the other name will be yet."
               Charles caught his little pet sister in his arms, and kissing her, said:
               "You can count on my vote without fail."
               Charles spent a most delightful afternoon with his mother and the girls, he relating incidents of college life, and they giving a history of home events during his absence. The mother told him of all who had died or moved off among their neighbors, and the girls gave a record of the courtships and marriages.
               About five o'clock he sallied out to where his father and his hired men were at work cutting and saving the grass crop. Greeting those of the hired men he knew, and being introduced by the old gentleman to the others, Charles found himself very much at home in the meadow, and insisted on joining at once in the labors of the day, in which he soon showed that his long absence from the farm had not made him forget the practical lessons of boyhood.
               While the family were at tea that evening, Mr. Loring, turning to Charles, said:
               "My son, have you any definite idea where you shall pitch your tent for life?"
               "I cannot say that I have, father; indeed, that subject has troubled me somewhat. I have thought of the great West, where most of our young farmers go to find the elements of homes, but I confess I do not like the thought of leaving my childhood's home, and all its dear associations and blessed ties."
               "I am delighted to hear you speak thus, my son, and allow me to say I see no necessity for any such sundering of ties as your emigration to a new country would involve. Why not buy a farm in this neighborhood, and marrying a wife who has been born and bred here would be but too happy to remain here and help make your home happy and your life prosperous?"
               "You paint the picture I would realise, father, but is it practicable?"
               "Do you remember the question of Napoleon to his engineer?"
               
               "I accept the rebuke implied in your question, father, and now, correcting myself, ask, is it possible?"
               "Yes, it is both possible and practicable. Now, there is neighbor Jones, who, although an old man, is anxious to sell out and go west. Poor fellow, such farming as he does will hardly produce good crops on the rich alluvial or prairie soils of the Mississippi valley, I fear. The Jones farm is sadly run down and out of repairs, 'tis true, but you are a young man of brains and culture and know just how to bring it up, or I am greatly mistaken in you; and you can buy it for less than its real worth to one who holds the secret of its development. To friend Jones, in his ignorance, it is really worth very little, but to you it would be of great value, because there is the elements of all the material or rather financial part of a home."
               "With the advantages I possess, I do not fear failure; indeed, it would afford me pleasure to take such an old place, and show what can be done with it," replied Charles. "Tis true I am young, and as a practical farmer, almost wholly untried; but I am sure that my twenty years of school life, during sixteen of which I enjoyed such excellent advantages under your admirable system of theoretical and practical training, and the other four in the halls of old Harvard, has not been in vain; besides, I should have my most honored and practical teacher constantly available as an adviser."
               "I sincerely thank you, Charles, for the compliment you pay me, and cheerfully promise all the aid I may be able to render you; but away with all thoughts of business, for the present."
               So saying, the old gentleman led the way to the parlor, and when all were seated he asked Lillian to give them a song. Taking a seat at the piano, she ran her fingers over the keys, and began that matchless production of poor Howard Payne, "Home, Sweet Home." Lillie sang well, and accompanied her voice on the piano with great skill, and when the last note died away, the entire circle greeted her with subdued applause.
               "Just what I should have asked for," said Charles. "I thank you, sister, for this sweet song, so sweetly sung. It re-echoes the sentiments of my own heart. There is no place like home; but how many there are who are as destitute of homes as was poor Howard. Payne, the gifted author of this ballad."
               "Yes," responded the father; "and still others, who, with the elements of homes, through ignorance, fail to bring order out of chaos, but live on discontented and unhappy, amid undeveloped blessings innumerable. How often we see large farms whose owners live in miserable cramped or tumbled-down quarters, (houses they can scarcely be called,) destitute of everything, save the merest necessities. No bright carpets on the floors; no cheerful furniture in the rooms; no music heard at eventide, floating out from the open window; no pictures upon the walls, or books upon the table or mantle; hence no culture or refinement in the members of the family. Under such conditions happiness is impossible, and life a practical failure."
               "You draw a dark picture, father, but I confess with sorrow that it is one too often seen," said Charles; "and it is the realization of such pictures that brings our noble calling into disrepute, and drives young men to the cities and villages, to seek more refined and happy associations. But is there not some practical remedy for this evil, which may well be styled undeveloped good? For a better-hearted and better-meaning people does not live, than the uncultivated farmers. The remedy lies in culture, mental, moral, social, esthetic. Our farmers cultivate their farms, but neglect themselves and families, whereas no culture is so important as self culture. It is well to have good plows, but far better to have good books. I would, if necessary, curtail the annual expenditure for any farm improvement, rather than reduce the amount of current reading matter. This is not often necessary, however; most farmers who think themselves too poor to buy books, and subscribe for magazines and papers, squander more money upon tobacco, whisky, and other useless and hurtful articles, than would pay for an abundance of all kinds of reading themselves and families need. It is our mission to influence this class of our brother farmers to change their habits in this respect. This can partially be effected by example, and partly by inducing them to read more. I hold him a good missionary, a real benefactor of his race, who induces his neighbors to subscribe for good papers. An influential man can do much toward redeeming his neighborhood by going through it from year to year, and making up clubs for agricultural journals, for no class of papers have a tithe their value to the farmer. But the clock is on the stroke of nine, which is our bedtime; if Mattie will favor us with a song, we will retire."
               
               Charles arose, and conducting his sister to the instrument, turned the music leaves for her while she sang "Happy Dreams," at the close of which the soft good-nights were said, and each retired to rest.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               A VISIT TO MORELAND FARM.
               "I HAVE news for you, sister," said Walter Moreland to his sister Stella, as he alighted from his horse on his return from the village of Waveland, (the nearest railway station,) on the evening of July 10th.
               "News for me? Why, what can it be?" responded Stella.
               "Tell me who of all the absent friends you would most rejoice to see, and in exchange for this confidence, I will inform you who I saw step from the train, to-day."
               "You drive a sharp bargain, brother. I am not sure but I could better afford to await the next courier than tell you such an important secret."
               "Will you tell me if I guess aright?" urged Walter.
               "There, now, say no more of woman's curiosity after this. No, Walter, it remains for you to be magnanimous, and yield your news, which, if for me, really belongs to me of right, at least by courtesy, without other reward than a kiss and my thanks."
               
               "I surrender at discretion after such a plea as that, especially in view of the reward. Well, it was—be calm my sister—it was Charles Loring."
               "Indeed? I am greatly obliged, for the news is quite a pleasant surprise."
               "Just as though you did not know just what train he would arrive on, you little witch."
               "No, Walter, I did not. I expected him early this week, but not to-day."
               "Well, Charley is a fine looking young fellow, and as good as he looks. I don't think I should weep my eyes out if he was to become my brother-in-law," said Walter, putting his arm around the graceful form of his sister, and kissing her forehead.
               "Nor should I greatly grieve," responded Stella, "if a certain sister of his was to acquire the legal right to call me sister. But come, Walter, tea is ready," and she drew him toward the house.
               The arrival of Charles Loring formed the subject of conversation during tea. Stella had made no secret in her family of her engagement with Charles, and to her great satisfaction, all seemed pleased with the proposed alliance.
               During the forenoon of the next day, Stella might have been observed to cast hurried and expectant glances in the direction of the gate that led to the woodland pathway, referred to in our first chapter. The morning wore away, however, and nothing stirring occurred. About three o'clock Stella secreted a copy of Gerald Massey's poems in her pocket, and started out to the grove beyond the aforesaid gate. Seating herself at the foot of a majestic elm, she essayed to read, but it was evident that her thoughts were not with Massey. I know it is not very good manners, but we will steal up and listen to her soliloquy, for her lips move as in conversation and her eyes are not on her book.
               "Why does he not come? I am almost tempted to believe his love has grown cold and his letters are only hollow sentiment. 'Tis said that absence conquers love. Possibly he has met some city belle, who, with her rare beauty and brilliant accomplishments, has taken his heart by storm. Yes, it must be so, for what is there in me to hold the heart of a brilliant young man like Charles Loring, against such queens of beauty and fashion as he has been constantly meeting for the last four years?"
               
               Thus arguing, Stella had about convinced herself that Charles' heart was no longer hers, and she hid her face in her hands, and a low sob came up from the depths of her heart.
               Just at this moment the breaking of a twig aroused her, and springing to her feet, Stella found herself confronted by her truant lover.
               "Dear Stella, how glad I am to meet you here," and Charles folded her in his manly arms.
               Not a word did she utter, she did not even look up, but hiding her face in his bosom, she sobbed aloud. Presently he heard her say, in a quivering voice:
               "Forgive me, Charles; please forgive me."
               "Why, my love, what shall I forgive you for?"
               "I have doubted you, Charles, but oh, you did stay so long. I could not help it."
               "'Tis I that should beg pardon for not coming to you at once; but if you but knew what it cost me to wait till I could come, without manifesting unseemly haste, you would forgive me, I know."
               His words and the old love tones still more reassured her, and Stella lifted her tear-stained eyes toward her lover's face, and smiled her forgiveness. Charles could not resist the temptation to press a kiss upon her still quivering lips, which seemed to grow calm under the touch of his.
               "Come, sit here, my darling," said he, pointing to the seat she had so recently occupied, "and let's have a good talk before we go to your home."
               Stella readily accepted his invitation, and we withdraw while they review the past, and plan for the future.
               An hour afterwards they might have been seen wending their way leisurely toward the historical gate, on reaching which, they paused, and Charles, turning his love-lit eyes full upon his companion, said:
               "This spot is, to me, sacred ground, hallowed by the memories of our last loving tryst, and the pledges of affection exchanged upon that ever memorable evening."
               "Dear Charles, how I hang upon your loving, hopeful words as the only anchor my soul can find, or needs to find."
               "Yet you doubted me an hour ago, darling."
               "I had only old memories to sustain me, then; now I have the assurance of your loving words and kindly glances, which assure me that you are unchanged to me, however learned you have grown, however much you have seen and experienced. But come, my mother will be anxious about me if I remain longer, and besides, I must aid in preparing the evening meal."
               So saying, Stella led the way up the gravelled walk to the house, where Charles received a hearty welcome from Mrs. Moreland, on whose invitation he remained to tea.
               After tea, Mr. Moreland invited Charles and Walter to a stroll on the farm, as it was yet early.
               "You remember, Charles, that as my farm was rather small, I purchased the Wadkins place, which adjoined me on the west?"
               "Yes, I remember. You bought it just a few months before I started for college," responded young Loring.
               "You remember, also, doubtless, how completely it was run down?"
               "Indeed I do," said Charles. "Why, it was a common remark that if old Wadkins, as he was termed, had not got rid of it, he would soon have starved to death; and it was thought by many that you had paid twice its value for it."
               "Ah, I see you remember the place and its history," rejoined the old gentleman. "Well, we will step over there, and you may tell me if you think I have improved it any."
               A brief walk brought the party to the farm under discussion, and a glance served to convince Charles Loring that it was greatly changed for the better.
               "Improved it! why, my dear sir, you have transformed it entirely. When last I saw it it was almost a barren waste; now it seems a very garden of fertility. I am deeply interested in what I see here, and shall ask you at some suitable time to give me a detailed account of the processes by which you have been able to produce such a change."
               "I shall be glad to give you the history of this old place," said Mr. M., "for I am somewhat proud of my success in reclaiming it. I will give you the outlines now, and fill in the details at leisure. I underdrained it, subsoiled it, manured it, and clovered it. These four remedies formed the basis of my treatment, and now it yields as fine crops as any farm in this county."
               "But this has cost you a great deal of money and labor," said Charles.
               "Yes, I know it has; but if I were to offer it for sale to-day I could get an advance on all it has cost of not less than thirty per cent., which, with the crops I have had, would give me near or quite fifty per cent. profit on my investment," triumphantly rejoined the old gentleman.
               Returning to the house, the gentlemen joined Mrs. M. and Stella in the parlor, where with conversation and music (for Stella sang and played well), the evening passed rapidly.
               At half past eight Charles arose to depart, and after pressing invitations to repeat his visit at his earliest convenience, in which all joined, he bade his friends good night and started for a moonlight walk home. His heart was light and his step elastic and quick, hence the walk was short and pleasant.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               BUYING A FARM.
               "I HOPE your visit to Moreland farm was pleasant, Charles," said Mr. Loring, as he met his son the next morning after his moonlight walk.
               "Yes, indeed. I find them the same pleasant, social, and hospitable family I knew them years ago."
               "And Stella the same darling girl you left behind you when you went off to college," chimed in the old gentleman, with a merry twinkle in his eye. "Well, well, my boy, I do not think you could do any better; and if all the other interested parties are content with the arrangement I shall not object to your bright particular star for a daughter-in-law. But although from love to land is a great leap, I beg leave to urge upon your attention the necessity of deciding at once in regard to the purchase of the Jones farm, for he is so anxious to sell some one else might purchase it, and it would probably then be beyond your reach."
               
               "What will this farm cost, father?"
               "Two thousand dollars, which is just twenty dollars per acre, there being one hundred acres in the farm. It is, as you know, admirably situated, and with suitable repairs would be both beautiful and productive."
               After breakfast Mr. Loring and Charles walked over to neighbor Jones'. The old gentleman received them cordially in his rough way, and asking them to be seated, he said, "Well 'Squire (addressing Mr. L.), so your son 's got back from college, has he? I s'pose he knows a mity site of big words, and kin du all the hard sums, but I'll be bound ye don't get much more hard work outen him. What ye a goin' to be, Charley, a lawyer, doctor, or preacher?"
               "Neither," said Charles, good naturedly. "I propose to adopt my father's profession and be a farmer."
               "Why," said the old man, "when did ye git that noshun inter yer head?"
               "Oh, I never had any other. I always meant to be a farmer."
               "Then why on airth did ye spend so much time and money a goin' to school and college, if ye never meant to put yer larnin' to enny use?"
               "I do mean to make it useful, father Jones, in every possible way, both in the pursuit of my' chosen profession, and in the culture of my higher powers."
               "Goin' West, I s'pose," said Mr. Jones, changing the subject.
               "No, I think I shall remain in this neighborhood if I can get situated to suit me."
               "Well, you do beat all the young men for odd noshuns. I 've allus heerd that college takes all the common sense out'n the boys, and now I b'lieve it. Why, Charley, what's the use in stayin' here where the land's so poor it won't pay its own taxes, when there's plenty uv rich land out West that ye kin git for nothin' or next to it? I'm a goin' to sell out, if I kin, and go West, old as I am, and I'd like to have ye go 'long, fur I think ye a pretty good kind uv a feller, if ye are college bred."
               "Thank you for your compliment," said Charles; "but is it true, then, that you have resolved to go West?"
               "Yes, jist as quick as I kin sell my farm fur what it's worth."
               "I am in want of a farm, and if yours is in the market, and it suits me, perhaps we could get up a trade. Let's look at it," said Charles.
               "Well, I tell ye, it's about the nicest location in this county, only it's a little out o' repair. Fact is, I 'm too old to work like I once did, and my boys don't like farmin' so they've gone off into one thing and another and left me the bag to hold. I'll be rite down glad to sell to ye, Charles, if my farm suits ye. So cum on and I 'll show it to ye, tho'ye know all about it, fur you've bin on it menny a time. The house and barn ain't much to brag on, still they'd do rite down well if they was repaired up a little; but the land 's here if the improvements ain't much. There's sixty acres uv the hundred in cultivation, and forty in woodland pastur, which can't be beat fur timber by any forty acres in this neck uv woods."
               "I see you have had wheat on this field," said Charles, pointing to a twenty-acre lot to the north of the house; "but from the appearance of the stubble it does not seem to have yielded well."
               "No; I didn't get it in till late, and it wan't very well put in at that; fur I was so hurried that I couldn't more'n half do it justice."
               "Your corn does not look very promising in this lot to the left."
               "Well, now, ye mustn't lay that to the ground so much as to me; fur it hain't been more'n half tended. Ye see I'm too old to do much work, and that's why I want to sell out, and get me a farm that's so rich the rent will support me. It won't do it here. Now if the boys hed a stayed at home, they might a done something with the farm, but I can't manage it alone."
               "Where are your sons?" asked Charles.
               "Oh, John, the eldest, is a drivin' a peddlin' wagon fur a Bostin store, and Jim run off with a circus last summer, and I hain't hearn of him since. It's mean in 'em to leave me so in my old age, after I've done all I could fur 'em; but they never did like to stay at home, and I've whipped Jim more than a dozen times fur runnin' off and goin' to shows, fur I don't believe its right, and as a deacon in the church, it was my duty to raise my children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord."
               Charles could not but think that if the old deacon had made his home attractive and furnished rational entertainment and amusement for his boys, they would not have sought it from home; but he only said:
               "I regret that John and James could not see the beauty and advantage of farm life."
               "Ah! 'squire," said the deacon, turning to Mr. Loring "it 's a great blessin' to hev a dutiful son; ye may well be proud uv Charles."
               
               "Thank you, friend Jones; I am fully conscious of the blessing I have in my son, and devoutly thank God for guiding me into the path of wisdom in regard to his training."
               "Oh! it ain't all in trainin', I tell ye, fur no father wus ever stricter with his boys than I was with mine; but it didn't seem to do 'em eny good; they ware ongrateful, and wanted their own way, and that's what ruined 'em. But you've seen the place, now how do ye think it'll suit ye?"
               "That depends largely upon the price," said Charles; "it will cost quite a large sum to put it in good repair, and my funds being limited, I must not pay too much for the land, and thus render myself unable to improve it."
               "Well, now, what would you say to twenty-five dollars an acre, eh, Charley," said the old deacon, in a bantering way.
               "Why, I should think it rather high, and if that is your price should be compelled to look further."
               "Oh, I didn't say that was the best I'd do," said the deacon, somewhat alarmed, lest his trade should fail; "I only asked ye what ye thought of that."
               "Well, I have said it was more than I was willing to pay; but time passes, and if you will say just what you will take for your farm, we will decide at once whether we will take it or no."
               Finding that bantering and jewing was not likely to pay, in the present instance, as he had honest, upright and honorable men to deal with, the old deacon remained silent a moment, as if in reflection, and then said:
               "Well, Charles, say twenty dollars, and you pay the expenses on the deed."
               "I will pay you twenty dollars per acre for your farm, Father Jones, but it must come unincumbered."
               "Oh there ain't no incumbrance on it."
               "I do not refer to mortgages, but if I buy your farm, you must make me a deed to it, and not ask me to make it, or, what is the same thing, pay for making it."
               "Well, well, all right; it's a bargain," said the old man, rather gleefully. "I won't stand on trifles with a neighbor."
               A few days after the above conversation, the parties to this trade met at the office of a notary, and the Jones farm was legally transferred to Charles Loring, and the old deacon received a draft for two thousand dollars.
               On returning home Mr. Loring invited Charles into the library, which also served as an office, and asking him to be seated, said:
               "My son, it has been my wish to so educate and develope you, that at the age of twenty-two, you would be prepared to dispense with a guardian, and assume control of your own actions and fortune. You have attained that age, and I now deliver into your hands the portion I think due you from my estate. May the choicest blessings of Heaven go with it, and may God grant you wisdom to use it aright, with a view to your own best interests, and those of humanity, never forgetting that God, the great benefactor, is the Father of all, and hence all men are brethren."
               So saying he placed in his hand a draft for six thousand dollars.
               "No thanks, Charles, I have but done my duty," said the old gentleman, as his son began to express his obligations.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE WEDDING.
               IT was a pleasant party that assembled in 'Squire Moreland's parlor on the evening of January the 1st, 186—. They were not there simply to welcome the new year it was evident, for Stella was arrayed in bridal costume, and was attended by her special friends, the Misses Lorings, in the attire of bridesmaids. We also observe Charles Loring and Walter Moreland in faultless suits of black, with white kid gloves in striking contrast.
               The reader guesses aright; this is the wedding night of our dear friends Charles and Stella, whose fortunes we have noted thus far, and whose leading acts we propose to chronicle for some time to come.
               A handsomer couple it would be difficult to find, and happier parents are seldom if ever seen at weddings than were those of the two principal actors in this thrilling domestic drama in real life. All, therefore, went merry as a marriage-bell. It was a match every way fit to occur—both young, handsome, wealthy, hopeful, cultivated vated, sincere, and agreed upon all leading subjects and in all important matters of judgment and taste. The bow of promise spanned their heavens with most brilliant hues.
               After the marital rite had been solemnized (which event occurred early in the evening), the congratulations of friends given, the party lost all the characteristics of a wedding party, and casting off all ceremonial restraints assumed an eminently social and enjoyable character.
               Supper followed next on the programme of the evening, and a capital supper it was—just such an one as you will find nowhere else than among intelligent and cultivated farmers, into whose laps Ceres, Pomona and Flora empty their choicest treasures at first hand.
               At eleven o'clock the party adjourned, those of the neighborhood to their respective homes, and those friends from a distance were shown to their rooms.
               On the following day the newly married pair repaired to the Loring mansion, where they held a reception in the afternoon and evening, which proved a most enjoyable occasion.
               Thus the wedding ended; no costly bridal tour to Niagara or Boston in the interest of fashion and folly, but a quiet settling down to domestic life, with the firm conviction that happiness is to be found at home, and tours and travels are to be undertaken solely with a view to the knowledge and culture that comes to the tourist and traveler, and not for the purpose of killing time—our chief wealth—or of seeking rational enjoyment. They are objects of pity indeed, who are not happier at home than abroad.
               Deacon Jones sold to Charles Loring his crops, both in the field and barn, and closing out his furniture and stock at auction, left for the West on the first of October, with the avowed intention of locating in Kansas.
               Charles had, therefore, obtained possession of his farm, and renting the dwelling to a family on condition that they would board his hired men, had been busily engaged in putting things in shape for comfortable occupancy in the spring. His first efforts were on the barn, the frame of which he found good, and by putting on a new roof and shedding the two sides and one end, and building an addition to the other end some fifty feet long, he had, at comparatively small cost, a most roomy and convenient barn.
               His attention was next directed to the fences, which he found entirely inadequate to the protection of crops. The picket or outside fences were soon overhauled and put in repair by replacing all broken or worthless rails or stakes with new ones, and increasing the hight wherever it was too low for perfect security.
               On careful examination, the dwelling house was thought too old, as well as too old-fashioned, inconvenient and uncouth for comfort, and it was condemned to removal early in the spring. In the meantime a skillful carpenter was employed and ordered to build a neat, modern cottage of six rooms, four below and two above, care being taken to so build and situate the cottage that an addition could be set to it at small cost and without injury to its appearance. The old house, with proper repairs, would serve as a tenement house, and this would be needed, as the proper development and cultivation of this hundred-acre farm would require the labor of several men besides its proprietor, and these could be lodged here if desirable, and Stella could keep her own house if only her and Charles were to care for. It was not in the plans for Charles and Stella to be either idlers or drudges.
               Early in November Charles so far perfected his plans, in regard to the next season's operations, as to decide what portion of his fields he would plant in spring crops, and these he plowed deeply and subsoiled as much deeper, leaving the soil exposed to the action of the frost during the winter.
               The orchard lacked most of the best varieties of apples and peaches, and was almost destitute of other varieties of fruits; besides, it had been so much neglected as to be almost barren. Young Loring therefore decided to plant a new orchard west and north of the house, the other being on the south. The situation selected for the new orchard was much more favorable for all sorts of fruits than the other, for the reasons that it was on higher ground, hence dryer, and received much more protection from the forest which encircled the farm on the north and west. It was not Charles' purpose to make fruit-growing a specialty, but he wished to have a supply for home consumption at least, and some to sell. The selection only comprised a few-leading varieties of each kind of fruits usually grown on well regulated farms, and a limited quantity of grapes, blackberries, raspberries, currants, etc., etc.
               In the preparation of the ground for orchard purposes the following plan was adopted: First, it was staked off so carefully that the position the trees were to occupy was clearly defined; ditches were then cut and the laid three feet deep between each row (one way). The ground was then thoroughly plowed and subsoiled, and the trees set very shallow and the soil well mounded up about them.
               During the winter our young farmer, under the advice of his father, purchased a complete outfit of farm implements and machinery, which he stored in a room in the barn set apart for them. The object of buying these articles at this season was twofold—they would cost much less now when trade in them was dull, and time would be saved for spring work. Farmers will always find it to their interest to purchase their machinery after what is termed the trade season has closed, as most dealers would rather sell for wholesale or cost price for cash than carry a stock over.
               Charles found on pricing the same articles the next spring that he had saved full twenty per cent by pursuing this course. He also purchased his furniture and house-furnishing goods at a similar discount from the prices that rule in the hight of the season. By common consent people fit up and refurnish in the spring or fall, and this gives an immense impetus to the house-furnishing trade, and prices rule high because dealers feel independent. After the trade season is about over the prices begin to tumble, and in midsummer or midwinter they touch the lowest point.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               TAKING POSSESSION OF THE NEW FARM.
               "HARK! I hear a robbin singing," and Stella stood as if fixed with delight and interest, in the midst of the woodland path.
               "And I have found a violet," responded Charles.
               "How apropos!" they each exclaimed in a breath, and then laughed merrily at the coincident similarity of thought.
               "Yes," said Charles, "I take it as a happy omen that our little nest should be ready for occupancy just as the birds and flowers begin to make their appearance, and sing and smile their welcome to their new friends."
               It was a bright spring morning, and our young friends were on their way to their new home, to complete some minor details in the arrangement of furniture, and warm, and otherwise prepare the rooms for a little reception they were to have that evening in honor of their assuming the dignity and responsibilities of house-keepers and citizens of the neighborhood. Their hearts were responsive to every harmony and happy influence of nature, because their souls were harmonious and full of happiness; and they tripped along the woodland path hand in hand, chatting and laughing merrily, as oft they had laughed and chatted on their way to school, in the rosy mornings of the long ago.
               "There, now, make your criticisms, Charles," and Stella pointed triumphantly to the parlor.
               "I have none to offer, pet; the arrangement is perfect, as is everything your little head plans, or fingers execute."
               "Thank you, my dear, a very pretty compliment; you can take a kiss for that, sir knight."
               "Which I regard as ample reward for even much greater effort at gallantry," responded the husband, embracing and kissing her.
               "Ah! ha! that's the kind of behavior you two are up to, now you've got to yourselves, is it?"
               And Lillian bounded into the room, followed directly by Mattie and Walter.
               "You should ring, and wait till invited in, before entering a neighbor's house," said Charles, laughing and kissing his madcap sister.
               "Oh! you are going to be ceremonious, are you? All right; I shall bring my card case next time, so that if you tell me, through the key hole, you ain't at home I'll leave my card under the door."
               All laughed heartily at this burlesque upon fashionable life, which has gone to the extreme of ceremony, thereby sacrificing all heartfelt friendship to forms of etiquette.
               "Why, your parlor is a charming room," said Mattie Loring.
               "You think so, well, I advise you to save your strongest adjectives till you see my kitchen," responded Stella.
               So saying she led the girls off on a tour of inspection. coolly telling the gentlemen they were at liberty to amuse themselves as best they could.
               "You give us carte blanche, do you?" said Walter.
               "Oh yes, for the next half hour."
               "Well Charles, I propose we join, or if not permitted to do that, follow the exploring party over the new house."
               "Oh, dear! I thought gentlemen were too dignified to be curious, and preferred politics to house-keeping," chimed in Lillie. "But come along; in view of the probability that we ladies are to take charge of the political interests of the country very soon, it may be well for the gentlemen to become familiar with the details of house-keeping."
               All laughing (as who could help it?) at Lillie's wit, the party, headed by Stella, moved on into the sitting room, (which was also intended to serve as dining room in summer,) and from thence into the kitchen.
               "Delightful," said Mattie.
               "Splendid," chimed in Lillie.
               And Walter banteringly told his sister that he did not see as he could blame her for resigning her subordinate office in mother's kitchen to take command of such an impregnable domestic fortress as this.
               "You may well call it a fortress, brother; for look, the walls are all double, and therefore bomb proof. See, here are closets, cupboards and pantries on every hand; so complete is the arrangement that I need never expose myself in getting supplies; everything is here to my hand, even to water and fuel."
               "There is a good deal in having things handy," said Charles, "and one of my mottoes is, save as many steps as possible in effecting a journey. I found no cistern here when I purchased the place, and the spring of limestone water, (which is wholly unfit for use until boiled and filtered,) which supplied ail the fluids used in the house, was three hundred feet from the kitchen door. I made an approximate estimate of the distance traveled each year by this family, mainly by the old lady and her girls, in bringing water from this spring, and found it to exceed two hundred miles, one hundred of which was up hill, and with a load. At an insignificant cost I sank a cistern with capacity sufficient to supply us abundantly with water for all domestic purposes. By means of a filter the water is rendered positively pure, delicious, healthful, and being free from mineral salts, it is soft and cleansing. I planned the situation of this cistern so that the pump should reach its water, and bring it up inside the kitchen, that not only all unnecessary walking, but all exposure to inclement weather might be avoided.
               "Stella proposes to do the housework, and as I don't wish to have her broken down in health and all the elasticity and youthful vigor, as well as beauty, squandered in a few years, as in the case of most farmers' wives, I am resolved to afford her every facility for doing her work with ease and dispatch."
               "Well said, brother mine," responded Lillian. "May your noble sentiments be adopted by my future brother-in-law."
               At this, Mattie and Walter blushed visibly, while Charles and Stella smiled in a suppressed way, but otherwise took no notice of the remark.
               Looking at his watch, Charles said:
               "Come, Walter, it is almost eleven, and I want you to see my farm before dinner; so come, let's take a stroll. Let me give you a statement of my plans to begin with."
               "Proceed, I shall be delighted to hear them," said his friend.
               "Well, to begin with, I have one hundred acres of land, forty of which is forest or woodland pasture. This I shall clear of all fallen timber, underbrush, etc., and scarifying the surface to the best advantage, seed it in blue grass for winter pasture. I pursue this course for two reasons. First, winter pasture is valuable, and secondly, I wish to economise my timber and fuel. Of cultivated or plow ground, I have, say fifty-five acres, besides the portion occupied by the dwelling and other buildings, and the old orchard. Of this I shall put thirty into grass (timothy, with a slight admixture of clover.) This leaves me twenty-five acres for all other crops, ten of which will go in corn this season, ten in flax, and five in potatoes, pumpkins, squashes, melons, turnips, and other vegetables and fruits, including, of course, a bed of strawberries.
               "I shall plow as deeply as is practicable, and subsoil the entire farm, (not turning up the subsoil, but lifting and loosening it,) and manure heavily with domestic manures, using the plaster and phosphates as specifics for certain crops, especially the garden vegetables."
               "Don't you propose to underdrain?"
               "Not much this spring. I wish first to study my farm and test its qualities, before I commence this improvement on anything like a general scale.
               "I believe in drainage, and expect to drain nearly or quite my whole farm. But by next autumn I shall know where it is most needed, and how deep to put the tiles down much better than now."
               "Do you think so much meadow will pay?" asked Walter.
               "Yes, I do not doubt it, as I propose to keep cattle, sheep, and horses sufficient to consume all the hay I produce. I propose that my hay shall walk to market and bring more than fifteen or twenty dollars per ton."
               "One more question, why do you raise flax?"
               "For two good reasons. First, it is a paying crop, and secondly, it leaves the soil in the best possible condition for wheat, which crop I propose shall follow the flax."
               
               "Well, Charles, I think your plans are laid in wisdom, and you will succeed with your farm."
               "Of course I shall, and I do not say it boastingly, but I feel confident of being able to realize an average of fifteen per cent. on my investment during each of the first five years, and much more than that afterwards, and as it costs but a trifle to live on the farm, I shall add at least five hundred dollars to my capital stock, annually, without any rigid economy or wearing toil. Hark! I hear the tea bell, which, in the absence of the farm bell, has been pressed into service as a means of calling us to dinner."
               The gentlemen only quickened their pace, (for they were slowly moving toward the house when the bell rang) and soon reached the door, where Stella and Lillie met them and led them to the dining room. A capital dinner had been prepared, to which all sat down, and ate heartily, laughing and chatting as they ate, which added to their appetites, and still more to their digestive ability, for good nature and happiness are specific remedies for dyspepsia.
               After doing full justice to Stella's cooking, Walter pushed back his chair, and rising to his feet, filled his glass with pure sparkling water, and said:
               "I propose the following toast, and call upon our host for a 
                     reponse
                     response
                  : A cultivated mind, a close intimacy with nature, and useful employment are the chief requisites of happiness."
               All arose, and filling their glasses, drank to the toast; and when the others had resumed their seats, Mr. Loring said:
               "I scarce know which is most to be admired, the beauty or the truthfulness of the sentiment just uttered. Happiness is the sole end of life to the wise, and this is impossible of attainment without culture, purity, and usefulness. Culture does not exactly bring happiness, but must precede it. It prepares us for it, and in obedience to His laws, God, the author of nature, floods that soul with joy unspeakable whose avenues are opened to the myriad charms with which it is surrounded, and whose powers are dedicated to useful industry. I chose life on a farm in preference to life in a city, because I knew that in the beautiful and intricate science of agriculture, scope for mental development was more fully given than in law, medicine or theology, and because however much discussion might ensue as to the usefulness to society of the physician, lawyer or preacher, no doubt could be entertained in regard to the usefulness of the farmer, and because a more perfect and soul satisfying communion with God, the all-loving Father, is possible, in the country, amid the birds and the flowers, and the quiet blessedness of domestic love, than in any other situation in which it were possible to be placed."
               As Charles took his seat, which he did amid the applause of the party, Lillian proposed the following: "Our beautiful and accomplished hostess, an acknowledged star in every sphere she deigns to occupy; may she never suffer an eclipse, but with softened and love-lit rays, illume the pathway of him who has chosen her as his star of destiny."
               "A response by Mrs. Loring," cried all in a chorus.
               "My friends," said Stella, "I am not accustomed to speaking in a set way, but feel the obligation to respond to the truly poetic but too complimentary toast of my dear sister so strongly that I cannot forbear thanking her sincerely for it. 'Tis true I have entered a new sphere, but I have not, nor do I propose to wander from my chosen constellation of home. Do not misunderstand me; I do not, by this remark, pledge myself not to do anything but cook, and wash dishes, and sew. On the contrary, I shall endeavor to improve my mind by standard literature, and keep myself posted in regard to current events and politics, and if woman should be enfranchised in my day, (and I believe she will,) I shall vote, and I shall feel that our domestic pathway has only been cleared out and widened, so that we shall be able to walk more together than if I ceased to improve, or assume responsibilities, and allowed my husband to advance into fields of thought and duty I could not enter."
               "Bravo!" cried Lillie, amid the general applause which followed Stella's maiden speech.
               In the evening the parents of our young friends, and quite a number of other invited guests, mainly young men and girls of the neighborhood, and a few from the village, came to extend their congratulations, and join them in their house-warming. It proved a most delightful occasion; an excellent supper was spread at half-past seven, and after this was over the party adjourned to the parlor, where music, mirth, wit and sentiment ruled the hour, and at ten the party adjourned, the various members of it taking personal leave of their host and his wife, and wishing them every happiness and success.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               ON THE FARM.—A NEIGHBORLY VISIT.
               "GOOD morning, Charles. Why, I'm surprised to see you a-holt of the plow handles. You college-bred youngsters ginerly find some easier way of gitting a living than by hard work."
               Charles turned about in his furrow, and greeted his neighbor, Squire Barnes, who had reined his horse up to the fence near him.
               "I confess myself ignorant of any easier or better way of securing a support than that of agriculture. As to hard work, I find nothing on the farm one-half so hard and wearing as my studies at college; indeed, I find most farm work easy and pleasant."
               "Well, well, I only wish my boys would adopt your views, for may be they would stay at home and help me take care of the old place, which is a-gitting sadly run down, spite of all I can do. I guess I'll have to do like Deacon Jones did, sell out to some industrious, enterprising young fellow that'll bring it out, like you are a-bringin' this old place out. Why, I declare, I never saw such a change in a place as you have made in this, and I s'pose you ain't done yet."
               "Oh, no, Squire; I have only fairly begun to improve. My chief efforts are to be directed to the amelioration of the soil, as it is from that, ultimately, all my income must be drawn; and this conversation reminds me that I observed quite a large accumulation of manure about your barns, as I passed the other day. Possibly you would sell a few loads of it, and finding my supply far short of my wants I would be glad to pay you a fair price for it."
               "Well, I ought to put it on my fields, but I declare I hain't time to haul it out, and as it's a-doin' no good, but is simply in the way where it is, I guess I'll let you have a few loads at least. What's it worth a load, eh, Charley, for I never sold any manure in my life?"
               "I am willing to pay forty cents per load, and take it from the yard, or one dollar delivered."
               At this the Squires' face lit up with a smile of satisfaction, and he said:
               "I'm pretty busy, that's a fact, but I guess I'll find time to bring you fifty loads at least."
               Charles smiled at this offer, after the Squire's saying he could not find time to haul his manure to his own fields, and mentally set him down among the penny-wise and pound-foolish class of farmers. But he said:
               "You think fifty loads is all you can spare, Squire?"
               "Well, I wouldn't like to promise any more till I see how it holds out," said the Squire; "but if I have any more to spare you shall have it."
               "Very well," responded Charles; "bring it out to this field and distribute it at the rate of twenty loads to the acre."
               "Whew! what extravagance! twenty dollars an acre for manure. Why, you don't expect it's a-goin' to pay, do you? You're one of them fancy farmers, I reckon, who farm for looks and buncombe more than pay."
               "No," said Charles, "I shall do nothing but what I think will pay; I may make mistakes, but scarcely think I can in this direction. This soil has been exhausted of its vegetable elements, although still rich in minerals, and the equilibrium must be restored before its resources can be made available. I shall be able to effect much with clover, and other green crops, plowed under in time, but that takes time, and besides I must manure before I can hope to get even a rank crop of clover. On the ten acre lot adjoining this I put two hundred loads of manure ure, and seeded it down in flax. On the 1st of September I shall put it down in wheat and clover. This lot goes in corn this spring, and oats and clover next. Thirty acres of my fifty-five goes into timothy and clover. This I shall top-dress with a compost of nine parts barnyard manure, nine parts swamp muck, and two of lime, putting on ten loads to the acre. I have, besides these, five acres on which I shall grow miscellaneous crops of garden and field vegetables, potatoes, &c. On this I have hauled fifty loads of stable manure, the same of barnyard, and one hundred loads of sand from the sand bank near the ford of the creek."
               "Why, what on earth do you want with sand?" asked the Squire.
               "To warm and disintegrate or loosen the soil, and push forward my early vegetables. I shall be able, in a year or two, by this treatment of the soil, to raise five hundred bushels of sweet potatoes to the acre, and pumpkins and melons almost as thick as they can lie on the surface."
               "I s'pose you'll be for buying some fine stock and fancy chickens, as they always go with these modern notions of high farming, as it's called."
               "Yes, it is my purpose to keep the best stock I can get, and sufficient quantity of it to consume all the grain and grass produced on the farm. I purchased a cow and calf of the Jersey breed, the other day, and one of the short-horn stock, for which I paid one hundred and seventy-five dollars each, and think I got them at a fine bargain. These are all the cattle I wish at present, but as my farm will bear them I shall purchase more. Of poultry I have quite a pretty start, and shall increase my stock when I raise feed for them, and get my hennery completed. I also have some Chester White pigs, which I bought just to drink the slops and stale milk. I do not propose to keep more hogs than will do this. They are not profitable as compared with cattle and poultry."
               "I don't know but you're about right, Charles, on the hog question. I b'lieve my hogs cost all they come to."
               "I argue thus," said Charles. "Aside from the offal of the kitchen, there is nothing raised that the hog will thrive on except grain, and no crop exhausts the soil so rapidly, or costs so much labor in proportion to value, as corn; therefore, swine are not profitable beyond those necessary to consume the slops and other kitchen offal."
               "Well, I think you have some pretty good ideas, and I don't know but we old farmers could learn something from you. I s'pose you take an agricultural paper?"
               "Oh, yes, several; and the Gardener's Monthly, too, all of which I read, both for the pleasure and instruction I derive from them. You take an agricultural journal, do you not, Squire?"
               "No, not now; I did some years ago, but somehow I hain't felt able of late years; and then I don't b'lieve much in book farmin'—the readin' didn't seem to do me much good."
               "I regret to have any farmer take that view of the subject," said Charles. "I am convinced that every profession must have its literature, or it will not progress perceptibly. I am aware that our agricultural literature is not what it should be, but I also know it never will be unless the farmers help to make it so. There are not enough practical men connected with these papers as editors and contributors. We want facts developed under intelligent experiment as well as scientific theories. Agriculture is both an art and a science—one of the noblest of arts and grandest of sciences, whose future is glorious beyond our present conception. The farmer will not always be the uneducated toiler he has heretofore been, and as a class still remains, but will be a gentleman of culture and generous views, who shall deem it a pleasure and a privilege to till the soil, and see it, under his skillful treatment, groaning with the weight of its own rich products."
               "Well, friend Charles, I must say, without flattery, if ever such things come to pass it will be such men as you that will bring it about."
               "Thank you, Squire, but it is noon; ride around to the barn, where I will meet you presently, and stop with us for dinner."
               "I am much obliged to you; I believe I will, as our folks are away from home to-day."
               After caring for their horses the two gentlemen proceeded to the house, at the door of which Stella met them, and Charles said:
               "I took the liberty to invite our neighbor, the Squire, to dine with us, my dear."
               "I am glad you did," she responded. "Walk in gentlemen. How is your health, Squire, (extending her hand) I hope Aunt Tabitha and the girls are well."
               "Tolerably well, I thank you; how's your health?"
               "Oh, almost perfect," she replied, laughing. "What with contentment, employment and plenty, spiced with a profusion of domestic happiness, I could not find it in my heart to get sick. But come, dinner is ready," and she led the way to the dining room.
               "You do n't do your own housework, do you," said the Squire, addressing Mrs. Loring enquiringly, after looking about for the girl, and observing that Stella waited on the table.
               "Do my own housework! of course I do. What would I be good for if I could not keep house and cook for Charles and myself?"
               "Why, nearly every girl, when she marries now-a-days, thinks she must have a hired girl to do the work and wait on her," said the Squire.
               "There is too much truth in your remark," said Stella. "but the poor silly girls are not to blame for it, at least half so much as their parents and husbands. The first furnish them only a limited and false education, and the latter, having imbibed false notions in regard to appearances, think it lets them down in the social scale to allow their wives to do housework. It is a relict of the ignorant past, fostered by slavery and monopoly, and which must yield before an enlightened civilization. Labor is legitimate and honorable, idleness sinful and disgraceful, in the opinion of all whose opinions are worth caring for."
               "Why, Charles, your wife has about the most sensible views of these matters I ever heard, and I am right down glad I stopped with you to-day, for I like to hear you two talk."
               "We shall be glad to see you often, Squire, and your family, also, to whom please present our regards."
               On returning to the parlor the old gentleman observed the piano (which escaped his eye as he passed into dinner), and said:
               "Your wife washes dishes and plays the pianer both, I s'pose?"
               "Certainly; we have no sympathy with that aristocratic idea that one class of girls should spend their whole time in thrumming on the piano and dawdling over love-sick stories, while another does all the kitchen work. Regular daily employment is perfectly consistent with the highest culture and accomplishment."
               Returning to the dining-room door he said, "Stella, will you be so kind as to favor us with a song?"
               "With pleasure; what shall it be, Squire?"
               "Oh, I do n't know the names of many of your piany songs. There's one I heard a young lady play down at Dr. Townsend's once, which I 'd like to hear again. I believe she called it 'Sweet Home.'"
               Stella swept the keys with her fingers and began to sing that old yet never hackneyed but always sweet ballad lad. On turning toward the old gentleman at the close of the song, she observed the tears stealing slowly down his furrowed cheeks, an unmistakable evidence of the depth of sentiment that lay hid beneath that rough exterior, and she quoted, as if to herself:
               
                  
                     There is no dearth of purest feeling
                     In this world of ours;
                     'Tis only in their blindness
                     Men gather thorns for flowers."
                  
               
               The old Squire now arose and took leave of his hostess, who returned to her work, while Charles went with his visitor to the barn, and from there to his plowing.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               A VISIT TO BOSTON.
               "Here is a letter from my old college chum, Fred Holmes," said Charles, placing an opened letter in Stella's hand, as he came in from a drive to the village, one evening some four years after the events of our last chapter. "You remember hearing me speak of a covenant we have to the effect that we are to exchange visits once in five years?"
               "Oh, yes," she replied. "I have heard you speak of it often. I see he wishes us to make the first of this series of visits," said Stella, after glancing over Fred's letter.
               "Well, my dear, what do you think of it? I do not, at present, see any insuperable obstacle in my way. What are your views?"
               "Well, I like the idea. My early summer work is completed, and harvest will not be on for a fortnight, at least, and I think we might, spend a few days in traveling and sight-seeing, to advantage and without injury."
               "It being settled that we go, the next question in order is, when shall we start?" said Stella.
               "This being Saturday, we could not, very well, go before Tuesday," responded Charles.
               Frederick Holmes, junior partner of the firm of Quirk, Gammon & Holmes, Attorneys and Counsellors at Law, sat in his office listlessly watching the hurrying throng, that constantly streamed past the window, and mentally wishing some event would occur to break up the monotony of his life, if only for an hour.
               A sharp rap on, his door brings him to his feet, and the thought of a client gives activity to his limbs. 'Twas only the postman, with the 3 o'clock mail. He took it mechanically, and casting the letters carelessly upon the table, went on with his unpleasant day-dreams. Suddenly a bright thought flashed across the chaos of his reflections, and he began sorting over the letters.
               "By Jove, here it is!" an he fairly danced about the room. Suddenly stopping, he proceeded to clip the end of the envelope, whose postmark had caused him such lively pleasure, and hurriedly read the letter he drew from it. A smile of quiet satisfaction stole over his countenance, as he proceeded, and when he finished, he soliloquised thus: "Dear Charles, how glad I shall be to see him again, and Stella, God bless her, I know she is an angel for Charles says so in every letter he writes to me—she comes with him, that will be so nice. Avaunt dull care for the next five days, at least. After that what?" and the old 
                     melancholly
                     melancholy
                   flitted across the room, darkening his countenance, for a moment, by the touch of its raven wing. "Well, this old, dull, monotonous life will go on as before, I suppose."
               Suddenly his lips become compressed, his brow contracted, and his hand clenched, and rising to his feet, he said, vehemently: "By the Fates, it shall not, if I can find some pleasant channel in which to turn it. I'll consult Charles and Stella, perhaps they will urge me to go home with them. It won't take much urging, I fancy. Who knows but I may find out there in Vermont, what I have failed to find in the fashionable society of Boston, a girl I could afford to marry, with the confident expectation that she would not speedily squander my savings, and then trample upon my love, because I could not live in style."
               At 5 P. M., on the next day, Frederick Holmes might have been observed impatiently walking up and down the platform of the Depot. The train on the Vermont Central was a few minutes late, and impatience and expectation pectation were struggling together in his mind, while to calm their turbulence, he found it necessary to walk rapidly about the Depot. Hark! The shrill whistle of the locomotive breaks upon his ear, and almost immediately the expected train drew up along side of the platform and the passengers hurriedly disembarked. Keenly he watched, as one after another stepped from the cars till finally, his eye caught sight of a familiar face, and he reached his hand up, exclaiming: "Charles Loring, my old friend, how are you?"
               Charles greeted his old chum most warmly, and turning, assisted Stella and his little, three-year-old boy to alight, and immediately presented them to Fred. Catching little Walter up in his arms, and bidding Charles and Stella follow, Fred led on to a carriage he had chartered for the occasion; and in a few minutes they were set down in front of the Tremont House.
               "This is the best I can do for you, my friends, as I am a bachelor," said Fred, apologetically.
               "Please don't apologize for any thing, Mr. Holmes, and especially for such quarters as these," said Stella; "I am sure we shall be very comfortable, and I have a presentiment that I shall enjoy my visit very much."
               "You are very kind to say so, for really an old bachelor elor don't deserve to have friends, not being prepared to entertain them in a fitting manner."
               "Why, Fred, you seem to be on the stool of penitence, for your wasted opportunities," said Charles. "I shall expect to hear of your marriage, soon."
               "Wasted life you mean—I have not seen the opportunities," responded Fred. "The fact is, like most bachelors, I believe in marriage, and sigh for a home with all its charms, comforts and endearments."
               "Then why don't you marry?" said Charles. "You need not tell me you cannot, for I remember well your gallantry, as well as popularity among the belles."
               "You will accuse me of egotism, if I tell."
               "No, I promise."
               "And will you pardon me for a criticism upon your sex, Mrs. Loring?"
               "Certainly, I will pardon you in advance, for I am sure you will not make an unjust criticism."
               "Well, I have been looking for a wife, for full three years, ever since I got established in practice, and I have not found a girl or unappropriated woman whom I felt it safe to marry. They are fashionable, false, foolish, cold or silly, some times all combined. Whereas, I want a woman who is sensible, independent, earnest, sincere and loving. Do I ask too much?"
               "No, I think not," said Charles.
               "I do not see that you could be content with less," said Stella.
               "I am glad you agree with me so cordially, for, possibly, you can tell me where to look for such a treasure."
               "I guess you will have to go to the country to find her, as I did, Fred; unfortunately, however, 'Squire Moreland. has but one daughter."
               "Please, spare my blushes, Charles."
               "There is no cause for embarrassment, Mrs. Loring, as this is one of your husband's mildest compliments to you, as I could prove by reference to his letters," replied Fred.
               Tea being announced, the conversation was interrupted, and on being resumed turned upon other subjects. During the next three days our friends visited the principal places of interest in and about Boston, including Bunker Hill Monument and Harvard College, the Atheneum, Academy of Design, Public Library, Academy of Fine Arts, etc., etc. Fred did all in his power to make their visit a pleasant and profitable one, and had the assurance that he was successful. During their confidential tete-a-tetes, which old chums will indulge in when they meet, Charles learned that Fred had succeeded as well as any young lawyer could hope to, and was enjoying a comfortable income, but he was far from happy; his ideal had not been realized; the associations of his office and of the courts were not to his liking, not such as a young man of education and refined tastes could enjoy. He simply endured them because he must, and he frankly acknowledged that, uninviting as he always thought it, no labor of the farm ever had so thoroughly disgusted him as the monotonous drudgery of his office or the exciting scenes and filthy atmosphere of the Recorder's Court.
               "I tell you frankly, Charles, you were the wiser of the two, and I heartily wish I could be set down on an adjoining farm to you, with half your knowledge and skill in agriculture. I am disappointed, disgusted with the society I move in, and the only society I can get into—the fashionable. There is a good society in Boston, made up of the literati, the scientists, the progressives and the artists, but it is select, and I have no card of admission. I have neither written a book, painted a picture, proved myself a benefactor of my kind, by a scientific discovery, or given my life to the amelioration or reformation of my race. I am only a lawyer, whose business it is to probe the festering sores of society, and live off the crimes and misfortunes of my fellows."
               "You draw a dark picture, Fred, and I truly sympathize with you. But don't indulge in these gloomy reflections, but look to the future, whose horizon is still rosy with hope."
               "What is there to hope for, but a home, where I can, for a few hours each day, enjoy life and gain strength to fight the hard battle of life? I do hope for that, but I see no immediate promise of its fulfillment."
               "Why not enter the political arena? And indeed that was originally in your programme, if I remember aright."
               "My partners are politicians, and I have had a peep behind the scenes. I will not inflict upon you the details of what I saw. Suffice it to say that law is demoralizing enough, in all conscience, but politics is a maelstrom of depravity and corruption. Place hunters and political bummers are the lowest and vilest men with which our society is cursed. Occasionally, men have political honors tendered them by a grateful people for some great public service, and others because of their brilliant and conspicuous talents, are taken up by parties and put at once into high offices; but the rule is to begin at the bottom, and by aiding other thieves to reach the public store-house, they, in turn, will aid you, if they see no way by which they can sell you out to advantage. No, I can not be a politician without sacrificing what little manhood and nobility I possess."
               "I am rejoiced to find your honor and integrity invulnerable, Fred, but sorry that your life should be so uncongenial to your tastes as to make you misanthropic. And it must be so no longer. You must abandon your profession, and at once."
               "Impossible, my friend. I have gone so far, that to return would be more tedious than to go on."
               "Bad philosophy, if old Will of Stratford is the author. I refute it with a sentence more in harmony with good sense: It's never too late to mend. You can not recall the years that are flown, but you can redeem the future from their fate, and live to see that these years were not wasted, but the experience they brought is worth what it cost. My philosophy, or rather my religion, is that the mistakes and blunders we make are always living lessons of wisdom which freely compensate for all they cause us to suffer, if we maintain our purity and integrity. You needed this bitter lesson to teach you that law was not your field of labor. You have had it, now profit by it."
               "But I know nothing else, therefore, can do naught else but practice law."
               "Tell that to the marines, but pardon me if I decline to believe it. You were raised as a farmer, and with a little experience, under proper advice, which your neighbors and some good books and papers could give, you would makes capital farmer. If that does not suit you, the broad fields of literature and journalism are open before you, and with practice you would become a good writer, and good writers always succeed in this reading age. But to-morrow we go home; come, go with us, and spend a few weeks in the country. It will do you good any way, and besides, we can talk these matters over at our leisure."
               "Thank you, Charles, I accept with a grateful heart your hospitable invitation."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               IN THE COUNTRY. FACTS AND FANCIES.
               "Good morning, Fred; I fear the birds have spoiled your morning nap."
               "The birds, heaven bless them, they have honored me with a most delightful serenade during the last half hour. Why, Charley, this is a perfect paradise of a home; I have been here but one night, have witnessed but one twilight and one sunrise, and heard but one performance by your grand, rural orchestra of grove and barn-yard musicians; but I am so charmed with my experience, thus far, that I don't know how I shall ever live in the noisy, dirty, smoky city again!"
               "Don't be rash, Fred, and commit yourself to country life, till you see more of it, like the school-boy who declares his love to the first rosy-lip and roguish-eye that smiles upon him. You might repent your rashness. Nature does not always smile, the birds sing, or the flowers bloom; no, there are dark, dreary features to country life as well as to that in the city. You are looking now upon the rosy-lip and sparkling eye and listening to the musical, rippling laugh of our coy mistress. Wait till she frowns; then again, she is very exacting. He that would live in the country, must rise early and attend to the tasks of the day. This is no place for idleness, but practical duties follow each other rapidly. The twilight, the sunrise, the soft, balmy air, laden with the floweret's perfume, or the scent of the new mown hay, and the songs of the birds mingled with the shrill notes of the farm-yard orchestra are among the charms of country life. But farming is not all poetry, though, properly pursued, it is more nearly all pleasant than any life man can adopt. But there goes the breakfast-bell, and if you are ready, we will not let Stella wait while we gossip."
               "All right, lead on."
               "What a charming—excuse me, I am an enthusiastic fellow, and I wish permission to say just what I think, without being accused of flattery."
               "Granted," responded Stella, and Charles smiled his assent.
               "Then I will finish my sentence. What a charming breakfast this is; where did you learn to make such bread—I never saw anything like it!"
               "Why, my dear fellow, it is as a cook, that Stella particularly ticularly excels. Indeed, before her excellence in this branch of science, all her other accomplishments pale."
               "Come, Charles, I should be sorry to have to accuse you of flattery."
               "The truth is no flattery, my dear, and I do, in all sincerity, declare my conviction that you are the best cook I ever saw."
               "And I, although my experience in the results of her skill is limited, feel that this breakfast justifies me in fully endorsing your opinion," rejoined Fred.
               "Thank you, gentlemen; I assure you it gives me pleasure to know that I have your approval. But why should not women strive for excellence in their branches of industry as well as men in theirs. I am sure there is as much need of reform in the modes of housekeeping, and especially in cookery, as in the prevailing systems of farming."
               "Much more," rejoined Charles, "for the reason that in a large measure, health, and even life, depends upon the selection and preparation of food. It was no mere criticism or cynicism that the editor of a Georgia paper uttered when he said that '"died of a frying-pan" might truthfully be inscribed upon a majority of the tombstones of the South.' Surrounded with a profusion of the good things of life, as the farmer is, or may easily be, he is as a class the worst liver in this country. Partly, because, through parsimony or necessity, he sells the best he raises, but mainly because the popular system of cooking, is so miserable that the best food is rendered unpalatable and unwholesome. For example a first-class breakfast in the country is composed of soda biscuit soggy with lard, and often yellow with alkali, pork, beef steak or chicken, fried and swashed in grease' till the juices 
                     snd
                     and
                   natural sweetness are all destroyed, and it is so 
                     satuated
                     saturated
                   with lard and hardened by over cooking that it is both unpalatable and indigestible, potatoes, also fried in lard or boiled in a gallon or more of water, hence greasy or soggy, and coffee, so strong as to totally suspend digestion for, at least two hours, or until the vital powers have rallied from under its paralizing influence.
               "No wonder dyspepsia, liver disease, scrofula, bilious fever, sick headaches, etc., etc., prevail in the country; and no wonder that notwithstanding the healthful exercise, fresh air, and other life sustaining influences surrounding the farmer and his family, he is the shortest lived of any class in this country, and his wife an almost universal invalid, who performs her daily tasks with dragging limbs, flagging energies, and aching brain. Here is a contrast to all this: bread made of flour and sweet cream, and baked in the aerating pans; no seasoning in it but salt, and no acids, alkalies, or yeast, to destroy its sweetness or healthfulness."
               "Pardon me for asking what makes it so light."
               "Æration. The construction of the pan is such that the air incorporated into the flour in mixing, is retained, and getting hot, it expands and lightens the bread; and as pure air is wholesome, and carbonic acid gas is a deadly poison, so this bread is healthful, while soda biscuit is really poisonous in proportion to the soda and acids used in making it. So much for our bread.
               "Here is a spring chicken, broiled over hickory coals till done, but every particle of the juices and sweetness of the flesh is preserved, and being tender and free from lard, is digestible as well as palatable. The potatoes are baked with the skins on, which is the best mode of cooking, if the flavor is to be preserved; and lastly, in place of coffee we use Japan tea, the most pleasant tasted and harmless of all the imported beverages. These flanked with butter, cream, and sugar make up a breakfast less costly and difficult to prepare than the other, but far more palatable and life sustaining."
               "I agree with you fully; it not only beats the best country breakfast I ever saw, but the most elaborate and expensive bill of fare my Boston experience has ever brought me in contact with."
               "Theories are more forcible when sustained by experience, and in support of our views of dietetics and habits of life, we point with pride to the fact that we are always well and cheerful; and Dr. Barnes, on taking tea with us recently, said, 'Why, Mrs. Loring, if every family in this county lived as you do, I think I should be compelled to seek a new location, or abandon my profession. Your cooking would undoubtedly be excellent for the people, but it would starve the doctors.'"
               "But come, Fred, let's away to the fields."
               And the gentlemen, excusing themselves, sallied out for a ramble.
               "Don't you think my corn looks well."
               "Yes; capital! Why it reminds me of a river bottom field of corn. You will have fifty bushels to the acre."
               "Yes; eighty of them, I hope."
               "Eighty bushels of corn to the acre, on an upland farm? Impossible!"
               "Not at all, my dear fellow, on the contrary, it is not even surprising to the intelligent farmer."
               "Well, I can't claim to belong to that favored class, then, for I am astonished at what I see and hear, and am curious to know the secret of it."
               "This field has been under-drained, sub-soiled, manured and clovered, besides. This crop was carefully put in and has been well cultivated," replied Charles; "in a word, money and labor has been expended under the direction of brains. Here we are at the border of the wheat field, what do you have to say to that?"
               "Why, that it promises even better than the corn, but I will not risk my judgment on the probable yield."
               "What do you suppose it will reach, to be within bounds?"
               "I will say thirty-five bushels to the acre."
               "Why, that is remarkable for this country. Would be under ordinary farming, but I hope to bring my average up to forty, at least, within three years."
               "Why, man, the bulk of your farm is in meadow," said Fred, casting his eye to the left of the wheat field, "you don't find grass a paying crop, do you?"
               "Yes; the best staple crop I raise, considering the cost. My thirty acres of meadow gives me ninety tons of hay, this, by feeding it to cattle, brings me thirty dollars per ton, according to the best estimate I have been able to make. I have besides this, forty acres of blue grass pasture ture, which is worth annually twenty-five dollars per acre, and costs but little trouble or money now."
               "Why, Charles, on summing the matter up, I find your farm gives a gross income of about five thousand dollars."
               "Nearer six thousand, Fred, when you add the products of my poultry yard and vegetable garden, and to this will soon be added quite an income from my orchard."
               "Well, this is a very fine showing, but what does it. cost you to farm in this way—is it not very expensive?"
               "The land cost me twenty dollars per acre, five years ago; I spent forty dollars per acre in improvements the first year, including my buildings, and two thousand in furniture, implements stock and incidental expenses. This made an aggregate investment of eight thousand dollars, all I had; on this I have realized an annual average net profit of full twenty per cent., besides the portion of our living which came off the farm directly. Of this sixteen hundred dollars, we set apart five hundred for personal and table expenses, clothing, groceries, books, newspapers, etc. The other eleven hundred dollars I invest in stock or physical improvements of the farm, draining, manuring, etc., etc.
               "This annual investment will, in a few years, place the whole farm in the best possible condition, and stock it so thoroughly, that it will require but a small amount of my net income to keep it up, and I shall have quite a large surplus income to invest as we choose.
               "I shall not undertake to give you a statement of the other dividends Stella and I have realized during the years we have lived here, in the way of moral improvement, mental culture, and happiness. These are our legitimate perquisites and, as in the case of some public offices, the perquisites are far more valuable than the regular salary. With too many, life is a continued struggle for existence or scramble for wealth, with us it is opportunity for culture, that we may not only be happy here, but prepared to take a high position in that celestial society we are destined to join when our earth life is over, and where men and women are rated at their real worth, and not by appearances, as too often here, and where love is wealth and virtue, and culture, honor."
               During the afternoon, Charles being engaged, Fred was left to his own resources, and taking his portfolio he strolled out to make some sketches of the place, he being something of an amateur artist. In the course of his rambles he struck the pathway leading through the woodland pasture toward 'Squire Loring's farm, and, following lowing it, soon found himself amid a most lovely forest scene, which stretched away in every direction.
               Seating himself at the foot of a large tree, and spreading his tools out about him, he prepared for work.
               "I will make a sketch of this scenery to the north, comprehending the brook, with its rustic foot bridge and the mill beyond," said he, soliloquizing to himself. "And there is an imaginary Wood Nymph reclining upon the bridge and gazing into the rippling stream below," and he busied himself with his pencil, which needed sharpening.
               On looking up he started with surprise, almost amounting to superstitious fear, and exclaimed, "Zounds! this beats all the fairy legends I ever read. Surely this is enchanted ground, and my thought has been regarded in the light of a command by some good geni."
               The innocent cause of this burst of enthusiastic rhapsody was none other than our winsome friend, Lillian Loring, who, being on her way to her brother's residence, had stopped, as was her wont, to watch the little fishes play in the stream below the bridge. Long she gazed into the water, leaning in the meantime upon the rustic balustrade of the bridge, just in the position Fred would have her occupy in his picture, and rapidly his pencil flew lest the spell might be broken by the disappearance of this lovely fairy. Suddenly, and just as he gave the last stroke of his pencil to her picture, Lillian broke the spell that bound her to this spot, and ran rapidly along the pathway leading south, and passing within a few feet of where Fred sat, giving him an excellent opportunity to gaze on her beauty, while yet unseen by her, and, although quite beautiful before, he retouched his picture of her, greatly to its advantage.
               Finishing up the details of his sketch, and musing pleasantly upon his romantic adventure, Fred retraced his steps, and soon reached the house of his friendly host. Slipping quietly in, he gained his own room without observation, and dressed for tea with more than ordinary care, alternately gazing upon the central figure in his sketch, and listening to catch the sound of a strange voice, for he felt sure that his fairy sprite had been on her way to the Loring mansion. His curiosity was not destined to torture him long, for tea time was approaching, and presently he heard the welcome sound of the bell. On reaching the parlor, Fred met Charles entering, who, after asking how he had passed the time, walked out and soon returned, followed by a lady, whom he introduced as his sister Lillian.
               Fred advanced, and grasping her offered hand, said:
               "I am glad to make your acquaintance, Miss Loring."
               "Thank you. I am happy to meet you, sir, and assure you I have known you too long and intimately, need I say favorably? through my brother, to regard you as a stranger."
               "I am truly happy to find myself on such good footing in Miss Loring's favor, and hope we shall be excellent friends."
               "Indeed I hope so. And now, gentlemen, will you walk out to tea?" said Lillian, leading the way.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               CONCLUSION.
               We have followed the fortunes of Charles Loring and his lovely and sensible wife, Stella, thus far on the road to ultimate success, and leaving them in their home, surrounded by all that can make their young lives joyful, and with their bright anticipations of reaching the ideal goal, of every true man and woman, in the glorious future, whose morning sunbeams of promise have hitherto illumined their pathway, we bid them adieu for the present, at least.
               Mr. Loring and 'Squire Moreland, both of whom have been, and still are, deeply interested in their children's happiness, often congratulate each other upon their 
                     briliant
                     brilliant
                   success, and point with pride to Charles and his farm as a refutation of the idea, too prevalent among young men, that farming as a business is beneath the notice of a talented and educated man.
               Walter and Mattie have been married four years, and are successful and happy as proprietors of the old farm, referred to in our third chapter, and which Walter's father presented to him on his wedding-day, Mattie's portion being in cash, with which to improve and stock it.
               Frederick Holmes returned to Boston after a most delightful visit of two weeks, during which he contrived to render himself a general favorite with all he met, both young and old; and what was still more gratifying to him, he so won upon the regards of the beautiful and sprightly Lillian as to secure her as a regular correspondent. At last accounts letters were passing between them quite frequently. The nature of this correspondence we leave the reader to guess, we not being in the confidence of the parties to it. Coming events cast their shadows before, however, and the shadows in this instance point to a second and last wedding at the Loring mansion, at no distant day; and should we visit the neighborhood of Waveland a year hence, we should not be surprised to find Fred and Lillian joint proprietors of 'Squire Barnes' farm. If our guess hits, we shall deem it our pleasant privilege to visit them, and congratulate Lillian on having learned the last name of the future female Governor of the State, and Fred on having at last found a profession worthy the devotion of a true and cultivated manhood.
            
         
      
   
