
    ----CITATION----
        Bogart, W. H. (1810-1888). Quentin Durward .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5842
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               QUENTIN DURWARD, 
               THE LOSER AND THE WINNER. 
             
          
          
             
             
               QUENTIN DURWARD, 
               THE LOSER AND THE WINNER. 
             
            PRIVATELY PRINTED. 
            
               ALBANY: 
               JOEL MUNSELL.
             
            1869. 
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            About Christmas time, a gentleman was reading to his family, at his home on the banks of the Cayuga, that glorious historical romance of Quentin Durward, in which Sir Walter Scott, by his learning as by his genius, woke Louis XI out of the dusty chronicle of French kings, and made him illustrious, as a ruler, however deep the doom over him of the world's judgment, as a man. Fascinated with the story, the book was only too brief. It was felt as if the scene of Quentin's success should have been prolonged and his triumph made more enduring enjoyment to the reader. The book was the theme of thought and conversation, when one of the young ladies declared that after all, according to the rule of chivalry, Quentin did not fairly win the beautiful Countess of Croye, for he kept to himself the secret information which the Countess had caused to be conveyed to him, that De La Marck was to wear his dress of battle copied after that of Dunois; that in all right had he been a thoroughly honorable man and true knight he would have given that secret out to all, that all might have contended on equal grounds, and that he ought not therefore to have won the Lady of Croye. 
            The gentleman thought that Quentin was a modest and a young man, and that he was entirely blameless in "taking the good the gods provided;" and that in her loveliness he had a prize too exquisite to be hazarded in a sublimated question of perhaps suicidal generosity. 
            And thus differing, it was agreed that, as an intellectual exercise, the young ladies should prepare chapters in continuation, reversing Quentin's good fortune, and the gentleman furnished chapters, establishing his brilliant destiny; and that these literary tasks should be exchanged by the suceeding 10th of January, which was done. They are now printed only for private circulation among friends, who perhaps may be amused or interested by them. 
            
               Aurora, Cayuga Lake, 1869.
             
            The original ends with Chapter 38. 
          
       
      
         
            Quentin Durward 
             
             
               PROPOSED CONTINUATION OF QUENTIN DURWARD. 
               QUENTIN, THE LOSER. 
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIX. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "O Woman! in our hours of ease, 
                              Uncertain, coy, and hard to please, 
                              And variable as the shade 
                              By the light quivering aspen made!" 
                           
                         
                        WALTER SCOTT. 
                      
                   
                  The general excitement which attended the death of William De La Marck, and the final award of the hand of the Countess Isabelle to Quentin Durward, having in some degree subsided, and the city being restored to comparative tranquillity, measures were instantly taken by the crafty Louis and impatient Charles, for the celebration of those nuptials which had so long agitated the fate of two great princes. 
                  The king, secretly rejoicing at the happy planet which had presided so benignantly over his cherished plan of uniting Orleans to the Princess Joan, and no less pleased at the fortunate termination of his own imprisonment at Peronne, professed himself unwilling to return to France without witnessing the marriage of the Countess of Croye, to "his gallant archer," as he assured Quentin he should always consider him even though his allegiance were transferred to Burgundy. The proposition of the ever ready Crvecour that the countess should at once be conducted to Liege, met with the hearty approval of the two princes, Louis not being disposed to venture again into the dominions of Charles, and the duke in his turn accepting the city of the late bishop as a sort of neutral ground, where a fresh dispute with his recent enemy might be successfully avoided. Nothing would have pleased the impatient spirit of Quentin Durward better than to set out at once to conduct his bride to Liege in person, but this of course was impossible. Crvecur, to whom the proposal was made, observing satirically that "distance was such a powerful enchanter that his success with the fair Isabelle would be greatly favored by judiciously remaining where he was." "Women," said the count, "value every thing in proportion to its difficulty. Do you, gallant Quentin, stay your impatience, and employ your time in thanking the saints that you had a brave uncle to finish the wild boar for you," Durward, controlling his anger, submitted with the best grace he could assume, and consoled himself in the composition of an elaborate missive, which Crvecur promised should be faithfully delivered to the countess. It seemed to Quentin that in every stage of his wooing, fresh difficulties presented themselves, the question of the Countess Isabelle's escort involving more serious discussion than at first appeared. The Scottish archers eager to honor their comrade's success, insisted upon forming part of the cortege; while the Burgundian nobles were equally desirous of participating in an event which promised to reconcile the unhappy differences which had threatened such disastrous consequences. It was the duke's wish that Count Crvecur should assume command of the escort; but the presence of that experienced nobleman was too necessary to preserve peace between the rival princes to render his absence from Liege a prudent measure. 
                  "If it pleases your grace," said the count, when arranging the details of the expedition with Charles and Louis, "I think your wishes will be well executed by my nephew the Count Stephen, who, although young, conceals much sagacity and forethought under his gay exterior." "He certainly deserves some slight indemnity for losing the lady himself in spite of your valorous efforts to slay the boar," replied Charles, "so do as you will, but, think you, the Scottish archers will consent to his leadership?" "Nay," said Louis, "France must go under her own banner; and Dunois, I believe, has petitioned already for the honor." A shade of embarrassment crossed the count's face. "I fear I am the bearer of a proposition which may not suit your majesty so well; his grace of Orleans has proffered his services, and only waits your majesty's sanction to lead your brave lances at once to Peronne." "The duke's self-sacrifice impresses me," said Louis sarcastically, "and I appreciate the disinterested efforts of my fair cousin of Burgundy to spare me the trouble of expressing a wish, by anticipating its fulfillment." "Nay," answered Charles hastily, "the plan is none of ours; Orleans or Dunois, I care not, you may even send Le Balafr if that suits your royal pleasure better, without interference of mine." "And I," said Count Crvecur, "can only assure your majesty that his highness's project was only communicated to me not an hour since, and that he will soon appear in person to plead his own cause." "He pleads it now," said the voice of Orleans, who suddenly entered, "I most earnestly request your majesty to grant this favor." "Ah! Louis," said the king, regaining his usual studied urbanity, "would you put my patience to another trial? have I not endured enough for your capricious passion, without this fresh proof of folly?" "A few weeks ago," replied Orleans in a subdued but firm tone, "your majesty's objections might have been reasonable, but now I go only to bring that happiness to another, which is forever denied to myself." "Go then," said Louis "if it must be-and at once-for in times like these kings have weightier duties than to dance attendance on fickle damsels and romantic princes." "Enough then," said Charles, "Crvecur, thou wilt see that all is in readiness to depart by day-break." The count bowed and retired, secretly indulging in all sorts of hard wishes toward Quentin and Isabelle who had occasioned him such perplexing anxiety. The earliest dawn saw the departure of the escort, which presented a gallant array, consisting in all of forty men at arms, France and Burgundy being equally represented. Count Stephen promised the utmost discretion, and listened with profound attention to the parting injunctions laid upon him by his uncle, while the duke at the head of his lances bore himself with an air of dignified composure, well suited to his high rank. Of course Quentin Durward was conspicuous among the spectators. The mere sight of Orleans, was sufficient to enrage him beyond measure, and it was with difficulty ficulty that Lord Crawford prevented him from making his indignation manifest; his letter transferred by Crvecur to the duke, was received with a solemn promise to deliver it to the countess in person, though it is probable that could Quentin have foreseen the ambassador, he would have reserved all explanation until they met. "Praised be all the saints that I have lived to see this hour?" exclaimed Crvecur to the Seignor D'Hymbercourt, as they watched the flashing lances and gay banners as they disappeared in the blue distance, "what with keeping the peace between jealous princes and romantic gallants, I am well nigh exhausted; truly if deeds are to win this lady my chance would outweigh all the rest; they are fairly started, which is more than I ever expected to live to behold, and I trust with all my heart that Stephen will play no pranks, that Orleans will not ventures to act the knight errant again; and finally, that this may be the last love affair in which unhappy Philip Cords is concerned." "And how prospers young Durward?" said D'Hymbercourt laughing, "methought the youth had a fiery spirit and could ill brook delay." "Oh! he is learning philosophy with the Countess Hameline," replied Crvecur shrugging his shoulders, "she weeps her lost William in yonder tower, and has sent for Durward to question him by way of consolation." "Her chance of favor with either party seems doubtful now," said D'Hymbercourt. "Nay." replied Crvecur, "since Louis left Earl Herbert's tower with his head in safety, I shall never despair of reconciling fire and water, much less an artful woman and two rival monarchs." "I would that Louis's good-will toward Burgundy was as sincere as that of Orleans seems to be" said the baron, "Oh! that is easily accounted for, 'where the treasure is, there will the heart be also,'" quoted Crvecur, as they left the battlements and descended to the city. While this conversation was taking place, Quentin Durward having watched the escort until out of sight, repaired to obey the summons of the Countess Hameline, in a frame of mind as far removed from amiability as can be conceived. After some delay he was admitted to the presence of the lady. She was dressed in the deepest mourning and professed herself heart-broken at the death of De La Marck. She had sent for Durward, she said, that he might behold the wreck his cruelty had made. She little thought his open bearing concealed such deep design and treachery; she forgave him all, yes, all, and at this crisis she removed her handkerchief from her eyes and looked at him beseechingly; but she must beg him to tell her to her kinswoman, the Countess Isabelle, and of all the terrible events since the day that had deprived her of her William, and as the Duke of Burgundy had positively forbidden her quitting the Castle, she knew nothing of what was happening; her own fate even was wrapped in darkness; she had heard that a coarse wretch, named Le Balefr, was to wed her niece-was it true? Quentin Durward returned answers as brief as were consistent with respect to the afflicted lady, who listened to him with an air of pleased attention, which she could hardly have been expected to accord the murderer of her husband, as she had previously styled him; but when he ventured to undeceive her as to the fortunate suitor of the Countess Isabelle, her whole manner changed, and bursting at once into a torrent of reproaches and tears, besought him to leave her presence and never return; two requests which Quentin was well pleased to obey. Leaving the impatient lover to console himself as best he can, we will return to the Countess of Croye, who it will be remembered had remained with her kinswoman, the abbess, at the Ursuline convent near Peronne. The mind of the countess, as will be imagined, was a prey to distracting doubts and fears during the days which held her fate in suspense. Left to calm reflection she deeply regretted the imprudence which had led to such unhappy consequences, and bitterly reproached herself with the weakness which had placed her hand as a reward for a feat of arms, which might be accomplished by one as utterly uncongenial to her feelings as the wild boar of Ardennes himself. There is nothing which dispels romantic illusion so effectually as a return to the ordinary routine of life. The countess had so long played the part of an errant damsel, that she had almost ceased to think of herself in any other light; but now, she was surrounded once more by friends who treated her with all the deference due her distinguished rank, and in whose eyes she was painfully conscious, her attachment to Quentin Durward was regarded circumstances of their journey; and his devotion, which in retrospect seemed almost presumption, that she, the young and beautiful Countess of Croye, for whom kings had fought, and at whose feet a royal coronet had been laid, should become the wife of a Scottish archer of King Louis's guard, roused the spirit of her knightly ancestors, and flashed upon her with convincing force. True, she had owed him her life, and his protecting care had been encouraged by her forlorn situation, in which the most trifling kindness was magnified in her grateful eyes; but now in more serious thought, contemplating as she was compelled to do the uncertain issue of the conflict which was to decide her fate, she could not but repent the rashness which had so decidedly rejected the prince, and given such marked encouragement to the archer. Tidings of the capture of Liege and the death of De La Marck, reached Peronne in conflicting rumors, of the successful issue of the battle, all agreed; but the event of all others most important to Isabelle seemed the last to be decided. A soldier who had been at Liege, at last arrived with the information that the victor was Dunois, a report contradicted the next hour by a wandering leader of Free Lances, who positively affirmed that the Seignor D'Hybe-court or Lord Crawford of the Scottish Archers, had avenged the bishop's death. Nay, he added, some said a common man at arms had won the prize, and was even now on his way to claim his bride. Convent walls may usually exclude the idle gossip of the outside world, but in this instance the sisters of St Ursula, from novice to abbess, were as eager to hear and as anxious to report as the veriest news-monger in Peronne. The Countess Isabelle listened with intense agitation as each successive rumor was repeated, and clung in despair to the Countess Crvecur who paid her frequent visits, when the final report of Le Balefr's success was related by the abbess. "What shall I do?" she exclaimed, "how can I sufficiently expiate the sinful impatience which has led to all this trouble-a man at arms did you say? alas! he may be one in every way unworthy a daughter of Croye." "He must be noble of necessity," said the Countess Crvecur, "but methinks fair kinswoman, it would have been more seemly had you always exercised such prudence towards men at arms." Isabelle blushed deeply and hid her face in her hands, while the lady resumed. "Take courage and do not suffer yourself to be distracted tracted by these vague reports, not one of which probably bears the semblance of truth; the Baron D'Hybercourt and Lord Crawford are mentioned also, and it is possible that fortune may favor you so far as to assign the victory to that representative of the Scottish guards who has won such signal marks of your approbation." "Alas! dearest lady," replied Isabelle, "I must suffer the penalty of my own imprudence, I cannot, dare not, dispute the will of the duke again, and must endeavor to resign myself to whatever fate awaits me." This was but one of many conversations which served to convince Isabelle of her folly, and persuaded the Countess Crvecur, that her affection for Durward, when without the stimulus of opposition, was more transient than she had at first supposed. It was toward the close of the third day after the departure of the escort from Liege, that Peronne was roused by the shrill blast of trumpets announcing their arrival. They were hailed with every demonstration of joy, and the whole city became jubilant as the happy result of the battle was made known The Duke of Orleans and Count Stephen soon separated themselves from the rest of the party; and, followed by a few attendants galloped toward the convent of St. Ursula. Isabelle and the Countess Crvecur at once divining the cause of the excitement which so suddenly pervaded the city, watched with feverish impatience the approach of the cavalcade, unable at that distance to distinguish the banners, whether of France or Burgundy. It is impossible to say which emotion predominated in the bosom of the countess as the waving pennons heralded the advance of the duke and count, along the narrow and rocky path leading to the convent; a sense of relief that her harrowing suspense was to be terminated, or distracting fear as to what the certainty might be. The Countess Crvecur narrowly watched her young charge, as with a quick start she recognized the crest of Orleans, and a murmured thanksgiving burst from her lips; but the countess was quick to discover the cloven heart, her husband's well known cognizance, and turning to her agitated companion, exclaimed joyfully, "Safe, dearest Isabelle, Orleans or Crvecur it matters not, either is fit to mate with the daughter of Croye." "Angels and saints be praised," said Isabelle raising her eyes to heaven as she devoutly crossed herself, "and forgive their unworthy child her lack of faith; I may indeed have much to regret, but thank heaven naught to fear." At this moment the abbess appearing at the doorway summoned them to the anteroom. "The Duke of Orleans and Count Stephen of Crvecur await your pleasure, my daughter," she said, "and may our lady protect and guide thee aright." "Courage, Isabelle," said the countess as she supported her trembling form, "all may yet be well; remember it is the chivalry of France and Burgundy that you meet and fear nothing." "Do not leave me dearest kinswoman," said Isabelle with a violent effort for composure, "without your kind counsel I should scarcely have survived to this hour." With these words they entered the audience chamber, a long low room where the deep windows admitted enough of the crimson light of sunset to lend a glow to the fair face of Isabelle, who leaning on the stately countess, herself a renowned beauty of Burgundy, seemed to the partial vision of Orleans a prize worth the blood of kings. "We welcome your highness," said the Countess Crvecur, "and you too, fair nephew, but what gallant deeds have promoted you to the dignity of ambassador? what news from Liege? how went the battle?" The Duke of Orleans appeared overcome with agitation at the sight of Isabelle, while the careless gayety of Count Stephen relieved the embarrassment of a pause. "The battle, fair aunt, has gone right joyously, and the bishop is avenged, as heaps of slain may testify. The wild boar has fought his last, and"-with a slight hesitation, glancing toward the still silent Orleans-"and Quentin Durward of the Scottish Archers by virtue of the deed begun by his own hand, and completed by his Uncle Ludovic Lesly, called Le Balefr, who resigned his pretensions in his nephew's favor-claims his reward." The Countess Crvecur turned to Isabelle in whose cheeks the color rose to almost hectic brilliancy "And I" said Orleans, "should you doubt these, to you most happy tidings, am the bearer of a letter from Quentin Durward, which will dispel all fears more effectually than any words of mine, and it only remains for me to unite with king and court in bearing witness to the bravery which has gained our admiration even though it takes from us what we had gladly died to win." He tendered the letter with a deep deference as he spoke. "And we," said Count Stephen, "are deputies, his grace of Orleans on the part of king Louis of France and myself as the unworthy representative of Burgundy to act as escort and to convey you, Isabelle Countess of Croye, to the City of Liege, there to bestow your hand upon Quentin Durward of Glen Houlakin, archer in king Louis's Scottish Guards, and are commanded to leave Peronne by break of day that these nuptials may be celebrated in the presence of both sovereigns without further delay." Count Stephen having delivered his official message, bowed and retired to the further end of the room, with the air of one who has successfully discharged an important duty. "My Lords," said the countess, "methinks it would have been as well to have waited my decision, 'ere delivering this hasty summons. Unhappy fate has assigned my hand as the reward for the death of William De La Marck, but I am resolved to abide the result only as it comports with my own wishes, and those of my liege of Burgundy; and I crave your indulgence while I peruse this letter, which perchance may present more clearly the claims Seignor Durward is entitled to advance." 
                  The duke averted his eyes with instinctive delicacy while Isabelle, striving to catch the fast fading light, read the letter; the conscious blushes which the opening lines summoned to her face, were speedily dispelled by an expression of cold displeasure which deepened into disdain as she finished the missive. 
                  "Gentlemen," she said, "I would inquire why, among all the chivalry who contended for the boar's head, Seignor Durward was the only one so singularly favored by fortune as to recognize him in his disguise? Surely you all knew that he had assumed the arms of the brave Dunois. My unhappy aunt, the Countess Hameline, having communicated to me the intended deception, I deemed it but truth to my country to spread the information, and to that end addressed with mine own hand some lines to Seignor Durward apprising him of the fact, and believing that by him the news would reach every knight, who entered the lists." The duke and Count Stephen exchanged glances of extreme surprise. "Now, by St. Dennis," said Orleans, "this is the first breath of such a plot. Several knights, it is true, bore the arms of De La Marck, and Dunois himself was on his way to avenge the insult offered by him who had dared to don his crest. When attracted by one of these false knights, he turned to slay the supposed boar, and found, as did Count Crvecur and many others that their blood had been shed in vain, except as the world is rid of a monster in the death of every one of that infamous band." "I am sure this was not generally known," exclaimed Count Stephen. "Quentin Durward, must have cherished his secret carefully, for beyond a proposed attack to be made at night by men bearing French devices, which he learned from the wretched Bohemian, Hayraddin Magranbin, he communicated nothing." "I am loth to believe such tidings of young Durward, for he seemed a goodly youth, though impetuous and perhaps rash," said Countess Crvecur; "but fair nephew, I would learn from you how fares my lord, and our friends of Burgundy?" so saying she joined the count, who stood in one of the deep embrasures formed by the windows, thus leaving Isabelle and Orleans in comparative privacy. "Dear lady, I would fain have spared your kindly heart these tidings, which must pain you so deeply," said the duke in a tone of tender sympathy. "Judge not the youth hastily, he must be more than mortal who would relinguish any advantage which might win for him such a reward. Perchance he indulged the hope that the Countess Isabelle had shown him such grace as to reveal to him alone the important secret." "No, no, my Lord," said the countess, with impatient decision, "it must be a timorous knight who would avail himself of aught that was not shared with the brave companions, who were to face death for the same prize. Seignor Durward has shown signal presumption in deeming that I, a daughter of Croye, could for an instant stoop so low as to distinguish one by special mark of favor, where all were alike gallant and worthy of confidence." "But reflect, 'ere you condemn so harshly," resumed the duke, "you cannot appreciate the temptation. The sun is not conscious of its own power, and believe me the bravest knight in Christendom might well have hesitated to share a secret so cherished. Had I-" he suddenly checked himself and remained silent. "And had your highness so far forgotten the honor of chivalry, I trust your ambassador might have plead your cause as eloquently as you plead Seignor Durward's. But yours are the last lips from which I thought to hear treachery excused, and audacity justified," answered the countess haughtily, drawing back from the duke, her face flushing crimson. "You are cruel, lady Isabelle. My unhappy passion has been already sufficiently punished; it was your own lips which pronounced my doom at Peronne, else had the mandate of kings fallen powerless before your slightest wish, and Louis of Orleans had asked no happier fate, than to die for a tear, as he would gladly live for a smile." "Alas! my Lord," said the countess, sadly, while tears filled her beautiful eyes, "it is my unhappy lot to bring misfortune upon all those who have ever showed me kindness, and why should you bestow thought upon one, whose smiles and tears are alike unavailing. I go to meet the recompense of my folly, in the fate which it is too late to resist." "It is not too late," exclaimed Orleans passionately, "give me but one word of hope and all the armies of France and Burgundy cannot tear you from me." "Your highness has not considered the sacrifice. Could you resign the sceptre of the fair realm of France for one whose blighted beauty and saddened heart could offer but a poor compensation?" said Isabelle withdrawing her hand from the duke's clasp. "Can you doubt for an instant that I would joyfully resign these baubles for your sake?" he replied fervently. "What are crowns to me who can gain them only through a union, alike unhallowed and unhappy?" The countess's answer was prevented by the approach of Lady Crvecur, who reminded Isabelle that they must seek necessary rest for their early journey of the morrow. The duke and count at once withdrew, and Isabelle pale and agitated retired to her chamber to pass a troubled night in slumbers broken by conflicting doubts and fears. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XL. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "So doth the greater glory dim the less: 
                              A substitute shines brightly as a ring, 
                              Until a ring be by." 
                           
                         
                        SHAKESPEARE. 
                      
                   
                  The day rose bright and clear, and even the drooping spirits of the Countess Isabelle could not resist the invigorating influence of the fresh morning air, as surrounded by the brave knights of France and Burgundy she left the walls of Peronne. Countess ess Crvecur was at her side, and the Duke of Orleans close beside her rein conducted himself with an air of deferential gallantry, which served to strengthen the favorable impression previously excited by his chivalrous behavior. The journey was of course performed with all the speed consistent with the pleasure of the ladies, and the country freed from the predatory raids of De La Marck's Lanzknechts, presented no obstacles to their rapid progress. Orleans relieved Isabelle from all apprehensions of any advantage which might have arisen from her defenseless situation, to urge his passion, and only evinced his recollection of their conversation at the convent by an increased deference which had in it as much of humility as hope. The constant vivacity of Count Stephen enlivened the depression which clouded the spirits of the duke and countess, and the faltering courage of Isabelle was supported by Countess Crvecur who promised to use her utmost influence with the Duke of Burgundy, should he insist upon the fulfillment of her promise to Quentin Durward. The breach of confidence on his part had destroyed the lingering traces of the countess's affection more effectually than the combined threats of France and Burgundy. He appeared to her disenchanted vision deprived of the halo of romance, which circumstances had shed around him, and the unfair advantage taken of her information quite neutralized the impression which his individual achievements might have produced. Quentin Durward, a court favorite, prosperous and flattered, the winner of her hand, to whom she was brought as a certain reward, was a much less interesting person than the Duke of Orleans who, once rejected, still asked nothing but to devote his life, nay, resign his crown for her sake. 
                  The third day of their journey was drawing to its close, when the practised eye of Count Stephen discerned in the distance a troop of horsemen apparently advancing, though he could not distinguish in the deepening twilight whether friend or foe, but 'ere their movements could give him cause for alarm, they suddenly wheeled around, and taking another road soon disappeared; not however, before the ladies, whom constant danger had made apprehensive, observed the manuvre and inquired the cause. "Oh, it is nothing," said Count Stephen; "perchance some Free Lances; the only wonder is that we have not been compelled to draw swords 'ere this in the defense of our fair charge." "The country ought to be eternally grateful toward those who have freed it from the curse of De La Marck's robbers." "Shall we reach Liege by daybreak think you, fair Nephew?" said Countess Crvecur; "this lovely night seems propitious for our rapid progress." "Oh! would we were there now," said Isabelle shuddering. "Once within its strong walls, methinks I should never care to leave its protection." "Alas!" said the duke, who had ridden by her side in silent abstraction, "had I the wand of an enchanter, I would fain bid these hours linger forever, since with the morrow's sun my brief dream of bliss will vanish like the mist." "Ah! noble Orleans," said Isabelle, "can you doubt that I also dread the morrow, since it takes from Isabelle of Croye, her freedom, the only remnant of past joys;" and overpowered with grief she burst into tears. "But why should you weep, Countess Isabelle," said the duke, as he drew closer to her side and watched her agitation with evident distress, "since the gates of Liege holds one who would give his best blood to gratify your slightest wish, and who hopes to meet in his bride the reflection of his own joy." "Pardon my momentary weakness, I was wrong to betray to your highness the misery I must henceforth bear alone and unaided," said Isabelle with cold dignity. "Do you mark, dearest kinswoman, the brilliancy of you stars those bright symbols in which some tell us our fate may be read;" she continued, turning to the countess, who, engaged in conversation with her nephew, lingered slightly behind. The night was indeed one of unusual beauty even for that soft climate, the moonlight flashed resplendently on the burnished arms of the soldiers, and rendered every object as clear as day. Anxious to complete their journey the ladies had departed from their ordinary habit, and had resolved to ride all night in order to reach Liege if possible by early morning. The silence, naturally resulting from the tranquillity of the hour, was deepened by the anxious reflections which occupied the minds of the duke and countess, and extended itself to the entire party. Even Count Stephen was subdued, and the attendant horsemen rode along quiet as moving statues. It was perhaps owing to this unwonted stillness that the Duke of Orleans, with an ear rendered acute by constant practice, was the first to distinguish a sound like the distant trampling of horses' hoofs, although the closest scrutiny could discern no living object. He had scarcely communicated his suspicions to Count Stephen, when all doubt was ended by the sudden appearance of a body of troopers, who galloped rapidly over the hill, which had until then hid them from view. They were armed from head to foot, and bore on their shoulders the cognizance of the wild boar. A knight clad in bright armor and mounted on a white horse was conspicuous at their head who rising in his stirrups shouted to his followers, and laying his own lance in rest, rushed toward the plain like a whirlwind. Count Stephen, with the rapidity of lightning, gave the order to advance, and placing himself at the head of his men was gone in an instant; while Orleans remained to reassure Isabelle, whose spirit rising to the emergency, was firm and collected though pale as ashes. "Take these ladies brave archers," he said, "and conduct them with all speed towards Liege; remember that one of them claims your utmost care as your comrade's bride, and prove that you are not unworthy of the trust. Farewell, dearest Isabelle; and believe that I bless the hour which allows me to prove my devotion in deeds." He put spurs to his horse and was soon in the very midst of the skirmish which was now raging fiercely, the air rent with conflicting war cries, the clashing of steel. The determined resistance of both parties, promised a more formidable contest than at first appeared. The group surrounding the ladies seemed to become the special object of attack, for their flight was speedly intercepted by the advance of several horsemen, led by the knight whose brilliant armor rendered him so preeminent. "Holy Virgin guard us!" ejaculated Isabelle seizing the countess's hand, as she recognized the knight's features beneath his raised vizor; "it is Campo-Basso, the vile, the treacherous Italian; better die a thousand deaths than to fall into his hands." "There is no human help," said the Countess Crvecur, "we must trust in heaven and meet our fate bravely." The Scottish archers, true to their high reputation, fought desperately; but the superior numbers of the enemy were fast obtaining the ascendancy, when the duke, followed by some of his bravest knights, rushed to the rescue, and soon repulsed them with severe loss. Campo-Basso, however, not diverted from the object of his desperate venture, had succeeded in approaching the Countess Isabelle sufficiently near to seize her bridle rein, when the voice of Orleans commanding him to release her, accompanied by a fearful sword thrust, compelled the count to defend himself, and thus afforded Isabelle opportunity to join the Countess Crvecur, who, surrounded by the guard, was once more in comparative safety. Meanwhile the contest between Orleans and Campo-Basso raged with unabated fury, each knight fighting with fierce energy, and the bright moonlight showed the ground slippery with the blood which poured from a severe wound in the duke's shoulder. The great personal strength of Campo-Basso was, however, more than matched by his antagonist's dexterity, and he was on the point of being unhorsed, when the victorious shouts of Count Stephen's men roused Campo-Basso to a sense of his hopeless situation, and suddenly relinquishing the combat, he galloped as fast as his steed could take him toward his retreating followers, pursued by Orleans until recalled by the necessities of his own party. The spectacle presented after the confusion of the fray had subsided was truly pitiable; the field strewn with dead bodies, or men in the last agonies of a painful death; the broken armor and bloody weapons all testifying to the fury of the fight. Nor had the escort escaped without serious loss. One of the Scottish archers forfeited his life in defending his charge, and another was desperately wounded. Of Count Stephen's brave Burgundians, three were left dead on the field, and a number bore honorable marks of their valor. The French men at arms, had also suffered severely, and the exultation over victory was saddened by regret for their loss. Count Stephen, true to his chivalrous ancestry, bore himself with distinguished gallantry, and joined Orleans with a deep shadow over his usually joyous face. "St. George of Burgundy!" he exclaimed, "who would have believed that one brief hour could bring such woe? alas, my poor Burgundians! I would I could restore you to life, but Campo-Basso's men fought like their old master, the wild boar, and even he, showed stout resistance, as I fear your highness's wounds bear witness," he added as the scarf saturated with blood which Orleans had carelessly tied over his shoulder, met his gaze. "You are grievously hurt; will not your highness dismount and allow your wounds to be dressed?" "'Tis but a trifle," answered the dnke; "and I only regret it as it occasioned a momentary faintness which prevented me from dealing yon treacherous Italian a blow, which might have ended his infamous career." "I marvel at Campo-Basso's audacity; he must have made fast favor with De La Marck's Lanzknechts." "Oh they are like tigers, always thirsty for blood," said the count; "and if this only opens Duke Charles's eyes to his consummate villainy, it is worth the severe lesson. But we had best hasten toward Liege, for we know not how soon he may strike another blow for the countess." "Heaven forbid yon peerless lady should ever be his bride," replied Orleans; but checking his fervor they rode on in silence, until they reached the spot, where the ladies on their horses formed the centre of a group of soldiers. There was only time to exchange a few hurried questions, 'ere the order to advance was given, and they resumed the journey which had met with such a melancholy interruption, leaving a small number behind to follow with the dead and wounded. Isabelle could only raise her eyes in speechless gratitude, as the duke, deathly pale, his armor broken and stained with blood, assumed his old place at her side. "You are frightfully injured, and in my defense," she said, when her emotion allowed her utterance, "can I ever express the thanks I owe you for saving me from that wretched traitor." "If my poor devoir has won a kindly thought I am indeed repaid," returned Orleans, forgetful of his prudent resolve in the excitement of the moment, "O Isabelle, if I dared to hope; tell me, do you not love young Durward." "My Lord, his dishonorable conduct has extinguished all trace of the foolish attachment I confess I once cherished toward him. I do not love him." "Then Isabelle, Louis of Orleans again lays at your feet his crown, his devotion, his life, and only asks that you accept the gift to feel it no sacrifice," said the duke, taking her hand and passionately pressing it to his heart. "Your highness forgets in the unmerited distinction your goodness would confer upon me, you bestow what is the right of another-your royal, and most unhappy cousin," replied the countess. "Isabelle, I take all saints to witness that I will never consent to a union, against which my heart and judgment alike rebel. Even were you to reject me utterly, I will never accept from my unfortunate cousin, what it is not in my power to return. I have been the dupe of the king long enough. I will break from the miserable bonds he seeks to weave around me, assert my independence, though I take arms like the poorest soldier who draws a sword and has his freedom." The eyes of the countess gave the consent her lips refused to utter, and before the duke had ceased to pour forth his impassioned thanks, the blast of trumpets convinced them of the rapid flight of time and announced their approach to Liege, from whose gates a small party of gentlemen headed by Dunois and Crvecur issued to receive them. "Welcome and thrice welcome!" said Dunois, who rode in advance, as he met Orleans. "You have made fair progress, for you are full four hours in anticipation of our expectation. But what is this! broken armor, bloody swords, your highness is ghastly pale! say what fresh peril have you encountered for the bright eyes of the countess?" A few words on the part of the duke served to explain the story of Campo-Basso's attack, while all were lost in wonder at his consummate treachery. "Well," said Crvecur, "surely never was beauty won at such peril. How now, fair nephew," turning to Count Stephen, who, escorting the ladies, was slightly behind; "there you are in safety and beside your precious charge, as befits a true knight; and by my faith, our noble countess! what happy star guided you thither? you, fair Isabelle, have brought your sweetest smiles, I hope, to reward a certain young gentlemen who has haunted the battlements like an unlaid ghost for the last three days, and has almost extinguished his eye-sight gazing toward Peronne. I tremble for the consequences when he finds he has missed being the first to greet you, for he is now in close conclave with Duke Charles." "And in the brightest sunshine of court favor, which he seems to enjoy amazingly," said Le Glorieux, who, with his customary freedom, pushed his way into the group. "We have indeed cause for deepest gratitude in being rescued from such fearful danger," said the Countess Crvecur, kindly averting attention from Isabelle; and our fair nephew has bore himself as befitted his noble blood, and my Lord of Orleans has proved a very Paladin; but to pleasanter themes," she continued, drawing her husband aside, "tell me what are the arrangements for our reception?" Oh!" replied Crvecur, "you go at once to my temporary residence, where a few hours are allowed for rest and refreshment, and at twelve, the countess Isabelle appears in the great cathedral, to give her hand to Quentin Durward before the assembled courts of France and Burgundy. But why does she look so pale and distressed? I promise you, women are past finding out; I did but mention Durward's name just now, and she turned upon me with the offended diginity of an empress. If Stephen has made love to her I"-"No, no," gentle interposed the countess, "you are too hasty; do not jest with the poor child, she is exhausted with fear and suspense. Leave her to me, and she will sustain the beauty of Burgundy quite royally when the hour arrives." "Well, dearest Helen, I suppose you understand each other, but it passed my comprehension, of course I shall send Durward to her immediately," said Count Crvecur, "Not till I confer with her," answered the countess; "she requires rest before she sees any one." The count replied by a shrug, expressive of incredulous despair, and turning to Count Stephen he was soon absorbed in the recital of the events of their journey. "I can never forgive your highness, for fighting such a field without me," said Dunois to Orleans. "I have always longed to strike a blow at Campo-Basso myself, just for his general villainy." "You may have to strike a blow for me 'ere long, Dunois," said the duke. "Promise me that whatever happens you stand by me in the cathedral." "Of course, but why?" answered Dunois, with his usual impetuous fidelity. "Dunois, Isabelle of Croye has promised to be mine." "Then good-bye to faith in woman, and prepare for a fair fight!" exclaimed that careless soldier in extreme surprise; "but your highness is surely jesting." "Nay, solemn earnest," answered Orleans, "And the crown of France!" said Dunois, "may go to whoever will take it." "I am resolved never to consent to the only means by which I can wear it!" replied the duke. "The little archer has extinguished your reason, I think," said Dunois; "but truly you have a fair excuse if ever man had, for she is lovely as a vision." 
                  By this time the party entered Liege, the blackened ruins of which attested the terrors of the recent siege and sack. At that early hour the streets were unoccupied, and beyond a a few faces peering from windows, their entrance was without spectators. Orleans found time to exchange some last words with Isabelle, which, although few and hurried, were of vital consequence to both before they separated at the palace of Crvecur. Once within its protecting walls, Countess Isabelle felt as if her past danger was as nothing, compared to the perils she was to encounter in a few hours. Lady Crvecur soothed her with all that the most delicate kindness could suggest, and Isabelle was at last sufficiently composed to sleep. 
                  The news of the countess's arrival flew like wild-fire through Liege, and Quentin Durward, burning with impatience, rushed at once to the Crvecur palace, only to hear that the Lady Isabelle slept and could see no one. Durward, however, insisted upon seeing the Countess Crvecur, who gravely assured him, that it was the wish of her charge to meet him first at the cathedral. Indignant and surprised he was obliged to submit, and soon found consolation in the adornment of his person, for it was among the weak points of the young archer to attach undue importance to his handsome face and form. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLI. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "We cannot weight our brother with ourself: 
                              Great men may jest with saints: 'tis wit in them; 
                              But in the less, foul profanation, 
                              That in the captain's but a choleric word, 
                              Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy." 
                           
                         
                        MEASURE FOR MEASURE, Act II, Scene 2d. 
                      
                   
                  The cathedral of Liege presented a magnificent spectacle, with all the chivalry and beauty the united courts of France and Burgundy could present. Upon a purple dais at one side of the great altar, sat Louis and Charles; the former as conspicuous in his plain attire, as the latter was resplendent with all the glory of ducal regalia, surrounded by their principal nobles, on whose rich dresses the light from gorgeous stained windows threw a superb radiance, they formed a group splendid even for that luxurious period. The incense was rising in fragrant clouds before the kneeling figures of the archbishop and attendant priests, when a joyous burst of trumpets proclaimed the approach of the bridal cortege, and Quentin Durward, elaborately dressed, with an air of triumphant satisfaction, escorted by the archers, among whom Le Balefr was conspicuous, entered the church and took his place before the altar. The general curiosity and flutter, as common in the middle ages as our own, which attended his arrival, had scarcely subsided, when with a second and prolonged flourish, the Countess Isabelle appeared leaning on Count Crvecur, whose stately figure clad in glittering mail, never assumed more manly dignity. Every trace of pallor and fatigue had vanished from Isabelle's face, and her dazzling eyes and brilliant complexion were enhanced by the lustrous satin of her sweeping robes, profusely ornamented with ancestral diamonds. Immediately following was the Countess Crvecur, whose majestic beauty was the theme of universal admiration, surrounded by the bravest and fairest of Burgundian knights and ladies. As the radiant procession approached the altar, Quentin Durward, with his usual impetuosity, advanced to meet Isabelle, but was repulsed by the cold gaze which returned his own, as not heeding the interruption she knelt at the foot of the royal dais, her eyes instinctively encountered those of Orleans, who pale, and still wearing his armor with a scarlet sash binding his wounded shoulder, stood with Dunois at the king's side, and presented a striking contrast to the carefully studied costume, which displayed Quentin Durward's regularly handsome features to such advantage. "Countess Isabelle of Croye, daughter of the noble Reginald de Croye, we bid you welcome;" said Charles rising with the air of princely dignity he could occasionally assume, "the fortune of war has been propitions, and in witnessing your nuptials with Quentin Durward, late of king Louis's Scottish guard we bear our testimony to the valor which meets its just reward in such loveliness. Nor does France withhold her approbation, even though it resign to Burgundy one, whose services it would gladly retain." The countess's varying color was the only sign of her internal emotion, as with a clear and unfaltering voice she replied, "My gracious liege, believe that I feel your goodness most deeply, and do not deem it an idle caprice, if I declare that no human power can win my consent to become the bride of Quentin Qurward." 
                  If the ground had opened beneath their feet it could not have produced a sensation more profound then that which followed Isabelle's declaration. It is impossible to describe the clash of arms as each soldier dropped his weapon in involuntary astonishment. There was confusion of voices, the silken rush of the ladies, as they drew near to each other with wondering whispers, and low murmurs of surprise which soon rose to agitated clamors among the knights. "Now this passes all endurance!" fiercely exclaimed Charles in a terrible voice. "Unhappy girl, has not enough blood been shed for your waxen face, that you demand more? Dare you defy my will again? I tell you, you shall never leave this altar but as the bride of Durward." "Bear with me a little, my liege," said Isabelle; "it is not without reason that I venture to brave your wrath. Quentin Durward, why did you not communicate the token by which you were to distinguish William De La Marck to the brave gentlemen who shared the same peril in my behalf? Did you dream that I could sufficiently distinguish you, to confide to you alone the secret? why did you not say, 'the wild boar of Ardennes has donned the arms of Dunois,' and then have fairly won by valor the prize you have lost by deceit?" Overwhelmed with confusion and surprise, Quentin Durward could only reply "that he believed from the countess's past encouragement that her hopes so coincided with his own, that she designed the information to be employed for his advantage solely." "That was not fairly done, Durward," said Dunois, I had relinquished my chance gladly had you but told me," "And I might have slain the real boar had I known," said Crvecur. "No member of the Scottish guards would be guilty of such dishonor, I am sure," exclaimed Lord Crawford, while Le Balefr almost strangled in his efforts to suppress his rage. "I cannot credit such conduct; vindicate yourself if you can," said the duke of Burgundy interrupting the passionate storm of reproaches and entreaties, Quentin was pouring forth to Isabelle. The Countess Crvecur advanced to her side and endeavored to quell the tumult which threatened to break into open resistance. Louis alone was unmoved, and leaning back in his chair gazed upon the scene as if infinitely diverted by the absurd phases in which human nature could present itself. At last rising from his seat he said, "Silence, my lords and gentlemen; would you disturb a joyous wedding with violence better suited for a fray? Silence! I command you, and let this matter be settled by those immediately concerned cerned." The effect of these words was magical; the stormy mandates of Charles had passed unheeded, but the measured accents of Louis, seemed to impress every one with a sense of the indecorum of such conduct. A dead silence succeeded, which was broken by Quentin Durward, who, facing the entire assembly, said, "I appeal to all these brave knights and true ladies if such there be ("you have good reason to doubt it," whispered Le Glorieux), whether my services deserve such recompense? Isabelle of Croye, did I not protect you in the siege of Schonwaldt through fire and peril, from the rapacity of De La Marck, from the treachery of the Bohemian, the passion of Orleans?" "Cease," said the countess, "the recital of those deeds, which you compel me to regard as a debt. I do not deny that in my romantic enthusiasm I gave you cause to presume upon my favor, but would you accept my hand without the heart which can never accompany it!" "And as my affianced bride, I claim the right to protect the Countess Isabelle from those pretensions which have become so obnoxious to her," said Orleans, rushing to her side; "and I appeal to herself," he added, "if I speak not truly," "Louis of Orleans," replied the countess, "I am yours, your devotion has spoken in deeds, more powerful than words, and of my own free will I commit my happiness to your charge." The extreme astonishment which attended this second revelation produced a profound silence, which was succeeded by a fresh paroxysm of excitement, above which Quentin Durward's voice rose in indignant remonstrance. "Treacherous prince! dishonored knight! where is your boasted chivalry? Methinks Countess Isabelle, you, who discourse so eloquently of honor, should hesitate 'ere you reward such a deed of shameless duplicity." "Orleans!" cried Louis starting from his seat in a transport of passion, "I command you as you value your dominions, relinquish your mad infatuation! How dare you offer your hand to yon artful minion, plighted as you are to my daughter, your cousin, the Princess Joan! Yield at once or your crown and perchance your life may pay the forfeit." "Sire," replied the duke, passing his arm round Isabelle, "my crown and dominions are in your majesty's power to dispose of as you list, but I will never resign her, for whose sake only I value life." "My prince, I am with you to the last," said Dunois, placing himself at Orleans side and leaning on his unsheathed sword. It was curious to observe the effect which this startling event produced upon the opposing factions, the French nobles divided between their personal attachment to their prince, and implicit obedience to their king, stood irresolute, until circumstances should decide their course, while the Burgundian knights, with the fantastic etiquette of chivalry, exaggerated Quentin Durward's offense; yet not blind to their obvious interests, evinced their sympathy with Orleans. Charles, surprised yet scarce displeased at the sudden turn which fortune had taken in his favor, could but imperfectly conceal his satisfaction, while he strove to moderate the indignation of Louis, who fiercely retorted. "Yes, you treacherous and unkingly! it is your designs which are fulfilled by yon wretched prince. Fool that I was to trust his word!" "If your majesty contemplates a sermon on treachery, you had best take Aseis-sur-Aube for your text, but I solemnly assure you that this event, is as unexpected to me as to yourself; for I deemed young Durward's cause safe against every knight in Christendom." "This shall not pass unquestioned," said Lord Crawford. "I speak as a loyal subject of King Louis, but no countryman of mine shall suffer injustice unavenged." "Ah! my gallant archers," cried Louis, disregarding for the instant alike prudence and policy, "I trust 'ere long you may have a wider field to wreak your vengeance." "And Burgundian steel to retaliate," answered Charles, whose furious passion was fast gaining ascendancy. "Isabelle of Croye is my ward, and as such I declare my consent to her immediate union with Orleans." The voice of the archbishop interposed at this crisis, when the two sovereigns were fast descending to personal vituperation. "Louis of France; and you Charles of Burgundy, dare you urge bloodshed within these sacred walls? I speak in the name of Holy Church, and denounce her extreme penalty, on those who disobey hercommands." Louis's superstitious fears-the most powerful impulse of his nature-compelled him in spite of himself to regard the solemn warning of the venerable man, and served to remind him of the excessive imprudence of again incurring the displeasure of Charles, until he should be in a position better suited to defy it. "Sire," said Orleans, taking advantage of the temporary lull to advance to the foot of the altar. "Consent given at Peronne, can not be retracted at Liege. With the resignation of my crown and dominions, my allegiance to your majesty ceases, and his grace of Burgundy is the only authority I acknowledge." "And my consent is yours," said Charles; "and more, I will not have this fair assemblage in vain; your marriage shall be solemnized 'ere the sun is an hour higher! Holy Father, it is our command that you unite these two at once." "I will not permit the consummation of this shameful plot, the work of your treacherous followers," exclaimed the king, turning once more to Charles. There was an angry stir among the Burgundian nobles. "I am guiltless, sire, of the slightest knowledge of any plot, and no more dreamed of this than that I should wed the lady myself," said Crvecur; "although," he added to D'Hymbercourt, "I might have known, that a prince is a prince, and a woman a woman, the world over." "And it is as unexpected to me, as if a thunder-bolt had fallen from heaven," protested Count Stephen. "Orleans consider, gentlemen of France, Dunois-Crawford-will you desert me?" asked Louis in desperate entreaty. "I am with my prince, come what may," replied the marshal Dunois; and Charles, interrupting Crawford's answer, cried, impatiently, "your majesty's consent has been given once, and it is on that condition that you stand here to-day in freedom, but Earl Herbert's tower is still ready to receive a royal guest to learn wisdom with King Charles the simple!" "Nay, my lord duke," said Crvecur, throwing himself between the princes, "do not sully your noble lips with ungenerous threats, and I implore your majesty to interpose no futher obstacle to a union which can only be prevented by bloodshed." The king cast one long look, as if to read the inmost thoughts of those around him, but in their faces he could discern but a faint reflection of his own determined purpose. Even in that anxious hour his usual craft did not forsake him. As he rapidly reviewed his recent escape from such imminent peril and reflected how hopeless resistance must be against such overwhelming opposition, "Silence, brave archers," he said, waving his hand to quell the almost irrepressible excitement of the guard, "It is decreed of heaven, that we should learn to resign our dearest wishes, and why should I waste my few remaining years in ambitious dreams and worldly hopes? I look for my reward hereafter, and bow with submission to the inevitable." "My son, it is well," said the archbishop, "for such deeds crowns of light far surpassing earthly glories are laid up for the faithful sons of the church." "I must be heard," cried Quentin Durward, waking from the trance of wonder which had seemed to paralyze every faculty. "Have I no claims on your Grace of Burgundy? Isabelle of Croye, do you willingly consent to this act of unspeakable perfidy? you must answer and you alone 'ere I relinquish all hope." "Seignor Durward, I have answered," said the Countess Isabelle, who stood at the side of Orleans. "Then," said Quentin, "it only remains for me to forget every thing, but the consummate duplicity of which I have been the unhappy victim." "Stay, Durward," said Louis; "the stars entwine your destiny with mine; return and test the sincerity of my friendship." Scarcely heeding the royal voice, Quentin Durward rushed from the Cathedral, while Le Balefr muttered audibly, "Now, out upon Sanders Souplejaw, if after all I am to make the wedded luck of Glen Houlakin." Durward's popularity with his comrades had received such a severe blow in the deception which, according to the inconsistent virtue of chivalry was regarded as a greater stain then a dozen crimes of cruelty and fraud, that their indignation at the caprice of Isabelle was rather mitigated by the reflection that he had lost her through his own dishonor, and consequently deserved slight commiseration. Louis, however, secretly rejoiced that he was sure of at least one faithful adherent, and resolved that all the consolation which advancement or distinction could confer should be Durward's so soon as he reached his own dominions. "One last word," exclaimed the king, as Orleans and Isabelle knelt before the prelate, "do you, a child of France, desert her banner, resign her sceptre, for a few hours of unmanly passion!" "Who would not resign earth for paradise?" replied the duke, fervently, while the solemn ritual imposed silence upon all. "For my part, my poor brain is puzzled," whispered Le Glorieux, "whether to congratulate the Duchess of Orleans, or the Count of Croye." "Either or both, so long as 'tis only permanent," replied Count Stephen, laughing. "Happy Orleans," said D'Hymbercourt, as he gazed upon the resplendent beauty of Isabelle, which was never more radiant then in contrast with the martial grace of the duke. "Their hands are actually joined," said Crvecur to his countess, "but even now, methinks, she looks favorably upon the archbishop. Le Balefr is gone, else it might not be too late to transfer her affections to him. Ah! Helen, you must have been more constant than the rest of your sex, or I won you by a miracle-or stay, I recollect there was no princely rival in thy way." The countess laughing, her reply was checked by the voice of Charles, who exclaimed in tones which echoed through the Cathedral, "Welcome to Burgundy! and long be the day remembered which unites the beauty of Croye to the valor of Orleans!" 
                
                
                  POSTSCRIPT 
                  It may be that there are some whose interest in the fortunes of Quentin Durward will be gratified by a few words as to his fate. Louis, for once faithful to his promise, promoted him to a confidential and lucrative post near his own person, as he immediately relinquished his connection with the Scottish guard. It would be useless to deny the deep mortification which the loss of the Countess Isabelle produced upon a mind peculiarly sensitive to wounded vanity. It was not very long, however, before he sought substantial consolation in the rich lands of the Countess Hameline of Croye, whose mature charms were viewed through the golden medium of her wealth, and which alliance gained yet more signal tokens of Louis's approbation. Le Balefr was forced to acknowledge the truth of the Scottish wizard's prophecy, and Quentin Durward as Lord of Croye soon became so indentified with the interest of France that his early love for Isabelle, buried beneath the anxious schemes of a clever politician and fortunate soldier was soon consigned to oblivion and was never recalled to life even in occasional retrospect. 
                
             
             
                
               PROPOSED CONTINUATION OF QUENTIN DURWARD. 
               QUENTIN, THE WINNER. 
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIX. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "Take care! praise not the azure sky, 
                              The storm is listening to reply!"- 
                           
                         
                        KETSLET. 
                      
                   
                  The words of Crvecur, the instincts of a generous heart, fell on unequal ground. As they reflected in the one case, success and probable influence for Louis, and for Charles an honorable escape from the threatened evil of a rash promise, the sovereigns were gratified, and hence the good star of Quentin's love became a fixed star, and the goal of his hopes-hopes at one time wilder than the weird dreams of the Bohemian, was attained. But the day that ends in brightness, may have and too often does have, a rack of stormy clouds, seeming to defy the trust of the sunshine. Not all who heard the Burgundian's noble admission that Quentin had by glorious manhood won the prize, received it in approbation. There were looks of mournful mood from Orleans. Count Dunois, quick to reflect the feelings of his prince, soon showed his own discomfiture, and many of those also surrounded the sovereigns, chafed at the thought that a Scot was to acquire such beauty and what most annoyed, such power. 
                  Of course, this before the king and the duke could show itself only in the furtive glance and the half concealed frown. It was to gather force and strength by the action which should ensue after this interview had taken place. 
                  Scant and savage was the rite of sepulture given to the remains of the boar's head. Foul and awful murdered as he was, we have more patience with the barbarity of the age in his fate, than in that of others. He passed away like a fierce dream, but the doomed city of Liege felt in every throb the cruel vengeance of Charles. The riot and the sack of the city was stopped, but not till after the worst passions of that strange and sudden band had wrought such evil, that to this day, the legends of Liege are blended with it memories; and, like the tapestry which their ingenious artificers weave, the most brilliant of its tissues are every where shadowed and darkened. 
                  Little recked Quentin of this scene in the hall except as it confirmed to him, the promise which he had deemed his very hopes fantastic in making. He was summoned by Toisond'or, or, to the duke's presence again. The herald showed that he knew where the favor of kings and dukes had fallen by the unusual care which he had taken of his dress. It was as when he bore high message to the companions of sovereigns. Bewildered with his happiness, and walking as if in a doze of delight, Quentin had retired to his apartment hastily assigned him in the house of the burgess, whose daughter he had with such high, such real chivalry, rescued. These quarters were obtained for him at his own request. He thought wisely that his word would avail much in the protection of a family who else might be the deepest sufferers in the resentment of the duke. 
                  Scarcely silenced into some moderate quiet, a new impulse was given to the household, when preceded by four outriders, each in alternate of equipage of gules, and argent, and or, and motley and checkered, the high dignity of Toisond'or, as a messenger from the duke, was seen approaching. 
                  Hans Glover hastened to Quentin, and asked in as much ardor as that phlegmatic but true lover and faithful adherent, could manifest, whether Quentin judged that this visit boded ill to Trudchen's father; "for," said he, "I know it can not be ill to you, your fate must be a happy one. 
                  "At this moment, my kind Hans," said Quentin, "I believe it is no use to any one, at all events none to Trudchen or to you." 
                   
                  "It shall be happy," Quentin continued, "for all who aided the Lady Isabelle. Her friends are henceforward forever mine." A peal of trumpets cut short this generous utterance, and as Quentin advanced to the gateway, he was met by the herald with honors that owed something of their weight to the fact that Toison wisely judged that the castle of Croye might yet be a refuge in the precarious existence of court favor. 
                  "I am directed, noble Durward, to request your immediate attendance at my master's audience. I am directed by him to escort you thither with all the honor due to the proudest of one of his nobility." 
                  Quentin's quick ear did not escape hearing the emphasis, in which was indeed the gist and substance of the message: "The duke's direction shall be obeyed," said Quentin, "as I doubt not in giving it, he has the approbation of my sovereign" 
                  Toison's diplomacy had one refuge only, in a bow so low that all his attendants deemed it their duty to imitate it, and the Scottish archer realized again what it is to be in the sunshine of kingly favor. Let us do him justice. Little recked he of king or duke, except as forms through which he must endure one passage before he could join her who was more to him than all the blood royal of France or Burgundy. 
                  The gay procession, for it almost seemed such, made the best of its way over the ruins of buildings and the wreck of some of Liege's fairest structures. It was the object of wonder to the fear-struck citizens, who did not fail, however, to recognize their friend, as they believed him to be, the Scottish archer. 
                  While the cortege went on, Durward's attention was directed to the movements of Hans who seemed to seek some opportunity to speak with him, but whose zeal for this purpose was overawed by the polychromatic elegance of the suite of Toison, and indeed, the insolence of all attached to either duke or king, made any approach to the herald, dangerous. 
                  "What is the use of good fortune, if I can not wield it perhaps for my own protection," thought Quentin, and so saying, he directed the procession to halt. Toison amazed at this command, darkened his brow, and seemed about to dispute the order, when Durward rising in his stirrups, repeated, in a more determined tone, the direction. 
                  "Herald, I am your guest, not your prisoner. It suits me to receive a friend who, I see, desires to communicate with me." 
                  "Lord Durward, the orders of the duke brook no delay." "Toison, the orders of the duke are those of a noble sovereign, who does not clank his courtesy with chains. Approach Hans-my friend Hans," for thus nobly did Durward declare his friendship for the faithful citizen when the avowal risked his own popularity. He knew the importance of preserving his own dignity of place, and risked a quarrel with the herald, knowing that both duke and king desired to influence favorably, for their own purposes, the winner of the countess's hand. 
                  With difficulty Toison maintained his own composure, but his escort, quick to judge of the place of men, saw in a moment that their master was overruled, and as submissively stayed at Quentin's command, as if he had been lord in possession of Croye and its castles. 
                  The interview with Hans was brief, but it was important. "For your life's sake," he said to Quentin, in a tone of the deepest earnestness, "beware of the street of the workers in silver;" and saying thus, hastily left him. The message was comprehended. It was as quickly acted upon as it had been understood. "Send one of your men to Lord Crawford at the south gate. Tell him that I am proceeding to the Duke of Burgundy, by command, and that I am threatened with a conspiracy against my life in the street Des Ouvriers d' Argent, that I ask him as a friend to the duke that the street be patroled. 
                  Power finds quick messengers. An attendant rapidly delivered Quentin's words to the chief of the archers, who turning to Balefr said: "Ye see, Leslie, your nephew needs the strong hand before he can touch the soft one. I doubt not the way is beset by those who would like to cut short his good fortune. Who shall I send him? You are ordered to the king, so you cannot go. Hold, it shall be Murray, Douglass and Kincaid. They will do or die for Scotland, and Scotland's honor is concerned in a bright wedding day at Croye." Le Balefr groaned over his duty of attendance to the king, as he believed that Quentin could not advance one step without his personal supervision; but Lord Crawford did not stay for his complaints, but gave immediate direction to the three archers, who were of the youngest and bravest of all enrolled in the guard, and brief time elapsed before the Scots were at Quentin's side. 
                  "Welcome my brave brothers," said he, "you will face this danger with me for the sake of Old Scotland." 
                  "And Young Croye," said Kincaid. 
                  "Forward, gentlemen," said Quentin, who immediately assumed command and control of the march, and Toison yielded, the rather as he dreaded that to thwart Quentin was to displease the duke. 
                  A short and disagreeable ride in streets, shattered by the siege and tenanted only by alarmed and forlorn citizens, brought them to the passage concerning which Quentin had been warned. The street of the workmen in silver was of the quaintest and oldest in all Liege. The high buildings threw such broad shadows over the narrow causeway as to gloom out almost all the daylight, while passages irregular and unexpected, admitting the workmen to their shops, made the opportunity of attack and retreat unusually present. As they entered, Murray asked permission to go forward of all. "Not so," said Quentin, "though life is to-day unusually sweet to me, I must maintain my honor,-Toisond'or, I will lead. It is your duty to guard the rear." 
                  The Scots gathered immediately behind Quentin, and they had scarcely thus formed their line to guard against surprise, when out of an obscure court, with a speed that seemed almost to be irresistible, rode five masked horsemen; so masked, for it could not be said that they were visored, as to conceal all appearance of feature. Their pace was so furious that it admitted of no doubt, that it was intended as a fatal charge; as indeed the uplifted weapon which all displayed confirmed the purpose. Quentin acutely watching all sides of the street was on his guard at once, and as the foremost horseman came towards him, caused his own horse to leap aside. It was a dexterous movement. At this moment Kincaid raised the war cry. "Scotland to the rescue," and halting with all his companions, the rapidity with which the attack was planned, brought all the masked horsemen in the midst of Quentin's force at once, and evidently in the midst of a greater force then his assailants anticipated. For an instant there was indecision, but it was brief. "Down with the false Scot," was their war cry, and the fight was in full vigour in a moment; but before the practical skill of the Scottish guards the masked men faced but for a short space, being enough for wounds to be given, which though not fatal, were severe, and the sudden change became a retreat as sudden. 
                  The heralds's assistants, gules, argent, or, and motley, fled at the beginning of the fight, but Toisond'or remained on the field. One mask alone was removed in the struggle, and that by a severe blow across the face given by Douglass. The face exposed could not, even in the instant view be mistaken. It was that of Tristan l'Hermite, and its exposure caused Quentin immediately to give order to pursue with all possible vigor. so away went masks and archers and herald; and the Liegers of the vicinity found some satisfaction in seeing their besiegers of the day previous in vigorous chase after each other. Where-ever and however horse could go in the street of the silver men, the pursuit went on, but the party of Tristan L'Hermite, of whomsoever it consisted, had had some better opportunity to study the topography of the strange old street, than had Quentin or his companions, and a pursuit by horse soon became unavailing. The animals of the pursued were quickly abandoned, and fled frightened in various ways. The masked men and the Scots darted into the narrow passage ways, and became especially the latter, soon involved in a labyrinth of intricate ways. Quentin was climbing a strange old stair, where he was sure he had tracked Tristan, when he found a close barred door before him. Not knowing how to open it, except by hard blows, he was eagerly engaged in this, when he was hailed from above. 
                  "They have escaped you, Scottish knight, but oh, listen to me." It was an attribute of Durward's characteristic good sense to despise no information, however humble the source whence it proceeded, and acting on this, he addressed the voice, for he could not see the person. "I do listen," said he, "but be in haste. Who were they? where are they?" 
                  "Enough to know they have escaped," was the answer. "Do not delay longer to go to the duke. Do you and your friends keep your own counsel in this affair. Do not delay yourself from hastening where your heart is by chafing now over this plot against you. The one you love is at the house of the Lady of Crvecur. Make all haste thither, when you have seen the duke, and after you have seen your heart's treasure, return to this passage way by these stairs. I will meet you and will tell you of these foes of to-night, who are but the forerunners of greater enemies; but you will win all yet." 
                  Durward's days, since he had first seen King Louis, had been so overcharged with adventure that he concluded that his life was to be shaped by all things strange and weird-like-so he replied, gently, "You know so much as to induce me to hear you, perhaps to heed you. Have you any token to give or utter to me that I may believe you in possession of my history." "Yes, yes, Scot, I have. Hear it: 
                         
                           Twice beneath the gallows tree, 
                           Kind you were to mine and me." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "What," said Question, "is my fate to be shaped by the heathen? Yet I will not despise kindness whoever offers it." In the golden light of fortunate love, Durward's soul was too joyous to give harsh words even to the wretched Marthon, who he believed was his advisor. "I will bide tryste," said he; "or, if you do not know such Scottish proverb, I will, as a faithful man, come." 
                  Retracing his steps out of the passage way and finding his companions almost alarmed at his protracted absence, he hastily counselled with the Scots and Toison that nothing of this should yet be said to the duke, as the flame needed no such oil, and their discovery of Tristan l'Hermite would only add fresh complication, where unwilling harmony alone existed. The scattered troops of Toison's attendants were easily summoned again, their flight having only been tot he nearest wine shop and at last Quentin reached the hall where the duke expected him. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XL. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "Well Grazzio-faithless, dost thou now believe- 
                              There are hours of honest happiness?- 
                              Never till now-Aguera, now doubt decays." 
                           
                         
                        
                           Seville Lady Wooed and Won, 1591. 
                      
                   
                  Life presents few contrasts as defined and as high-colored as when in the midst of a besieged, and above all, of a sacked city, some proud dignitary holds his court in splendor, the homage of suppliant sycophancy before him, the silken web of tissue and tapestry, of all that can soften the sense (and harden the heart)-and outside! the forlorn and lost groping amidst ruin and desolation, watching over some miserable link, some wounded life, or despairing by the certainty of irremediable wreck, of all that but a day before had in it light and wealth. It was not in Charles's nature to hear or heed this, but Quentin came to the duke's presence, with a manly heart, exulting, it is true, in the destiny that seemed at last written for him, yet not unmindful that the Liegeois were human beings, deluded and misled, but yet in all the claims of a common and suffering humanity, while all the suite with which he came, except the Scots, jeered and derided the crushed citizen over whose persons and property they remorselessly rode. Quentin had paused to say kind words to those to whom his utterances gave hope, nor did he even forget to counsel a crouching Bohemian, whose dejection seemed to darken the very brightness of the gypsy eye, to escape while there was a seeming calm in the storm, and not abide the tender mercies of the wicked. 
                  Before the announcement of the herald that Quentin was a summoned guest of the duke, doors opened as if by the magic of power, and courtiers who had sneered at the Scot, fawned on Croye's decreed lord. The archer heeded not this. He remembered, if such could be proved, any who had even looked kindly on him in his hour of trial, and as for the rest-he could afford their enmity. 
                  "What am I to call you, Durward?" said the bold but at this time not fierce, voice of the duke, "for France or for Burgundy?" "Above all for the Countess of Croye, noble duke," was his wise reply. "And she is my vassal, and you are hers," said Charles, and the audience smiled and seemed enchanted at the gay wit, for it was a chameleon crowd who changed color with their master's varying hues. 
                  Quentin's shrewdness taught him that it was in the hour of his strength that he was to make his position what he desired, and believing that this was the true time for his purpose, he said in a tone of decision but of respect: "My Lord, this let me say, that I am no longer an archer of King Louis. If the high destiny shall indeed be mine which your royal (this word greatly pleased the duke), utterance has vouchsafed, I abide the fortunes of her to whom my life is devoted." 
                  "Ho!" said Le Glorieux, "how much does one from one leave? I never had a brain for figures." 
                  "What mean you?" said the duke, "you have a brain for nothing." "King Louis," said the jester, "had just one honest man in his dominions when Durward was there. Subtract him, and what is left?" 
                  "T'were well for you to subtract yourself," said Charles, "if the king's provost marshal hears you." 
                  "I wish to send you," turning to Quentin, the duke continued, "to the present abode of the Countess of Croye. My faith shall be kept to you. You must win the lady for yourself. It is a relief to me to see before me one man who I believe true." 
                  Quentin bowed, and the audience chamber heard a suppressed sound, which might be acquiescence, but was far more likely in whatever interpretation it reached the ears of the duke, to be a muttered resolution henceforth to make the Scot as uncomfortable as possible. 
                  Said the duke, "Choose who shall attend you to the residence of the Count of Crvecur, where you may possibly win admittance to a fair lady's presence." 
                  "Command who I shall take with me," said Quentin. 
                  "No, the lady herself shall sufficiently represent Burgundy. Take those best known to you." 
                   
                  In these few moments, at least, as a beam of sunshine illuminates a day otherwise stormy and gloomy, Charles of Burgundy acted as a noble prince. 
                  If history could then have concentrated its vision on him, it would have been spared the darker colors of a future period. 
                  "May my friends, Murray, Douglass and Kincaid be around me?" 
                  "Yes, but you will cast off the best man you ever knew at the threshold." 
                  Quentin acknowledged this pleasantry by wise smiling silence, and the four Scotchmen left this gracious audience with more sunshine of favor than had glittered over Liege for many a long year. Before them the gorgeous crowd gave way, and well equipped, they proceeded to the house of Crvecur. 
                  But, we must go back in our narrative (and are chided, we know, by our fair readers that we have thus long delayed), to delineate what occurred at the convent where the daughter of the house of Croye awaited her strange fate. Yet to her the road of resolve was well traced, and the resolution she had taken, not all the power of France and Burgundy could impair. To it she brought the high-hearted determination and the transparent truth, which had made her ancient house, a name for chivalry and bravery, greater than which none of the cities of the border, boasted. She said this version of her resolve only to her own heart. I will be Quentin's bride or never utter words of love to man. I shall else serve the altar and be veiled in my convent vow-and she blushed as she permitted even her own thought to say thus to her own heart. To the lady abbess, she declared with flashing eye, that she would not be won like a wager, by any brutal soldier. The gates of the convent could defend her, and if those failed, the child of Croye could defend herself to the death-a fate ten thousand times preferable to that of a forced union. 
                  "It is a resolution worthy of your name," said the abbess, "and all the power of the church shall be used in sustaining you," she continued, as if by pleasantry to diminish the gloom of Isabelle's thought, "What if the brave Dunois bring hither the voucher of the prize?" 
                  "He is not a brave man," said Isabelle, "if he believes female heart won by such award." 
                   
                  "And if Orleans?" 
                  "I would not wed him, if the crown of France were on his head, and every jewel in it, the diamonds of Paradise." 
                  "I only jested, dear daughter, and if jests ever were out of place, mine were. Let us go to our devotions, and we shall at their close see-I believe we shall see-that there is a better destiny for all of us, than our fears have predicted." Gladly the countess went with her, and-thought of Quentin. 
                  As the day waned, riders and stragglers returned in all the varying confusion of men in a day of battle. The lady abbess was a woman of sense. She turned away from the grating at the door, the usual janitor, Father Jacques, whose long years of looking out upon the road, had given him a keen desire for all the nomadic information he could acquire, and in his place gave the charge of the entrance to Father Laurent, the calmest and steadiest of her staff, as in these days, we should phrase it. Right well and wisely she did this. A Lansknecht who had stormed the wine shops of Liege more vigorously than its walls, rode furiously by, pausing at the gate to tell Father Laurent that when he left, all Liege was in a tumult; that everything went round and round with him; that he heard that King Louis had quarrelled with Duke Charles, and as for that young Scottish archer, it was well known that William De La Marck had cut off his head. Laurent, whose monastic vow did not efface a kindly interest in the countess, and her fate, discovered the tumultuous condition of the informant's brain, and only asked him, "What confirmation have you of that about the Scot? Do you even know Durward?" 
                  "Know him!" said the Lansknecht, "as I do my missal, I believe the whole story. I had it from himself!" 
                  "Ride on," said Laurent, "and the cool air will benefit you." 
                  Then came a group of flying Liegeois, who could only speak of horror. At last a rapid movement of a horseman somewhat carefully muffled in face, attracted Laurent's attention, and he was from his manner almost prepared for what occurred. The messenger hurriedly said, "Does the Lady of Croye abide here?" 
                  "Beneath the protection of the church, she does," was the wisely framed reply. 
                   
                  "Let her receive this letter," said the horseman. "I have risked life to bring it: but tell her as a sure token that I have come this far, and through danger, for the love I bear my brother, Hans Glover." 
                  Laurent took the letter and would have questioned the messenger further, but he wheeled his horse suddenly, and by a wood road, soon passed out of sight. Laurent looked at the letter. It was directed in a feminine hand. The cowl did not shut out of his brain, some knowledge of Eve's descendants. "This letter is either of great friendship, or of cruel jealousy," thought he, "Shall I give it without first ascertaining what it is. It may be a message of terror, it may be of joy. Shall I break the fragile seal?" Laurent was not a man to waste time in delaying doubt. The abbess knew the character of her confidential priest too well. He at once decided to take the letter to the abbess. Her high character would justify or palliate even extreme measures. 
                  The abbess at once decided to open the letter. The countess must not be permitted to hear abruptly either good or ill. "The seal," said she, "is but a device of men, and the charities of human affection must deal with it." The device of the seal was an anchor, and the motto, I abide, or, I hold to thee. The quickest glance enabled to read in this the idea of fidelity, and the abbess's face seemed to brighten. The letter was in these words: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "Dearest lady: One whom you know best of all rescued me from worse than a thousand deaths. He perilled all for this, but, at last he won all. You will see him soon. Kings and dukes confirm this. You, only you, are worthy of him, but while my heart beats, it shall be in deepest gratitude to him, best and bravest of men." 
                              
                                 TRUDCHEN.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  The abbess fell on her knees, and if ever roof of convent was pierced by true devotion of thankfulness, it was then. 
                  She moved, she did not rush, with calmness and dignity to the room of the countess. She found her prostrate at the oratory, even as she was in that awful hour at Schonewaldt, when amidst the dead and dying, Quentin had rescued her. The entrance of the abbess aroused her. Looking up she saw that grave lady in smiles. "Dearest mother," said Isabelle, "you smile, and at such an hour as this! What is it? Oh, you will not deceive me." 
                   
                  "Daughter look up at the motto of this ancient house." It was inscribed in golden letters in the centre panel of the room: 
                  
                     Beati Moriantur.
                   
                  "Even while you mourned came the blessing. Here are words that give light to the halls of Croye." 
                  Bewildered and in that semi-delirium of feeling which bridges hope and despair, Isabelle read-and the oratory again beheld her prostrate, and a gratitude that was nearest the heart found its utterance. What Trudchen's letter revealed in vague words was soon confirmed by the arrival of a special detachment of the duke's chosen soldiers. 
                  They were headed by Count Stephen of Crvecur, charged with the words of the duke, that the prize had been awarded to Quentin Durward heretofore (for all the duke's delineations of Quentin referred to his service for France as in the past), an archer of King Louis's Scottish body guards, and that to give the lady fitting time and place for her decision, doubtless so painful to make-this part of the message Count Stephen delivered with a waggish smile-she was summoned to preceed with high and honorable escort to the house of the noble Count of Crvecur, and that the duke bade her remember only that, single or married, castle or convent, the Lady of Croye, and all that appertained to her, must serve beneath the banner of Burgundy. The Lady Isabelle signified her acquiescence, and the abbess, the good abbess, wept for joy. Laurent went to the hall where all the officials of the convent were gathered, and astonished the delighted assemblage by such a distribution of wine and delicacies, as made high festival there, though in the missal, it was named for a fast day, for which mistake Father Laurent found easy absolution. And Isabelle left the convent with a tumultuous heart, for when the extremity of the danger seemed over, the diffidence of the maiden returned, yet hers was no fickle wavering or flirting foible. Her love had been strengthened to endurance in the midst of dreadful danger, and the heart that had fluttered when the young and handsome Scot first heard the lute and watched the window on the banks of the River Cher, warmed the closer to the brave soldier, whose truth and valor, monarchs attested. 
                  Count Stephen related the incidents of the battle, and dwelt, as a brave and honorable man would, especially on the noble self sacrifice of Quentin in his rescue of Trudchen, since only that prevented his personal conquest of De La March. Isabelle's tears flowed at the narration, but they were tears of exultation. She felt that all her young girl-like fancies of her lover were made enduring realities by such an act of chivalry, and she felt that even if all had then been lost, it were better to be in a convent for life, with memory that such an heart had loved her, rather than to wear crown of Prince royal. 
                  Had the journey been longer, Count Stephen's disinterestedness would have begun to melt, for Isabelle was surpassingly beautiful, and the inner joy of the heart had given its radiance to her face. 
                  "Was ever Scotchman so fortunate," thought young Crvecur. "He carries off the very treasure of the land." Fortunately for his resolve of chivalry in duty, the residence of his truly noble father was reached, and Isabelle was met at the foot of the grand staircase by the Countess Crvecur. Isabelle's hand trembled, her heart beat high in the thought that she might soon be in the presence of Quentin, The countess seemed to interpret her feelings. 
                  "The hospitality of the house of Crvecur," said she, "extends beyond you to-day. I know that a gallant young soldier has been sent for by the duke, and we are honored by being selected as his entertainers. I expect him to come with wings." 
                  What could Isabelle say?-but that, we might all desire to possess wings to get above the scenes of terror in which the days were darkened. At this moment Count Crvecur entered, who seemed deeply impressed at the sight of Isabelle, whose beauty never seemed more enthralling. Something of the old feeling towards Quentin returned. "Is this delight of our court to be won by a nameless Scotchman," he said, but so imperfectly, that only the acute ear of Isabelle detected the possible significance of the words. 
                  In an instant, she was the Countess of Croye again, as proudly as if she were castled and coroneted, and with a dignity that would have adorned an empress, she said: "Noble Count of Crvecur, by the command of my sovereign, I am your guest. My choice in life has ever been the association of the brave and honorable. With such my life has been passed. With such, if I read the decrees of the skies aright, it is to continue in the closest association." 
                  Crvecur bowed his most profound salutation, and made a moral reflection on the irresistible fates, which caused the priest in attendance to make a genuflexion. Youth and youth, Count Stephen relieved the scene of this passing shadow, by observing that at the best speed, the duke's messengers could make, it must be the hour of eight in the evening before the other guest could arrive. Meanwhile the Countess Isabelle found demand on all the quiet of apartment to which she retired, in gathering strength for the interview which she expected with him, whose line of life seemed so probably bound to her own. 
                  Eight was struck by the heavy bell of the Crvecur tower. Nine!-and all, but the Lady Isabelle, wondered. She did deeper duty of thought than to wonder. She knew that death only could keep Quentin from her side, and her knowledge of the treachery of the hour, made her color fade. Crvecur thought this a good opportunity to recover the lost ground, and he said: "My coming guest is destined to find dangers accompany him everywhere, but he has shown the heart and hand to over come these." 
                  Such smile as Isabelle returned him for this, showed he was understood and pardoned. 
                  The quarter struck, and with its chimes, a trumpet of signal was heard, and soon, the unclosing gates, the tramp of armed men, the mingling lights, all indicated the arrival of the expected guest. 
                  Crvecur and his dignified countess hastened to meet their visitor. The count and his nephew went to the foot of the great staircase, while in the saloon, his countess awaited the coming of the man, whose destiny this night had such brilliant chapter. 
                  In the room beyond, a room of great elegance, devised in all the distinct and vivid coloring of the art at that day, the agitated Countess of Croye, felt the tide of her heart ebb and flow over a face as lovely as its most fervent admirer ever imagined it. 
                  Not now with taunts and jibes was Quentin Durward met by the Count of Crvecur. No mockery of a callous love or insult awaited him. Coming with the escort of his own choice, by the command of the count's sovereign, the decision of court, and king, and army that the full reward of valor was his of right, Durward might have trod that hall of Crvecur house with an air fitting the very lineage of the Stuarts. 
                  Quentin did no such thing. He received the welcome of the count, modestly and gracefully, and immediately commended to his courtieses, his Scottish friends; but Murray, Douglass and Kincaid declined to enter the hall, and each grasping Quentin's hand in earnest friendship, bid him remember that they were his to the death, and then they departed, leaving Quentin alone. Between the count and Count Stephen he entered the saloon. 
                  The Countess Crevecur received him with a joyous earnestness that told Quentin he had an ally in her, as indeed he had, for she despised almost all the Burgundian court, having for years witnessed its cruelties and treachery. 
                  Pleasant words were interchanged, and then the countess smiled and said: "Of course you came to see me, only me." 
                  "Great peril of coming might find here its reward," said Quentin. 
                  "Great bravery and good sense deserves a far greater," said the countess, "and in yonder apartment it will, if I read the stars rightly, find it. At all events"-and this she said in a lower tone, "it has by my best wish." 
                  Quentin would have made unfeigned reply of gratitude, but the lady rose and led him by the hand: it was a pleasant sight, to the room where Isabelle, not now prostrate before oratory, but in all the flush of loveliness, stood beneath a picture of Malcolm's castle of Dun Albin, which with delicate apprehension of a heart thought, had been placed in the room. 
                  "Oh," said the Countess Crvecur gaily, "my husband heard of a wandering Scottish gentleman who has come hither, and he has sent me to show him this picture of a scene in his own dear land. I declare he looks at you, Countess of Croye, instead of the picture. I really believe you have met him before this time." 
                  It was pleasant raillery, but those to whom it was addressed could only feel. They could not distinctly see or hear. Nor is this the weakness of sentimentality. Our readers will remember that from the very grasp of death, the very gloom of despair, these young hearts had been lifted to royal favor, and what was worth ten thousand times all that, they felt the truth of affection, and with its truth its success. 
                  Shall we veil the interview? If veil we did draw over it, it would be as spotless and pure and fair, as ever floated over beauty's form in the hour of her greatest delight. There is an eloquence in earnestness, which is never forcibly given when repeated. Never were two human beings more in earnest in their love to each other than these young hearts. Their love had been made intense by the white heat of danger to which it had been subjected. Of all that was impassioned, broken words were more instinct with meaning, than the best rhetoric orator ever uttered, we profess no delineation. He who attempts to give words to feelings may succeed in his own case, but he must not give his treasure to another. After the heart had spoken, and with a glow of passion that lost no force by its gentleness, the head and the judgment of Quentin told him that he must warn the countess that his path was to be beset with danger. 
                  That he must even that night leave Crvecur's house to inform himself by the proffer of aid that had been made him of the exact time in which his danger threatened, that he might be the better prepared to thrust it aside. 
                  "Never man," said he, "had such reason to love life as I have, and I shall guard it, now that I know that another life is given to me to be henceforth blended with my own. I shall guard it by all that caution can effect, besides, after surviving such dangers as my lot has past, there can be none greater in the future." 
                  "But Quentin, to lose you now, would be to lose more than life." 
                  What Quentin might have said or ought to have said was cut short by the sudden entrance of the Countess of Crvecur, who said: "Sir Quentin, never peer or paladin had such demand upon him as you. When I thought I had the most delightful little party of two, arranged for my quiet home, here comes the herald messenger of our sovereign with directions for you to return immedately to his palace, and your Scottish friends are with the messenger, and they say it is a summons of haste but of friendship; and oh, most adventurous of gallant youths, it is promised by your bright friend Douglass, who I must say, would be a formidable rival to you, that you are to be returned here in the morning. 
                  "He must not go," said Isabelle, and the almost imperial look returned on her as she said it, "till Count Crvecur comes hither." 
                  So earnestly, so impressively was this said, that the count was immediately summoned. "I must have a few more friends here," said Isabelle. "My Burgundian tongue makes sad work of these patronymics, though I have learned one by heart. May I ask the attendance of Murray, Douglass and Kincaid?" 
                  "Of Douglass especially," said the Countess of Crvecur gaily, and at her call, there entered Crvecur and the Scottish noblemen, for his best acquaintance with the best names of Scotland had informed him that these were cadets of some of the noblest houses of all that Scotland boasted. It was a superb array of all that could paint itself, future-like, on the thought. In the midst of this superb room, its walls panneled and tapestried and profusely gilded and colored, all that Flemish loom could weave of dyed-riches to garnish it, stood Isabelle, Countess of Croye, a very dream of exquisite loveliness. By her side, very near to her, that handsomest of manly handsome, men, Quentin Durward. Proximate to Isabelle, the Countess of Crvecur, in her majestic beauty, the very queen of Burgundy's array of matronly beauty, as she was. Before them the Count of Crvecur, whose dignity of statesman and soldier, never was more marked, for he felt that in his changed relations towards Quentin, his honor was involved in maintaining the highest hospitality. 
                  At his side the gallant Scotchmen, each one of them, a power and a name in their own good land, and an honor to Scotland anywhere. Of these, Douglass stood, taller than his companions, with his earnest and high born presence on him, roused by the scene to better thoughts than the annals of the Scottish guard usually presented; while Murray and Kincaid, as if in that far off land recognizing Scotland's line of rank, were a trifle in space behind him. 
                   
                  Said Isabelle, "Dearest countess, and you, noble Crvecur, and you, dear friends of Scotland (the lady was not so agitated but that she took care in placing her adjectives), I have ventured to ask you here to say a word, that it is my duty and" raising her voice" my heart's desire to say, and I could not have chosen better witnesses, I have this morning affianced myself to this noble and true gentleman of Scotland who stands by my side, my defender, my preserver, and I call you here to witness it, that, come life, come death, I am none other than his. Henceforward his fate and mine are one." 
                  This declaration in our modern times would have been made by sagacious parents and friends, in the midst of a brilliant entertainment and called an announcement, but in Isabelle's case and in her circumstances, it was her affectionate and honorable determination that before the highest witness, her choice should thus quickly and surely be known. 
                  "And I," said Quentin, "accept the treasure as I would accept life from death." 
                  "Oh, delightful," said the Countess of Crvecur, "this will be a page of ivory in the tablets of our house," and to give ease at once, to the scene, she kissed the Countess of Croye, and either permitted Durward to kiss her, or made the initiation herself. In the records we have consulted, this entry is somewhat marred in the manuscript. 
                  Fervent congratulation was made by the Scottish gentlemen, and a stately one by Count Crvecur, who thought his superb countess slightly in advance of the proper measure of the hospitalities of the house of Crvecur. 
                  And then the witnesses retired, and Quentin took his leave for the few hours of her, who he could almost call, beyond peril, his own. If no new danger, in that land of sudden dangers, beset his way, a brief time only must elapse before he could call her, all his own. He had determined in his own mind to make brief work of all that remained of his allegiance to the king of France, for the Duke Charles's recent courtesies to him, had produced the effect, which kindness always does, more powerful than all solvents alchemy ever devised. And his sagacity suggested to him that, obtaining, first the consent of Isabelle, which he did, he should ask of the duke, the royal permission that a day might be assigned for his nuptials, thus seeming to leave all to his royal favor. 
                   
                  Quentin soon after left the house which had been to him, the scene of an interview, where for once in this deceitful life, all he had hoped, he had won, and with Toisond'or at the head and the three Scottish gentlemen at his side, the cortege proceeded. As soon as the lights of Crvecur house were dim to sight, Quentin was surprised at finding Murray, Douglass and Kincaid turn upon him, seize the bridle of his horse, and make a full stop to their progress, an incident which Toison did not observe, buried as he was, in deep thought of the emblazonry of the arms of Croye and Durward, and especially of his profound ignorance of any Scottish phrase for a new legend in the device. 
                  "Snow, frost, ice, all that is coldest on earth," said, almost shouted Kincaid, "can you sit in saddle there, calm and cool, when such a miracle, a delight, a transport, of beauty has avouched herself yours. Why don't you run, fly, assault us, break Toison's head, do something instantly to indicate that you have lost your senses and are raving mad in sheer delight!" 
                  "Such loveliness! such fascination," said Murray, "I could shout till Glen Houlakin heard me." 
                  "And that superb countess by her side also your friend, and you kissed her!" said Douglass. 
                  "Oh," said all three, in all the gayety of young and happy hearts, "if she will take either of us in your place, there is an epitaph all ready for you, we shall commit an immediate murder." 
                  "My gallant friends," said Quentin, "I am silent and still, because such is the phase of the deepest emotion. At all events," said he, laughingly, "don't murder me till the Countess of Croye shall have designated which of you is to be my successor and," turning to Douglass, "till the other superb countess wears the widow's banner." 
                  By this time Toison had discovered that he was alone, and he rode hastily back, to gather his company again. With pleasant word and winning and generous sentiment, the road seemed to three of them, brief. Goldsmith had not then written his beautiful thought that the heart removed from its object of love, 
                        "Draws at each step a lengthening chain."
                      But Quentin had anticipated the poet's delineation. The journey went on. The conversation received attention from Durward when he heard his companions talking of their detestation of Louis's treacherous and cruel service, and of Burgundy's inconstant good and ill. And then they arrived at the duke's palace. He heard with pleasure of the results of Quentin's interview, and received graciously the latter's submission of the time of his marriage, to the duke's allotment. 
                  "My resignation from the archers of King Louis, I send this night." The duke's face brightened. "Either in my own person or by my most honorable representative, I attend your bridal with the Countess Isabelle of Croye, at the festival of Saint Guelphin, one month hence, and all Burgundy shall do it honor." Quentin made due homage, and before his thought even then rose like a cloud castle, the scene of the thirty days thence. "But Sir Quentin," said the duke, "now that this incident so momentous to you, is settled, I have to tell you of a strange message I have received concerning you to-night." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLI. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "Oh blended life, when even light itself 
                              Does but survive the darkness, safety 
                              Walks but one moment nearer hope 
                              Than does the danger." 
                           
                         
                        
                           Vaughan of Bristol.
                         
                      
                   
                  By the duke's somewhat imperious order the room was cleared of all present, except Quentin. "Young man," said he, "those around me who speak to me somewhat freely, as it is well that sovereigns do not shackle the voice of truth." 
                  (Quentin's studies at Arbothbrook permitted him, on hearing this, mentally to ejaculate. "Is Saul also among the prophets!") 
                  "They tell me that I here used language of unusual gentleness toward you. It may be so, I do not regret. I am chafed and vexed from day to day by treachery, and I think I see in you a better life. It delights me that you have shaken off your service to King Louis. I may talk to you as one of my own, may I not?" 
                  "Can your grace doubt it, after such words of kindness!" Quentin answered. 
                   
                  "I shall presume it," continued the duke. "Know then that Galeotti is mine. He knows that King Louis intended to murder him, and that he lives only by that sovereign's superstition. I despise the astrologer, but I use him. He does not deceive me, and I see that it is not because he loves me, that henceforward he is in my service really, though ostensibly in that of France, but because he hates Louis. He has been here to-day, and after a stormy jargon, which I cut short, he says he has sure word brought him from a source which contributed before this time to save his life, that you are in great danger and from a high source, and that it is wisest for you to keep the tryste you have made to meet somebody, I know not who, in the street of the workers in silver. Durward, your face does not look like treachery to the heart you have won over such danger. Go to your appointment. I leave you to choose as before your own escort." 
                  Quentin thanked the duke with a zeal of gratitude, rare in the Burgundian court, indeed in any court. He declined any escort whatever into the street where he was to meet Marthon, whose fidelity to him was not at all inconsistent with a life of treachery to others. Since he had so strangely been made of avail, or effort at avail, to her wretched brothers in their hour of mortal agony, yet he asked a troop of horsemen to be stationed where his signal might be heard. As he retired from the audience, the Scots pressed near him to offer their services to him in any result. 
                  "Not so, dear friends," said he, "I must see this adventure out for myself, and since I know your hearts are Scotland bound, I can not risk your lives." 
                  "We have not your inducement to turn Burgundian," said Murray and Kincaid, while Douglass-sighed. 
                  The hour was far advanced in the night, when Quentin led a troop of selected horsemen to a station near the entrance of the court where he was to meet his strange engagement. They as military men knew nothing and cared for nothing, except their orders, and would have sat on their steeds and in their places, till they fell off by weakness, did order not come to relieve them. He left them, and over all the debris of ruin, we have before delineated, found his way to the passage where he had h'eard the call on him to cease further progress after his assailants. 
                   
                  His was a lonely abiding. It was of Egyptian darkness, and only his vigor of muscle, and his eye of a Scottish hunter had given him any chance whatever to thread his route. Clouds obscured the stars, and the moon was doing duty on the oriental side of the world. There were some minutes in which his thought went-whither?-to the scene of doubt and darkness, and more than probable, danger around him; his very life resting in the good faith of an outcast sister of heathen? No, he forgot all this. His mind went back to the room in Crvecur's house, and to the loveliness that had there declared itself all his own, to the dream like joy that sovereignty itself had fixed the hour for him to call this exquisite creation by his own name. If a sudden blow had then taken the young Scotchman's life, never would the bubble of existence burst at a time when the hues of hope made more brilliant colors upon it. 
                  The voice that interupted this dream was not at all like that of the Lady Isabelle. "I have waited for you," it said, "since midnight; yet I ought to have known that the Christian girl would have caused you to forget." 
                  "I doubt not," replied Quentin, "that your coming means well to me, but say as little of her as possible, I beseech you." 
                  "And yet you would rather hear her name than any other sound lips could frame. But I care not for her. She was kind to me, but the whole race hates the Bohemian. Why do I risk my life to save you for her?" 
                  Quentin restrained his impatience. He had accumulated good sense rapidly. As he made no reply, the wisdom of his silence showed itself, for her gloom passed away. She continued: "I tell you that you are in the greatest peril. The attack made on you already is but the precursor of another, and by higher names, yes, the highest." 
                  "What!" said Quentin, "does King Louis mean to murder me, after I have saved him, by my success." 
                  "No, and yes. He is not in this proposed murder. He has so many on his soul another cannot crowd in, but the words of rank, very high rank do apply. Do you think they bear peaceably your winning the great prize of love and power? No, they hate you." 
                  "I do not fear them," said Quentin, "and am too happy to have time or thought to return their hate, but who are they? I must have light if I would defend myself; and who were those who set on me in this den of slaughter! I saw one of them, and only regret that he did not find his grave he deserved in these ruins. I saw Tristan." 
                  "Yes, and with him," said, almost screamed Marthon, for her full measure of vengeance returned at the name, "were his associates of the gallows, his fellow man-slayers, King Louis's chosen hangmen. If they had caught you, they would have hung you up, so they declared, on one of the carved balconies of the street, a terror and a defiance." 
                  "My death would have been the signal of war," said Quentin." 
                  "What did they care for that? They are desperate men, and desperate men are blind. I tell you that you are hated of all men for your success." 
                  "Well Marthon," said Quentin, "it is a success worth all the hate. So I was destined to ornament the street of the silver workers! It will go hard if I do not set swinging some of this gang before this is ended. But who were the other two?" 
                  "They were the wretches from whose horror you rescued Trudchen. Ah, that was the best deed of your life. I am in her service now, and I from her know all the plots that find head in or near the Liegois; and from Galecoth who half believes our better knowledge of the stars, I find what is among King Louis's men. I am bound to you. If these clouds above us would pass away, I would show you that your star never crosses mine, but that it lends it a portion of its light. You have felt the very hand of death on your heart because you intended kindness to my blood. I dare not say like my brother, whose last moments you prolonged, that I will stab the heart that confers benefit on me. I am a Bohemian wanderer, a despised one, but I am a woman, and you have made me by your kindness, your slave. The assault on you here, was of the unrestrainable rage of Tristan l'Hermite. He has never forgiven you the blow on the banks of the River Cher, or that he did not hang you by the side of Zamet." 
                  "What next," said Quentin, who felt that Marthon was prolonging the interview beyond what was wisest. 
                  "No obstacle is to be placed in the way of your bridal. It is to be all that your pride and woman's vanity could ask. But at the last hour when all but you, forewarned as you are, will believe that the words which are to make Isabelle of Croye, yours, there will be a sudden alarm, lights extinguished, and in the mele, Quentin Durward is to be laid a bloody corpse at the feet of his destined bride, and this gained, other results will be left to time. It is a woman's part to warn you of danger, a man's duty is to guard himself. They believe you can not extricate yourself." 
                  With these words she left, but immediately returned, saying, "If you can compass it, bid Trudchen to your bridal. I can then be near, and may be the voice that shall serve you in your need." 
                  When she was gone, Quentin's heart beat high. Her story, prefaced as it had been by the attack of Tristan, had all the appearance of truth. If he communicated this to the duke or to the Crvecurs, it would set on fire the now peaceful relations of France and Burgundy. Besides it would be denied, and he would be esteemed a pale coward relying on the treacherous word of a Bohemian, and seeking to embroil in fatal fight, great names for his fear. "I will meet this great and terrible danger myself, terrible it is, for it involves her who is dearer to me than my life." 
                  Finding his way from the perilous street as best he might, his escort were set in motion to their great joy, and he at the dawn of the day reached again the house of Crvecur, and was conducted by a warder to an apartment of honor especially prepared for him. He slept soon, for sleep is the first friend of the troubled young heart. 
                  He had by the very plot of the conspirators, a month of reprieve, for this storm was to burst upon him, on his wedding day, and that, by the order of the duke, was fixed for the thirtieth day. Saint Guelphin's hour of festival must be kept like the banner of Tunstall, of unstained white. 
                  When at a late breakfast hour all the happy inmates, however intensely anxious was one of them, met, Count Crvecur declared himself shocked at Quentin's sound sleep. "For my part," said he, "when I was in all the pangs of winning my lady love, the physicians gave me up hopelessly, as dying from want of sleep, though it must be owned that she distracted the life out of me by her torturing indecision whether she would really select me out of her circle of slaves." 
                  "Hear him!" said the countess: "it was necessary to send our band, with their instruments all out of tune to wake him up by such a serenade on his wedding morning." 
                  "Oh that was when I had reached the very point of despair," he replied, "and exhausted nature could abide such anxiety no longer. Indeed my anxieties are not all over yet. Does Douglass come here to-day?" 
                  The Countess Crvecur laughed, and assured her liege lord, that till one young Scotchman was fairly settled in life, the peace of the house of Crvecur should not be disturbed by any other. 
                  Quentin had found time previous to their assemblage to relate to Isabelle his interview with the duke, and his royal command as to the bridal day. Life had been too severely earnest for her to make the usual embroidery of gentle doubt and hesitation about this momentous hour in her cycle. It met acquiescence, as indeed her allegiance to the house of Burgundy, was recreated in full force by the duke's kindness to Quentin. 
                  Countess Crvecur thought that Quentin's face was paler than usual, and she at the close of the meal said to him, "I think I have proved to you my full association with your happiness. Something has disturbed you at the duke's audience. If I can aid you tell me in all confidence. Not even Crvecur shall know without your acquiescence." 
                  Durward needed but a moment's deliberation. He could not move all alone, and his judgment taught him that by making the countess his most trusted friend, he had all the best of Burgundy with him. For France, he relied on his Scots, those chosen, whose friendship he knew was as true as the mountain air of his own land was pure. He related all to the countess, and had unusual man's wit enough to relate also his special desire to acquaint Trudchen with the event of his bridal as a guest. The countess thought as deeply of the danger as himself, and asked him if his thought had matured a plan by which to guard against it. 
                  "My mind moves fast," said he, "where so much is concerned. I can sketch to you at once all my plan of battle. I do not fully know all that Marthon means, by my danger from the highest source. It may mean all that is possible in King Louis's court. I shall act in view of all that may occur. I believe that Murray, Kincaid and Douglass may be trusted to the death for me." 
                  "I know," interrupted the countess, "that Douglass, Murray and Kincaid are truth itself." 
                  Quentin might have smiled at the reverse order in which the superb countess placed the names of his friends, but the affair was too serious for smiles. "I shall endeavor," continued he, "to win through them Earl Crawford's permission for as many as possible of the archer guard to be at the affair in one or the other capacity. The reason to be assigned is an obvious one, that their country is to receive an honor so distinguished as that it becomes them to be in full attendance. There will be no surprise so quick but that the acute ear of Marthon shall hear it, and if my eyes wander from those of the Countess of Croye that day, they shall gaze on her steadfastly enough thereafter." 
                  "And Crvecur's own guard shall be there also, and their faith is never shaken to their noble master's friends," said the countess, "but I wish I could shake off this dreadful doubt, as to who is intended by the highest rank of France, as engaged in it." 
                  Not even the fascination of the lady of Crvecur could detain him from the Countess of Croye. He had a million of words to say to her. Whether his enumeration was justified by the event, let all young hearts judge who read these pages. 
                  In a brief space of days, Toisond'or, with all the blazonry of heraldic emblem that could be desired to garnish himself and his suite, made solemn announcement to King Louis, who yet lingered near the duke's court, a very unwilling guest, but not yet the mouse escaped from the cat's claws, though exceedingly anxious to be himself the cat, fast and fierce-that on the festival of the sainted Guelphin, at eight of the evening hour, in and by the good will of the most noble Charles, the bridal of the Countess of Croye, and the valiant Quentin Durward of Scotland and Burgundy, shall take place. 
                  When King Louis heard it, he doffed his hat, and the leaden image of the virgin received his devotion, for Louis, so far as his soul could be said to receive any belief, now believed that the star of Quentin was of highest omen of favor to his own, and though he winced a little at the words "of Burgundy," he said, "He shall be for France, which is far better." 
                  And such proclamation was made at the court of Burgundy and at the center of the city of Liege, and if ever man was envied by those who affected highest acclaim, it was the Scotchman who thus in a few brief weeks had been the center of such strange events. 
                  When King Louis met the circle of his immediate attendants, he could not but notice the depression which seemed to be on all faces. Tristan, who excused a wounded face by avowing himself injured in a petty assault in a wine shop; and indeed all, high or low, received this notice that France had lost Croye and Durward had gained her, with the demeanor of men overtaken by calamity. I need not say that this was deepened by the unrestrained exultation of the Scottish guards. 
                  "Now," said King Louis, "this passes all my patience. Your master has made this boy successful, and you look as if the words of Toison had bid you to a funeral." 
                  "It shall be one," said some voice, not overheard by the king, and by whom uttered, I can not distinctly ascertain, but the chronicles say, it was of accents which had gentle nurture. 
                  "I shall myself not attend," said the king. The face of the circle brightened. "I shall send fitting representation. I reserve my attendance for happier and gayer nuptials, for those which I doubt not willing hearts will celebrate in the reunion of heart and hand between the daughter of my own house, and the Prince of Orleans." 
                  These words so casually uttered were rightly interpreted as the king's cruel command that the prince should renew his reluctant suit. 
                  There is no murmuring in court when kings speak. Had there been, I would have thought a sound was heard strangely like the voice which made threat of death at Quentin's bridal. 
                  At the court of Burgundy, the Crvecur party were all for Quentin, and as the duke's friendship to him was now marked and distinct, all outside show was in exultation; but behind the curtain, there were lamentations that would have been changed into joy by news of his passing away from the cares and pleasures of this transitory world. Liege was for him. He had won their hearts by his chivalry to Trudchen, and her father, and Hans Glover were unwearied in every effort to make his name favorable known. The Scottish guard anticipated the day of the bridal by a festivity so deep, that Earl Crawford declared that somebody ought to be punished-"severely punished," said he; "tried by military rule and hung." Said Kincaid, "the old soldier meditates suicide." Overjoyed were they all when the earl announced to them that by special request of Quentin and generous permission of duke Charles and King Louis, all of them were to be guests, and in attendance on Quentin himself on the night of the bridal. "And it is my special direction," said the earl, "that on this momentous occasion, so honorable to Old Scotland, all of you maintain a perfect sobriety, in other words, that you follow my praiseworthy example." 
                  "Contradictory orders," said Le Balafr, "always perplex me, but the last named is understood to govern." 
                  The scene of the bridal was fixed at the castle of Croye, and special indulgence was promised to the city of Liege, if it would exercise in the equipage of the castle, its best skill and taste; and when this word reached the city, it seemed as if amidst its ruin and wreck, there was held a holiday. Pavillon, Rouneslear and Glover stirred up the artisans to all their activity, and nowhere was there seen more delicate and delicious fabric in preparation than in the street of the workmen in silver, where Quentin's very life had so recently been in danger. 
                  Laden as its wings may be by joys or griefs, time flies on, and the days intervening the festival of St. Guelphin were winged indeed. The Countess of Croye found in the Countess of Crvecur, kindest, dearest of friends, and all anxieties assuaged by her careful consideration of all wants. Trudchen arrived to ask a conference with the Countess of Croye, and all questions of station and rank melted beneath the memories that were common to both of them. Isabelle was impressed with the depths of soul-born gratitude this kindly girl displayed, and Trudchen seemed to be unwearied in all that could be desired to give lustre to the feminine belongings of such an event as that which was in immediate expectation. 
                  A few days prior to the festival, Hans Glover and his brother arrived at the castle, with a packet of rich lace in all forms of attire, as caused, it must be honestly related, the countesses of Croye and Crvecur to forget for the time, all lords present or future, and to exhaust themselves in admiration. It was the bridal gift of Trudchen. 
                  It was followed and exceeded by such magnificence of gift from Louis and Charles as befitted their dignity. Their royal emulation in this respect operating greatly to the advantage of the recipients of their power. 
                  Crvecur and his countess took from the store of his ancestral diamonds (and such treasures of light as that ancient house possessed!) so many as made for the whitest brow that ever rose above eyes that could rival them, a coronet for Isabelle, the letters of her own and Quentin's name curiously intertwined. Hymbercourt made gift of a shawl which Persia's embassy to Spain had left at Madrid, as a priceless gift to its sovereign, and which he had bestored on the Burgundian as a crowning act of favor for some deed of good when D'Hymbercourt was in diplomatic service. Marthon sent a talisman. It was not repulsed. Laurent a missal, it was joyfully accepted. The three Scotchmen sent "their love and a wonderful cabinet of Scottish oak, for the Countess Croye and Durward's choicest porcelain," so Douglass's letter was phrased. 
                  "I wonder," said the Countess Crvecur, as she saw the gift and read the note, "where his love is." 
                  "Oh," said her husband, "do not distress yourself. I have heard these Scottish archers sing: 
                         
                           "My heart's in the highlands, 
                           My heart is not here." 
                        
                      And so the skies kept radiant over the fate of the Lady of Croye and her lover. They were calm in their happiness as high bred persons are, and if shadow passed over Quentin's thought, he looked in Isabelle's face, and would not believe he should ever lose her; but there were those, who, wild in looking upon her face, were resolved that he should lose her, if they lost all with it. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XLII. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              "He raised the banner of the stars 
                              Midst storm and wreck of woe and wars." 
                           
                         
                        
                           The Vassal, CHARLES GORDON, 1626. 
                      
                   
                  All days come-the day of our death ever sure-the day of bridal sometimes, less sure sometimes, as certain. We read the closely lined page of fate too uncertainly to determine whether it is joy or sorrow that holds the pen. 
                  St. Guelphin's day arrived in the course of calendar. Its morning found the sun shining, as if it would verify that proverb which has made so many a bridal morning watched in its sky. It found gathered at the castle of Croye, the Count and Countess of Crvecur, by command of the duke, there, as the most honorable representative of himself, his dominions could furnish, since he had decided not to be present himself, assigning as his reason and probably the true one, that as citizens of Liege were to be there, it would be a check on their gayety, if he were to attend, and said he, "let there be one man as Quentin, who shall say, that I never marred the current of his happiness." D'Hymbercourt was there, and a retinue of Burgundy's court sufficient to show their sovereigns full acclaim. The vows of the lady abbess would not permit her presence at such high festivity. Laurent declared that he had an indistinct memory of the conventional rules on such subjects, and that indeed it was his duty to attend the archbishop of Treves by whom the ceremony was to be held. 
                  The day was alive with the advancing pageants of the guests, for all came in most brilliant of equipage, and in all form and state. The Countess of Crvecur gave directions especially for the honorable welcome of Trudchen, who she immediately admitted to the very penetralia where the Lady Isabelle was shrined, while around the destined bride gathered the fairest three of all the vicinage of Croye's castle, the ladies Lauris, Voistelle and Metzler, each of them beauties that were the bewilderment of the Low Countries, and, but for Isabelle herself, might be declared unsurpassed. Quentin had so little compassion on the hearts of his chosen friends, that he selected them to attend himself, as these three fairest graced the Lady Isabelle. 
                  "I thought," said Murray to Quentin, "that you approved of our resolution to go back to Scotland." 
                  "I do, indeed." 
                  "Then why have you exposed us to such bewildering temptations to settle down as vassals of the house of Croye in the companionship of these delights of creation?" 
                  "Oh carry them with you to Scotland. Our heather needs such flowers." 
                  King Louis had somewhat unexpectedly selected as his representive, Earl Crawford. The king had been troubled at the grim silence of Orleans and Dunois, and referred his doubts to Galeotti, who advised him to send the earl. 
                  "Orleans and Dunois shall attend also," said the Monark, "and these gloomy doubters, one and all. Tristan and his set, all of them. If they will be obstinate, they shall know that I am master, even of those I use for my own purposes." 
                  The hour of the evening came. The windows of the castle were brilliantly illuminated, and the great hall, in which a dais was placed, an altar, and all the appliances for the solemn ceremony, was a miracle of grandeur. Never men wrought more vigorously than did Pavillon and Rounslear, while Glover and his brother, seemed everywhere. What Liege did then, Duke Charles remembered, and it was the advent of many years of high prosperity. 
                  Something of particular arrangement was communicated to to the Countess of Crvecur by Quentin, and by her enjoined, to the surprise of her husband, who imagined that the festivity had slightly disarranged the usual equanimity of his lady. "Thus," said she, "the priest or friar or monk, whatever he is, I know he is very useful. I mean Laurent, must stand near the north entrance, as near King Louis's delectable band of professional murderers, as possible. 
                  The count said, "You talk dangerously." 
                  "I talk truly," said she. "Trudchen and Hans Glover, who, my dear husband, even you could not separate, will be near the south door, and their servant Marthon." 
                  "Marthon the Bohemian!" exclaimed the count, "comes such heathen foot before the saintly archbishop." 
                  "Fidelity is saintly," said the countess, "I will turn priestess and absolve Marthon for this evening." 
                  "Where do the archers stand?" said the count. 
                  "As near Orleans and Dunois, as possible," quickly answered the lady. 
                  "Of course, as a guard of honor," he said. 
                  "Certainly as a guard," she replied, and the colloquy ended. 
                  Soon the great hall filled, and the precise hour for the arrival of the bridal cortege, was awaited with impatience by the guests. It was the same trait of human nature that is manifested at this hour. Softly and sweetly a prelude of music was heard. At Quentin's special wish, it was from a lute, and the air was one of those which he had heard from the tower on the Cher. Then a full burst of richest harmony was given, and then there was silence, and the glittering heralds of France and of Burgundy moved in, with all wealth of ornaments appropriate; then the ecclesiastics in all their pageantry, in their midst the archbishop. Behind him the Count of Crvecur with the royal standard of Burgundy held over him by D'Hymbercourt, and next him, the Earl Crawford with his royal master's fleur de lis in full blazonry; there, and this was by the duke's own suggestion, the banner of Scotland borne by the only Stuart that held place in the archers, and then the ladies Lauris, Voistelle and Metzler, a blaze of beauty, each by the side respectively of Douglass, Murray and Kincaid. A murmur of admiration could not be repressed. 
                  And then, in all the grandeur of her developed grace, the Lady Crvecur, leading the Countess of Croye, at whose entrance, that old and high hall rang out with the acclaim, till the birds on the far off roof fled, startled from their nests. 
                  "It shall not be," said voices, near the Scottish archers, but not among them, "she shall not be this, Scottish adventurer's." 
                  Nothing but the strictest discipline prevented an outbreak at this among the archers. Even discipline could not avoid the clash of their arms. 
                   
                  Next, and closing the line, came Quentin Durward, dressed in the plaid that belonged to his Scottish lineage, except that over his breast was a broad sash of the colors of Burgundy, and over his heart, in pearls, a device of the heraldry of Croye, in the exquisite fabric of which, Glover declared, for it was wrought in his care, the most expert workmen of Liege had unsettled their reason. 
                  I have not delineated the lady's dress. The traditions on Burgundy are yet, at this lapse of ages, to be found eloquent upon it. It was the work of Trudchen's superintendence, assisted by all of Liege's art, and referred to the Countess Crvecur's approval. 
                  As for the lovely girl of whose beauty it was the casket, she thought deepest of her destiny, and while she smiled sweetly on all that was done for her, could not give heart to it. 
                  In this hall, we have already defined the place at the respective doors of the guard of Glover and of Marthon. The three doors formed the entrance except that by which the cortege came. The hall was lighted by one magnificent chandelier of all the grandeur of form, that the skill of those times could prepare, the largest and most gorgeous. The rod ran through the roof and was there secured. In its blaze, the brilliancy of the hall was as that of the day. 
                  The due arrangement of the guests was made, and the prelate had commenced his appropriate duties before the altar, the incense rose, and already some words of those, which were to make Quentin, lord of croye, with all its beauty and its wealth, were spoken, when Laurent, observed that Petit Andr, the facetious jester of Tristan's dreadful group, left the room. At the risk of incurring high displeasure by his precedure, Laurent followed him, but encumbered by his priestly garments, he did not move as rapidly as did the wily, eat-like Frenchman, who threaded his way with dreadful speed to the apartment above the hall, for in the busy occupation with other duties the doors of this room were left open. Laurent, not quite understanding what the movement of Petit Andr intended, followed, urged to it the stronger by the belief which Galeotti had intimated to Marthon, that every step of these blood-hounds of Tristan's was to be tracked. Soon enough he comprehended in all its force, the plot, a daring and a dreadful one. 
                   
                  He sprang up the steps after him, but his gown caught around his feet, and he fell at the door of the upper room as Petit Andr unloosed the bolt by which the chandelier's great irons were fastened. Springing on him, the priest grappled the wretch and both struggled in a seeming death grasp, but the Frenchman had all the advantage of long use of dexterous limb, and escaped for the moment, almost falling down the steps, followed by Laurent. 
                  Not the sudden thunder could have made more horrible the instant, than did the fall of this huge iron and bronze cluster of lights, as it crushed itself almost upon the altar, but fortunately so far outside that it avoided any of those gathered there, but fragments were thrown everywhere, and in this terror of confusion, all was darkness! 
                  An arquebuss fired from the side where Tristan l'Hermite stood, sent a ball whistling over Quentin's head, but the darkness prevented accurate aim, and before another could be used, there was a general mele, in the midst of which Quentin folded Isabelle to him and said, "This is our last peril, even from this we shall come safely." 
                  His three friends left the lovely beings who were near them, and rushed forward at once. Crvecur and Crawford for an instant stunned, were instantly in the fierce gathering, and there would have been a dread blending of foe and friend in awful bloodshed, but just then the shrill voice of Marthon, screaming as only a woman could scream, was heard above all, imploring that the doors be opened. 
                  "No, no, keep all closed." some voice said. Douglass declared it the voice of Orleans. Must we believe that it was? 
                  Hans Glover and his brother, and the archers, forced open the doors, and the brilliancy of the rooms adjoining, all gorgeously lit, for the various purposes of the festivities, made all vivid again in the hall. 
                  The combat seemed to cease the instant the hall became light again, but in the moment that preceded the full brightness, the swords of Orleans and Dunois were seen in the air, uplifted above the crowd that were around Quentin, and a dozen of the Scottish archers declared that they heard both these eminent personages more than mutter: "Now kill him, kill him at her feet!" Be this as it may be. All was hushed in a moment, when Crvecur, in a voice that all heard and thrilled as they heard, demanded of Orleans, the instant arrest of Tristan l'Hermite. 
                  "I came here to a bridal," said Orleans, "and not to do the duty of a provost marshal. Come, Dunois, you and all gentlemen of France, let us leave a scene, where the prince is degraded by the suspicion of treachery." 
                  "It is no suspicion," said Douglass, "I charge it and avouch it." At this, another confusion ensued. 
                  Meanwhile Tristan and his companions made their escape from the hall, and were soon joined in the outskirts of the castle by Petit Andr, whose part in the conspiracy had been so fatally successful. 
                  Unmindful of all questions of rank, Dunois and Douglass crossed swords at once, and the hall of chivalry seemed changed into the scenes of a gladiator's combat, when Quentin, dashing forward, said to Dunois: "This is my quarrel, and none shall avouch it but myself." 
                  Archers left rank and ladies shrieked. Isabelle and her maidens, pale but silent, were almost commanded by the archbishop to remain by him. Ah! what carnival of death might have been then and there in that gay hall, but for the address of Crawford and Crvecur, who above all the confusion, throwing themselves between Quentin and Dunois, declared the penalty of high treason on all who should not instantly sheathe sword. 
                  "Then," said Orleans, "it is vain, good Dunois, let this almost bloody curtain drop. I command you to cease the strife." 
                  "'Twould have been better, had you never directed him to begin it," said Crvecur. 
                  The swords were dropped, and in a species of sullen silence, a few moments passed. 
                  Then the archbishop, declaring the penalties of the church on all who thus delayed or interrupted its sacraments, himself led Quentin back, and as if the delay had not occurred, proceeded with the ceremony, the bronze and crystal fragments of the great chandelier, seeming like barbaric decoration to high festival. Meanwhile in many a silver sconce, lights had been placed, and from golden torches, an illumination that well nigh supplied the place of the shattered central lamp, was flashing. 
                   
                  While this was enacting, a few of the Scottish archers had taken saddle and were in hot pursuit of Tristan and his followers, whom they encounted at a glade, a few miles from the hall. There was a brief but severe fight. Petit Andr fell without time to frame a jest, but the fleetness of the horses of Tristan and the rest of his party, enabled their escape. Indeed it just then came to the thought of the archers, that their fighting was with the servants of their own royal master. "However," said Stuart, "he will not miss one out of so many scoundrels." 
                  While Petit Andr found thus his dreadful fate, he who had so often made the death of others hideous by mockery, the solemn rites of the church went on. Orleans and Dunois left, first saying to Earl Crawford: "We suppose we shall next see you as our guard to Loches." 
                  "Do not speak to me to-night," said the enraged earl. "I shall forget my duty to the king." 
                  They left the hall, and how deep their disappointment, the experienced in human life can best judge. 
                  With pale but trusting look, Isabelle gave herself to Quentin, and when the voice of the archbishop proclaimed them as one, united as no power on earth could sever, wild and high was the acclaim. Croye's castle welcomed its countess to the fulfillment of her love. Then the festivities were in their full height, and beauty and valor held enthusiastic hour. 
                  "Now," said Kincaid to Quentin, "are we more than ever determined to go back to Scotland." 
                  Quentin could scarce find space to hear him, amidst the furore of almost caresses that overwhelmed him, for even the poor but faithful Marthon kissed his hand. 
                  "We shall all go," said Murray. 
                  "Alone! gentlemen," said the delightful Lady Lauris. 
                  "Could Scottish mountain and glen win favor from the ladies of Croye's fertile hills and valleys?" said Kincaid. 
                  "I have read," said the Lady Metzler, "that man was to have dominion over all." 
                  "Douglass," said the Countess Crvecur, "can you resist such a charm as bids you now?" referring to his vicinity to the Lady Viostelle. I do not know what Douglass would have said. At that moment Crvecur came up, and the dance was soon in all its brilliancy in the picture gallery. And the grandeur of that festival made forever in the calendar of Burgundy, a high day, for St. Guelphin. 
                  
                     Quentin has won the Countess of Croye. The Scot that crossed the Cher has gained the lady of the Turret. 
                  These annals must draw to their close, for closed, sooner or later, are all the volumes of life's weal and woe. 
                  Back to Scotland, did Douglass, Murray and Kincaid go, and in their castles in the far North, did much by gentleness of word and way and example, to alleviate the rude manners of the land. Nor was this strange, for rising to high rank and power as they did, not even the court at Edinburgh could resist the sweet influences of the beautiful Burgundians that shared their homes. 
                  Quentin served Duke Charles gallantly and faithfully, never forsaking him, even while his heart detested the policy by which his government was sustained, but Charles's fiery heart soon burnt to the ashes of death, and then in the hall of Croye, Quentin said one lovely morning-it was the recurrence of St. Guelphin's festival, and that was ever a brilliant day at Croye: "Dearest, I dreamed of Glen Houlakin last night. I know what caused the dream. You remember at our table last evening, we had as guest, young Arthur Ogilvie. In my days of boyhood, an Ogilvie would not have tasted the bread of a Durward." 
                  "We have outlived all our enmities," said Isabelle; "great would indeed have been our sin, if after all we have survived, we should not have ourselves forgiven." 
                  "But Isabelle, I dreamed awake. You shall interpret my dream. I learned from Ogilvie how much Scotland is changed for the better, and that in Glen Houlakin there has been built a castle; of all Scotland's edifices of human use, the most impressive. And Ogilvie said," he continued, "well-he said that castle was vacant now, and that the people remembered yet the name of Durward. Oh Isabelle! Scotland is a land where men keep faith, and where a true heart need not walk in such ways, as our sovereign trod." 
                  "Shall I interpret your dream," said the lovely woman, "It is that your heart, you have taught me the phrase, warms to Old Scotland." 
                   
                  "Yes, it does, and if I were keeper of my own heart, I would see Glen Houlakin again." 
                  A feeling prefaced by such conversation wrought out its uatural result. Wisely, not abruptly, the castle of Croye and its magnificent appendages, were transferred to Count Crvecur, who entered willingly into Quentin's plans, having learned to love him as his own soul. 
                  By consent of his own sovereign of Burgundy, the transfer was fully made, and the Countess Isabelle left forever the fair lands of Croye. She left them without a sigh, for all her world was Quentin, and she gladly joined her heart to his, in their Scotland home. 
                  Laurent and Marthon accompanied them, and the oratory and the toilette witnessed their superintendence, and faithful to the death both proved, faithful as only rarely, human beings are to each other. 
                  That wealthy and chief burgher of Liege, Hans Glover, and his good lady, made Glen Houlakin's castle brilliant in the array of Flemish treasures of art. 
                  Valor, Sense and Courage, had their reward, Not always thus are the world's problems wrought out. 
                  I like to linger on the ruins of that castle of Glen Houlakin. When I last saw them, even yet, the great foundation stone had rude tracings of armorial bearings; and Dr. Dryasdust is my avouchment for the pleasant fact, that they are the blended arms of Croye and Durward. 
                
             
         
       
   
