
    ----CITATION----
        Skinner, Mose, (fl. 1869-1885). Mose Skinner's Bridal Tour, and Other Sketches .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5906
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               MOSE SKINNER'S BRIDAL TOUR AND OTHER SKETCHES. 
             
            
                
             
            
               BOSTON: 
               PUBLISHED BY NEW ENGLAND NEWS COMPANY,  
                     No. 41 COURT STREET. 
                  
                
               Warren Richardson, Printer, 112 Washington street, Boston.
             
             
            Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1871, by J. E. BROWN, in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
          
          
            SALUTATION. 
            SHALL HOME MISSIONS BE ENCOURAGED? 
            The following Memoirs were written with a view of touching the hearts of my fellow creatures, at the reasonable price of ten cents a creature. My ultimate object is to raise wind enough for Mrs. Skinner to sail to church in a new Spring bonnet. My suggestion that she might buy a stylish second-hand article on Salem street, was met with scorn and contumely, in which the mop-handle joined. Mrs. Skinner is a sensitive plant, and it is hard for her to be obliged to stay in the house Sundays because she has n't got any Spring bonnet, and see the Baxters, and the Mudgetts, and the Bensons, appear out in their new things. In buying this little book you also help lift a load of sorrow from the heart of a man who is utterly crushed, by the dangerous illness of a mother-in-law, and the probable departure of a table-boarder. Bless you! Bless you! 
            
               M. S.
             
          
       
      
         
            Mose Skinner's bridal tour, and other sketches 
             
                
               Mose Skinner's Bridal Tour. 
               THEY say a man can love but once, but I don't believe it. I have loved twice already, and I am just as fresh, and just as artless as I ever was. In case my second wife, the present Mrs. Skinner, should confer upon me the full title of widower by dropping off, or make me a brevet widower by running away with another man, I know I could love a third wife just as dearly as I did my first love, when I found she'd got money in the bank. 
               Love is a pretty nice thing, provided you can court. That's the slickest part of it, by a good deal. Like all good things though, it is fearfully overdone. When I went courting for instance, I never thought of staying till after ten o'clock, and only went twice a week. Now they go seven nights in a week, and cry because there ain't eight. Then they write touching notes to each other during the day. "Dear George, do you love me as much now, as you did at quarter past twelve last night? Say you do, dearest, and it will give me courage to go down to dinner and tackle them cold beans left over from yesterday." Well, well, let 'em court. It's their best hold, and the longer they keep it up the more happiness they can look back to, for after they've stood up before the minister, things begin to change. 
               Mrs. Skinner has altered sadly since we got married. If you could see her polishing me off with the mop-handle, or sending me to bed without my supper, you would n't think there was a time when she sat on my knee very bashful, and smoothed my hair, and called me her "Tootsy Pootsy." No, you would n't. But she used to do that very nice, and I felt like a two year old colt behind a band of music. Now I feel like an army mule drawing a load of pig iron up a steep hill. I'm bald-headed and have to do chamber work. I'm obliged to go to bed early cold Winter evenings, to get the bed warm, and get up any time in the night to warm milk for the twins, and lots of other things that I can't bear to think of. My only consolation is that I may outlive her; but when I see her walloping the children with a heavy hand, or abusing the neighbors from the back doorstep in select language, I don't know about it. I'm afraid she's got too much robustness to pass away at present. 
               We had n't been married a week before my nose was on the grindstone, and Mrs. Skinner was turning the crank in a lively style. She commenced operations by saying we must go on a bridal tour right straight off. I told her with dignity that I preferred not to. She laughed sort of hysteriky, and said she did 'nt care what I preferred, she was going, and I was going too. Usually when she was traveling, she said, she would'nt have a man round, but she wanted me under training, and so she'd concluded to take me along. She finished by ordering me to march up stairs and get ready. 
               I saw immediately that she was inclined to put on airs, and I resolved to take her down at once. I did n't want to be hard on her, but I considered it a duty. 
               "Matilda," said I sternly, "you don't know your place. You seem to forget that I am now your lord and master." 
               "Not if I know myself, you aint," said she. 
                
               "Mrs. Skinner," I replied, "you are fearfully demoralized. You need reorganizing at once. You are cranky." And I brandished my new sixty-two cent umbrella wildly around her head. 
               She looked at me for a minute with a sort of pitying smile. 
               "I pity you," said she, "because you don't know enough to see that you'd better give in at once. You can't make any points with me. The man who's going to boss Matilda Baxter ain't cut his eye-teeth yet." 
               Then she took the umbrella away from me, and locked me up in the clothes press. When Mrs. Skinner means business, she don't dilly-dally about it. She is a very smart woman. The Baxters are all a dreadful smart family. Her grandmother lived to be over ninety, and done the work for forty-three boarders up to the last day, and died in the act of frying flap-jacks for the whole lot. And when her grandfather was eighty-seven, he could walk forty miles without spectacles, and read the finest print without a cane. There aint any such folks now-a-days. Our gals think it's beneath 'em to iron a shirt, or make a loaf of bread, so they rattle the piano, or walk the streets with their furbelows and feathers, pretending to get mad if a young chap looks at 'em pretty hard, but getting mad in earnest if he don't. And as for the young men they aint worth bringing up. Instead of settling down to some honest, manly business like their fathers before them, they rush off to the city in pursuit of some genteel business where they can wear pretty clothes, and not tumble their hair. 
               But to return to that clothes-press. Mrs. Skinner kept me there about two hours, and then asked me through the key-hole if I had come to my senses. If I had, I could go up stairs and change my clothes. My wife is a woman of few words, except when she gets to talking. And so I went with may, wife on that Bridal Tour. [See engraving.] 
               In fact, I wanted to go all the time, for I was always noted for going on scrapes. I don't pretend to say how many times I took my first wife out to see the engine squirt, and there was no end to the free lectures we used to attend and the sewing circles, too. The neighbors used to say, "Well, it does beat all, how them Skinners do go." And when Signor Blitz gave her a complimentary ticket to see his wonderful canaries, I not only sold that ticket for my wife, but I gave her half I the money. But I won't brag of it, for I don't think any man ought to get married, till he can consider his wife's happiness only second to his own. 
               I intended to tell all about that Bridal Tour, but I can't bring myself to dwell on it, and so I keep wandering. We were gone about too weeks, I believe, and I guess we had a very good time. The fact is I was out of my head part of the time, and don't remember much about it. I know I lost twenty pounds, and I am quite sure Mrs. Skinner gained at least forty. She came back improved in health, and I found out before she'd been in the house twenty-four hours, that she'd gained in strength also. I don't say how I found it out. I simply say I found it out. 
               It might be inferred from the above, that Mrs. Skinner is a hard-hearted virago, but she is not. On the contrary, she is full of charity and kindness of heart. She gave my boys permission to go barefooted up to the first of December, and insisted on it so much in her kind way that they could n't refuse. She fairly dotes on my children, and I've seen her many a time go to their trowsers packet and take out their pennies after they'd got to sleep, and put them in her bureau drawer, for fear they might lose them. There ain't any discount on Mrs. Skinner, after all. 
             
             
                
               A Popular Summer Resort. 
               ABOUT the middle of May last, I received a letter from my old friend Bill J. of Vermont, requesting to see me on particular business. I thought I'd go, for I longed to look upon his dear old face again, and he offered to pay my expenses besides. 
               I found Bill waiting for me at the depot, and glad to see me. The old chap still looks intellectual, and can get away with his three square meals a day in a style that defies competition. 
               "Well, my boy, what business do you want me on?" said I, as I stretched myself luxuriantly on the door-mat in Bill's elegantly furnished cellar-kitchen, and watched the smoke as it curled lazily upward from my fragrant short-six, which was imported by Bill, directly from Havana, at a dollar and a quarter a hundred. 
               "It's this," he replied, "You remember the old Tarbox house over to C., don't you?" 
               I told him I did. 
               "Well," he went on, "it was sold at auction last week, and I bought it for a mere song. But I don't know what to do with it, now I've got it. It's a rickety old coop, and leaks like a sieve. Nobody would live there anyhow, for it's close by Cat Swamp. The last family died off in about a year and a half. 'Sposen I fix it up a little, and advertise it as a 'Popular Summer Resort' setting forth its superior advantages in very large type: 'pure water,' 'invigorating climate,' and all that sort of thing. Do you think 'twould pay?" 
               "It would," I replied, "if you only charge big prices enough." 
               "I can put on a cheap piazza," continued Bill, "raise it a story, and double the number of rooms by running a partition through each one. The old mill-pond close by, will do for the 'elegant lake with unrivalled scenery,' and a couple of old pung-boats will furnish the 'numerous facilities' or enjoying the rare fishing which abounds in this locality." 
               "But there aint a fish within twenty miles," said I. 
               "Of course there ain't-but this is only the advertisement; and now I want you to help me get it up." 
               So we went to work, and in a short time produced the following:- 
               
                  COUNTRY BOARD.-The famous resort known as TARBOX VILLA is now open to the public for the Summer season. It has been noted for years for its wonderfully pure air, exquisite landscapes and general healthfulness. The hotel is supplied with two marble-topped wash-stands in every room, together with twenty-five pianos, for the use of guests. Every room is carpeted two inches thick, with carpeting manufactured by Mr. Brussels himself. Troupes of French and English servants glide noiselessly about, anticipating the guests' slightest wish. The view from the piazza is exquisitely beautiful, rivalling in gorgeous splendor the far-famed fairy lands of the East. The eye takes in thousands of verdure-clad hills, from whose summits can be seen hundreds of prosperous farms, and thriving villages, with their church spires glistening in the sun.
                  THE FISHING is immense. At Crystal Lake, within ten minutes' walk of the hotel, thousands of trout gambol slyly about, and by their fascinating wiles tempt the angler from his elegant easy-chair in the gentlemen's sitting-room. There are also plenty of other beautiful lakes close by, in whose transparent depths the finny tribe largely congregate.
                  THE BOATING is unrivalled. In addition to numerous small craft, the proprietors have lately purchased two superb yachts, which speed the waters like a thing of life, filled with laughing groups of beautiful and accomplished ladies.
                  OTHER AMUSEMENTS are abundant, including horseback riding. The honest farmers in this locality lend their horses, and refuse to take any pecuniary consideration.
                
               "Now about the healthful climate," said Bill, "don't we want to make that rather strong? A good many people are down on east winds, you know." 
               "Some like 'em," said I. 
               "I know it," he replied, "and so I don't know what to say. 'Sposen I say, 'East winds never blow in this climate, except by special request of the guests?'" 
               But we finally concluded to have it this way:- 
                     The climate here is unusually healthy. The only funeral for the past ten years is the case of a man who fell from a meeting-house steeple, and was instantly killed. There are no east winds here, and the oldest inhabitant cannot remember a north-east storm.
                  
                
               "Is that all?" inquired Bill. 
               "No," said I, "you must have in something about its being a resort for invalids. A mineral spring, or patent bath, or something of that sort, would do the business." 
               "Well," said he, "how's this?" 
                
               There is one of the finest mineral springs in the United States close by the house. It has already cured thousands of sufferers, afflicted with every known disease; and some who never drank water at all, now hanker for this. 
               Large numbers of invalids come here every Summer, and go away rejoicing in health restored. Some come fearfully emaciated and hobbling on crutches, who, in a week's time, throw away their crutches, and play leap-frog to take down their fat. 
               "That will do," I replied. And now let's wind up by- 
                     HOW TO GET TO TARBOX VILLA.
                     All the respectable railroads in the country run, without change of cars, direct to Tarbox Villa, through one of the most imposing landscapes on this continent.
                  
                
                
               The last time I heard from Bill, his house was full, And he was making money hand over fist. People with elegant airy mansions in the best portion of our great city, were flocking down to this den of his, because they were humbugged by this newspaper advertisement. They don't expose it as they'd ought to, for when a person gets humbugged he generally keeps still about it, in hopes others will get humbugged too. It's too bad, and I'm sorry I helped Bill on. 
             
             
                
               Mose Skinner as a Drummer. 
               ABOUT a year ago I made a great discovery, nothing more nor less than that wonderful root, from which is made "Skinner's Chain Lightning Tonic"; that providential remedy, which has already cured every disease known to the civilized world, and stands ready to do it again. It's a beautiful tonic, and it ought to be, for it is ninety per cent. whiskey. What the public want now-a-days, is something tonicky, without going into a bar-room after it. There's lots of very respectable men who wouldn't be seen drinking a glass of whiskey, for the world, but they'll swill down medicine by the gallon, because it is called on the label "a Root and Herb Tonic for family use." Sons of Temperance can drink all they want to of it, for it will not only build their constitutions right straight up, but it'll make 'em, feel nice and boozy without breaking any pledge. 
               For a spell it sold first-rate, but some other patent medicine men got hold of my secret, and soon the market was flooded with Tonic at a dollar a bottle, and called by all sorts of names. So in order to make anything I had to use poorer whiskey, and the result was my business sort of run down. I tried every trick and dodge that I could think of, and even went so far as to have my picture taken, and stuck in the windows of all the cigar shops and apothecary stores, with my name underneath, "Dr. Moses Skinner, the good Samaritan." 
               But it didn't work, and so I was reduced to the last extremity-that of drumming. I hated to be a drummer, for our family was always considered respectable; but I had a great deal of Tonic on hand, and I did n't want to see it wasted. So I joined that noble body of men, the drummers of Boston, who go broadcast over the land like a ravenous swarm of locusts, devouring every green thing, and waylaying innocent storekeepers with samples and impudence. 
               The first place I struck was- 
                
                  PORTLAND. 
                  Portland is a very pretty city, and is mostly occupied by drummers from Boston. Occasionally a few of these rioters are arrested, but the next train brings a reinforcement, who leave their samples at a hotel and go round seeking whom they may devour; after which they drink each other blind, and write home how dull business is. 
                  It would take volumes to describe a genuine drummer; none of your wishy-washy kind, but a regular howler, who knows a thing or two and is up to snuff. At the hotel where I stopped there were fifty guests, forty-nine of whom were drummers. The other one informed me privately that he used to be, but seeing that it was slowly bringing his mother's grey hairs in sorrow to the grave, he altered his dissolute course, and he is now an honored shoemaker in Lynn. 
                  I went into the hotel that night with the intention of retiring early, but I paused as my eye took in the scene. Around the stove were seated seventeen as beautiful drummers as you could wish to feast your eye on. They represented ever thing from a patent washing machine to a rubber doll that would squeak. They were all smoking pipes, varying in size from a water-pail to a butter-firkin; and each was trying, with a Christian fortitude that was simply heroic, to come as near the spittoon as possible without going in,-distance seven feet. They were beguiling the time in pleasant anecdotes of the day's experience. 
                  "I sold old Wapsle a bill to-day," said one, "but I had to draw my revolver on him before I could do it." 
                  "What do you mean?" said I; "do you carry a revolver?" 
                  "O, Lord! aint he green?" he replied, turning to the others. "Of course we do," said he; "all drummers carry 'em. We couldn't sell any goods if we didn't. We call 'em persuaders, and when I get mine loaded she's good for six customers. That's what we call commanding trade." 
                  "The last time I was down to Lewiston," said another, "I asked Slammer to come up to the hotel and look at my samples, and he said he would, but he tried to sneak by without my seeing him. Of course I wasn't going to stand no such nonsense as that, you know, so I goes out and collars him! He swore he didn't want any goods, but I knew better; so I got another fellow to help me, and we just gagged him and carried him up the back way. I locked him in and kept him there two days before he came to his oats, but I fetched him finally. He may think I'm a flat, but I wasn't born yesterday." 
                  "O, the storekeepers are getting meaner than dirt," said another. "The last time I sold old Borax, down to Bangor, there were twenty-three of us waiting for him to come back from dinner. He saw us, and tried to hide in the basement. We put after him, and opened our samples. He gave a yell, and rushed up stairs. Just as he was going through the scuttle a fellow bawled out that he was selling half cost, twenty per cent. off, but Borax stopped up his ears and got on the roof. But your humble servant was enough for him," he continued; "I went up the lightning-rod with my samples strapped on my back, and if I didn't sell him up there on the roof," said he, turning to me, "you can eat my liver." 
                  "I thank you, sir," said I, "but my physician warns me against late suppers." 
                  "Then name your poison," said he, hauling me up to the bar. 
                  I saw at once that I couldn't stand any chance with such a lot of fillibusters as there, so I left next day for the West. On my way I stopped at 
                
                
                  WASHINGTON. 
                  On my arrival, I started immediately for the White House to see Grant, for I consider him the greatest statesman this country has produced, besides being a good judge of horse-flesh, which all statesmen can't brag of. Besides I'm related to Grant. I don't know exactly what the relation is, but I s'pose you'd call it a sort of a cousin. The way of it is, you see, my Uncle Joshua used to take all his grandmother's skim-milk just as regular as could he, and so we've always been interested to see the Grants get along. And then there's John Skinner, my brother, was a corporal in Grant's employ, and Grant liked him tip top. You can't tell me anything about the Grant family, the Skinners and Grants are regular chums. 
                  But unfortunately Ulysees wasn't at home. So I went down to the Senate chamber a few minutes. 
                  They were having a very stormy discussion there, about passing a bill, but I couldn't make head nor tail of it. 
                  Pretty soon, though, a Senator (who was a very old man) got up and called another Senator a natural born scoundrel and vagabond, and twitted him about his squint-eyed sister Sal, who had red hair and used to throw spitballs to the writing master. The other Senator responded in a very gentlemanly manner, by calling his antagonist a hoary headed old reprobate, and a palsied liar, and inquired with much sarcasm, if he would n't please inform the House how it was about that poor widow he cheated out of a month's board in 1832. At this the other Senators laid back in their chairs, put their feet on their desks, and whispered to each other that it bid fair to become a spicy debate; while the reporters sharpened their pencils eagerly, and prepared to write extended accounts of a little set-to between two Senators, with particulars as to the number of oaths uttered by each one, and the number of times they shook their fists in each other's face. 
                  It was really exhilarating, and I could hardly tear myself away in time to take the train. I didn't go farther West, after all, than 
                
                
                  CHICAGO. 
                  And I did'nt stop there as long as I intended, for one morning, I saw in the paper the following notice:- 
                        DASTARDLY OUTRAGE.-For the past week, a miserable scalawag, calling himself Dr. Skinner, of Boston, has been infesting this locality, outraging the community with a nauseous compound called 'Chain Lightning Tonic,' which he claims will cure every thing. Several of our citizens are at death's door by using it; but the most diabolical outrage perpetrated by his hideous ruffian, is the case of Mrs. Timothy Yawler, who, after taking one bottle of this vile mixture, bade her friends adieu, and resigned herself to the undertaker. If our citizens can only lay hands on this vagabond they will treat him to a hemp neck-tie and a wooden overcoat with steel buttons. See advertisement headed 'Wanted.'
                     
                   
                   
                  There was something about that paragraph that made me feel homesick, so I started East. I didn't stop till I got in 
                
                
                  NEW YORK. 
                  On my arrival I immediately took rooms at the Astor House. To be sure I had no money to pay for them, but why think of pay if we are only good? I have always made it a rule to have the best of every thing, even if I am obliged to get trusted for it. This sterling maxim was instilled into my mind by a kind old father, and as he blest me and turned sadly away, methought a tear trickled down his chin, though it may have been tobacco juice. The old man chawed fearfully. 
                  I hadn't been at the Astor but one day when the clerk brought me my bill. 
                  "Is it customary," said I, "to pay by the day?" 
                  "It is with men of your stamp," he replied. 
                  "What kind of a stamp do you take me for?" said I. 
                  "You look like a two-cent stamp," he replied, "mighty thin, but if any body should wet you once, you'd stick like thunder. But we don't propose to try it on. You either pay this bill, or get out. Have you got any money?" said he. 
                  "My estimable young friend," I replied, "you have probably heard of Dr. Ben Franklin, long since deceased. That eminent physician was at one time in the proverb business, and did a very good thing. He said, among other things, that time is money. Now, I haven't got any money, but, as regards time, I am rich, and if you will receipt the bill, I will give you a check for as much time as you think equivalent, and throw you in a couple of hours for your trouble." 
                  He made no reply, but from the fact of the porter's coming up immediately after, removing my trunk to the sidewalk walk, and hustling, me out after it, I inferred that I wasn't considered a financial success. 
                  "Say, mister," said a small boy with a very long coat, and a cap with considerable visor, "don't tear yourself away!" 
                  "O, you let him alone," said another; "his mother's sent for him." 
                  O World, thou art ever, ever cruel! 
                  I immediately called a hackman, and told him to take me to a cheap but respectable hotel. "And the cheaper it is," I added, "the more respectable I shall consider it." 
                  He drove me to the Excelsior House, and I told him I was under a great obligation to him, and if at any time I could do him a favor, I should feel grieved if he didn't speak to me about it. 
                  "If you don't fork over that fifty cents," said he, "there'll be a funeral in your family, and it won't be your wife, nor none o' your children." 
                  "But I'm busted," said I. "If meeting-houses were selling two for a cent, I couldn't buy the handle of a contribution box." 
                  He swore at me awfully, and said he would have it out of my trunk, so he burst it open. 
                  But the contents of that trunk were far from valuable, for I carry it filled with sawdust. It looks just as respectable and in an emergency of this kind is invaluable. 
                  I will not say that this man looked daggers at me. He looked a whole arsenal, with a back room full of extra bayonets; and as he mounted his box and drove away, the air was fairly blue with oaths. He got off string after string, without making a single mistake, and he must have had the devil's dictionary at his tongue's end. 
                  I afterwards heard that this hackman was always very wicked, and wouldn't go to the Sunday school when he was a little boy; but when his mother put on his cap with a little tassel to it, and gave him a cent to put in the contribution box, he would go off with other bad boys and kill toads. Is it any wonder that he is a great horrid thing, and uses oaths when he swears? 
                  As soon as I could raise a sufficient quantity of Spinner's autographs, I returned home. I was gone about three weeks, and I found it a very cold world. If you are in trouble, everybody's heart is at zero; and if you want to borrow a little specie, the quick silver don't rise. 
                
             
             
               Woman's Rights: 
               AN ESSAY BY MRS. SKINNER. 
               MISS President, feller-wimmin, and male trash generally-I am here to-day for the purpose of discussing woman's rights, recussing her wrongs, and cussing the men. I believe the sexes were created perfectly equal, with the woman a little more equal than the man. I also believe that the world would to-day be happier if man had never existed. As a success man is failure, and I bless my stars that my mother was a woman. (Applause.) 
               I not only maintain these principles, but I maintain a shiftless husband besides. 
               They say man was created first. S'posin' he was? Ain't first experiments always failures? If I was a betting man, I'd bet two dollars and a half that they are. The only decent thing about him anyhow was a rib, and that went to make something better. (Applause.) 
               What we want is the ballot, and the ballot we're bound to have, if we let down our back hair and swim in a sea of sanguinary gore. (Sensation.) Bring up your little daughters to love and caress the ballot, and when they are old and scrawny they will not depart from it. Teach them that man occupies no position that woman cannot fill, even to a pair of pants. Teach them that without the ballot woman is simply a cooking and washing-machine; that with it she can just rule her little roost. Give 'em little ballots to play with. We have plenty of ballet girls, but what we want is ballot women. 
               My husband says I sleep with a ballot under my pillow, and dream I'm commander-in-chief of a large army of ballots, and am cleaning out every thing that looks like a male sex, while the band plays "See the conquering shero comes." Such remarks prove that man was created lower than the beasts of the sea, the carrion of the air, or the rhinoceros upon the prairies. 
               My soul is filled with poetry and sentiment, and his vulgar remarks grate on my ear, for when I hear persons use expressions that are not refined and genteel, I want to go through 'em like brimstone and molasses. ("Hear! hear!") 
               I'm astonished there ain't more interest manifested in this absorbing topic. This hall ought to be packed from dome to ceiling, and a couple hundred climbing up the lightning-rod outside. A short time ago I addressed an immense throng on Boston Common; at least thirty-seven persons, including men and women of both sexes, who stood packed together for at least fifteen minutes, hanging on my words; the enthusiasm finally reaching such a pitch that they insisted on burning my effigy to slow music. 
               And we're bound to succeed. Our speakers don't lack brains nor influence, but there's one thing I wish they did lack, and that is their desire for a husband. No matter how rabid a woman is on this question, or how much she talks against the men on the platform, she'll grab the fust one that offers himself, and turn right straight round, and that's where we're weak. Most women seem to think they were made for but one purpose, and that was to have Mrs. on their tombstone. They'd better be missed all their lives, and when they die the more they're missed the better. 
               From the creation of the world we've had all the great men on our side. There's Pharaoh. What did Pharaoh do? Recognizing the fact that woman must inevitably rule, he issued an order to strangle all the male children. If this thing hadn't slipped up 'twould be money in our pockets. Mr. Pharaoh is dead now, and hadn't forethought enough to leave the business to some good man. Herod was also a woman's rights man. He ordered all the male children to be slain; and what sweeter proof could we have that Herod's head was level? My dear sisters, we can't all be Herods, but we can wear his tintype next our hearts, and press onward to the goal. 
               Coming down to the present day, where do we find woman? We don't find her. In ten cases out of nine she finds herself. Come with me to the worst portion of our great city. After ascending thirty-one flights of rickety stairs, what do we find? A miserable basement. In one corner sits a wretched woman, once the belle of the city. She makes vests. Twenty-four vests for a cent. Not a morsel of food has passed her lips since Fall. Around her are fourteen children crying for bread. But, alas! she ain't got no bread, but with tears in her eyes she mournfully divides among them the last half of a tallow candle. 
               Have I overdrawn this picture? No, sir. And if any man dares to say I have, I'll guarantee to send him home on a shutter in less than ten minutes. (Emotion in the audience.) 
               But, my dearly sisters, I am not here simply to touch your hearts, but to touch your pockets also. A thing of this kind can't go on without money, and I hereby call upon four of the most able-bodied sisters, who feel that 'tis sweet to be on their muscle, to pass round the hat. Think of the greatness of our cause, and its effect on thousands of ancestors still unborn. Think of your altered firesides, where widowed mothers with dissipated husbands press their orphan children to their bosoms. Think, O think, of George Washington at Mr. Valley's forge, barefooted, and-shell out. 
               (This appeal was so moving that a majority of the audience moved toward the door. About seven dollars and a half was collected, however, which went for Mrs. Skinner's new set of cork-screw curls. After putting the amount in her reticule, and planting her right foot firmly upon it, she proceeded.) 
               My dear friends, I must bid you adieu, but I will be with you again when times are better, for I intend to agitate this question till we get our rights, and whatever we can sponge besides. I will agitate it till my breath gives out and my wig turns gray. 
             
            Note.-Mose Skinner writes for the "Boston True Flag," and his creditors can keep track of him by reading that paper. 
         
       
       
          
             
                
               Established 1845. 
               THE ORIGINAL HOWE SEWING MACHINE, IMPROVED. 
               
                   
                
               The Best IN THE WORLD FOR FAMILIES. 
               Unsurpassed FOR Manufacturers OF CLOTHING, Boots, Shoes, &c., &c. 
               PERFECTED IN 1871. 
               Principal New England and Office Salesroom, 48 & 50 TEMPLE PLACE, BOSTON. 
               E. VARNEY, Manager. Agents Wanted. 
             
             
                
               CHOATE'S ODONTO. 
               It is cleanly, easily used, and conveniently carried. A perfect purifer of the blackest Teeth. 
               The public has become aware, through various announcements in the newspapers, and unique and prominent designs upon the street corners and poster boards, of the existence of such an article as "Choate's Odonto. What it is has puzzled many, but if their curiosity prompted them to ascertain its nature, they found it to be one of the most delectable and thorough appliances for cleansing the teeth ever invented. It not only cleanses the teeth, but it cleanses them without injury, having in its composition no deleterious elements which remain upon the enamel in spite of the application of water and brush. One of the most agreeable of the virtues of the Odonto is the pleasant odor that it gives to the breath. The ingredients of the Odonto are perfectly safe, and the article can be used without fear, by all who are fortunate enough to possess natural teeth. 
               PREPARED AND SOLD BY HENRY A. CHOATE, DRUGGIST, Under Revere House, Boston. 
             
             
               DR. P. KENISON, CHIROPODIST, 
               Corns and bad Nails extracted without pain. 
               145 TREMONT ST. bet. West St. & Temple Place, BOSTON, 
               Operation on Corns, 25 cents each. Operation on Nails, 50 cents each. 
             
             
               MESSENGER BROS' NEW DINING ROOMS, 
               No. 55 BROMFIELD STREET, BOSTON. 
               F. W. MESSENGER, E. M. MESSENGER. 
               LODGING ROOMS CONNECTED. 
               WHITE CLOVER HONEY AND MESSENGERS' MAPLE CANDY. 
             
             
                
               Iron in the Blood is Nature's own Vitalizer! 
               PERUVIAN SYRUP 
               A Protected Solution of the Protoxide of Iron, is so combined as to have the character of an aliment, as easily digested and assimilated with the blood, as the simplest food. It increases the quantity of Nature's Own Vitalizing Agent, Iron in the blood, and cures "a thousand ills," simply by Toning up, invigorating and Vitalizing the System. The enriched and vitalized blood permeates every part of the body, repairing damage and waste, searching out morbid secretions, and leaving nothing for disease to feed upon. 
               FOR A SPRING MEDICINE It has no equal. Stimulating without reaction, its effects are PERMANENT, differing in this respect from all Alcoholic Tonics. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           AN IRON TONIC. 
                           
                              EPSOM, N. H., May 3d, 1870. 
                              J. P. DINSMORE, ESQ.:
                            
                           Dear Sir:-Having received great benefit from the use of "Peruvian Syrup," I am willing to add my testimony to the thousands of others constantly sounding its praise. During the late war I was in the Army, and had the misfortune to be taken prisoner, and was confined in Salisbury and other Southern prisons several months, and became so much reduced in health and strength as to be a mere skeleton of my former self. On being released I was a fit subject for a Northern Hospital, where I remained some two months, and then came home. 
                           My Physician recommended and procured for me several bottles of "Peruvian Syrup," which I continued to use for several weeks, and found my health restored and my weight increased from ninety to one hundred and fifty, my usual weight; and I have been in my usual good health ever since, and I can cheerfully recommend it in all cases of weakness and debility of the system, whether arising from an impure state of the blood, dyspepsia, or almost any other cause, believing it will, in a good many cases, give entire satisfaction. 
                           
                              Yours truly, 
                              GEO. S. BIXBY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Thousands have been changed by the use of this remedy, from weak, sickly, suffering creatures, to strong, healthy, and happy men and women; and invalids cannot reasonably hesitate to be without it. 
               PAMPHLETS FREE. 
               J. P. DINSMORE, Proprietor, - - No. 36 Dey Street, New York. 
               For sale by SETH W. FOWLE & SONS, Boston, and by Druggists and Dealers generally. 
             
          
       
   
