
    ----CITATION----
        Brougham, John, (1810-1880). The Light of Home .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5903 wright2-0376
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS.
               THE LIGHT of HOME.
               A Christmas Story
               by
               John Brougham.
               AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, Agents.
            
         
         
         
         
            HOLIDAY PRESENTS,
            Kaldenberg & Son.
            WE RECEIVED THE Only Prize Awarded to the United States for Meerschaum Pipes AT THE PARIS EXPOSITION, 1867.
            Highest Premium over all Competitors, American Inst., 1867.
            MANUFACTURE & CUT TO ORDER, Genuine Meerschaum Pipes, CIGAR HOLDERS, Amber Mouth-Pieces, STEMS, ETC. REPAIRING, Boiling in Wax, MOUNTING, ETC. Done by the best workmen in the Trade.
            Old Stand and Factory since 1863, 4 and 6 John, First Floor up stairs, next to Broadway.
            
               STORES.
               23 WALL STREET, cor. Broad op. U. S. Treasury.
               71 NASSAU STREET, cor. of John, New York.
            
            SEND FOR CIRCULARS.
            Post-Office Box 6724.
         
         
         
            
            THE CHEMICAL FIRE ENGINE CO. OF NEW YORK.
            Office & Warerooms, 84 Bowery, New York.
            
               
            
            The GREAT INVENTION OF THE AGE, for the extinguishment of Fires on Land and at Sea.
            The apparatus is cheap and simple. It occupies but little space, in not liable to get out of order, and, as the POWER OF BUT THREE PERSONS is required to work an engine of the ordinary size, having a fire-destroying capacity equal to the largest hand-engine, WORKED BY FORTY OR FIFTY MEN, it can be used in the most isolated localities, as well as in cities, towns, villages, and on shipboard. Its exceeding cheapness and power commend it to the favor of every person having property exposed to risk by fire. The element used is CARBONIC ACID GAS, which, as science has clearly demonstrated, when THROWN UPON FIRE INSTANTLY DESTROYS IT. Water is employed in small quantities to convey this fire-destroying material directly upon the flames, and therefore in this particular the engine is vastly superior to any other now used.
            The engine has been tested in some of the largest cities and towns in the United States, in the presence of city and town officials, boards of underwriters, members of the press, fire departments, &c., and those who have witnessed its operation pronounce it a perfect success, and AN INVENTION THAT IS DESTINED TO REVOLUTIONIZE ALL PRESENT METHODS OF EXTINGUISHING FIRES, AND SAVE TO THE COUNTRY MILLIONS OF DOLLARS EVERY YEAR.
            The proprietors believe that the engine is one that can stand upon its own merits, and that its operation and effects have only to be witnessed in order to be appreciated. They invite all persons to call at the Company's Warerooms in New York, and examine for themselves, or to send to the Company's Office for a pamphlet, which fully describes the engine and explains the chemical combinations that give it such astonishing power and efficiency.
            Price according to size and capacity.
            A. P. BACON, Agent.
         
         
         
            
            THE New York Conservatory of Music.
            
               NEW YORK: No. 82 FIFTH AVENUE, cor. 14th Street, and No.820 BROADWAY.
               BROOKLYN: Nos.128, 130, & 132 COURT STREET, near State.
            
            Subscription Books open daily from 9 A.M. to 8 P.M.
            
               A. F. LEJEAL, S. N. GRISWOLD, DIRECTORS.
               S. N. GRISWOLD, Treasurer.
               Secretaries. 
                     C. MAVERICK,
                     J. ORTJIES,
                     C. GILCHRIST,
                  
               
            
            The Directors refer with the highest gratification to the unparalleled success of the Conservatory during the year.
            The first institution of the kind established here, it has steadily advanced in popular favor and patronage, until it occupies a position not only far superior to that of any other school of music, but is entitled to rank with the first European conservatories.
            The best evidence of the excellence of the methods of instruction, used in the Conservatory is the rapid advance of its numerous pupils, who have made greater progress under its teachings, than during many years before, devoted to the ordinary methods.
            The cultivation of music as an art, with the view of achieving the highest excellence, has been greatly neglected here; and the Directors have aimed, as they believe successfully, to give pupils every advantage and facility at the Conservatory, (which they would otherwise be compelled to seek in Europe,) and their efforts have met with appreciation and success beyond their most sanguine anticipations,
            Among the Professors are many carefully selected from the best European schools, not only as accomplished musicians, but with especial reference to their capability of imparting instruction. Those selected in Europe, and also those engaged here, include instructors of long experience, familiar with the practical working of the system adopted by the Conservatory.
            The Conservatory will continue to afford every facility for the formation of a correct standard of musical taste, and pupils will have frequent opportunities of hearing the best works rendered by artists of the highest talent, thus familiarizing the student with their correct performance.
            The high position attained by the Conservatory, and the connections it has established in Europe, the complete arrangements it has perfected, and the unlimited resources at its command, afford it every facility for giving its patrons unequalled advantages; and no pains or expense will be spared to secure the best talent, and all possible appliances for maintaining the first position among the Musical Institutions of the country.
            
               TERMS:
               Payable in Advance, for a Term of Ten Weeks, Two Lessons per Week.
               VOCAL MUSIC—Classes of Six $10
               VOCAL MUSIC—Classes of Four $15
               PIANO—Classes of Six 10
               PIANO—Classes of Four 15
               VIOLIN, VIOLA, VIOLONCELLO—Classes of Six 10
               VIOLIN, VIOLA, VIOLONCELLO—Classes of Four 15
               THEORY AND COMPOSITION 20
               CHORUS CLASSES 5
               ALL MINOR INSTRUMENTS, each 10
               PRIVATE INSTRUCTION, $25.
            
            INSTRUCTION IN MODERN LANGUAGES.
            At the earnest solicitation of their patrons and others, the Directors have engaged the services of able Professors of great experience, who will take charge of Pupils and Classes for instruction in Modern Languages.
            Terms of Instruction in Modern Languages will be for Classes $10.
            LECTURES, When practicable, will be delivered by the Professors and others on subjects connected with the Science of Music, Languages, and the best methods for their perfect acquisition, and analogous topics.
         
         
            STANDARD American Billiard Tables.
            
               
            
            Messrs. PHELAN & COLLENDER, Manufacturers of the STANDARD AMERICAN BILLIARD TABLES, and sole patentees of the world-renowned Phelan Combination Cushion, (letters patent granted in 1856, 1860, and November 27, 1867), take pleasure in announcing to their patrons throughout the United States and Canadas, as well as to the public in general, that their extensive up-town factories (injured by fire last summer), having been rebuilt and enlarged, and supplied with improved machinery, are again in thorough working order, thus enabling them to fill any and all orders, either for Regular Billiard Tables, Dining-Room, or Library Billiard Tables, as well as for BALLS, CLOTH, CUES, and in fact everything in any way connected with the business.
            They have also to announce that after Dec. 10th, their warerooms, located for the past nine years at Nos. 63 to 69 Crosby Street, will be in the spacious building, No. 738 BROADWAY, a few doors south of Astor Place.
            PHELAN & COLLENDER, Warerooms, 738 Broadway.
            Manufactories, 10th Ave. & 36th & 37th Sts., New York.
         
         
         
            
            BROWN & SPAULDING, JEWELLERS,
            568 & 570 BROADWAY, NEW YORK,
            (Under Metropolitan Hotel,) SUCCESSORS TO THE OLD-ESTABLISHED SILVER HOUSE OF WILLIAM GALE & SON, AND AGENTS FOR THE PARISIEN MANUFACTURERS OF ALUMINUM BRONZE WARE.
            In addition to their fine assortment of rich Jewelry, they have imported a splendid variety of Vienna Goods and "Objets d'Art," suitable for Bridal, Wedding, and Holiday Gifts.
            Ormolu, Bronze, Dresden, China, and Crystal Goods IN GREAT VARIETY.
            Visitors to this establishment may be assured of respectful attention, even should they no desire to purchase.
         
         
            BACON'S IMPROVED TRUNK ENGINE.
            BROOKS, BACON & CO., ENGINEERS AND MACHINISTS, NOS. 450, 451, & 452 WEST ST., NEW YORK CITY, Manufacturers of BACON'S IMPROVED TRUNK ENGINE for stationary, marine, and hoisting purposes, and machinery of every description—boilers and steam pumps, light and heavy brass castings, &c. Shafting, pulleys, and gearing supplied; repair work on engines, boilers, machinery, &c., done with dispatch; and all orders for material connected with machinery, patterns, designs, and drawings promptly attended to.
            The peculiarities of BACON'S IMPROVED TRUNK ENGINE are compactness, simplicity, power, and cheapness. It can be used for hoisting purposes in stores and warehouses, by masons, and for propeller work, stationary purposes—in fact wherever steam power is needed. The hoisting engine is supplied with BACON'S PATENT SAFETY CATCH, a radical improvement over all others. Engines in actual operation can be seen by application at the office.
            BROOKS, BACON & CO., Nos. 450, 451, and 452 WEST STREET, NEW YORK.
         
         
            BLANK BOOKS, STATIONERY, ETC.
            FRANCIS & LOUTREL, No. 45 MAIDEN LANE, N. Y.,
            Solicit orders for anything in their line. Particular attention invited to our Patent Spring Back Account Books.
            ALL KINDS OF 
                  PAPER,
                  FANCY AND STAPLE STATIONERY,
                  DIARIES FOR 1869,
                  DAILY JOURNAL EXPENSE BOOKS,
                  WRITING DESKS,
                  PORTFOLIOS,
                  CHESSMEN,
                  CARDS,
                  POCKET CUTLERY,
                  WALLETS,
                  DRAWING MATERIALS, ETC., ETC., ETC.
               
            
            We keep everything in our line, and sell at lowest price. Your custom solicited.
            FRANCIS & LOUTREL, Steam Printers, Lithographers and Blank Book Manufacturers, 45 Maiden Lane.
         
         
            THE MONTHLY Phonographic Magazine, FOR 1869.
            Edited by JAMES E. MUNSON.
            THE COMPLETE PHONOGRAPHER was first published about two years ago. Before the end of the first year its sale had been so large, and the number of those who had mastered its principles so great, that a considerable demand arose for more reading matter printed in its style of Phonography. To supply that demand we commenced publishing the MONTHLY PHONOGRAPHIC MAGAZINE.
            The first year of this publication, just ended. has been with us one of experiment, and oftentimes the most trying and discouraging failures, and, to our readers, it is needless to add, one of vexatious delays. But now we are happy to be able to say positively that all this has passed, and that we shall have no difficulty in future in issuing the numbers with promptness and regularity.
            The prime object of the Magazine is, of course, to give reading matter in Phonography to those who are acquiring the art; but in the preparation and selection of articles, it shall be our aim, as it has heretofore been, to furnish matter that is both instructive and entertaining. We shall not use the Magazine as a medium of making attacks on others, or of repelling their attacks, or even of refuting falsehoods, unless we are clearly satisfied that the public are being misled by our silence.
            In short, we shall spare no pains to make our periodical, not only a welcome, but an indispensable monthly visitor; and we ask of our subscribers that they aid us all they can in extending our circulation.
            
               TERMS:
               Two Dollars a Year, or Twenty Cents per Number.
               CLUB RATES:—Two Copies, $3.50;
               Three Copies, $5.25;
               Six Copies, $10.00;
               Thirteen Copies, $20.00, and one gratis to the person who gets up the club.
            
            Our terms invariably in advance.
            The volume for 1868, bound uniformly with "The Complete Phonographer," will be sent, postpaid, for $2.25.
            Address JAMES E. MUNSON, 117 Nassau St., New York.
         
         
         
            
            THE PEOPLE'S PAPER.
            Only Metropolitan Dollar Weekly.
            NEW YORK SUN
            FOR 1869, CHARLES A. DANA, Editor,
            A First-class Journal, Independent but not Neutral in Politics, Publishes Three Editions—Daily, Semi-Weekly, and Weekly, at $6, $2, and $1 per year.
            The Weekly Sun Is prepared with special reference to the wants of Country Readers.
            News of the week, from all parts of the globe, is condensed for it by experienced and skilful editors. A selection from the most interesting editorial articles of THE DAILY SUN will form one of its constant features, while the most instructive and entertaining miscellany will also occupy a large portion of its columns. Its CATTLE, PRODUCE, AND GENERAL MARKET REPORTS will be found all that can be desired. As a general FAMILY NEWSPAPER, it will aim to be particularly acceptable. It will also furnish accurate and fresh reports of all matters of importance to THE FARMER AND GARDENER.
            This department is under the supervision of Mr. ANDREW S. FULLER, the well-known horticulturist, who will not only write on the subjects in question, but will also attend the meetings of the FARMERS and FRUIT-GROWERS' CLUBS, and will daguerreotype their proceedings for the benefit of our subscribers.
            Mr. Fuller, who is a hearty lover of his profession, makes to his readers the following LIBERAL PROPOSITION:
            To every subscriber who sends one dollar for the WEEKLY, or two dollars for the SEMI-WEEKLY SUN, we will forward by mail, post-paid, any one of the following named vines or plants (many of which sell at retail at about the price charged for the paper,) as gifts, as soon as the ground opens in the Spring.
            In selecting the Gifts it will only be necessary to mention the Number as given below.
            
               1. Two Concord Grapevines.
               2. Two Hartford Prolific Grapevines.
               3. One Delaware Grapevine.
               4. One Iona Grapevine.
               5. Two Early Wilson Blackberry.
               6. Two Kittatinny Blackberry.
               7. One Davidson's Thornless Raspberry.
               8. One Seneca Black Raspberry.
               9. One Mammoth Cluster Raspberry.
               10. One Monthly Black Raspberry.
               11. One Summit Yellow Raspberry.
               12. One Philadelphia Raspberry.
               13. One Clarke Raspberry.
               14. Two Cherry Currant.
               15. Two White Grape Currant.
               16. One Early Rose Potato.
            
            And to every lady subscriber we will send a bulb of the beautiful and rare Japan Lily, and for clubs of six will send six varieties of Lilies or six of choice Gladiolus.
            Every plant sent will be correctly labeled and carefully packed so that it shall reach its destination in good condition.
            Twenty copies of THE WEEKLY SUN will be mailed to one address for $17; and FIFTY copies for $37.50, invariably in advance.
            THE SEMI-WEEKLY SUN is of the same size and general character as THE WEEKLY, but has space for a greater variety of miscellaneous reading, and furnishes the news to its subscribers with greater freshness, because it comes twice a week instead of once only. Its subscription is only TWO DOLLARS a year, the ordinary price of a New York Weekly. Clubs of ten subscribers to one address, receive THE SEMI-WEEKLY SUN on payment of $18. Twenty copies will be sent to one address for $35; and fifty copies for $80, always in advance.
            THE DAILY SUN, a live newspaper, fresh, piquant, and free from improper personalities. Has all the news from every quarter of the globe, at TWO CENTS a copy, or $6 per year.
            Postmasters and others getting up clubs of ten, of either edition, will receive an extra copy for their kindness. Specimen copies forwarded on application. Address
            PUBLISHER OF THE SUN, NEW YORK CITY.
         
         
            RUBBER GOODS.
            GOODYEAR'S India-Rubber Glove Manufacturing Co., MANUFACTURERS AND GENERAL DEALERS IN ALL KINDS OF INDIA-RUBBER GOODS, NEW YORK.
            205 BROADWAY—at Retail.
            162 & 164 FULTON STREET—at Wholesale.
            Factories: NAUGATUCK, Conn.
         
         
            HOLIDAY PRESENTS.
            NOW OPEN! AT 75 BOWERY, NEW YORK, The Principal Bazaar, AND AT THE FOLLOWING BRANCHES:
            
               607 Eighth Avenue, New York.
               111 Myrtle Avenue, Brooklyn.
               207 Fulton Avenue, Brooklyn.
               77 Newark Avenue, Jersey City.
            
            Either of these places is the Principal Emporium of the delightsome and beautiful for the rising generation. Nothing can surpass the workmanship of these TOYS for the Holidays. Cases of them from France, Germany, and Switzerland, are just being opened.
            Work-Boxes, Toys, Magic Lanterns, GIMCRACKS of every description, and including all articles to please both rich and poor.
            All these stocks have been Imported, and are bought at Auctions at very low prices, and are now offered cheaper than similar Articles can be had elsewhere in America.
            Call at 75 BOWERY, or at either of the above BRANCH BAZAARS, and examine the Rich and Rare PRESENTS.
            SAMUEL D. WILSON.
            Fairs supplied at reasonable prices.
         
         
         
            
            HORACE GREELEY
            Purposes to write, during the year 1869, an Elementary Work on POLITICAL ECONOMY, wherein the policy of Protection to Home Industry will be explained and vindicated. This work will first be given to the public through successive issues of the New York Tribune, and will appear in all its editions—DAILY, $10; SEMI-WEEKLY, $4; and WEEKLY, $2 per annum.
         
         
            THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1869
            Will be ready about New-Year's, containing the full Presidential Vote, Acts of Congress last Session, and the usual Political and Statistical matter. Price 20 cents; or, 7 for a dollar.
            TO POLITICIANS AND LIBRARIES. AN IMPORTANT STATISTICAL WORK.
            THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC.
            Two volumes of (about 1,800 pages of closely printed matter) important Statistics for $10. VOL. I. contains from 1838 to 1844, both years inclusive. VOL. II. contains from 1845 to 1868, both years inclusive.
            The Complete sets of the REGISTER and ALMANAC are comprised in two neatly bound volumes, and are now ready. Price, for the two volumes, $10. Those wishing to secure these interesting Political Statistics, should purchase it immediately, as only 1,000 copies were printed. Each order must be accompanied with the cash. Address
            THE TRIBUNE, New York.
         
         
            WARING'S BOOKS FOR FARMERS.
            
               I. THE ELEMENTS OF AGRICULTURE.
               (A BOOK FOR YOUNG FARMERS.)
               BY GEO. E. WARING, Jr—, Formerly Agricultural Engineer of the Central Park in New York. Author of "Draining for Profit and Draining for Health."
               Second Edition. Carefully Revised.
               The Plant. The Soil. Manures. Mechanical Cultivation. Analysis. The foregoing subjects are all discussed in plain and simple language that any farmer's boy may understand. The book is written by a successful practical farmer, and is full of information, good advice, and sound doctrine. Price, One Dollar. Sent by mail post-paid.
            
            
               II. NOW READY: EARTH CLOSETS;
               How to make them, and How to Use them.
               By GEO. E. WARING, Jr., Author of "The Elements of Agriculture," "Draining for Profit and Draining for Health," and formerly Agricultural Engineer of the Central Park.
               Illustrated with many wood engravings. Price 25 cents.
               Address
               THE TRIBUNE, New York.
            
         
         
         
            
            
               THE LIGHT OF HOME.
               A CHRISTMAS STORY,
            
            BY JOHN BROUGHAM.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, AGENTS FOR THE PUBLISHERS.
            
            1868.
            
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by EDWIN M. BACON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
            
               THE NEW YORK PRINTING COMPANY,
               81, 83, and 85 Centre St., NEW YORK.
            
         
      
      
         
            The light of home
            THE LIGHT OF HOME.
            A CHRISTMAS STORY.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               "BE JUST AND FEAR NOT."
               'T WAS late on Christmas Eve.
               Phew! What a night!
               The wind, razor-like, swept round the corners, whistled down the narrower streets, and chilled to the very bone the few pedestrians whom choice or necessity kept abroad.
               All those who could, had long since sought shelter.
               To those unhappy ones who had no shelter, or such a one as they feared to enter, the night seemed more bitter than it really was. They were denied the blessing of sympathy and hope, without which existence is of little value.
               Such was the thought that filled the mind of William Archer, as he crouched in a corner of the waiting-room of the Hudson River Railroad.
               "Better end life at once," he muttered, "than endure such misery. Fool! idiot, that I was, why did I not finish it long ago? It must come to that, when all is told, and perhaps 'tis the best way! I am worn out!"
               His case seemed indeed pitiable.
               A face that had starvation written upon it—a form shrunken and thinly clad—a voice low and almost inaudible.
               Life appeared to have but little hold upon him: death seemed to have already claimed him as its own.
               A shiver ran through his trembling frame, as, mumbling a few sentences, he fell into a dreamy stupor.
               Not, however, for long.
               A firm, but not unkindly hand, was laid upon his shoulder.
               
               "Hallo! my friend! Wake up. This ain't no lodging-house! Waiting for anybody?"
               Archer looked wearily up into the face of his questioner, as he answered, slowly and faintly,
               "Yes, sir, I am."
               "Oh! indeed; who are you waiting for?"
               The reply came with startling abruptness, although spoken in a weak voice,
               "For Death!"
               "Death?" said the other.
               "Yes, sir, Death! Frozen to the very heart, and famishing with hunger, I have crawled in here to welcome the only friend the poor and wretched have on earth."
               The railway porter shrugged his shoulders. He was used to people waiting for all sorts of things, but this man, who was waiting for Death, was out of the usual course. The railway which he served had made no provision, in their "rules and regulations," for a case like this; and he was puzzled.
               His strange visitor, meanwhile, seemed to have relapsed into apathy.
               "Well," said the official, after a pause, "you do look as if you had your ticket for the down-train, to be sure; but orders is orders, and though I'm sorry for you, you can't stay here! So you'd better go home."
               "Home!" murmured Archer. "Oh! God forgive me for my cowardice, this blessed Christmas Eve—I dare not venture to look upon the sight would meet me there—a pale-faced woman and a sickly girl—my wife and child—without food or fire, slowly perishing before my eyes. No, no, anything but that, anywhere but there!"
               With a suppressed sob, wrung from the picture of home-misery he had conjured up, the poor wretch buried his face in his hands.
               Unnoticed by the two speakers, a third person had entered the waiting-room, and had been an attentive listener to their conversation.
               Interrupting it without betraying either surprise or interest, he inquired of the official whether the ordinary night-train was not unusually late.
               "Twenty minutes behind her time, sir," was the answer from the porter, whilst busying himself in making up the fire, and glad of the interrogatory. "A good deal of snow upon the track," he added.
               The last comer merely nodded his head, crossed to the fire-place, and began warming his hands.
               The porter, who was very glad of the diversion the arrival of the stranger caused, merely quieted his official conscience by reminding Archer that he had told him the waiting-room was no place for him, and requesting him not to be there when he, the porter, returned.
               With these words, which fell upon heedless ears, he left the apartment as a distant whistle, which was borne with acute distinctness upon the frosty air, announced the proximity of the expected train.
               He who stood in the bright firelight had evidently his own troubles, for he was nervous and ill-at-ease, and seemed strangely anxious about something.
               He was not an ill-favored man—indeed, by some he would be considered good-looking; but yet there was something in his features repellent and dangerous. Not an old man, either; but yet with lines and furrowed marks upon his face, such as generally accompany age or angry passions. He was thin and tall, and a certain angularity in his form deprived him of the advantage which the good figure he undoubtedly possessed should have given him.
               A gentleman, in the usual acceptance of the word, he evidently was, but—and here a thousand wondering questions presented themselves to the careful observer, all having for their end and aim the answering of contradictory evidences, of which this world is so full, and in this present case, endeavoring to account for the vague convictions that the subject of these remarks was not so good as he appeared, and, in short, "no better than he should be."
               From warming his hands, looking at his watch, running his eyes over the time-table above the fire-place, whistling, and in a great many other ways betraying his restlessness, the stranger suddenly bethought himself to cast a glance upon the bundle of humanity crouched in the corner, answering, as the reader already knows, to the name of William Archer.
               The fidgety stranger appeared struck with some sudden thought, for without further hesitation he addressed the cowering figure near him. His voice was harsh and unpleasant.
               "The world appears to have gone rather hard with you."
               Archer shook off his lethargy and looked up, as he answered:
               "Yes, sir, as it usually does with all unfortunates like me."
               "I think," said the other, "I heard you say you had a wife and child?"
               Archer's eyes filled with tears. He spoke through them. "Heaven pity them this terrible night. I have!"
               "You are in want, it seems?"
               "I have n't tasted food for nearly two days."
               The stranger looked at the speaker for a moment before replying; and when he did speak, his words, though kindly, were robbed of their effect by the manner of uttering them.
               "Confound it, that's hard! Here's a five dollar-bill for you."
               
               He suited the action to the word, and fluttered a note before Archer. Eagerly the poor fellow started forward and clutched it.
               "What! Am I dreaming? No—"he scrutinized the bill. "Here is food—a respite from despair—may Heaven reward you for this."
               With a wild, glad impatience he was moving from the room.
               The stranger stopped him.
               "Stay!" said he; "a word or two before you go. What is your name?"
               "William Archer."
               "And your occupation?"
               "I was the engineer to Fullerton's factory till five weeks ago, when they found a man to do my work for a few dollars less, and I was thrown upon the world without a moment's warning."
               Archer's interlocutor scanned him narrowly while he was telling his simple story.
               "Shameful, shameful!" he answered, although no indignation was apparent in the tone. "My poor fellow, your condition has my deepest sympathy. It may be," he added, "in my power to assist you more materially. We owe it to humanity to do so when we have the opportunity. I know of a situation open to any one who can write a good legible hand, as of course you can."
               "Yes, sir," replied Archer, "my handwriting is accounted a good one."
               The stranger smiled as he moved over to a desk in the corner of the waiting-room, and took from his pocket a paper which he unfolded.
               "Let me have a specimen of it," said he, "on this sheet of paper. Just write your name, that will do; there is a pen!"
               Archer took the proffered pen in his hand.
               "Write it here," said his new acquaintance, pointing to the left-hand corner of the paper.
               Archer looked in the direction pointed, but did not write his name.
               "I see 'witness' written here," he remarked, quietly.
               "Oh," said the other with an impatient gesture, "that does'nt signify."
               "It looks," said Archer, "like a law-paper. May I read it?"
               "There's no occasion for that," was the answer.
               The poor starving fellow merely muttered, "Very well, sir," dipped the pen into the ink-bottle, and wrote. This done, he handed the paper to the stranger, who rapidly glanced over it.
               With a frightful imprecation he demanded of William what he had written.
               Archer answered, with a disdainful glance at the questioner,
               "'BE JUST AND FEAR NOT!' That's what I have written. You asked for a specimen of my handwriting. I believe——"
               "But I wanted your name," was the harsh rejoinder.
               "So I thought!" said Archer, quietly. "Take back your money, sir! I could n't swallow a mouthful of the meal it purchased."
               For a moment surprise and rage prevented the other from speaking. When he did so, his voice was more discordant, his manner more repellent than ever.
               "You're an ungrateful fellow, and a fool into the bargain! What motive do you suppose I could have, except to befriend you? But it serves me right for letting my better feelings move me in favor of an evident impostor."
               His vehemence made some impression upon the other.
               "If," said he, "I have judged wrongly—perhaps I have, for indeed my weakness——" he paused—his own kindly natural honesty made him feel compunction for wounding another's feelings—"I ask your pardon; but if——" again he paused—his face, pale before, assumed a ghastly whiteness, and he leaned heavily upon the desk near which he stood—"what's this—a sudden faintness—" His hand was pressed to his heart. "Oh! if it should be death! Alice! Alice!"
               With these words, so faintly uttered as not to reach the stranger's ear, Archer tottered to the seat near by, into which he sank into a swoon.
               At that moment the whistle of the approaching engine yelled forth like a pæan over human agony, and close upon it, with a whizzing dash and clattering roar, the train darted into the station.
               A perfect babel of sound arose, from the banging of carriage doors, bumping of luggage, shouts of porters and hackmen, and the shuffling to and fro of the impatient passengers; while through it all could be heard the angry hissing of escaping steam from the newly-respited locomotive, sounding like an iron giant taking breath after unusual exertion.
               Archer heard nothing—saw nothing; not even the fierce curse launched at him by the stranger, nor the look of hate accompanying it.
               Both of which having been accomplished, the latter turned hastily away to the door of the room, keenly scanning the faces of the passengers who had arrived by the train.
               Many score passed him hurriedly by, and there were but few left of the large crowd.
               Evidently the person he expected had disappointed him. With this thought he drew from his pocket a telegram in order to assure himself that he had not mistaken the hour.
               As he was reading it, a man hastily entered the room and touched him on the arm.
               The stranger turned quickly—started—looked into the stranger's face and then—but not till then—spoke.
               "What, Balderly, is it you?"
               
               The other motioned him not to speak too loudly, before replying in a low voice,
               "Yes! Stayed behind on purpose to avoid observation. What do you think of my rig for the celebrated Boston doctor?"
               "Capital! I did n't recognize you at first."
               "How is the old'un?"
               "Not expected to live through the night!"
               The man called Balderly smiled grimly. "What a misfortune for his affectionate nephew—and sole heir, eh?"
               "If we have luck," said the other; "but I've made an awful mistake, already."
               "What mistake?" said Balderly; and he sunk his voice to a whisper. "You've got the will made out, I hope?"
               "Yes; that's all right!"
               "And the duplicate-key of the private desk?"
               "Here it is!"
               With these words he held up a small key for inspection.
               Balderly continued: "Any fear of meeting a brother chip in the medical line? I'm afraid I couldn't stand the test of a pathological conversation."
               "No one but old Doctor Slamer," answered his companion, "and he's as deaf as any oyster, though he pretends to hear everything."
               "Then it's all serene!"
               Balderly's opinion of the serenity of affairs was not, however, apparently shared by his associate, for he continued the conversation in the same low tone as heretofore.
               "Stop a bit, we shall want a witness!"
               "By Jove! that's so!"
               With an admonition of caution the attention of Balderly was drawn by his friend to the figure of William Archer. The poor fellow was still lying upon the seat into which he had fallen.
               "Do you see that miserable wretch asleep or insensible yonder?"
               "Are you sure he's asleep?" was the anxious query.
               With an air of callous indifference the other continued: "Asleep—pshaw!—he's an idiot, awake or asleep or insensible! That fellow is dying of starvation, and yet he refused five dollars for his signature."
               This information tickled the person called Balderly amazingly, and he laughed in a stealthy manner as he answered: "Ha, ha! Excuse my hilarity, Stalker; but you are the greater idiot of the two, to seek an instrument in such a quarter. No, no! it's amongst your sleek, shiny-coated customers you must look for rascals. Why, now, if he were a rogue, would he be in rags? Just look at that printed satire!"
               He pointed, as he spoke, to a placard, of which there were many about the station, whereon the public were cautioned to 
                     "BEWARE OF PICKPOCKETS."
                  
               
               Balderly resumed: "It's quite right. Swoop down upon and tear to pieces the small sparrow-hawks, but let the great vultures prey in safety. Ha, ha! who dares to say a word against the unarmed brigands of society? A railway company realizes a hundred per cent. upon its capital—beggars or buys up all opposition—and then claps another hundred upon the price of tickets." Again he laughed. "Beware of Pickpockets. Miss Lackadaisy smiles, and simpers, and shows her pretty teeth, as she cannonades you with the bewitching artillery of her eyes, that look straight through you into your banker's account. Don't interrupt me! Beware of Pickpockets. Mrs. Telescopic Benevolence, who can placidly regard the wasting bodies of Christian men and women tottering with starvation around her very feet, but weeps tears of sympathy for the souls of savages, entreats your subscription to send missionaries to the Cannibal Islands. Pray do Beware of Pickpockets. But, by Jove, Stalker, my boy, it would be rather awkward to hang that reminder up in a good many drawing-rooms about town."
               This moral tirade finished, Stalker, who had been in a state of intense anxiety to stop his friend's loquacity, brought him up with a round turn to the subject-matter of the conversation.
               "That vagabond," said he, pointing to the recumbent figure upon the seat, "has played the deuce with the document. See what he has written!"
               He held up the paper before Balderly.
               "BE JUST AND FEAR NOT!" That worthy read it out aloud. "Copybook philosophy—one of the moral fences that guard the rich pasturage of profitable craft. We must get up another, that's all. It won't take many minutes. I'll sign it!"
               "You?" said Stalker.
               "Why not? Nobody knows me in the city. Come, you know the old boy's signature."
               Stalker smiled. "I should think I did. I've practised it often enough."
               "Well, then," said Balderly, "let us get about it at once. All the passengers are gone, so let us be off. By the bye," he added, as they turned to depart, "how much will the old boy cut up for?"
               "I don't know exactly—about two hundred and fifty thousand."
               Stalker said this in a lower tone than any of his previous speeches had been delivered in, at the same time glancing furtively around him.
               
               Balderly mused for a moment and then spoke with his eyes fixed on his friend's countenance: "and I'm to get a third; isn't that the bargain?"
               "Yes!"
               "Whatever the amount?" was the cautions query.
               "Whatever the amount!" was Stalker's undemonstrative answer.
               "Your hand upon it?"
               The precious pair clasped hands upon their bargain and so left the waiting-room, at the door of which they encountered the railway official.
               The latter immediately crossed to the spot where William Archer still lay.
               "Hallo! you here still? Didn't I tell you——"
               The man thus addressed slowly and with great apparent difficulty raised himself to a sitting posture, and wearily passed his hand over his pale forehead. He spoke dreamily:
               "Yes, sir—I know—I'm going now. I've been dreaming, and the dream has done me good. I'll go home, sad and sorrowful though it will be. I will not skulk out of the world like a coward. No, I'll go home and wait my time. I'll go!"
               Wearily, oh! how wearily, he rose, and clinging to the wall took a few tottering steps, but stopped as the porter offered his arm and addressed him.
               "I say, stranger," said the official, while his voice trembled in the slightest degree, "I have to work uncommon hard for what I get, and I ain't as rich as a city conductor either. Now, I have a wife and a darling baby to take my Christmas dinner with, and that will be a jolly fat turkey—but—" and here the honest fellow stammered like a schoolboy—"hang me if I could sit down to it and think that you and yours are without a bite. No! not if it took the last cent I had—." Here the fellow tumbled in his pocket, and drew from it a little squeezed parcel which he thrust into Archer's wasted hand. "There's a two-dollar bill for you; go to the market and have one day's food, any way. It's a poor man's gift, and maybe it may bring luck."
               The porter's face, lighted up with the glow of sympathy, became beautiful to look upon. His heart mounted to his cheek, and he became beatified; for by such true charity shall we know the blessed.
               It affected Archer so much that in his weak state he burst into tears, which fell upon the rough labor-stained hand that had snatched him from the edge of an abyss.
               "God bless you! God bless you!" came from him in sobbing accents, and, still aided by the sturdy arm of his new friend, he wandered out into the bitter night, now strong with hope.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               BEATRICE SUTHERLAND.
               SELINA MARVIN'S lodging was the cosiest place in the world. Especially so on a bitter Christmas Eve. Not that it was gorgeously furnished. Oh! dear no! far from it. A humble array of chairs, a simple sofa, an ingrain carpet, a common hearth-rug and a few pictures in cheap frames hanging on the walls, made the inventory. But they were all so clean-looking, so comfortable, and well-arranged, with so much taste, that they appeared a thousand times more valuable than they were.
               A great deal of the comfort of the room was to be found in the cheerful fire and the cleanly-swept hearth, upon which there dozed a shiny-coated and evidently contented cat; while a singing kettle, which was intensely busy with its vocal efforts, added in no small degree to the home-like look of the place.
               Selina Marvin was only a poor actress, it is true, but she had received an education superior to the majority of young women on the stage, and her own natural brightness had made a great difference in her appearance and bearing.
               Had she been always dressed in the mode (as she was sometimes upon the stage), with the lavish taste displayed by a modern fashionable modiste, she would have appeared perfectly at ease, and it would have been impossible to suppose that she was not born to that sort of thing.
               But then she had no such aspirations. All she desired, and all she ever attempted, was to fill worthily and conscientiously the position into which "fate, or metaphysical agency" had consigned her; and it must be confessed that she did so without effort, and always successfully.
               If her gown was of cotton and not of silk, she was none the less a lady, and as warm and kindly a little heart beat under that simple texture as ever palpitated beneath a satin robe.
               She was happy because she was good, and good because she faithfully fulfilled her duties in life, whatever they were; for, indeed, she knew nothing of the philosophy of woman's mission, preached by strong-minded professors of her own sex.
               She had a better monitor—and it never failed her—her own heart.
               
               She would not have been a true woman had she failed in one duty—that of falling in love. She accordingly did so.
               Not romantically or violently, but sensibly, quietly, and with her whole heart.
               Of course this current of true affection did not run smooth. When does it ever do so?
               Charlie Fullerton, the object of Selina's affection, was a very worthy young fellow, and he deserved the love and admiration of such a girl as Selina; but unfortunately he filled a place in this world which was considered far above that of Miss Marvin; and consequently he was precluded from at once and without delay making her his wife.
               Society, which regulates itself so admirably in all matters where money and position are concerned, but which sadly neglects questions of affection or impulse, sternly forbade Charles from making Selina his wife, so long as he, Charles, had a prospect of possessing a sufficient amount of money to interest society in its expenditure; that little object removed, he might marry whom he pleased.
               From this it will be perceived that the young man had either possessions or expectations.
               Expectations were the chief things he possessed. A small income from his deceased mother's estate was his already, but as it was only a trifle, society ignored it and bestowed its chief watchfulness over the use he intended to make of his expectations; these coming from his father then lying dangerously ill.
               Another perplexing phase of the matter was that the aforesaid father was the proprietor of a large factory, and being very rich, was considered an aristocrat.
               For Selina to have married Charlie Fullerton at all would have been thought outrageous enough, but to have married his father's son, with so much money to account for to Mrs. Grundy, would have been rank treason, if not base ingratitude, and flying in the face of Providence.
               That's what society, smoothing its gorgeous plumage, would have said.
               Selina knew this, and being a modest, shrinking, gentle girl, she could not accept Charlie's pressing invitation to walk to church quietly with him, and there and then become Mrs. Fullerton, as that misguided young man (who indeed cared nothing for society) repeatedly and persistently urged her to do.
               This is how their course of true love did not run smoothly.
               When Selina entered her cosy room on the Christmas Eve in question, she was followed by Charlie.
               "Proo!" said she, shaking off a cloud of light snow-flakes from her shawl, at the threshold, "What a storm! How thankful we ought to be for a shelter. Heaven have pity on the poor souls who are without it this terrible night."
               While speaking she had thrown off her shawl and bonnet, and appeared in a dark-colored merino dress, with white collar and cuffs, and a neat apron. So that with these and her dark, smooth, glossy hair neatly braided, her large melting eyes, red lips, healthy cheeks, and her small hands and feet, she was as pretty a girl as eye of man need wish to look upon.
               This was Charles Fullerton's thought, at any rate, and he seemed in no way to tire of the sight.
               As she bustled about, putting things to rights (they didn't at all require it), she warbled: 
                     
                        "Oh, the summer it is past,
                        And the winter's come at last,
                        And the small birds are sleeping in repose;
                        But ah! close to me
                        Now another bird I see,
                        Who looks a little red about the nose."
                     
                  
               
               She pointed at her listener's nose as she spoke, and burst into a gleeful laugh.
               "And as welcome to my heart as the piping of summer birds, is the sound of your merry voice, Beatrice!"
               "Selina, if you please, I am only Beatrice Sutherland on the stage. The manager thought Beatrice would look better on the bills; but what does it signify?"
               "Nothing in the world," said Charlie. "Doesn't Shakspere say——But when may I have the pleasure of sharing another name with you?"
               "Shakspere never said anything of the kind. You mean, when will the daughter of the poor mechanic marry the son of the rich manufacturer? I like plain language, and no dictionary words."
               With all the lightness this speech seemed to convey, her lip trembled and she heaved a sigh.
               Charlie answered promptly:
               "That's exactly what I mean, Selina."
               "Well," said she, after a little pause, and seating herself demurely near the fire, "I'll give you a plain answer. Whenever the said rich manufacturer shall put my hand in yours, and say, Charlie, my son, this little girl deserves to be my daughter."
               "That," said the young man, sorrowfully, "he will never do!"
               Selina smiled, sadly enough, it must be confessed, as she answered: "and quite right, too. Such marriages seldom bring content to both parties. So you had better choose a mate among the fine-feathered tribe—for let me tell you, humble as I am, that all your father's money couldn't buy the pride that's locked up here."
               It was with a gentle hauteur she said this. He answered:
               "You do love me, Selina, you were going to admit it!"
               She was not, however, to be trapped into any such confession. Instead of replying to this home question, she aided Charlie to take off his wet over-coat, a service which, as it brought her near him, he was nothing loath to have performed.
               "How foolish you are," said she, "to keep that damp coat on. You won't feel the comfort of it when you go out."
               "Let me only hear you say——" he began.
               She interrupted him in the most artful manner by singing: 
                     
                        "Beautiful snow that falls so light,
                        Clothing the earth in a robe of white,
                        Welcome to all who can sleighing go:
                        Joy of the stable-men, beautiful snow!"
                     
                  
               
               "Selina, Selina!" he cried, "if you knew the earnestness and honest truth of my affection, you would not torture me by this indifference."
               With a mock seriousness, she ceased her song. "Dictionary words! Did you ever speak to your father about me?"
               "I did!"
               "Well?"
               Charles Fullerton hesitated an instant before replying, but took courage when he looked in her pretty face and saw that she was serious.
               "I dare not deceive you, Selina. It was his refusal to listen to me that sent me from the city. I have only returned to-night, as I told you, in consequence of a telegram, acquainting me with his illness."
               "And yet you came to see me first?"
               "Because," he answered, slightly coloring, "you possess my whole heart. My first and only consideration upon earth. Indeed he has been a harsh parent to me."
               "But," said she, "he is your father. So do your duty and go to him at once."
               "Presently, Selina; when I have one word of hope from you."
               She turned her head from him and replied in a low voice: "Charlie, I will be plain with you; I like you; yes, like you a good deal."
               "Love me! say that, or I shan't be satisfied."
               "I won't!" she answered quickly; but then, seeing his grieved look, she continued: "I think well enough of you to marry you to-morrow, if you hadn't a dollar in the world."
               He caught her in his arms long before she had finished her speech, but she gently disengaged herself, although her heart beat responsive music to what he said.
               "My own Selina! I wouldn't ask you to do so, unless I could give you a home."
               The arch creature could not refuse to allow so true a lover to depart from her presence without some gift. She gave him a worthy one, and one too that she knew he would value.
               "Give me a kiss, Charlie," said she, "and go!"
               Need it be said that he obeyed her behest?
               "Now," she added, making a pretended wry mouth, "I hope you'll rest comfortably. Good-night."
               She crossed the room to see him to the door, but started back with a little exclamation of terror, and clung to him.
               "Charlie, there's some one in the room!"
               "It must be your fancy, dear."
               "No, it wasn't."
               "Don't be a coward!"
               She was trembling all over. At this moment there came a knock at the door communicating with the adjoining room.
               "Who is it?" she exclaimed. "Go away—I mean come in—that is, come out—I don't know what I am saying."
               Her alarm was quickly dispelled by the door opening slowly and discovering a young and pretty woman who stood in the threshold.
               The new arrival appeared to be either ill or very much fatigued, for she leaned her hand upon the door-post and seemed in danger of falling.
               Selina rushed to her, took her in her arms, kissed her, and seated her in a chair near the fire.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               SELINA TAKES AN IMPORTANT STEP.
               SELINA felt quite reassured.
               "Oh, it's you, Alice, only you. Oh, I'm so relieved." Here followed a volley of feminine kisses as expressive of relief. "Why, how cold your cheek is. You are ill! Who'd have thought of seeing you." Nothing Charlie's look of wonderment at the condition of her visitor, Selina continued: "This is a gentleman who thinks he thinks enough of me to rob the public of my brilliant talents, and induce me to busy myself in the seclusion of a brown-stone mansion. He wants to 
                     
                        Take me to his father's hall,
                        That's somewhere near the Centrall Mall,
                        And make me Leddy o' them all,
                        Just like the Lass o' Gowrie.
                     
                   Did you want to see me on anything particular, Alice?"
               The reply was spoken in a faint voice, but was intense in its earnestness.
               "I only wanted to know if you had seen William to-night?"
               "No, my dear. Anything wrong?"
               "Nothing unusual to the poor and friendless," was the reply.
               "Why, what has happened?" asked Selina.
               "Matters have gone badly with us since William was discharged, five weeks ago!"
               "Discharged?" said Selina; "oh, why didn't you tell me this before?"
               "Because," answered the visitor, whom the reader has doubtless discovered by this time to be Alice Archer, "because, I knew you had enough to do to take care of yourself."
               "Why did he leave his situation?"
               Alice answered quietly: "Mr. Fullerton found he could get an engineer to do the work for half the money, and as William belonged to a Society, he dared not take the lower wages."
               Charlie, who had overheard their conversation, exclaimed mentally: "My father's factory?"
               "And all this time," said Selina to her friend, "you were suffering privation, and never said a word about it."
               "I wouldn't have done so now," answered Alice, "but I am in the greatest distress of mind about William. When he left me this morning, there was a strange fierce look in his eyes that frightened the hunger away."
               "Hunger?" exclaimed her friend, her eyes filling with tears—"Are you hungry? then there's no time for pride and ceremony."
               With these words the warm-hearted girl darted into the adjoining room, from which arose a terrific clatter of plates and knives and forks, besides other sounds betokening her hospitable intentions.
               Charlie seized the opportunity which Selina's absence presented, and crossing to where Alice was sitting, he addressed her:
               "Mr. Fullerton is my father; therefore you can have no scruples in accepting a trifle from me as a slight atonement for the inhumanity which deprived you of means at this inclement season."
               Saying this, he was about to thrust a note into Alice's hand; but ere he could do so, and before she could offer the remonstrance which was upon her lips, Selina burst into the room laden with a hastily-made-up parcel of food, which she began to tie up rapidly, having at once enlisted Charlie's services to find the packing paper and string, a task which he performed with the usual awkwardness of the male sex when called upon on such emergencies.
               Selina, with a woman's quickness, had observed her admirer's attempted gift, and spoke to him whilst wrapping up the provisions:
               "No, Charlie; Alice is my cousin—Alice Archer—and neither she nor I can take any money from you. I can very well afford to keep their heads above water until better times come round." Here she drew forth a little porte-monnaic. "Take this home with you," said she, thrusting the parcel and a note into her cousin's hand. "It's too late for you to do any marketing to-night, and here's a five-dollar bill; that you shall have every week."
               "Oh, Selina!" murmured Alice.
               "Hold your tongue. Remember I shall keep an account, and you'll have to pay me back with interest, when you're in luck. There, don't waste time. I want to go to bed!"
               She kissed Alice, and tried to stop the tears which the grateful creature could not refrain from shedding.
               "If you'll allow me, Mrs. Archer," said Charlie, "I'll see you to your home—pray let me have the commissariat—I'll carry it for you."
               "Will you, Charlie?" said Selina, laughingly.
               "Certainly!"
               
               She handed him his greatcoat—nay more, she helped him on with it—all the time looking archly up into his face.
               "And you won't hide the parcel under your coat, or be ashamed of it?"
               "No, why should I?"
               "Well then, Charlie, you are indeed a gentleman, and I—do—"
               "What?" he asked, eagerly.
               "Never mind. I'll tell you to-morrow!"
               "You're a tantalizing little witch," he said.
               "Am I? good-bye!" 
                     
                        "Good-bye, sweetheart, good-bye!
                        Good-bye, sweetheart, good-bye!
                        I would not like to have your walk,
                        So keep your poor feet dry."
                     
                  
               
               At the end of this vocal effort she burst into a merry laugh at the sight of her lover, with the huge parcel in his hand.
               "One moment, Selina," said he. "Dare you take a bold step? Come with me to my father now, and let me show him the fair excuse I have for my disobedience. I'll bet my life that he'll relent when he sees the choice my heart has made."
               She paused in thought for a moment; but then, as if suddenly resolving upon the important matter, spoke rapidly:
               "So it would; and, therefore, although I am perfectly certain what the end will be, I'll go. But don't you think, Charlie, it is a strange hour for such a visit?"
               She had her shawl and bonnet in her hand by this time.
               Her lover reassured her: "To any but lovers," said he—"yes; but my impatient soul won't wait. It was a sudden impulse, and I have a presentiment it will turn out favorably!"
               She dressed herself rapidly, as if fearful of changing her mind. "Well, I'll go—if it's only to gratify you, Charlie. What's the programme? Scene First: My father's Hall; Enter Charles and Selina! What next?"
               "He caught the spirit of her light-heartedness. "Charles leaves Selina in the parlor, whilst he prepares the way for her introduction—that done, he returns; then——"
               She finished the sentence for him:
               "And then I have a decided idea that poor Selina will be told to 
                     
                        Leave the gay and festive scene,
                        The halls, the halls of dazzling light,
                        And through the snow trudge back again,
                        This cold and dreary night."
                     
                  
               
               With this musical peroration, and yet with a nervous anxiety as to the result of her expedition, she and Alice, escorted by Charlie, sallied out into the snow-covered streets.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               MR. FULLERTON, SEN., RETIRES FROM BUSINESS.
               WITHIN the house of Mr. Fullerton, senr., to which his son and Selina were hastening, serious matters were afoot of which that son had no cognizance.
               He knew, indeed, that his father was very ill—it was that knowledge which brought him back to the city—but he did not know that his cousin, Rufus Stalker, had domiciliated himself in his father's house, and was at that very moment arrogating to himself the control of the household and the sole charge of the invalid.
               This was strange enough, but what was still more wonderful and undesirable (had the truth been known) was that Rufus Stalker had brought into the house a so-called medical man of the name of Silas Balderly.
               The pair are already known to the reader, and their nefarious scheme is foreshadowed in the interview which took place between them in the waiting-room of the Hudson River Railway.
               A great change had taken place in the condition of the invalid since the telegraphic message had been sent by him recalling his son to his presence. So great indeed that there was but one greater, which he was rapidly approaching——Mr. Fullerton was dying.
               A suffering, however, greater than the last mortal agony, was upon him.
               He had, during the last few years of his life, done grievous wrong to Charles, but, like all headstrong people, he fought against the admission of his error, until this, the supreme moment of coming dissolution.
               The conviction was forced upon him at last, that he had been a hard, unkind father to one who was ready and anxious to fulfil the duties of an obedient and loving son. In his intercourse with the world and in the race for wealth, Mr. Fullerton had allowed his heart to harden and his ear to become deaf to the voice of affection, and what had been once sacrificed to the excitement and anxiety of acquiring wealth, had become a habit when that wealth was possessed.
               For Mammon he had sold his best intuitions, and had bartered the love of a son for gold.
               
               His wife had died, happily for her, while he was comparatively poor, and his domestic life was still a source of pleasure to him.
               He mourned her for a time with sincere grief, but the demon of Prosperity (for it as often assumes a demoniac as an angelic form) had drawn a golden veil over her memory and had led him on by glittering bribes to new conquests upon the battle-grounds of commerce.
               With his rapid increase of fortune had come that estrangement from his kindred which was doomed to embitter his own last moments on earth, and cloud the immediate future of his son.
               Like an evil spirit, Rufus Stalker had appeared at the very moment when his presence was not only tolerable, but even desirable to Mr. Fullerton.
               The wealthy merchant, owing to gradually failing physical powers, needed a ready, obsequious attendant to manage the details of his now extensive business, and owing to Charles' continued absence, Rufus became a valuable person.
               Charles, who had left his father, after enduring unjust reproaches for a long time, resolved never again to enter the parental mansion until he should be summoned thither by the one person who had made that home unhappy. Strong in the sense of right, and possessed of a great deal of firmness, or obstinacy (for he was no model hero), he kept his resolutions long after the memory of the quarrel and the immediate cause of his voluntary absence had ceased to exist.
               This proved Stalker's opportunity; and, as his relationship, that of nephew, qualified his demonstration of affection toward Mr. Fullerton, he played upon the old man's weakness for flattery in so skilful a manner that he became an absolute necessity in the management of his affairs.
               The unscrupulous rascal used this opportunity to such good purpose that he soon mastered all the minutiæ of his uncle's investments, possessions and business, and this being accomplished, he set about the task of discovering a means by which he might transfer the whole property to his own account.
               This could only be effected by keeping up the estrangement between father and son, and continuing to make himself necessary to his uncle, while quietly awaiting the departure of that uncle from the turmoils of this world.
               So at least the precious rascal thought, but he soon became wearied of waiting for Mr. Fullerton's death, and from wearying he became anxious for it, and from that it was not far to set about its accomplishment.
               It was for this purpose that he revived the acquaintanceship of one Silas Balderly, with whom, in his days of unblushing dissipation he had been extremely intimate, and of whose movements in his later covert wickedness, he had always kept up a knowledge, not knowing how soon he might need him for some nefarious purpose.
               His estimate of Mr. Balderly was quite correct. A more depraved wretch did not exist. He was the more dangerous because he was a clear-headed, calculating villain, of excellent capacity; well educated, good-looking, most plausible in manner, and without the smallest moral principle.
               For years he had lived by fraud; but so ingeniously perpetrated and so varied in character, that he had always evaded detection, and even when suspected, he had managed matters so adroitly as generally to emerge from the cloud of doubt as an injured man.
               Thus the pair installed themselves as attendants upon the dying man.
               Rufus Stalker did not know that his cousin Charles had been summoned by the old man. Mr. Fullerton had managed to dispatch the telegram by Doctor Slamer, unsuspected by his watchful nephew.
               To the dying man the Christmas Eve appeared an eternity. Worn out with acute suffering for days, he had at last found temporary relief from his pain, by a prescription given him by his friend Doctor Slamer, and that gentleman, a worthy physician of the old school, although, as Stalker informed his friend, deaf as a post, was pleased at having procured an intermission of pain for his patient, and had sought another apartment to procure a little needed rest for himself. He had been for forty-eight hours in attendance upon Mr. Fullerton, and was completely worn out.
               It was with an anxious, nervous glance that Stalker looked on his uncle's face, now composed in slumber.
               Balderly, upon the other side of the bed, also gazed upon the sleeping man.
               It was the first time that the latter had ever seen Mr. Fullerton, although, thanks to his friend's communicativeness, he knew as much about him and his affairs as Stalker himself.
               For a few seconds they stood thus contemplating the invalid, and then, turning away as by a common impulse, they fell to whispering in another part of the room.
               Whatever the subject of the subdued conversation, it appeared to affect Stalker strangely. He turned ashy pale, wiped his forehead with his handkerchief, glanced with terror around him, and yet, as if fascinated by the bolder villain, lent an eager and a willing ear to his lightly-spoken but deep-meaning words.
               "I tell you, Stalker," said Balderly at length, after half an hour's whispering, "it is the only way! We are but wasting time, and throwing away a chance which may never present itself again! No one knows me here; no one but the servant who gave us admittance has seen me. Now, or never, is the time!"
               "But,"—and Stalker's white lips trembled as he spoke—"the risk is awful!"
               "Pshaw! Risk? There is none! You have the Will?"
               The other nodded.
               "Then," continued Balderly, "I tell you once more, NOW, or never, and I know that I am right."
               A restless movement of the figure upon the bed caused them both to start and hasten in that direction.
               The sleeper had, however, composed himself again, and Stalker almost cried aloud in horror as he gazed upon that face, so like to death.
               The deed that was formed in his mind seemed to have been already perpetrated, and he felt beforehand the horror of remorse.
               Only for an instant. Balderly, a keen observer, noted the thought that passed in the other's mind, and dismissed it with a light laugh, and again the whispered converse was resumed.
               
               A few moments after, the whole household was summoned by a piercing shriek proceeding from the apartment of the invalid.
               They hastened to assemble.
               
               An hour later, the two confederates emerged from Mr. Fullerton's apartment.
               Stalker grasped the arm of Balderly to prevent himself from falling to the ground. His eyes glared on vacancy—his lips seemed glued together—his limbs trembled and his voice was husky.
               The mark of Cain seemed to be imprinted on his pale brow.
               Balderly, on the contrary, was more composed than ever. A rigidity, like iron, was expressed in every muscle—his eye, calm and searching, appeared to challenge inquiry.
               "What the devil?" said he in a whisper to his friend, "are you afraid of a dead man?"
               "No—not that—but the whole thing was so sudden—so awful—"
               Stalker shook like an aspen leaf.
               Balderly smiled.
               "His last words were forgiveness to Charles," said Stalker in a voice of fear.
               "Words won't do any harm!" was the taunting rejoinder.
               "What did you call me out of the room for?"
               "Guess!"
               "To abandon the project—I almost hope so—I never would have thought of such a scheme but for you!"
               Stalker appeared to gain courage as this new view of his position struck him. His friend smiled disdainfully.
               "Of course not! You are one of those self-deluding individuals who like to have their dirty work close to their hand, and then flatter themselves they can shift the responsibility. Well, never mind, I can bear it."
               "There's no help for it now—the affair will have to be given up."
               "Indeed! Why?" said Balderly. "Has your conscience triumphed over your cupidity?"
               "No—not exactly—I confess I should like to make a bold effort for the money—but—"
               "But what?"
               "I did not anticipate there would be so many people present—to avoid their vigilance, or make excuse for getting them out of the room, would be impossible."
               Balderly scanned his associate, and then answered slowly:
               "There's no necessity for their being out of the room."
               "What do you mean?"
               Balderly's reply was impressive, although spoken in the same low voice as that in which the previous part of the conversation had been conducted.
               "We mustn't stick for trifles when a great stake is to be won."
               "I don't comprehend. Heavens! wasn't that a groan?"
               Stalker shuddered, and would really have fallen to the ground, had not his friend supported him by clutching his arm with a vice-like grip.
               "Merciful powers!" muttered the trembling villain—"you haven't—"
               Silas laughed sneeringly, and then answered, "Yes, I have! There's not a living soul can prevent us from doing what we please in yonder room."
               "Miserable man—what have you done?"
               "Ha, ha! Made you the master of two hundred thousand dollars! Where's the Will?"
               Stalker drew the paper tremblingly from his breast pocket.
               "Here! But I would rather rend it into atoms, than sanction so fearful a crime!"
               As if with a determination to accomplish the threatened destruction of the paper, his palsied hand endeavored to draw it from the envelope in which it was inclosed.
               Balderly, however, secured it, and held it out at arm's length.
               
               "Don't be an idiot, or fancy that I'm one. I have only pressed the resources of medical science into our service, that's all!"
               "How?"
               Balderly uttered but one word in his companion's ears. Whatever it was it was potent.
               Stalker rapidly recovered his equanimity, and made a movement as if to re-enter the apartment he had just quitted, but was arrested by a gesture of his friend.
               "Give me your handkerchief!" said that worthy.
               Rufus complied.
               Balderly took from his waistcoat a small vial and poured a few drops from it upon the kerchief, which he returned then to its owner.
               "Hold that to your face."
               Seeing that the other hesitated, "Pshaw, man," whispered he, "it is only an antidote. I fancy they must be all pretty quiet by this time!"
               And, as they stood listening at the door of the apartment, it seemed to be altogether, what indeed it was in part, a tomb!
               Without further comment the two rascals opened the door and crossed the threshold, where a greater surprise awaited them.
               Scarcely had they disappeared, when the figure of a woman was seen to emerge from an adjoining room.
               She looked about her in surprise, as if anxious to obtain some information about the locality in which she found herself.
               It was Selina Marvin, frightened by finding herself alone in a strange place, the fearful shriek she had heard, and then still more alarmed by the death-like silence that ensued, she had wandered from the lower part of the house, and had, by the servants' staircase, approached the neighborhood where the strange events, already narrated, had transpired.
               She was agitated and almost ready to swoon with fear.
               "I always thought I had a pretty stout heart," she murmured to herself, "but there's something about the air of this place, so dark, silent and gloomy, that fills me with a vague sense of terror. I heard whispering voices, but couldn't catch what was said. That there is some mystery, my heart tells me. Shall I try and find it out? Yes! for his sake I will do so, come what may."
               With these words she cautiously opened the same door as that by which Stalker and Balderly had entered, and as quietly closing it after her, she disappeared.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE CHAMBER OF THE DEAD.
               A TERRIBLE, although expected sight, met the two ruffians as they entered the room.
               But one small lamp illuminated the strange scene, and it was some seconds ere they mastered the details, so terrifying in their character, so startling in their horror.
               Upon the bed lay the form of Mr. Fullerton, quite dead.
               The face of the corpse was marked by a stern expression, as if some dreadful thought of hate had flashed across his mind as the immortal spirit passed out of its earthly mold.
               The eyes, unclosed as yet, glared with almost life-like brilliancy, whilst the cold brow and pale lips betokened agony and anger.
               Around the bed in which the corpse was laid were grouped a number of persons in various attitudes.
               All motionless: and all apparently as inanimate as the one figure round which they were disposed.
               Slamer, the Doctor, sat with one hand extended toward his late patient, but with his head buried on his breast. Charles, who had arrived unknown to Stalker and Balderly, a moment after his father's dissolution, and thus, alas! too late for recognition, was kneeling by the Doctor's side; whilst to his right and left two of the most faithful domestics of the household lay, as if suddenly struck down, prone upon the floor.
               Dominating the awful scene, the two villains stood contemplating it, a smile of devilish joy lighting up the face of Balderly: one of nervous exultation making more marked the features of Rufus Stalker.
               A deadly vapor appeared to fill the room!
               Amidst this dread assembly of the dead and unconscious, the two villains, now and again applying a vial to their nostrils, and seemingly proof to the influences around them which had vanquished the others, held their conversation.
               "Hang it, Stalker, are you going to faint like a school-girl? What's the matter with you?"
               "I wish I had your nerves, Balderly," was the faltering answer. "I feel as if I was amongst a crowd of ghosts. Are you certain this death-like stupor will pass away?"
               "Pshaw! A little cool air will do that. Quick—the key! I'll change the documents!"
               "If any of these people should be conscious?"
               The knave pointed as he spoke to the insensible forms around him.
               "Take the night-light and look into their faces!"
               With a shaking hand Stalker did as he was commanded.
               Whilst he was thus occupied Balderly had unlocked the escritoire near the bed, and was rummaging its contents.
               "I can't see anything of the will! Bring the light here!"
               Stalker having finished his work of inspection, carried the light to his friend, and placing it on the desk, they both commenced a rapid and eager search.
               For some time unsuccessfully; but at length, from a small pigeon-hole concealed by a false lid, Rufus, who had evidently studied the matter before, drew forth a bundle of papers, from amongst which he extracted one of larger bulk.
               "Ah, here it is! Look!"
               Rapidly they perused it together. This being done Stalker, with an oath, muttered—"My name not even mentioned—all his property to Charles—that banishes every scruple—quells all remorse!"
               "Give me the new will!" said Balderly.
               "Let me burn this!" and Rufus made a movement toward the fire, but was stayed by a quick, impulsive action from the other.
               "Not here, you fool! When we get out of this. The charred paper might raise suspicions. Fortune, we defy you!"
               He flourished the papers above his head in triumph.
               At that instant a low knock at the door rooted them to the spot in terror.
               Balderly was the first to recover his wits.
               "Put out the light! One of the servants, perhaps!"
               The light was extinguished, and nothing, but a faint red gleam from the expiring embers flickered over a portion of the room.
               "Whoever it is, we are ready!"
               With these words Silas Balderly crossed the room with stealthy steps, softly unlocked the door, and standing in the gloom, gave admittance to Selina Marvin!
               Scarcely had the frightened girl made one step across the threshold, when something white was passed over her face and she, too, fell without a sigh or groan, apparently lifeless upon the floor!
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               A VERY NICE LITTLE PLOT.
               ANOTHER Christmas had come round, bringing with it strange events, affecting the personages of this story.
               To Charlie Fullerton, the disinherited son, the time had dragged heavily enough.
               He had been utterly unable to fathom the mystery which shrouded the dreadful events attending his father's death-bed, and vainly he sought for proof to confirm the vague suspicions he entertained of his cousin Stalker's guilt.
               He felt assured that to that cousin's malevolent schemes, aided and abetted by Balderly (for whom he had an instinctive repugnance), he owed his unhappy position, the loss of his patrimony, and the grievous thwarting of his heart's affection.
               Selina Marvin was immovable in her resolution not to wed Charles until such time as he, Charles, should be so well assured of his present and future position as to be able, without after repentance, to assume the responsibility which such a marriage would bring with it.
               Selina's objection was founded on her sincere affection for Charles. She knew the position to which he had been born was necessary to his well-being, and she shrinkingly avoided, by a hasty union, fettering his energies by the inevitable struggle for a living which the poor married man must necessarily make.
               She was a true woman, however; and although her eye was bright and her lip wore a smile when she gently persuaded Charlie to wait, her heart was heavy, and in solitude she shed bitter tears at the cruel fate which thus rudely kept asunder two fond hearts.
               By such self-denying love, do we know the noble devotion of womankind. Pain, poverty, and wearying care are nothing to their high sense of honor and affection, if they can but save the beloved object of their adoration from a moment's sorrow.
               Charles knew all this; felt its truth and beauty, and yet, ingrate as he was, chafed and fretted like a spoiled child who was denied some richly-coveted possession.
               
               He had found occasional poorly-paid labor, which in part occupied his mind, but he remained unreconciled to his present destiny. With the antagonism to evil-doing which a right-minded man possesses, he strove to avenge himself honestly and fairly upon those who had injured him, but grew heart-sick when he failed to discover the faintest clue to their deeds. His intelligence assured him he was right in his suspicions, but his sense of justice forbade him from bringing any charge which he knew he could not substantiate by proof.
               His was indeed a painful position, and it was but natural that he became fretful, nervous, and cynical.
               Day after day he went about his uncongenial work, hoping that in his intercourse with others he might light upon some unexpected information which would furnish him with an indication (however slight) that might lead to the detection of the mystery which shrouded his own loss of fortune and the fearful death of his father.
               Daily, however, he returned to his lodging, baffled and disappointed.
               His mother's little bequest stood between him and actual poverty—nay, even permitted the indulgence of some small show of elegance; but he felt almost the agonies of want when he thought of the rich use he could have made of the wealth he had been robbed of.
               Strange inconsistency of human nature. Had he been born without expectation he would have applied himself to the mastering of fortune with a zeal that must have insured success, and would thus have made 
                     "I cannot wait upon I must."
                  
               
               As it was, he went about his trifling quantum of work with a lassitude and in a half-hearted manner that forbade the hope of emerging, by its means, from the cloud by which he was surrounded.
               This is what Selina, with a woman's tact, perceived, and although dearly loving him, it strengthened her in her resolution not to link her fate with that of one who she felt had neither energy nor resolution to endure the buffets of adversity.
               She knew that if once assured that his father's possessions had forever passed from him, Charlie would throw off his present lethargy and cheerfully battle with the world. The uncertainty of his life's prospects was the bar to well-directed labor.
               The poor fellow had thus fallen into unwholesome habits of self-communing, and from brooding over the events which had so strangely attended his life's prospects, he permitted them to have entire mastery. They were scarcely ever absent from his thoughts, as witness his reflections whilst pursuing his daily duties.
               "I wonder what luck I shall have to-day? A year has passed, and I am as far as ever from the solution of that mystery at my father's death. Why should all who were present be prostrated at the same time? Doctor Slamer accounts for it very satisfactorily to himself in medical Latin—but there is a suspicion on my mind that some drug was used. The will seemed to be all right—proven and accepted—which deprived me of my heritage, and gave all to my cousin; a man my father never really liked. Who would have supposed that he could have carried his resentment so far? Poor Selina thinks that my love for her was the first cause of my father's displeasure! Ah, well, I am so rich in the possession of her priceless affection that there's no room in my heart for envy. So let him enjoy his wealth—I know who will be the happier in the end."
               From this it will be perceived that Charlie gave himself great credit for philosophic endurance—a quality he was signally deficient in.
               But what of Stalker?
               It was not all rose-colored with him, and by a strange current of accident the very man he had so foully wronged, became, unwittingly, the chief instrument of his punishment.
               What that punishment was will be at once apparent by a conversation between Stalker and his scoundrelly companion, Silas Balderly, who, dressed in the height of fashion, was an entirely different-looking person from the one who stood near the death-bed of Mr. Fullerton.
               "I tell you, Balderly," said Stalker, in a tone of excitability, "there's no use in fighting such a passion as mine with argument. I feel sometimes as though Fate had taken up Charles Fullerton's cause, and revenged him by filling my soul with such a mad love for his intended wife."
               Here was the prime cause of Mr. Stalker's immediate unhappiness.
               His friend laughed lightly. "By Jove! you are pretty far gone—what do you mean to do?"
               Stalker answered fiercely, "Make her mine, if craft, money or persuasion can effect it!"
               "Well," said Balderly, "I don't suppose it will cost you much of either. Actresses are not usually over-scrupulous. Ask the major here; he's the Giovanni of the footlights, eh, Major Trifle?"
               The above conversation took place in a bar-room, or "Exchange," as it was euphonistically called, and the person addressed, a habitué of the place, turned to answer the question.
               A wicked-looking young-old-fellow he was, attired in the height of fashion, perhaps a little faded, and with the bloom of recent tailordom worn away, but jauntily, even somewhat vulgarly, worn.
               The face of this ancient beau was not a pleasant one to look upon. Not that it was without attractiveness in its ensemble, but that there was so much that bespoke an evil, dissolute life, a heartless air of confidence, and a sly, deceitful mode of address.
               His whole life had been spent in conquest of the fair sex; and although he was by no means as wicked as he would fain have been thought, he was unscrupulous in his means of retaining the title of a modern Love-lace. The wonder was that he had not met the fate of Richardson's hero and received his quietus by the hand of some indignant male friend of the women he traduced.
               The major (a name given him in derision) owed his immunity from punishment to his arrant cowardice, as in every instance where he had been brought to book, he at once assumed a cringing attitude and declared himself ready to eat his own words, to apologize; in short, to do anything but fight.
               This old Adonis had received meekly and unresistingly several castigations, but the inherent vanity and malice of the animal was so great that he continued his boastful career, unwarned by admonition, unchecked by physical punishment.
               Such was the worthy to whom Silas Balderly addressed his question.
               With a leer and a simper and an obsequiousness to Stalker's wealth, Major Trifle answered in the absurd tone of a would-be-dandy:
               "Yaas! I flatter myself I am rather a——you know—a favorite with the tinselled darlings—I expect to find some delicate rose-colored—you know, literature here!"
               Saying which, Trifle strolled to a mirror, there to admire himself.
               Balderly turned from the woman-killer and with an amiable smile addressed his friend Stalker.
               "How do you mean to proceed?"
               "Find some way to separate her from Charles. I know his independent spirit. If I could only persuade him that she is unworthy of his regard and fix some stain upon her reputation—"
               Balderly leant across the little table at which they were sitting and said in a low voice, pointing at the same time to the major, "Here's your instrument right to your hand. There's scarcely a good-looking woman on the stage he would not have compromised in talk, if he weren't known to be such a magnificent liar. See if he don't insinuate more than you want." Then raising his voice, he added, "I'll bet that he knows her well—don't you, major?"
               "Who?" said Trifle, approaching the table.
               "Why, little Beatrice Sutherland!"
               Trifle stroked his dyed moustache as he replied, "Come, come! I say, you know, by Jove! I won't allow any interference, you know—in that quarter!"
               "You know her then?" asked Stalker, sharply.
               The major smiled suggestively. "I should rather—you know—think I did, by Jove! she has cost me—you know—enough in bracelets and bouquets."
               Stalker made an angry movement as he listened to the unblushing scoundrel's insinuation. "You must be intimate with her then?" said he.
               "She'd never—you know!" answered the vapid scamp, "forgive me, if I let a day pass—you know—without making a call. Shouldn't be surprised if I had a billet from her waiting for me now. Will you excuse me? ah—when—a—you know—ladies in the case—eh?"
               And with an idiotic simper and an affected swagger he left them for the purpose of crossing to the office, there to inquire after his imaginary correspondence.
               Balderly watched the retreating form of the major and then turned to Stalker.
               "What do you say to that? won't he answer your purpose? now there isn't an atom of truth in that vain fool, and yet his breath is more mischievous than the air of a pestilence."
               His companion nodded approvingly, as he muttered, "Just the boastful braggart for my work. Why," he added suddenly and with confusion as he saw Fullerton entering the Exchange, "here is Charles. Have you met him?"
               "Only once," answered Balderly, significantly, "and don't aspire to continue the acquaintance."
               "You must! I want you to back me up in what I say."
               "All right!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               CHARLES CONDUCTS HIMSELF STRANGELY.
               RUFUS STALKER rose and crossed to the subject of his remarks. Charles had taken a letter from his pocket, which he commenced to read.
               Stalker addressed him with a well-feigned bonhommie.
               
               "Ah! Charles, glad to see you!"
               But Charles was too intent on the perusal of his letter to shake Mr. Stalker's outstretched hand, and, without pausing in his employment, coldly answered the salutation:
               "How are you, cousin?"
               He was then on the point of quitting the place, but Rufus was not so easily disposed of.
               "Stop a moment. I want to introduce you to a friend of mine. Mr. Pierrepoint Goodhue, one of the old Knickerbocker families of this city."
               Not a blush upon the speaker's or Balderly's face, betrayed the impudent falsehood.
               Charles bowed. "Happy to meet you, sir!"
               "Now, don't be in a hurry," said his cousin, again detaining him. "You know it was no fault of mine that the property came to me. I offered you a liberal amount of it, as I thought only proper, but you refused it. Won't you think better of it?"
               This was true enough. Stalker had indeed offered him a sum of money, doubtless to mollify his own conscience, but Fullerton had declined it.
               Stalker repeated his question: "Won't you think better of it?"
               "No, thank you!" answered Charles, with difficulty governing his temper. "I shall never be a pauper, if I can avoid it, nor live under the shadow of an obligation, especially to you. Besides," he added, "there's something healthy, both morally and physically, in earning one's own living. Selina would despise me if I did otherwise."
               "You mean Beatrice?"
               "Selina!"
               "Well," said Stalker, "excuse me for being so plain, but you must be a courageous fellow, Charles, to continue your acquaintance with one the world speaks so harshly of!"
               The young man turned upon the speaker suddenly. "What do you mean?" said he.
               "I mean," replied the arch conspirator, "that she doesn't bear the most enviable reputation."
               To his surprise, Charles merely said,
               "Indeed?"
               "I grieve to be compelled to say so, for your sake. I appeal to my friend here."
               His friend promptly came to the support.
               "Well, as a gentleman, I confess I have heard her name lightly spoken of, and not many minutes since!"
               Young Fullerton was all aglow with indignation, but he mastered his temper admirably.
               "I have no doubt, sir," he said, satirically addressing himself to the fictitious Goodhue; "she's only an actress. It is a tribute which excellence must pay to the envious, who have not brains enough to reach their level, or the cowardly assassins of character, who think women of the stage can be maligned in safety."
               Balderly, alias Goodhue, turned from the speaker somewhat confused by the manner and matter of the speech. The arrival of the major, with a bundle of letters, caused a timely diversion in his favor.
               "Hallo!" said he in a whisper to Stalker, "there's the major with a bundle of notes he wrote to himself; I saw him. Does Fullerton know him?"
               Rufus answered in the same tone, "I think not!"
               "Then," muttered Balderly, "we shall have some fun."
               Rufus proceeded to introduce the new comer to his cousin.
               "Charles, this is Major Trifle, the Don Juan of the city; the terror of mamas, and the pride of Madison square."
               "Oh, by—, you know," murmured the aforesaid Madisonian pride, "by Jove, you make me blush."
               Balderly interrupted him with a bantering voice. "Well, Cupid, anything of that party?"
               "Which of them?"
               "The one we were speaking about."
               "Oh, little Beatrice—yaas—a few tender words."
               Major Trifle's throat, had he but known it, was at that moment in great danger of being clutched; but Charles, with an effort, subdued his rage and addressed him: "I think you said Beatrice? That name is familiar to me. May I ask what Beatrice?"
               
               "Certainly, my dear boy!" was the reply; "Beatrice Sutherland, the actress! You know her, of course. Everybody loves the—ah—devilish, you know, little coquette!"
               Again Charles controlled his temper; perhaps the affectations of the faded dandy gave him a hint of his real character.
               "Yes! I have a slight acquaintance with her, and am glad to meet with one who is so thoroughly her friend."
               The sarcasm was lost upon the vain old popinjay. Stalker now thought it had come to his cue to speak.
               "You know what I told you, Charles?"
               "Yes!" was the reply, much to the other's amazement. "It's very evident that you were right!"
               Major Trifle took up the conversation, apostrophizing the letters in his hand: "Precious little darlings! by Jove, I wish I could, you know—ah—cut myself up into a dozen pieces—you confounded, bewitching heart-ensnarers!"
               "You are not angry with me for what I have said?" asked Rufus of his cousin.
               "Angry? On the contrary, I so highly appreciate the disinterested friendliness of your conduct, that I should like you and these gentlemen," pointing at Balderly and the major, "to lunch with me today."
               "What say you, Pierrepoint?" asked Stalker.
               "I'm agreeable!"
               "And you, major?"
               "Well, I have a—you know, delicate appointment; but that will keep. I'm at your service!"
               He accompanied the speech with a mincing bow.
               "Then," said Charles, "I'll see you at my lodgings at three, eh?"
               They nodded assent, and the next moment quitted the place, whilst he whom they considered their dupe, stood in anxious meditation.
               His mental commentary explained his late strange behavior.
               "I didn't think I had so much self-control. The lying villains! I could have trampled them under my foot. But wait—wait. I'll be even with them all yet. Now to look at this mysterious note again."
               He took from his pocket the letter he had been perusing when his cousin accosted him, and read and re-read it in evident mystification.
               It was short and ran as follows:
               "Come up at my dinner-hour. I have something to say to you had better not be written."
               It was signed "William Archer."
               "Something to say to me," he repeated. "Can it be about Selina? Can there be any truth in these reports? No, no! My soul repudiates the slander."
               And in a state of intense indignation with himself for the half-formed doubt, he left the "Exchange" in order to proceed to his lodgings, when he was arrested by hearing a voice, almost at his elbow, which he instantly recognized.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               UNCLE A. AND AUNT J.
               COME along, and don't make a fool of yourself in the streets."
               That is what the familiar voice, heard by Charlie Fullerton, said.
               He turned and found himself face to face with his uncle, Abimelech Worth, and his Aunt Jedidah, both from the interior of Long Island.
               "Why, uncle, is it really you? and aunty, too! What singular chance brings you away from the farm? I thought you would never leave it."
               Although the weather was bitterly cold, Mr. Abimelech Worth seemed to be suffering from unusual warmth, for he wiped his broad red face with his kerchief with one hand, whilst the other grasped his nephew's with a nervous grip; all of which being duly accomplished he spoke; his voice, notwithstanding his great bulk and stature, being piping and querulous in tone.
               "Glad to see you, my boy. Didn't want to come. It's a freak of Jedidah's there, for I'm as much out of my element in this place, as a bull in an opera box. It's all her doing."
               Aunt Jedidah, who was a spinster lady, answered meekly in a bass voice as singularly out of keeping with her appearance (which was sharp and petite) as her brother's vocal organ was from his physique.
               "Not mine, Abimelech—but the sperrits!"
               "The what?" asked Charlie.
               "Sperrits!" exclaimed his uncle, "not rum. There's sense in that, but the jumping, squalling, bell-ringing, nigger-singing, table twisters. Bless your soul, we've had 'em at the farm. A lanky, greasy-hair'd ghost of a lectureman, from down-east, has been exhibiting among us, and bedeviled the whole neighborhood."
               They had by this time turned in the direction of Charles' lodgings, continuing their conversation as they walked.
               Aunt Jedidah gave a groan, not unlike a pavior's sigh, as she retorted, "Scoff not, brother, it is the faith of the ignorant to rail at all that's beyond their limited comprehension."
               "Well," said her fraternal relative, "I confess it goes a heap beyond mine!"
               "Because you are so wilfully obstinate. You scorn to be enlightened."
               "By jingo," squeaked Abimelech, "I was enlightened—thundered and lightened too, when I was stupid enough to ask if I could get my crop in. The lying sperrits scratched out 'yes,' and the whole produce of two fields got ruined by the storm!"
               "It was a punishment for your disbelief."
               "Not a bit of it. It was a punishment for my folly in thinking ghosts knew anything about farming. You might as well expect to fence in the sky, or raise cranberries out of a damp cloud."
               This magnificent peroration appeared to afford Uncle Abimelech unbounded satisfaction, for he rubbed his hands and gave vent to a whistling chuckle.
               "Then," said Charles to his aunt, "you are evidently a convert to this new philosophy."
               Her brother answered for her.
               "A convert? Bless your heart, man, she's a big fiddle in the band. Knows more about the sperrits' world than she does about her own house. Special correspondent for the Celestial Herald—she is—why that there sister of mine can make such dead-and-gone customers as Alexander the Great—old Mr. Mahomet or Nebuchadnezzar tell, and in good square English, too, what their personal opinions are in regard to woman-suffrage. Why, she could even make the valiant Greek Ulysses speak—if she'd a mind to."
               Again he chuckled over his bon mot.
               
               His relative, calm in her strength, answered in a stentorian voice!
               "Brother, I am earnest in my belief: despite of ridicule."
               "Why you old goose," piped her brother, "if I didn't believe you were, would I humor your lunacy by being here?"
               "What has caused this sudden visit, uncle?" asked Charles.
               "Well you see——don't laugh, Charlie, Jedidah has had a dream."
               "A vision, Abimelech! a vision!" was the solemn and deep-toned correction from the lady.
               "A vision!" continued Abimelech, "if you like it better. You must know she's a—what do they call it, Jedidah?"
               "A trance and writing medium!"
               As the lady uttered these words she closed her eyes and paused in her walk, much to the surprise of several small boys in her immediate neighborhood.
               
               "There," said her brother, triumphantly, "translate that if you can. The long and short of it is," added he, sinking his voice to a shrill pig's whisper, "when my brother, your father, died, Charlie, hard as he was latterly to everybody, I didn't think he would have been so unjust to you at the end; but he's gone now, and we must not remember such things."
               Aunt Jedidah's voice broke in here like an organ-peal, "Why not? Injustice is injustice in the living or the dead—"
               "Hold your tongue!" said her brother, "or," added he, "talk to the sperrits. Well, you know," he continued, "he held the mortgage on my farm, but he always told me that he'd not only release that if he died before me, but leave me something over, as he knew I hadn't the best of luck; and when I found that he had not only forgotten me, but sent you adrift in favor of that scapegrace, Stalker, I own I did raise merry Jerusalem about it. This," and Abimelech looked pityingly at his sister as he spoke, "sort of preyed upon our demented darling's brain until, what with mixing it up with untaxable sperrits, she found all sorts of strange things—dreaming no end of dreams."
               "Visions!" sonorously muttered Jedidah.
               "Well, visions!" squeaked her brother, "in which she saw—"
               "The forger of the will!"
               Charlie started at the sepulchral declaration his aunt gave utterance to.
               Abimelech noticed the gesture. "Mad as Nance," said he. "You should see her when she biles up—whew! clear the track then!"
               "But," said Charles, "such words are dangerous and unwarrantable."
               "Charles Fullerton," said his aunt with solemnity, "your father told me so, and in your own soul you believe it!"
               "Hush, aunt! Remember we are in the public streets."
               "Public or private," said his irrepressible relation, "the truth is not ashamed!"
               "By Jove! she's off!"
               Mr. Worth was right—she was off; and before either her brother or Charles could prevent her, the lady, like an inspired Pythoness, stood in a rapt attitude, the centre of an admiring and wondering crowd, which assembled no one exactly knew how, nor from whence.
               "Darn it, Jedidah! There's a crowd here—don't you see."
               Vainly the excited gentleman strove to silence his possessed sister. She was deaf to entreaty.
               "I care not!" she exclaimed in a voice of exalted power. "I care not! Let them come! I will uplift my voice and cry aloud in the high-ways and the bye-ways——!"
               It was too much for Abimelech. The giant literally caught up the little woman in his arms and bore her, much to the delight of the assemblage, into their hotel, which they had by good fortune reached in the course of their interesting conversation.
               To the last she cried aloud, "Deaf as adders—Deaf as adders! Words of wisdom, and you hear them not!"
               The closing door of their temporary lodgment shut out her last impassioned words, and Charlie Fullerton, pushing his way through the now dispersing crowd, sought his lodgings with a tumult of strange thoughts possessing his mind.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               CHARLIE MEETS WITH OLD FRIENDS.
               WILLIAM ARCHER'S lodgings on the day in question presented a remarkable appearance.
               Those in them, Selina, William, and Alice, were evidently quite at home; so much so that one or two at least had apparently been breakfasting. At any rate Selina had on an improvised apron over her black silk dress, and was, with the assistance of Alice, "clearing away the things," whatever that feminine definition of clattering work may mean.
               William, who was enjoying his mid-day hour's respite from work, had all the air of enjoyment, having drawn a seat near the blazing fire and commenced "to blow a cloud."
               In the meantime Selina, who could do nothing gloomily, indulged in a thousand-and-one merry speeches and antics for the delectation of William and his wife, who were, this Christmas-tide, in much better condition than when first introduced to the reader; at all events he had not the aspect of one in the slightest degree anxious to put an end to his life, having thoroughly gotten over that bad attack of felo-de-seism. On the contrary, his ruddy face, his clear intelligent eye, and general physique, denoted that he was quite prepared to endure many years of life and companionship with the now cheerful Alice.
               It was Selina who spoke:
               "Come, clear the stage as quick as you can, but don't smash the properties—mustn't keep our 'keynd' friends, the public, waiting between the acts; only just long enough to fortify them against the coming 'sensation,' which is to harrow up the soul, freeze the young blood, and make each particular hair stand on end like quills upon the frightful—what is it?"
               William laughed heartily. "You merry puss," said he, "your sunshiny nature would warm the heart of an iceberg, I do believe."
               Selina tossed her head saucily as she answered, "Why shouldn't I be merry, I should like to know? Please to remember that 
                     
                        "'It's good to be merry and wise,
                        It's good to be joyous and gay,
                        It's good to make managers grant the supplies,
                        And have such jolly nice parts to play.'"
                     
                  
               
               "Ah, dear Selina," exclaimed Alice, "we can never be grateful enough for the timely help you gave us in the hour of our great need. Heaven bless you for it."
               The tearful look of love which accompanied these words was a bountiful payment for a good action.
               William's eyes, too, seemed to have become suddenly filled, perhaps with tobacco, as he followed his wife in speech: "Heaven will bless her in the knowledge that she has changed a home of sorrow into one of content and gladness."
               "Oh, to be sure," replied Selina, with a merry laugh! "Grand transformation scene. Bower of Bliss in the sky-parlor, gorgeously mounted, up four pair of stairs. Music—descriptive of three well-fed fairies, revelling in the oriental perfume of some remarkably strong tobacco." Here she pretended to be suddenly seized with a violent fit of coughing. "Why, you stupid things, don't you know it was the merest selfishness in the world made me wish to lodge with you! In the first place, I like company—some one to talk to—it helps digestion, and then, when my great expectations, for, I confess, I did think I was going to be somebody, were nipped in the bud by Charlie's misfortune, I found it was necessary for me to economize."
               "Yes," said Alice, with a smile, "you economized by furnishing this place for us, and paying more than you ever did before. Don't try to hide your generosity and goodness, Selina!"
               "For gracious' sake, hold your tongue. To see you happy makes me doubly so. Yes— 
                     
                        "'Happy am I, from care I'm free,
                        Why are not all contented like me?
                        If they but try to do some one good
                        Between you and I it's likely they would.'"
                     
                  
               
               "I expected to see you and Mr. Fullerton married long before this, Selina," said William.
               The young lady paused in the act of wiping a tea-cup and answered: "So did I. When he was supposed to be rich I couldn't marry him, and now that he turns out to be poor, I cannot. That annoys him. Well, poor fellow, perhaps some day I'll have to take pity on him. By-the-bye, I want to tell you a bit of real fun."
               "What is it?"
               "I had a love-letter this morning. You'll never guess from whom. Let me read it to you." She drew a letter from her pocket as she spoke.
               "It's marked 'private,' but that means nothing now—the most private correspondence gets public somehow. 'Darling Beatrice: Of all women I have ever seen, you are the dearest to my longing heart. I can never be happy without you.' That's bad for him, isn't it?"
               "A gone case, evidently," was William's remark.
               She continued the perusal. "'I can offer you wealth and station. Be my wife, and everything that money can purchase, or a truthful love anticipate, shall be yours.' Now, who do you think that is from?"
               William replied, "I can't imagine. A brigadier-general, at least."
               "No other than Charlie's cousin—Mr. Rufus Stalker."
               "Our Gov'nor, Alice," said William, in a low tone of astonishment. "Does he know how you and Charlie are situated?" he asked Selina.
               "Of course he does."
               William shook his head meaningly. "How very friendly, to be sure; he's got all Charlie's property, and now he wants to take that away he prizes more—your love, Selina."
               "He'll have to take my life first," was the indignant girl's rejoinder.
               William had suddenly grown very serious. Puff after puff of tobacco proceeded from his pipe. After quite a long pause, he addressed Selina again.
               "You were present, I believe, at the death of Charlie's father, were you not?"
               "Very soon after," replied Selina.
               "Wasn't there something strange connected with that event?"
               Mr. Archer's pipe had gone out by this time; a sure sign with him that he was deeply interested in other matters than smoking.
               "I cannot tell," answered Miss Marvin. "I only know I was prostrated as the rest were by the fumes of some powerful medicine which had been used."
               "And did neither you nor Charles ever suspect anything?"
               "I cannot answer that question decidedly—the shock of finding himself cut off from his inheritance, and his arriving too late to see his father alive, seemed to daze and confuse him seriously. Why do you ask?"
               "Well," said William, who had listened eagerly to Selina, "for no reason in particular that I can speak of just yet. You and he saved me and mine from starvation, and I should dearly like to be able to requite you both, some day."
               "Pshaw!" exclaimed Selina, turning away from the speaker impatiently. "Don't worry me with such nonsense. Pay attention to me, both of you, while I try my song for the new play. There, you are the 'indulgent public'—now mind you give me a good 'reception.'"
               And after countless little bits of happy bye-play and fun, she rehearsed the following song, which she was going to sing a few evenings later, at the theatre at which she was engaged:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           CHILDHOOD AND HOME.
                           
                              Come from the glen, where in childhood I wandered,
                              When life was all sunshine, and sorrow unknown;
                              Come from the scenes where my early thought pondered,
                              And I looked on the future with gladness alone.
                              Whate'er be our fate, whether sadness or splendor
                              Encircles our path, wheresoe'er we may roam,
                              Oh! there cannot exist a remembrance more tender
                              Than that which still binds us to CHILDHOOD and HOME.
                           
                           
                              Ah! who that was blest with a mother's fond teaching,
                              And lisped at her bidding, the accents of prayer,
                              But whose life, at the thought, the long past overreaching,
                              Returns to forget all its trials and care.
                              Then no matter what fate, whether sadness or splendor
                              Encircles our path, wheresoe'er we may roam,
                              Oh! there cannot exist a remembrance more tender
                              Than that which still binds us to CHILDHOOD and HOME.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Another listener had been added to her limited audience, unknown to her, before she had concluded her vocal effort. It was Charles Fullerton, who entered in the most adroit manner without attracting notice, and who only made his presence known, at the end of the song, by clapping his hands and crying "Bravo! Bravissimo! Encore!"
               She turned, her face suffused with blushes.
               "Ah, Selina," said her lover, "I heard it all! How are you, William? Alice, I'm glad to witness this cheerful scene. It's pleasant to find you all so jolly."
               "Thanks to you, and our good Selina here!" was William's reply.
               But Charles waved him to silence. "Nonsense, man! I had nothing to do with it. It's all this little home-angel's work. Excuse me, while I say a word to her."
               He drew Selina near the window.
               "Selina," he said, "do you happen to know an individual by the name of Trifle?"
               "Trifle? What a frivolous name. No!" she answered innocently.
               
               His face beamed with happiness at this further assurance of her fidelity—and——
               But why attempt to repeat the subject of that softly whispered converse. It was as old as the hills, but one which none of us here below can ever tire of.
               William too had a sotto voce conference with his wife.
               "Alice," said he, "take an opportunity of getting Selina out of the room as soon as you can. I want to ask Mr. Fullerton's advice on a subject of some importance."
               His wife's timid nature took the alarm. "There's nothing wrong, William, is there?" she asked in a tone of anxiety.
               "Nothing wrong to any of us, Alice, don't be alarmed. But I have something on my mind that must come off—that's all!"
               "Well, it's nearly time to go to the factory, so I shall get ready. I shan't be long."
               She said this loud enough for Selina to hear, and that young lady, breaking off her low-voiced talk with Charles, answered her.
               "I'll go with you, Alice, as I have to dress to make a call. Good-bye, Charlie, until I see you again."
               She laid great emphasis on the last sentence.
               It was really very wrong of Charles to insist upon a kiss from his beloved at so trifling an intermission of their companionship, but truth is mighty and must prevail. He demanded and received it.
               When the two girls had left the room, William turned to young Fullerton and commenced the conversation.
               "You got a few lines from me?"
               "Yes; and sufficiently mysterious they were!"
               "In a few moments I shall have to go back to work in the factory which by good rights ought to be yours."
               Charlie smiled grimly. "Never mind that, I couldn't be much more contented than I am at the present moment, if I had fifty factories."
               "That may be," said the other, "but justice is justice, all the world over."
               "And justice," remarked Charles, "decided that it belongs to my cousin. So let the matter drop, and tell me what you have to say, that cannot be written!"
               "I don't know that it will amount to much, but it might. There was a circumstance took place the night your father died, that in spite of myself mixes in my thoughts with the loss of your inheritance."
               "Why, William, you must have been indoctrinated into Aunt Jedidah's spiritual lunacies. She says she saw the forger of the will in a vision!"
               Mr. Archer answered very seriously, "And I have no doubt she did."
               "Well," said Charles, "what then? You can't proceed against a visionary criminal."
               "But," answered Archer, earnestly, "you can punish the living one, and I have seen him!"
               "What's that you say?"
               "At least," continued the engineer, "I have good reason to suppose I have; for, on that very night, a stranger offered me five dollars for my signature to a legal document which I refused, and nothing can drive it from my mind but that was a false will, afterward substituted for the true one."
               "Would you recognize the individual?"
               "I don't know. I was weak, ill, too weary, and lacking of interest to take much notice; besides, the man's face was muffled up. It was a bitter night—a bitter night!"
               Archer shuddered as he recalled that dreadful time.
               Charlie made a gesture of impatience and despondency, which the other seeing, he continued quickly, "But I have a test would make suspicion certainty."
               Fullerton, however, had lost faith in the whole story which appeared at first to promise so much. "I see how it is, my poor fellow," he said, "like Aunt Jedidah, you have let your mind run upon this matter until you imagine things which are impossible. It was perfectly natural that my father, harsh and unrelenting as I believed him to be, should have acted as he did. I do not regret my loss in the least, nor do I envy him who has profited by it. So it will be best for all parties if you dismiss it from your thoughts altogether."
               Very comforting reflections these, Master Charles Fullerton, but not exactly the ones you really and truly believed in.
               Exactly what William Archer thought. So he put the following query:
               "But if I can't dismiss it—how then?"
               "Why then," said his friend, with a heavy sigh, "although I thank you with my whole heart for the friendly sympathy that inspires you, I would rather you did not allude to the subject."
               The engineer ruminated over this a little while before answering.
               He did so at length in a regretful tone of voice.
               "It's hard to promise that, but since you wish it, I won't say a word, unless I can speak to some purpose."
               With these words they parted. Charles to his lodgings, William Archer to his work at Stalker's factory.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND.
               THE subject of conversation between Stalker and his precious companion, Silas Balderly, on quitting the "Exchange," where they had met Charles, was deeply interesting to one of the pair, at least.
               It had continued for some moments in a desultory manner, when suddenly Stalker exclaimed in an abrupt and astonished tone of voice:
               "Why, you don't mean to tell me all the fifty thousand is gone."
               "Melancholy fact, my boy," said Mr. Balderly, with a meek air of contrition. "And a good deal more scattered about amongst commercial ledgers!" he added.
               "In debt, too?"
               "Patriotically, my dear boy. Couldn't do better, you know, than follow the national example. But I have this pecuniary advantage, that certain individuals may repudiate without materially injuring their credit or character."
               "Meaning, I presume," remarked Rufus, "that you possess neither—"
               Mr. Balderly, in no way disconcerted by this plain-speaking, went on with his remarks. "I can have no possible motive for giving them the slightest consideration. You're quite right, dear boy, as you always are. Your singular perception, I have no doubt, enables you to dive into my heart and take a clairvoyant view of its present desire."
               The speaker cast a furtive glance of inquiry at his companion's face, which was not unobserved by that amiable personage.
               "You want money, I suppose?" he said sulkily.
               "Want money, dear boy? Nothing of the kind! If a mercenary community will insist upon receiving a monetary equivalent for the necessaries of life, I am not to blame. It is they who want the money, not I!"
               This was uttered with a cat-like playfulness, not at all pleasant to the party spoken to.
               Stalker growled forth the answer, favoring Mr. Balderly with a look of ill-disguised hate.
               "Well, well, come to the point! How much do you require?"
               Silas pretended not to notice his friend's ill-humor, but replied in the same jaunty manner as before.
               "My dear boy, don't be so captious with an old friend. Remember, my intercourse with a millionaire has given me expensive habits. But," he added, observing that he need no longer trifle, "to come to the point as you wish. I want five thousand dollars, dear boy!"
               "What?" almost shrieked Stalker.
               Balderly was dignified in the calmness of his effrontery as he answered, "And I shall most probably want it twice a year!"
               "You don't mean to say," exclaimed his now thoroughly-exasperated coadjutor, "that you expect me to give you ten thousand dollars a year?"
               Mr. Balderly smilingly shrugged his shoulders. "Not by compulsion, dear boy. In friendliness and good feeling or not at all! By the way, it's nearly time to go to Charles' lunch. He's a free-handed, liberal sort of fellow, and—" Here Mr. Balderly's voice was resolute and distinct. "If by any accident a big fortune should fall into his possession, I don't think he'd stick at a few thousands!"
               The perspiration stood in drops upon Stalker's forehead as he listened to the threat implied by the other's words; and his face grew pale with apprehension and horror.
               He mastered his feelings sufficiently, however, to answer calmly enough: "Why, you don't suppose I could refuse you any amount which it was in my power to let you have?"
               "I knew it well, dear boy;" and then added below his breath, "under the screw!"
               "I'll give you a check," said Stalker, with a sickly pretence of humor, "as we pass the office. I can't afford to lose your friendship, Balderly; you are too useful to me."
               "Dear boy!" muttered the indispensable friend, "you flatter your humble servant." He finished the speech, however, in a very businesslike manner. "You want me for something—out with it. What is it?"
               "You know how deeply I am in love?"
               Silas laughed. "Confound it, man! don't compel me to question your sanity. Love! Pshaw! that's a disorder that only attacks boys, either very young or very old ones. The healthy constitution of middle-age defies the contagion."
               "But Beatrice Sutherland—," began Rufus, with an awkward attempt at romantic intonation.
               "Still harping on my daughter, eh? Charlie's flame, too. By Jove, dear boy, you are voracious. What part do you want me to play in the farce? Ha, ha, ha, I'm a bad figure for Cupid."
               "Don't laugh, Balderly, I tell you I'm awfully in earnest. I wrote her a note the other day, offering to make her my wife, and have received no answer. Will you see her for me and ascertain if I can cherish a hope?"
               Silas did not appear overjoyed at the proposed office. He replied, however, without any offensive hilarity.
               "Cherish a hope? How romantic, dear boy! If you nourish such folly, you'll degenerate into rhyme before long. But," added he, watching the impassioned Stalker's countenance, "don't make yourself miserable. Beatrice is a sensible girl. Not a morsel of romance about her. Take my word for it, she'll shake off the impecunious Charles, and acknowledge the blandishment of a big bank-account. But how can I assist you?"
               Stalker appeared to be encouraged by this eminently worldly view of his passion.
               "Nothing could so efficiently weaken her hold upon Charles," he remarked, "but the idea of her unworthiness. Now a word or look, or even a significant gesture from you, at the proper moment, would accomplish that."
               Balderly held up his hands in feigned horror.
               "What!" he exclaimed, "compromise an innocent woman? Now dear boy, by Jove, you know, I don't think I could consent to such a dishonorable act, short of another thousand!"
               Stalker gave a groan.
               "You shall have it!"
               "And you," said Balderly, "shall have the girl!"
               Upon this precious compact of villany the two knaves shook hands, and then, canvassing the details of the scheme by the way, they proceeded to Charles Fullerton's lodging.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               "SANS PEUR ET SANS REPROCHE."
               WHATEVER, the motive, Charles' conduct was certainly most extraordinary.
               He had, en passant, invited two friends (as the the world often styles mere acquaintances) to meet the major, his cousin, and Mr. Balderly.
               These two additions to his original number of invited guests had arrived before their host's return to his apartments, and were accordingly left to their own resources until such time as the others should arrive.
               One of them, Mr. Alfred Dartling, was a reckless, dandified young fellow, whose whole and sole ambition seemed concentrated upon the public exhibition of himself on the fashionable trottoirs of the city.
               Mr. Narcissus Faunce was so like his friend Dartling that when the two met, which was daily, the observer would have been puzzled to imagine how they were able to elucidate any opinion upon which either could offer a remark worth utterance; but, strangely enough, they did contrive to carry on a conversation of some sort, apparently perfectly satisfactory to themselves, if neither entertaining nor instructive to others.
               "I say, Narcissus," exclaimed Mr. Dartling, surveying the Fullerton sanctum through his eye-glass, "this is rather a let-down for our friend Charles?"
               The exquisite thus addressed was reposing in an elegant attitude upon the one easy-chair in the room, and it was evidently with an effort that he summoned up energy enough to reply.
               "Stunning! by Jove! Regular boarding-house atmosphere about—suggestive of—hash—and—bad butter!"
               At this moment Major Trifle made his appearance, holding in his hand the package of billets already alluded to.
               "Hallo!" exclaimed Dartling. "Here's Cupid, radiant with victory, fresh from the slaughter of some innocent heart."
               "How is it, Cupid?" murmured the elegant Narcissus, languidly. "Have you been demolishing the avenue?—scattering broken hearts—on your way—like—like—what-d'ye-call it leaves?"
               The old beau grinned with pride. "You are only jealous, that's all! Bless their darling little souls, if they, you know, honor me with their preference, I can't, you know, help it! It's nature's fault that made me so devilish, you know, irresistible."
               He was at the glass over the fire-place by this time, puckering his wizened face into a thousand leering grimaces.
               "Who are the sufferers, this mail, Cupid?" asked Dartling.
               "Honor, you know, bright, my dear fellow," simpered the major. "Tradesmen's bills, that's all!"
               "On—rose-tinted paper?" feebly exclaimed Faunce.
               "Oh, 'pon my, you know, life!"
               "Do you generally kiss your tradesmen's bills, Cupid?"
               At this question of Dartling's, the two exquisites fell into genteel fits of laughter, in which the major joined. It was such a capital joke.
               "Oh, now, you know, you're too bad, to worm a fellow's secrets out, and then laugh at him."
               Dartling answered for himself and his friend. "By Jove! I envy your invincible impudence, Cupid. By the way, they tell me you have cut us all out with the charming Beatrice."
               Charles entered the room just as the last words left the speaker's lips. The three were too intent, at that moment, on their badinage to notice the fact.
               Trifle caressed his whiskers as he murmured with mock pity, "Affectionate little fool!"
               "I thought," said Narcissus, "I was—a—rather—a favorite in—that—quarter—myself!"
               "So did I!" said Dartling.
               The major appeared rather confused.
               "Do you know her?" he asked.
               "Of course I do!" said the fascinating Alfred.
               "And you!"
               The question was addressed to Narcissus. After due deliberation that superfine puppy deigned a reply.
               "Intimately! supped with her last evening."
               Charles advanced to the centre of the room. The three speakers, as by one common impulse, started.
               Young Fullerton surveyed them calmly. His manner was full of dignity: his address frigidly polite.
               "Gentlemen," said he, "your most obedient. On your favorite topic, I presume? You are all famous lady-killers, I know. What fortunate female is the subject of your delicate discourse?"
               "Only little Beatrice Sutherland!" answered Dartling, now recovered from his surprise.
               "Ah, Beatrice! She's a public character, and consequently not entitled to private consideration?"
               "Distinctly. Not amongst our set. Do you know this insatiate archer, Cupid, thinks he can monopolize her all to himself."
               The major put on a self-complacent air at this speech by his friend Dartling.
               "Atrocious idea!" said Charles.
               "Preposterous notion!" said Narcissus.
               "Fallacious thought!" said his bosom friend.
               Mr. Balderly and Stalker arrived at this juncture.
               Stalker was most demonstrative (or would have been so had he received encouragement) in the respectful and kindly greeting he proffered his cousin.
               "Pray sit down, gentlemen," said Fullerton, with the same dignified politeness. "Our little party is nearly all assembled."
               "Who else do you expect, Charles?"
               "Oh, a very intimate acquaintance of all these gentlemen!"
               Stalker, who had been glancing round the apartment, could not forbear putting the question he was anxious to have answered.
               "But how is this, Charles? Your table is only laid for two, and there are half-a-dozen of us!"
               Charles replied quietly: "We can remedy that by-and-bye. While we are waiting for our other guest, perhaps I may as well let you know why I have extemporized this slight entertainment."
               Blank astonishment, not unmingled with a certain amount of anxiety, was visible on the faces of the assemblage.
               The major it was who first recovered from his surprise sufficiently to speak.
               "Yaas. Tell us all about it, you know, old fellow."
               Charles had risen from his chair. He proceeded in the same voice as before: "I will! The person I expect here presently is one whose advice I take in every important event of my life. Indeed, I believe I may count on you all as my friends?"
               They were unanimous in that, at all events. They so declared themselves.
               "I thought so," continued their host. "Well, you must know I was very near committing myself to an act which would have been beyond recall, had not your revelations induced me to pause, reflect, and de- cide. I was fool enough to suppose that all the virtue, truth, fidelity, and honor that could glorify womankind were to be found united in the woman I thought I loved."
               The major laughed with quiet enjoyment as he hastened to express his thoughts. "I see—you've been, you know, jilted. Who was she?"
               They started, one and all, when Charles replied, "Beatrice Sutherland!"
               Major Trifle's face grew suddenly pale. "The—you know——"
               He could say no more. He was for once completely nonplussed.
               Charles Fullerton laughed—not a pleasant cheery laugh, but one that fell unpleasantly upon his friends' ears.
               "Ha, ha, ha! Laughable, wasn't it—but thanks to your information, I am a free man now!"
               Stalker advanced, almost radiant with happiness, at the last few words. "I congratulate you, Charles," said he, "with all my soul. If the evil reports you have heard needed confirmation, my friend here," pointing to Trifle, "could substantiate them."
               "Oh!" said Charles, "you are acquainted with this marvel of deceit, too, are you?"
               Stalker shrugged his shoulders as if deprecating the fact. Fullerton went on.
               "What a fortunate escape I have had! Well, my kind friends, there is but one other person in whose eyes I wish to justify myself for the course of action I mean to take. You will not object to repeat in that person's presence the knowledge you each possess of that wretched woman's unworthiness?"
               Again they were unanimous. Deceived into confidence their vile nature revealed itself in the joy which each expressed at their friend's unhappiness at having loved a being whom they had deigned to malign.
               Charles Fullerton waited for no more, but crossing the room he opened the door and leading forward the person, there awaiting his coming, introduced to this precious company of traducers no other than—SELINA MARVIN, theatrically styled BEATRICE SUTHERLAND!
               Anger, shame and fear seemed suddenly to overwhelm the infamous revilers.
               Selina, calmly conscious of her own purity, and full of faith in her lover, surveyed the group with a smile of quiet contempt. Charles did not spare the scoundrels.
               "Well," said he, "why don't you speak?" He paused an instant, but as they said not a word, he continued: "But you need not. The unerring hand of Heaven imprints upon each face the black and wicked lie. Why, Selina, how is this? Do you not recognize the gentleman who dines with you so often, or he who supped with you last night, or this much-to-be-envied favorite, to whom you wrote such tender notes? My basely slandered girl, I would make these dastardly liars apologize to you, upon their knees, but the miserable cowards who assail a woman's reputation are too utterly contemptible for notice. Now, sirs"—and his voice had a tone of utter loathing in it, which was unmistakable, "you understand why the table is only laid for two—you see the door!"
               Long before he could conclude this speech the now thoroughly defeated rascals had made their escape, and Charles Fullerton and Selina lunched alone.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               CUPID IN DISGRACE.
               TO any other than Major Trifle, the rebuff administered by our hero, Charles Fullerton, would have been sufficient warning of the danger of traducing a respectable person, or speaking lightly of any woman's reputation.
               That worthy was, however, made of different material. Shame, beyond the temporary annoyance it caused, had but little terror for him; and exposure of his vile arts only made him appear more emulous of the disgrace attaching to such conduct as he habitually indulged in.
               Another strong motive was to be found in his desire for revenge against any one who exposed him. Not a manly, hot-blooded anger, but a low, sneaking, cur-like wish to annoy and distress those with whom he happened to be in antagonism.
               Unhappily the world contains an over-abundance of those who, with small ideas and insignificant attributes, possess great powers of annoyance—a sort of human mosquito who buzz, and buzz, and sting, with petty, though malignant activity, the inexperienced or helpless.
               The major, consequently, feeling himself thoroughly despised by Charles, resolved to avenge himself upon him through Selina.
               She was a woman, and with the instinct of a coward he fancied she might be safely insulted.
               With this amiable resolve he dogged her steps, and finding that she not unfrequently accompanied her cousin, Alice Archer, as far as the factory, where the latter was employed as a fore-woman, he so far diverted the daily promenades of his friends Faunce and Narcissus as to lead them into that locality about the hour of dinner, at which time the operatives emerged from their short reprieve from labor.
               Another inducement for him to direct his perambulations to this vicinity lay in the fact that a great many bright, intelligent, neatly-dressed women were employed in the factory, and to be seen by so many of the softer sex stimulated the "pitiful ambition" of the vain fool.
               All the girls were very much annoyed at the persistent lounging and ogling of the major and his two friends, and they resolved, should the occasion offer, to pay them or him (for the major, they saw, was undoubtedly the ringleader) off for the many impertinences they suffered.
               Alice and Selina were particularly vexed by the presence of the three, but forbore telling either William or Charles, lest they should irritate and provoke them to a breach of the peace.
               William Archer had, however, his own suspicions as to the character of the three swells, and he bided his time until he should catch them tripping, and then the sturdy mechanic resolved to let them have a piece of his mind, and, if need be, feel the force of his muscular arm.
               A few days following the famous "lunch," the three might have been observed, and they were too, by some of the factory hands, loafing in a genteel manner near the principal entrance, situated in a retired street, waiting for the appearance of the female employees at the gate upon the ringing of the twelve o'clock bell.
               Upon that very day, Selina had promised Alice to call upon her at the place, intending to return with her to their lodgings at mid-day.
               Exactly as the neighboring clock struck the hour of noon, a shrill whistle from the factory engine, and the ringing of the gate bell, summoned the busy throng of women to their early dinners.
               They came trooping out by scores. All kinds—dark-haired, and light-haired—short, tall, pretty, and plain; but all neatly and decorously dressed, and though merry and bright, respectable and well-behaved.
               Some few of the more mischievous laughed unrestrainedly at the major, and one group, composed of some four or five of the girls, stopped for an instant to speak, half shyly, with the three. They had apparently an object in so doing, for after pushing each other, laughing among themselves, and seeming to be anxious to conceal some intensely powerful joke, they suddenly broke up and ran away from the immediate neighborhood of the three irresistibles, who, charmed with this momentary advantage, chuckled to themselves in great glee.
               "Really," said the major, "I'm a, you know, a judge of feminine beauty; and even in my proper sphere, the drawing-rooms of, you know, the aristocracy, I have never beheld such a lovely, you know, creatures."
               The "creatures," a few of whom happened to overhear the above remark, burst into fits of derisive laughter and, imitating the ancient dandy, turned on their heels.
               "Gad," continued the Adonis, rather proud than otherwise of the doubtful compliment implied by the mockery, "positively it has been one of the most delicious experiences of my life—these, you know, visits to the haunts of the laboring classes—a new sensation to me—you know—accustomed as I am to the dreaming darlings of Society, to behold industry, beauty, and innocence combined. I assure you I shall never forget this."
               There happening by this time to be none of industry and beauty near by when he concluded his elaborate comments (saving his two friends), he favored them with a highly expressive wink, which he accomplished by the remark: "I say, that was laying it on rather thick, eh?"
               "Pretty strong," remarked Faunce. "But like Alexander the Great, having demolished the world of Fashion, you would fain extend your conquests into a more popular sphere."
               The major grinned.
               "Anything for a little healthy, you know, excitement; but come now, confess, I am the favorite amongst the mechanical darlings, am I not?"
               "Yes," answered Faunce, "they certainly did show you the most marked attention."
               "Appreciated—your exact value," languidly murmured Narcissus, who having found a convenient house-wall against which he could lean, was barely able to endure the unusual labor of being up and doing (nothing) at the early hour of noon.
               "Indeed," added Faunce, capping his friend's remark, "they made it so evident that no one could misunderstand it."
               The major was delighted. "Oh, ah! you really think so?"
               "My dear fellow, it was as plain as print."
               "By Jove! you know, I shall carry away with me a pleasing record of my visit to this plebeian paradise."
               With these words the major turned to cross the road.
               No sooner had he done so, however, than his two fashionable friends burst into peals of laughter, for upon the major's back was fastened a placard, bearing the following, in well defined-letters: 
                     "THIS SUPERB JACKASS TO BE SOLD."
                  
               
               The mystery of the hasty conference with the group of girls was explained. They had revenged themselves upon their persecutor.
               Faunce and Narcissus, after slyly putting their hands to their own backs, were amazingly tickled at the major's appearance, while he, attributing to some private joke of their own this uproarious mirth, strutted up and down before them, somewhat indignantly.
               "Laugh away. I can't say as I see the point of the joke."
               "No," screamed Faunce, "of course you can't—that's the fun of it."
               "Never mind," said the major, sullenly, "my back is broad enough to bear it."
               "There's not the slightest—doubt—about that!" said Narcissus, holding his sides.
               Just at this moment the major started. He had been watching the gate, for some little time previously, and his patience was rewarded.
               "There comes that saucy little creature 'Beatrice.' By Jove! I'd like to pay her off for that joke she played on us the other day."
               The gallant major said this with the air of an offended man, but with a spice of malice not at all agreeable to hear.
               Faunce spoke seriously. The appearance of Selina seemed to have resolved some floating doubt in his mind. "She certainly did have the laugh fairly against us, and—" here he looked at his friend the major intently—"I must confess we richly deserved it. For my part," he added, "it was a wholesome lesson to me. I shall take good care in the future who I make any foolish brag about!"
               Trifle gave a contemptuous whistle. He could not understand the feeling which prompted such a speech from a "swell." "Pshaw!" exclaimed he, "I didn't mind it. It didn't put me out in the least. My, you know, hide, is jolly tough!"
               "Pachydermal, in fact!" ejaculated Narcissus.
               "I should like," said Faunce, "to have a set of harness out of it. For my part, however," he proceeded in the same serious tone as at first, "I have made up my mind to apologize to the little girl, and admit that I acted in an ungentlemanly way."
               The major was thunderstruck. He looked at Faunce as if he had been some natural wonder seen for the first time on earth. Apologize! when there was no compulsion? The man was evidently a lunatic.
               If his surprise was great at this announced intention on the part of his friend to make the amende honorable, it was overwhelming when he heard Narcissus (who always copied whatever Faunce did) declare his intentions.
               That super-dandified young gentleman offered his opinion in a drawling tone, it is true, but still with an appearance of earnestness not to be mistaken.
               "It's only—right—we should—we fell into a—in fact—very common error—and there is—in fact—but one proper course—to—pursue!"
               Major Trifle lost his temper somewhat at this defection from the ranks of dandydom. "You may do so, if you choose, you know, to make such idiots of yourselves," he remarked with what was intended to be biting sarcasm. "I shan't—not a bit of it! I'll turn my back upon her, and show her that I am not such a jackass!"
               Faunce and Narcissus roared again at this unconscious befooling of himself in which his major had indulged.
               
               "Quite right, major," said the former. "Be loyal to the record you leave behind. She'll be sure to know you in your true character then."
               "I should think so," said Trifle.
               Selina, who had paused near the gate to speak to one of her friends, and who had not noticed the three exquisites, was upon the point of crossing their path, when becoming aware of their presence, she hesitated, and was preparing to turn back, when Faunce, in a respectful manner, approached her.
               "One moment, please," said he, removing his hat with a courtly politeness. "I am quite aware that you have just cause to be greatly offended with all of us. Now I, for one, deem it no derogation from the status of a gentleman to apologize for an unworthy act committed in thoughtlessness, and I most sincerely ask your pardon."
               A worthy action is certainly a great beautifier, and Mr. Faunce positively looked more like a MAN at that moment than he had ever appeared before.
               Selina smiled gravely as she replied. "Now, that's what I call manly, honest, and straightforward, and I like it. There's my hand—never say another word about the matter."
               The person she addressed blushed, actually blushed with pleasure and shame combined, as he took the proffered hand of the noble-hearted girl.
               Narcissus, who had also approached, was encouraged by the reception of Faunce's apology, and he shook off, for a moment, his drawling manner as he, in his turn, expressed his regret.
               "As I am prepared to make a similar acknowledgment, Miss Sutherland, may I hope to be a sharer in your forgiveness?"
               "To be sure," answered Selina, "with all my heart. Why, good gracious, the male population is getting wonderfully humanized."
               Major Trifle had, with a contemptuous look, surveyed the action and listened to the words of his friends. He could keep silence no longer.
               "Well," said he, "before I'd humble myself to an emanation of frippery and spangles, I'd go on all fours and crop thistles for the rest of my life!"
               With these words he turned on his heel and presented to Selina's eyes the ludicrous placard he there carried. She gave utterance to a ringing laugh, all her indignation with the "Beau" passed away, and she continued to laugh heartily.
               "Crop thistles," she said, in an interval of mirth. "Why, to be sure you would. It's your proper diet."
               The major turned and asked Faunce: "What does she mean by that?"
               "Well," said that gentleman, who was also indulging in uproarious laughter at the discomfited heir—"I think you might guess, what this lady means, with a reference to Natural History."
               Selina having, by a great effort, controlled her mirth, addressed the obfuscated major, who, not appreciating the merits of the joke at which the others laughed, stood half-angry and half-incredulous at the actual state of the case.
               Selina's address, however, claimed his attention.
               "Listen," said that spirited young lady, "to me a moment, Mr. Cupid—I believe that is the pet name you are known by. You have told slanderous stories about me, not once alone, but many times. The other day, when the lie was flung in your teeth you cowered like a beaten hound, and held your breath within white lips, because it was a man who spoke; but to-day you think you can continue to act out the lie, inasmuch as the person your silence insults is a woman. These gentlemen," pointing to Narcissus and Faunce, "have, by their frank and generous acknowledgment, displaced the wrong they did by a greater obligation, and I shall ever be proud to call them my friends; but you have aggravated your offence. Now," and Selina looked almost ferociously at the gaping idiot she addressed; "now, it may not be very ladylike to inflict personal chastisement upon an insolent slanderer—but it is very womanly (and thank Fortune I am more of a woman than a lady), and as sure as there's a Heaven above us, if ever I hear that you have uttered one word about me, good or bad, I'll get the stoutest horsewhip I can find, and lash you with it from one end of the street to the other."
               Selina had never under the nom du theatre of Beatrice Sutherland attained to the dignity of acting either Katherine or Lady Macbeth, but if her simulated passion on the stage might be depended on to equal that of the real power she had but now betrayed for the major's observation, her histrionic success was assured beforehand.
               The pacific Mars trembled as he listened, and noted, with the cunning peculiar to his breed, that Selina would no doubt act up to the very letter of her promise.
               His friend Faunce twitted him. "Pleasant look-out for you, Cupid."
               Selina having by this time left the spot to join William Archer, the major thought he was safe in venturing a remark.
               "Didn't mean a word of it!" And he here commenced a voluble speech, in which he endeavored to prove to his two companions that Selina, so far from meaning what she said, was evidently already suffering from incipient admiration for the speaker's many qualities of mind and person.
               The major had, however, fallen below zero in the estimation of Nar- cissus and Faunce, who, affected puppies as they doubtless were, had yet that grain of self-respect within them which effectually saved them from doing anything which they knew to be malicious or criminal. Their folly and weakness they could not help, but downright wrong-doing they could and were resolved to avoid.
               Selina having questioned William Archer and ascertained that Alice was in the factory, hastened to find her—further incited thereto by a fresh arrival.
               William Archer had been joined by one Martin Bush.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE DEMON OF DRINK.
               THIS individual had charge of one of the engines used in the factory.
               Originally an excellent mechanic, he had through a long and persistent course of dissipation fallen into disrepute, and would indeed have been long ago in the poor-house had not Mr. Stalker, with a penny-wise policy, chosen to take him into his service at the time of William Archer's first introduction to the reader. He it was who consented to "run the engine" for ridiculously low wages, and to his undercutting proffer was Mr. Archer indebted for much misery.
               Upon William's restoration to his position through Charles' remonstrance, Martin's services were transferred to another and a smaller engine in the branch portion of the factory, where, for a time, he was steady enough.
               Had he possessed the moral courage to leave off drinking, he could easily have fulfilled his new duties with credit to himself and safety to his fellow-workers; but the demon of alcohol had too firm a hold of him, and he speedily lapsed into his old bad habits.
               Archer was very much shocked at this trifling with human life by an intoxicated man, and he had repeatedly warned Bush of the frightful danger he incurred, and of the awful responsibility he braved by his sottish habits.
               We all know the effect of remonstrance upon the slaves of liquor. A few maudlin tears, a muttered promise, an idle oath to reform, followed in nearly every instance by a fresh debauch, a greater sinking in the slough of drunkenness, and only checked by sickness, accident, or death.
               Equally unsuccessful were William Archer's remonstrances as to Bush's conduct, with Mr. Stalker himself. That bilious individual invariably suspected a personal motive in every man's action, which consequently satisfied him that Archer's objections to Martin were founded on envy and selfishness, and he accordingly turned a deaf ear to all well-timed warnings.
               Martin, very unsteady in gait, crossed to William and addressed him:
               "Have you seen the boss, William?" and then, without waiting for a reply, he proceeded, his voice thick and his eye bleared with liquor:
               "I say, old fellow, just give a look at my engine while I go down to the druggist's."
               "Yes, certainly," answered William; "I know the druggist's you are going to. Not a bad name for the liquor-seller, either." As he turned from Bush he muttered: "This is the kind of fellow to whom a cruel parsimony intrusts hundreds of lives; and yet they think it strange that accidents occur."
               William entered the factory, while Martin, in his progress to the "druggist's," staggered up against the major—
               "I say, Jack—" he began, but becoming conscious of his mistake he drew back.
               "Confound the fellow," exclaimed Cupid, "he's drunk!"
               Martin overheard the uncomplimentary remark. "Not a bit of it—only a little hilarious—that's all. When does the sale take place? Are you going by the pound, or the whole carcass? Ha, ha, ha!"
               Before the major could utter the angry reply that rose to his lips, Martin Bush, who, drunk as he was, had caught sight of the placard on Cupid's back, was staggering off, laughing at his own joke, first, however, conveniently running against Uncle Abimelech and Aunt Jedidah.
               Abimelech caught the oscillating figure of Bush by the button-hole, and propounded the following query:
               "Do you believe in sperrits, young man?"
               "Well, rather—in moderation—you know."
               "There!" said Jedidah, triumphantly.
               Bush went on: "Whiskey in particular—though they ain't bad to take—none of them!"
               Jedidah gazed at him in horror.
               "Pshaw!" exclaimed she contemptuously. "Do you know my impression of you?"
               "No—but I'd like——"
               "You're the next thing to an idiot."
               "Am I? Well, then, the very next thing to an idiot will take itself away."
               Monopolizing the greater part of the sidewalk, Mr. Bush disappeared round the corner.
               Major Cupid Trifle, feeling himself abashed by his rebuffs before his friends, here determined, by a coup-de-main, to recover his lost prestige—and he believed that in Uncle Abimelech, whom he didn't know in the least, he saw the instrument.
               He accordingly approached the giantesque farmer, and slapping him with great familiarity upon the shoulder, addressed him:
               "How are you, old boy?"
               "What's that to you, you old cub?" was the squeaking rejoinder.
               "Is that the way you speak to an old, you know, friend?" asked Cupid.
               "No, it ain't!"
               "I thought not!"
               "But," continued Abimelech in a shrill whistling voice, a sure indication of anger, "it is the way I speak to an impudent fellow, who never saw me before in his dog's life, but thinks he can run his town rigs upon plain-going country people."
               The major turned to his companions. "Isn't he a jewel? Why," said he to the worthy farmer, "you don't mean to tell me that you never saw my face before?"
               "Well, let me see," rejoined Abimelech; "yes, now that I look at it again, I'm pretty sure I did see it once."
               "I know it—of course you did!"
               "Oh, yes!" said Mr. Worth, winking at the listeners, "I remember it well now—it was at Barnum's, in a cage—but they called you a gorilla then."
               Major Trifle wished at that moment that he had been afflicted with temporary deafness that he might not have heard the shouts of laughter with which Uncle Abimelech's jeu de mot was greeted.
               Vainly he strove to cover his defeat by volubility.
               "Ah, yes, very good—these country people are coarse savages—they don't understand a joke—what's the use in descending to personalities."
               "Ask him," said Jedidah to her brother in a low, serious voice, "if he knows where there's a circle."
               "I shan't do anything of the kind. Run your own lunatic machine." At this moment he also perceived the placard upon Cupid. He crossed to him and spoke: "I beg your pardon, friend, I see I have made a mistake."
               "Oh," said Trifle, blandly, "if you apologize, that's all right."
               "Oh yes," continued Abimelech, not heeding the interruption, "I perceive you are a different kind of animal. Here's a female of your species. If you feel inclined to do a little braying together, bellow away. A better matched pair of Jerusalem ponies I never saw out of an agricultural show."
               Miss Jedidah bridled up at this very uncomplimentary allusion of her brother's, and in her deepest-toned voice she spoke: "That's right; make me look ridiculous!"
               "Pshaw," squeaked Mr. Worth, "there's no necessity to take any trouble about that."
               The major, who had pretended to consult his companions as to the course proper to pursue, here took the opportunity of saying a few words. "Well, I suppose I ought. I will, too!" This to Narcissus and Faunce; then to the huge Abimelech: "I say, look here—you know, bucolic individual, your insinuations are, ah, incoherent and impertinent! Do you know, sir, that I am a gentleman?"
               "Are you," calmly said the farmer. "I couldn't have imagined such a metamorphosis."
               "I am, sir. If you doubt it, you insult me, and if you insult me, I'll——"
               The major's eloquence was stopped midway by a slight and almost imperceptible contraction of Mr. Worth's fingers over the thin hickory stick he held in his hand, whilst Mr. Worth's voice, high but gentle, uttered the magical query, "What?"
               "Leave your society," quickly answered the major. "It serves me right for condescending to take notice of such an abominable accumulation of ill-favored garden-stuff."
               He was a considerable distance from the mammoth agriculturist ere he concluded his remarks, and long before Mr. Worth had half made up his mind to chastise him, he had turned the corner of the street.
               "Isn't he a lunatic?" inquired Abimelech.
               "Mad as Mexico," answered Faunce, "and we are his keepers."
               With which words he and Narcissus followed in the wake of Mr. Trifle, who, having attracted a goodly crowd by the placard upon his back, was scudding along more like a lunatic than a sane man.
               Jedidah had now her say.
               "See what you get by speaking to strangers in the street!"
               "Confound it, didn't they speak first?"
               "You shouldn't have answered them. It would be a long time before you'd pay so much attention to your own sister."
               "Why," muttered Abimelech, "you ungrateful maniac. Haven't I left my farm and come to this accursed place through your persuasion?"
               Jedidah answered him. Her voice, at first tolerably subdued, swelled and increased in volume as she proceeded, until it attained the dignity of a majestic roar, while the little woman's figure seemed to dilate until, standing upon her tip-toes, she looked at least five feet high.
               "Mine? No! no! It wasn't me! It wasn't me! I'm nothing more nor a weak vessel. It was the sperrits. Them's the great and glorious mejiums that'll bring to light the hidden deeds of darkness."
               Abimelech was thoroughly alarmed when he witnessed his sister's exaltation. Vainly he strove to recall her from spiritual contemplation to the rules and observances of this sublunary sphere.
               "For mercy's sake, hold your tongue. Here's Stalker's place—the man you want to see, if he is like the fellow in your——"
               "In my vision," added Jedidah, contemplating her brother as he stood at the factory door, ringing the bell and laughing the while. "You may laugh, but wait—the sperrits is a hollerin on me now——"
               "Hang me if I'd humor your craziness, but that I want to find out why I haven't heard anything about my mortgage."
               Aunt Jedidah smiled in scorn. "You'll hear about that too—all will be made clear as a crystal globe—the vision is a comin' on me now——"
               Abimelech gazed upon his inspired relative an instant, and then resorted to the vigorous remedy of shaking her heartily. "Wake up!" cried he. "I'll tell you what it is, Jedidah, if you keep on nourishing these insane fancies, we'll have you following the example of all the crazy folks in the lunatic asylums, and I, for one, won't have it!"
               These words of admonition, aided by a vigorous shaking, aroused the lady from her spiritual reverie, and she suffered herself to be led into the factory of Rufus Stalker.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               LOVE AND REMORSE.
               SELINA happened to call upon Alice at William's place of employment (the factory) a few days after the events just narrated.
               In her ignorance of the exact localities within the place, she found herself quite unexpectedly within a room having the appearance of an office.
               She had never observed it before, although doubtless she had passed it frequently in her comings and goings from the engine-room, and it was only after entering the apartment she noticed that she had lost her way.
               She turned to leave the room, but was annoyed, and for a moment alarmed, at perceiving Mr. Stalker, who, standing in the doorway, appeared to bar her egress.
               "Why do you avoid me, Beatrice? By Heaven above us, and by the intensity of the love I feel for you, I am sincere in the offer I made, and which I now renew! Be my wife, and this little dominion will have you as its queen and mistress!"
               Selina's heart beat just a trifle faster with terror as she remarked Stalker's manner, which was excited, and unmistakably showed that he had more than once that morning been indulging in alcoholic stimulants.
               With a great effort the brave girl mastered her fear, knowing that its betrayal would only subject her to greater annoyance at the hands of Charles' enemy, and it was with a smile, perhaps a little forced, that she answered his impetuous speech:
               "And I am equally sincere when I say that I am very much obliged to you for your flattering proposal; but if you please, sir, I have no royal aspirations, and I'd rather not——"
               She attempted to pass by him to the door, but he made no movement to allow her to do so.
               "Stay a moment," said he. "Think, Beatrice, think of the future, and don't resolve too hastily!"
               She fired up a little at his persistency.
               "It is not generous in you, sir, to take advantage of my coming here to see my cousin Alice, and force me to hear words you know I ought not to listen to, engaged as I am to another, and he your relative."
               Stalker, who had been watching her rising color with increasing admiration, answered her:
               "Love like mine, Beatrice, disdains all reasoning, and abjures the claims of kindred."
               "Then," said Selina, "it ought to be ashamed of itself—that's all I can say."
               Stalker mused for a moment before he spoke again. This time he modulated his voice and endeavored by an insidious friendliness to mollify her annoyance.
               "Is there no way by which I can soften that obdurate heart of yours? Why do you look upon me with such aversion?"
               His pleading tone was as unsuccessful as his impassioned speech.
               "Well, Mr. Stalker," she said naïvely, "to tell you the true reason would not be complimentary. But you don't exactly suit me."
               With this speech she left Stalker standing confounded at her archness. He was nonplussed. She almost laughed outright as she made her escape, not at the rencontre with Stalker, but at a truant thought that crossed her merry brain as she spoke. She had, without intending it, used as an expression of indifference the title of a merry little song in which, under the name of "Beatrice Sutherland," she had made a great "hit" upon the boards of the theatre at which she was engaged.
               With the reader's permission, this piece of Selina's mind shall be here phototyped, and made memorable by presenting in black and white the passing shadow of her thought. Here it is:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "YOU DON'T EXACTLY SUIT ME."
                           
                              You ask me why I slight you so,
                              And treat you with such coldness;
                              I'll tell you, if you want to know,
                              But pray excuse my boldness.
                              I own you have a winning way,
                              There's no one can dispute me,
                              But ha, ha, ha! do what you may,
                              You don't exactly suit me!
                           
                           
                              I know you have much gold in store,
                              And in rich robes could dress me,
                              But if fine clothes I never wore
                              It wouldn't much distress me.
                              Might take me to the play or ball,
                              And with champagne recruit me,
                              But ha, ha, ha! in spite of all,
                              You don't exactly suit me!
                           
                           
                           
                              But more than that, the truth to tell,
                              Without the slightest bother,
                              A reason yet, I have as well,
                              That outweighs every other.
                              My heart is not mine to bestow,
                              Some, foolish may impute me,
                              But ha, ha, ha! there's one I know
                              Who does exactly suit me!
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Stalker, with no melody in his composition, paced the apartment with hasty strides.
               "Is this fierce passion that consumes my soul, foretaste as it is of the quenchless fires themselves, the Nemesis of my great crime?" he muttered. "It is but just! It is but just! Oh, deity of vengeance, that the retribution should come through her whose soul is blessed with his I have so foully wronged. Accursed be the glittering delusion that first led me on to the sacrifice of my whole life's content!"
               He paused an instant; clapped his hand to his fevered brow as if in thought. It was indeed a painful action of mind that he suffered.
               "The ashes of the dead-sea-fruit I was in such haste to gather, now choke me with their bitter dust. Oh! it makes me mad, mad! to think that happiness surrounds their poverty with the atmosphere of heaven, while I am breathing that of burning hell!"
               Some demon must have sent Silas Balderly at that moment into Stalker's presence.
               No sooner did the excited Rufus perceive his confederate than he sprang at him, seized him by the throat, and indeed appeared likely to make an end of him there and then, while he almost screamed in the ear of the astonished Silas, invectives loud and deep.
               "Tempter! Fiend! It was your infernal prompting lured me into crime; and now, devil as you are, you come to glory in your pernicious work, and laugh at the misery you have wrought!"
               Balderly, with an angry, impatient movement, shook off the nearly crazed man.
               "Well." he exclaimed with ironical calmness, "you are a most unreasonable biped; for my part, I didn't think a couple of hundred thousand dollars' worth of misery would be so difficult to endure. Are you demented, Stalker?"
               Silas had by this time recovered himself sufficiently to perceive the folly of his conduct, and it was with a half-ashamed manner he answered:
               "I don't know. Yes, I believe I am. Oh, why did you ever suggest that deed of infamy?"
               Balderly's smile of contempt was indescribable in its expressiveness.
               "Faith," said the Machiavellian schemer, "I fancy the suggestion took root in both our minds at about the same time; but it's so consoling to be able to shift the burden of one's responsibility on to somebody else's shoulders. It's a very common delusion, dear boy. However, if it soothes your suffering conscience, I'll carry the entire load, for a thousand or two ready; to take any amount of misery off your hands, dear boy. By the way, one of your men was looking for you. He says some relations of yours, from the wilds of Long Island, are anxious to see you, and that they have been here every day for the last week."
               Rufus gave a gesture of annoyance.
               "An uncle of mine, one Abimelech Worth, and his sister Jedidah, I cannot see them now. I am not master of myself. He has written to me about some mortgage—which I cannot find. Nor do I know anything of the matter. Stay—" said he with a sudden thought, "they don't know me! I wish you would represent me for the interview, and try and find out the particulars."
               "With pleasure, dear boy," replied the accommodating Silas; "anything to oblige. Here's you man!"
               With an admonition to "get rid of them quickly," Stalker left the room by a private door, just as one of the workmen introduced Mr. and Miss Worth.
               The provincials were not long in following the announcement.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               MYSTIFICATION.
               PENDING their appearance, Mr. Balderly rapidly ran over in his own mind the peculiarities of his confederate's conduct.
               "Singular fellow, that Stalker! What a lucky thing it is to be born without a heart, or whatever anatomical locality favors the growth of discomforting scruples. Fortunately my susceptibilities are not so tender. If there were any way in the world in which I could change places with him I'd step into his shoes without the slightest pressure on my conscientious corns!"
               A knock at the door broke in upon his reflections, and brought him back to the immediate business in hand.
               He cried out, "Come in!" and prepared to welcome the Long Islanders.
               Abimelech was the first to enter. Jedidah was, however, close upon his heels.
               The latter pushed past her brother and planted herself before the fictitious Stalker, and to that person's intense astonishment, favored him with a long, keen, and scrutinizing investigation.
               Abimelech, somewhat vexed at his sister's remarkable conduct, seemed anxious to divert their host's attention from it, by addressing him.
               "Mr. Stalker—Rufus Stalker, I believe?"
               Balderly bowed. "At your service, sir!"
               "How are you?" said Mr. Worth. "I'm your uncle!"
               Silas answered calmly enough, considering the fact of this sudden appeal to his feelings of relationship:
               "I thought as much—and this, I presume"—pointing to the gazing lady—"is my excellent aunt."
               Here Jedidah took occasion to remark, "I'm his sister, young man. But whether I'm your aunt or not I can't tell. You're not the man I saw in the vision."
               Balderly turned to Mr. Worth.
               "What does she mean, uncle?"
               Abimelech, with a wink of surpassing significance, informed him: "Looney, nephew, that's all. Now I hope," said he, turning to his sister, "I hope you're satisfied on that subject."
               Aunt Jedidah tossed her head with indignation and muttered:
               "Not a bit of it. The spirits don't lie!"
               Balderly took his cue promptly. He saw the whole state of the case at a glance.
               With mock enthusiasm he exclaimed, "Do I behold in you one of those inspired apostles of an advanced philosophy, a spiritualist?"
               Jedidah nodded.
               "You do!" said she.
               "There at least, madam," continued Silas in the same manner, "we are co-relative and soul-united, surrounded by the eternal harmonies of undeveloped natures, glorified by the infusion of consentaneous psychology and ecstasized by enrapturing glances of the illimitable unknown!"
               With eager attention the deluded lady had listened to the above absurd rhapsody. She hastened to reply:
               "Nephew, you are the only sensible man I have met. Do you belong to a circle?"
               "I do," answered Balderly. "In fact, I am the Grand High Periphery of the Triclinuim, and principal dissipater of the mesmeric influence!"
               Poor Abimelech had listened, open-mouthed, to the foregoing rubbish. He could stand it no longer."
               "Phew! She's mounted now on her hobby-horse. There's no knowing where she'll ride to. Pull up, Jedidah! Nephew, for mercy's sake put on the brakes, or we'll have a collision!"
               Jedidah heeded not her brother or his entreaties.
               "Ah," exclaimed she in a rapturous tone, "I see the vision again. There it is, just as I have beheld it dozens of times!"
               She seemed to have gone into some extraordinary condition of coma, for although no sound now passed her lips, she appeared by their motion to be carrying on a spirited spiritual wordy warfare with some invisible antagonist, who wouldn't let her have the last word, while her eyes, fixed on vacancy, looked like those of a somnambulist.
               Abimelech permitted her to indulge in her silent ecstatics, not at all displeased to have an opportunity of speaking with the supposititious Stalker on his own affairs. He so expressed himself.
               "Well now, you just enjoy your spiritual whimsicalities by yourself. I want to say a word or two with my nephew about my own business. Why didn't you answer my letters?"
               "Well, really, to tell you the truth, it was because I could make no satisfactory reply."
               Balderly gave the above answer at hap-hazard, and then watched the effect upon the farmer.
               "Haven't you seen anything of my mortgage?" demanded Uncle Abimelech.
               "Not a trace of it," said Silas.
               "My brother," said Mr. Worth, "always said he'd cancel it at his death."
               "Well," remarked Balderly, "his death has cancelled it."
               Abimelech gave a whistle, expressive of surprise.
               "Do you mean to say," he said, at length, "that I may consider it settled?"
               "Certainly!"
               "But if the document should turn up?"
               Abimelech was evidently still in doubt.
               Balderly hastened to cap his assurance with another bold assertion.
               "I'll remedy that. How much was the amount?"
               Mr. Worth immediately began to fumble for his pocket-book; and, after industrious search in various parts of his garments, at length drew forth a bulky volume tied round many times with a leathern thong, which untying, the book burst open, disclosing a packet of papers, accounts and sundry fishing-lines, a tape-measure, and three or four sample-bags of wheat.
               With extraordinary dexterity for a man whose every finger seemed a thumb, he extracted a minute piece of paper. After adjusting his spectacles with extreme nicety upon his nose to assure himself that he had at length possession of the correct article, Uncle Abimelech spoke.
               "Five thousand dollars!"
               Balderly, who had remarked all these manœuvres with ill-concealed mirth:
               "Is that all?" he said, with a cunning glance at his dupe. "Oh, I must add something as a remembrance of this visit." Here he took out his tablets, a very different affair from Uncle Abimelech's, being natty and elegant in the extreme. From this he drew forth a paper, and having written on it, he handed it to Mr. Worth. "Pray accept this trifle, my dear uncle, as a proof of my regard?"
               "What's this?" exclaimed the farmer, glancing over it in astonishment. "A receipt of my debt and a memorandum for five thousand more? I didn't expect this. It's noble; and just in time, too!" The worthy gentleman's face grew red with excitement and joy, and his voice was piping and shrill. "God bless you, nephew. You don't know how much good you have done!"
               He grasped Balderly's thin, petty-larceny-looking hand in his own muscular fist, and nearly shook the arm out of its socket.
               Aunt Jedidah, who had by this time emerged from her trance-like condition, gave voice to her overcharged feelings:
               "It's the sperrits—the good sperrits—they have done it all!"
               "By the way, aunt," said the unblushing Silas, "here is the direction of my own spiritual tabernacle. There will be a séance to-morrow, if you would like to be present?"
               "I would not miss it for a million," exclaimed Miss Worth in a sonorous voice. "I'm glad to have met with such an exception to the fools and donkeys they call mankind."
               She, too, shook Mr. Balderly's hand.
               "Thank you, my boy," broke in Abimelech, "again and again! I'll come and see you before I go back to Long Island."
               The poor deluded pair here took leave of their deceiver, who, up to the last moment, preserved his wonderful command over his features.
               Once his victims had departed, he reviewed his position.
               "I flatter myself I have sustained my character with proper liberality. It's what he ought to have done. He may honor those memoranda or he may not. It's nothing to me. I have done my duty. Oh, human nature, what a magnificent swindle thou art!"
               With a chuckle at his own cynicism, he felt quite contented, little recking what the result of his villainy might be.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE DRUNKEN ENGINEER.
               MARTIN BUSH'S visits to the "druggist" were deeply fraught with danger.
               The miserable man had at that time reached the last and most dangerous condition of the drunken man. His intellect vibrated between sanity and madness—a glass of intoxicating fluid or timely abstinence would determine which.
               He decided for the worse, and with trembling hand poured out for himself at the bar-room, or as the poor wretch called it, the "druggist," a draught that was his passport to another world. Better for him and others had he dropped dead at the counter against which he leaned, than that he should have had vital energy enough to totter back to the factory, and with palsied fingers and dulled brain, have handled such instruments of death-dealing power as his duties of engineer placed at his disposal.
               When near the gateway, on his last journey from the liquor-shop, he encountered two or three of the workmen, who, seeing his condition, were in no ways diffident in expressing their opinion as to his condition.
               "Here comes Martin, the model engineer, in a lovely state," said one of the men.
               "Drunk again!" said the other. "I think some one ought to tell the boss; it's too bad to be at the mercy of such a fellow."
               "Come, come!" said the inebriated Bush, "in with you all! Dinner hour's up. I say, who's got any beer in his can? I'm as dry as a powder-flask!"
               By some extraordinary chance, he at this moment ran against Mr. Abimelech Worth and his sister Jedidah, at that moment leaving the factory, after their memorable interview with the unscrupulous Balderly.
               Miss Jedidah immediately seized the intoxicated Martin, and then and there administered a good shaking.
               "Hollo!" said he, disengaging himself from the spinster's grasp. "What do you—mean—by that?—I've a mind to——"
               Mr. Bush favored Jedidah with such a wicked, angry look, that the workmen standing near interfered and held him at bay.
               Upon these he turned.
               "Let me alone! Do you want the knife?"
               One of the men, with a ready presence of mind, called out:
               "Here comes the boss!"
               For an instant the drunken vagabond had a glimmering of reason, and muttering, "Nuff said! I'm a goner!" reeled into the gate.
               It was not Stalker, but Charles Fullerton who appeared.
               He had come in the hope of meeting Selina.
               At sight of his uncle and aunt he stopped.
               "Why, Uncle Abimelech and aunt! How did you come here?"
               Mr. Worth answered him; his sister had not yet recovered from the alarm caused by her tackling Martin.
               "Just been to see your cousin, Charles, for the first time in my life. By jingo! he's a noble, generous-hearted fellow. He not only released my mortgage, but made me a present of five thousand dollars."
               Charles stared at his uncle, to see whether that amiable gentleman was in his right senses.
               Mr. Worth sustained the scrutiny with remarkable placidity, his huge red face lighted up with the sunniest of smiles. There was no doubting the actuality of the strange incident he had just narrated.
               Young Fullerton was completely at fault, and could merely ejaculate, "That's very unlike him!"
               William Archer here interrupted any further intercourse between the relatives by rushing out of the gateway in a state of great excitement.
               "That desperate man, Bush," he exclaimed, breathless with anxiety, "insists upon my leaving him in care of the engine, although he scarcely knows what he's saying or doing. Some mischief will take place, I know, some day!"
               At this moment the clanging bell summoned the workmen to their labors, and they were seen approaching from various sides to enter the factory, while those immediately near the entrance also prepared to enter the building.
               At that very instant a loud, deafening report, followed by two or three duller, heavier explosions, and those in their turn followed by a hissing, angry, horrible sound of escaping steam, arrested the crowd at the very threshold of the gate.
               All knew instinctively what had happened; and it needed no glance at the thick cloud of dust, the rising vapor of the boiling water, nor was it necessary to listen to the sharp crackling, the creaking of the huge timbers, nor the snapping of smaller woodwork, to know that one of the most appalling accidents which threaten the operatives of large factories, had happened—the explosion of a boiler.
               Yes—Martin Bush's drunkenness, and Stalker's self-willed, cruel parsimony, had effected the mischief.
               During the few seconds in which the accident developed itself, the people had stood spellbound; a moment after, the whole place was a scene of the wildest confusion.
               Men shouting to their comrades, women shrieking for their kindred, children screaming for their parents, mingled with a few of the clearer-headed, endeavoring to reduce the swaying, surging mass into some order and discipline.
               Vain effort. The poor wretches could not be controlled. A panic had seized them, and they ran hither and thither wringing their hands, sobbing and uttering exclamations of horror and anxiety.
               Charles, with a face the hue of death, grasped Archer's arm, and in a husky voice spoke to him.
               "Great heavens! William—I dare not ask the question—Selina?"
               The look upon Archer's face was answer enough. It was full of horror.
               A deadly silence had now seized the crowd. Some wild whisper of the danger of another explosion held them, almost like inanimate beings, expectant of further danger.
               This silence was as terrible as the previous clamor.
               Charles listened. "Hush!" said he to Archer, who, noting his excitement, clasped his hand. "Wasn't that some one's voice? Yes! I hear her call me! She's alive! Thank Heaven!"
               Whatever faint sound had broken that dread silence, was too faint for any but a lover's ear. All listened for it, but in vain. Even Archer, feverishly anxious, could hear nothing.
               Fullerton shook off his friend's grasp, and scorning to be delayed, began to scramble up the ruins—speaking softly as he made the dangerous ascent.
               A hundred eyes watched his every movement. Many hearts, heavy with the fear of personal grief, beat with anxiety for him.
               "Selina, I'm here! To rescue or to die with you!"
               He peered down among the débris right and left. At length a faint shout betokened that he was successful.
               "Here she is, William! Beneath my very feet! Can you hear me, darling?"
               A weak voice, no louder than an infant's, but to Charles full of divine music, for it revived hope, answered his appeal.
               "Yes! Charles—don't be alarmed! I'm not hurt!"
               "Oh, God be thanked for that!" he exclaimed fervently. "Quick! quick! 'tis hot, and the timber begins to take fire!"
               With his hands he tore away the obstructions lying between him and his heart's idol, and, regardless of bruises, burns and sickening pain, he cleared a way to reach her.
               "A rope! a rope!" he cried, in appealing tones.
               It was there and in his hands almost as soon as he spoke. The expectant crowd hailed with joy action, which deadened despair, and for a moment even gave their minds employment.
               Carefully, very carefully, he crept down the ruins, which crumbled beneath his feet, until he reached the spot whereon she lay, with death around her, yet calm and self-collected—supported by her love for the man who even then braved destruction to rescue her.
               At length he touched her hand. It was icy cold; she was too faint to speak, but that one look she gave him ere she sank into insensibility was so full of happiness that he knew she was saved.
               With a caution and steadiness that taxed every fibre of his system, he bound the rope (held by tried hands) around her body, and then with his own body warding off every impediment or obstruction that might have bruised her fair skin, he gave the signal to those above to raise her.
               Guided by Archer, who also held the line, the men applied themselves to the task, and before long she reached the summit of the wall, where Aunt Jedidah (heedless of all remonstrance, had scrambled) caught her in her arms.
               With great difficulty Charles climbed the frightful ruin, and fell heavily, half-dead with exertion, on William's shoulder.
               Three hearty cheers greeted the rescue—by one they were hailed as blessed tokens that he had succeeded; by Selina they were unheard. She was still insensible.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               MR. STALKER ATTENDS A SPIRITUAL SEANCE.
               "WHAT place is this, Balderly?"
               The above question was propounded to Silas by Mr. Stalker, as he entered the small, mysterious-looking anteroom of a house in a by-street across town.
               The query was appropriate enough to an inquiring mind; and as we know that Rufus was not deficient in a desire for acquisition of all sorts, knowledge included, it seemed that he had some justification in asking the question.
               The room itself was odd. It was neither a square, circular, octagon, hexagon, sexagon, or, indeed, any particular sided room, but seemed to be a happy combination of abrupt and useless corners and angles, with doors of different sizes, leading apparently to nowhere in particular.
               The walls were covered with a distracting, bewildering, lunacy-inspiring paper of horrible diversity of pattern, while upon the floor was an ingenious combination of carpet, oil-cloth, and bare board; making it difficult to surmise what the leading idea of floor-covering was.
               The furniture was in exact keeping with the rest, and consisted principally of a row of disconsolate-looking chairs, ranged with great regard to economy of space against the many-sided walls; but as they were principally defective in legs and backs, their uniformity, except in disrepair, was not so apparent. They seemed, indeed, like stools of penance for poor clients to some hard-bargain-driving lawyer, or to some exceedingly popular and brutal-mannered physician; as it might be supposed that an hour or two spent in sitting upon any one of them would have the effect of breaking the spirit as well as the backbone of the "sittee"—thus reducing him or her to a state of utter supineness, in which the moral and physical nature would both share.
               Over one of the mysterious portals there was a malevolent-looking bull's-eye window, and in inflamed characters, like a bad attack of ophthalmia, appeared the words: 
                     "SPIRITUAL CIRCLE. No. 7."
                  
               
               "What place is this, Balderly?" was Mr. Stalker's reiterated question.
               Balderly smiled grimly, and with a melodramatic action placed his finger to his lips.
               "Hush!" said he, "speak of it with bated breath and reverential awe; we are now in the vestibule of the mysterious: approaching the penetralia of the Spiritual Temple."
               Rufus glanced at his companion doubtingly.
               "What on earth have you brought me here for?"
               He spoke in a gruff, angry tone.
               Silas was impervious to Mr. Stalker's bad humor. He knew every phase of his friend's mind, and neither feared his anger nor courted his civility.
               He had him at his mercy, and did not trouble himself to consult his wishes or convenience.
               "I have brought you here," said he, "just for a little amusement. To cheer you up after your misfortune. That's all!"
               Stalker shrugged his shoulders as he replied:
               "You mean the loss of the old factory?"
               Balderly nodded.
               "Pshaw!" said Rufus. "It was well insured. No one killed but the drunken scoundrel who caused the catastrophe, and only five or six of the hands injured. Besides," he added with an ugly grin, "business was awfully dull; so it turns out rather fortunate than otherwise!"
               So much for the rich factory master's sympathy for the poor creatures injured through his diabolical meanness.
               "Fortunate!" said Silas, with a contemptuous laugh. "Oh, yes, very fortunate for the people who have been turned into the streets this bitter Christmas weather. They'll be delighted, no doubt, for such an opportunity to amuse themselves."
               "How can I help it?" was the grumbling query.
               "Certainly not now! But I thought perhaps a sensitive organization like yours would suggest that a few dollars a week more would have secured you an engineer proof against the temptation of drink."
               The playful rascal dug his fingers into Mr. Stalker's ribs as he spoke.
               The latter thought it a capital joke, and laughed accordingly.
               After a time, however, the merits of the joke seemed to be obscured by some unpleasant cloud of thought, for he turned fiercely upon the hilarious Balderly, and addressed him in a sharp, resentful tone of voice.
               
               "I'd rather you'd find a pleasanter subject for conversation. What amusement do you expect here?"
               "It's coming in the shape of your strong-minded aunt. She's an intense spirit-maniac, so we are sure to have some fun. Did you ever witness the operation?"
               "Never!"
               "Then," said Balderly, knocking at the mysterious door, "you'll have some fun!"
               The knock was promptly answered by the appearance of an individual remarkable in more ways than one.
               Professor Nonmentis was the person who appeared before them.
               This gentleman, although bearing an Italian-sounding name, first drew breath in the midland counties of England, and commenced active life under the name of Johnson as an attorney's clerk.
               Not being possessed of sufficient capital to pay the fees which would have permitted him to inscribe his name upon the attorneys' roll of Fame, and being further disqualified by an early indiscretion in regard to the facility he possessed of imitating the signature of a commercial gentleman in his native city, he sought in the wilds of Australia for temporary restoration to correct principles, aided therein by a kind and considerate government, which taught him theoretically and practically the art of road-making.
               Returning to England and finding that one Mr. Macadam had already mastered the art which he had acquired, he abandoned its pursuit, and became a "touter" or "capper" for a certain benefactor of the human race, who extended the blessings of his benevolence at the absurdly low rate of sixty per cent.
               Johnson might have achieved distinction in this new industry had not his old proclivities in calligraphy necessitated another retirement from active life, and this time for seven long years.
               Once more he launched himself into the industrial arts—this time becoming a vendor of the "K 'rect Cyard of the Races," but he abandoned it, to resume his connection with the law in regard to a bandanna handkerchief.
               Many interesting experiences of his career could be adduced (did time and space permit) and of his indomitable energy; but unfortunately for him his talents were wasted and his time absorbed by the aforesaid parental government, which denied him even the exploiting of the commercial bases of wine and coals.
               Disgusted with a monarchy, he sought the shores of the United States; and arriving upon the eve of some unusual political excitement, his opinion, as expressed at the ballot-box, was immediately sought by several parties—all of whom he duly gratified by active voting—in return for which he received the consideration his labors demanded.
               With the capital earned by this industrious share of legislation, he bloomed at once and without hesitation into a professor of the mediumistic science—first adopting a euphemistic appellation, allowing his hair to grow to a great length, and adopting, as part of his regular costume, a pair of learned-looking spectacles.
               He succeeded beyond his expectations, and, growing bold by success, he extended his views, until before long he became the possessor of brown-stone property in a highly fashionable locality.
               He did not, however, abandon his original locale. He was astute enough to know that dirt, mystery, and chicanery generally go hand in hand.
               Such was Professor Nonmentis, who stood with an affable smile before Rufus Stalker and his bosom friend, Silas Balderly.
               His voice was a happy combination of persuasive humility and subdued erudition: modulated, as it were, to the meaner capacities of his followers and admirers.
               "Do you wish to join the séance, gentlemen?"
               Balderly replied with the greatest politeness:
               "Yes! with the permission of the invisible powers!"
               The professor looked serious for an instant, and then propounded query number two.
               "Are you believers or sceptics?"
               "Fanatical in our belief!" was the prompt reply from Silas.
               The professor, with an air of dignity, turned the handle of the mysterious door and exclaimed:
               "Enter! The room is dark, but you need have no fear!"
               "That's consoling!" muttered Balderly.
               Nonmentis was quite correct in his statement. The room was dark—so dark in fact, that Silas and Stalker were compelled to grope their way to avoid encountering any obstacles that might have been left conveniently for that purpose, in the road.
               They and the professor, who immediately closed the door after him, effected an entrance into the promising chamber of mysteries.
               Not a moment had elapsed since their disappearance when two new comers entered the queer-shaped anteroom.
               No other than uncle Abimelech and the spiritual Jedidah.
               "Well, Jedidah," said that lady's brother, "you've found a circle at last. A sort of devil's whirlpool, and have sucked me into it along with yourself—the more fool I!"
               
               Mr. Worth gazed in wonder at the strange locality in which he found himself.
               Jedidah, with thoughts superior to the consideration of apartments or furniture, stood in rapture gazing upon the inscription over the door.
               Mr. Worth was the first to break this temporary silence.
               "Now, I hope you're satisfied!"
               Jedidah deigned to answer the somewhat scornful question:
               "Yes! satisfied, even as the thirsty earth is satisfied by the refreshing shower."
               Abimelech whistled softly to himself.
               His sister proceeded:
               "I'm lifted, as it were, above myself—inspired! exalted!"
               Another whistle from the unbelieving Abimelech, equally unheeded by his sister, who continued her rhapsody.
               "My soul is wandering amongst the starry essences."
               "Tight as a senator!" exclaimed the farmer, unable longer to hold his tongue. "By jingo! Collapse you old fool, collapse, or you won't give the sperrits half a chance to spread themselves!"
               He looked around him as he spoke, and espying the door, rapped upon it with his knuckles.
               "Here's the entrance into the Asylum for Incurables!"
               In answer to Abimelech's summons, Professor Nonmentis appeared, bland and suasive, and as modest and chock-full of learning as before.
               "Any sperrits around, stranger?" said Mr. Worth.
               "The unseen intelligence," remarked the professor, closing his eyes, and speaking in dulcet tones, "are ever around thee, friend."
               Mr. Worth gave a start of pretended horror.
               "The deuce they are! but haven't you got some tame ones caged up inside on exhibition?"
               Professor Nonmentis, still in a state of calm confidence, asked the usual formula:
               "Are you believers in the great philosophy?"
               "Yes," was Jedidah's reply, sharp and decisive.
               "Hold on!" exclaimed Abimelech. "Answer for yourself!" Then turning to the undisturbed medium, he addressed him: "Look here, friend, she swallows the whole animal, hide and tail; but I don't happen to be gifted with such a gutta-percha stomach!"
               "If," said the professor in a subdued voice, "you are an unbeliever, I fear you may disturb the electric chain and paralyze the manipulation."
               There was science and mystery in every word uttered by the wonderful man.
               It was powerless, however, when directed against Mr. Worth.
               He smiled at the high-sounding speech. "Oh!" he squeaked, "theu your spirits only cotton to those who cotton to them. If so, I'm one too many here. You'd better sail in by yourself, old girl," he added to his sister, "for, by Jove, you have faith enough in the bedevilment to start a new religion altogether."
               He would have quitted Jedidah and the professor (who was sorry at the prospect of losing him and his fee) had not the coming into the waiting-room of three new visitors arrested his steps.
               He was thunderstruck at recognizing in them Charles Fullerton, Selina Marvin, and William Archer.
               The surprise was shared by them.
               "Why, Uncle Abimelech, what brings you here?" asked Charles.
               Mr. Worth pointed to his sister.
               "The cultivator of all mischief," said he, "a woman—and a mad woman at that. I'll be hanged," continued he, "if I'm not ashamed of myself; but what can a male victim do against their witcheries or their merriments. Are you sperrit-hunting, too?"
               "Yes," said Charles; "Aunt Jedidah has inoculated us all."
               Abimelech was astonished. "You don't mean that you are going into the infernal circle?"
               "That's what we've come for," said Charles, smiling.
               "By Jove! then I won't back out. In for a penny, in for a pound. So come along, Jedidah, let us have a quiet chat with some sociable ghost."
               So saying, Uncle Abimelech seized his sister's arm and they entered the mysterious sanctum.
               The professor smiled as he observed Mr. Worth's capture. Already he enumerated in his own mind the number of greenbacks to be probably extracted from the Long Island cultivator of cereals. Then turning to William and Mr. Fullerton, he blandly inquired of them if they were coming in; to which Archer answered, "presently."
               With this comforting assurance Nonmentis hastened to his expectant visitors.
               The moment he had departed, Charles turned to Archer.
               "Now William," said he, "explain why you are so anxious for us to assist at this absurdity. What did you mean by those hints?"
               Selina, who had up to this time remained silent, here burst into a merry laugh.
               "I think it's glorious fun," she exclaimed; "I wouldn't lose that for a whole houseful of spirits. I never saw a spirit in all my life. Wouldn't I like to meet one and sing, 'Sweet spirit, hear my prayer!'"
               Charles and William smiled at the joyous girl's pleasantry.
               
               Archer, who had evidently something on his mind, took this opportunity of drawing Fullerton's attention to the matter on hand.
               "You know, Mr. Fullerton, I told you that I never could dissociate in my thoughts the man who wished to buy my signature, and the circumstance which caused your disinheritance. I now know who it was."
               "You do?"
               "Not only he, but his companion, who was then disguised, but whom I now recognize. They are both in yonder room at this moment."
               Archer's impressive manner was sufficient assurance of his honest conviction.
               "But what result," said Charles, "do you expect to arrive at if they are?"
               "I hardly know," answered Archer. "I discovered they were coming here (don't ask me how I did so), and a strange impulse I could not resist induced me to act as I have done. I know a test by which I can make suspicion certainty, if I had but the opportunity."
               Charles reflected a moment before speaking.
               The many disagreeable associations revived by Archer's expressed convictions were oppressive, and he would fain have avoided any renewal of the painful subject, had not a sense of duty prompted him to heed the warning thus strangely repeated by his humble friend.
               "I don't see what good it can do, William; but simply out of respect to the interest you have evinced, I shall go with you."
               Then turning to Selina, he added:
               "Come! at all events we shall have an opportunity of investigating the mysteries of the incomprehensible."
               "Yes," said Selina, "and perhaps we may be introduced to Macbeth's witches. 
                     
                        "Black spirits and white,
                        Blue spirits and gray,
                        Mingle, mingle, mingle,
                        You that mingle may."
                     
                  
               
               Still humming the invocation, Selina accompanied Charles and Archer into the professor's den.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE SPIRIT CIRCLE.
               WHO shall describe the wonderful things which were exhibited at the spiritual séance at which the personages of the present story assisted?
               A huge table, whose normal place was in the centre of the half-darkened room, diverted itself by performing the most extraordinary gyrations, much to the danger and risk of the surrounding persons—executing, indeed, a very clumsy sort of wooden waltz, diversified by tipping, tapping, and rapping eccentricities.
               Flashes of phosphorescent light spasmodically darted hither and thither; sounds of wailing; musical effects, consisting principally of vilely executed guitar and banjo instrumentation, were borne ever and again through the air, as if touched by insane troubadour denizens of the other world.
               Two or three mysterious cabinets and closets opened fitfully, disclosing glimpses of cadaverous countenances, lighted up by lambent flames of bluish tone.
               Bells, seemingly of various sizes, rang and tinkled; fire-irons clattered, and confused rumblings were heard overhead; while shadowy indications of floating forms, suspended mid-air, hovered in the upper part of the room.
               The professor thoroughly understood his business.
               Every little bit of clap-trap which the brain of a theatrical propertyman could have conceived, was brought into play; and with the aid of trumpery delusions of camera-obscura slides, pinches of colored fires, and the services of two or three little boys in the upper story, a most powerfully "got up" sensation resulted.
               The infatuated believers in Nonmentis's humbug sat aghast at the sounds they listened to and the sights (if sights they could be called, where everything was in semi-obscurity) they witnessed.
               Selina, proof to such absurdity, took an opportunity, during a temporary lull of the din, to whisper to Charlie:
               
               "This must be the ghost of a circus, Charles; I expect to hear the spiritual clown every minute."
               Abimelech, too, made his comment. He had been in a state of intense astonishment ever since he had entered the apartment.
               "Phew!" muttered he, "Hang me if it ain't worse than a ploughing match. I wish I could find a seat."
               He groped about in search of a chair.
               An unexpected incident followed this resolve on the part of Mr. Worth, and one in which a person, already well known to the reader, participated.
               That other was Major Trifle, who, with Messrs. Faunce and Narcissus, were, unknown to Selina and her friends, also in the room.
               The Major, actuated by the same desire to secure a seat as that which possessed Abimelech, began also to grope about for a chair.
               They both succeeded in finding the sought-for articles, and were in the act of sitting down, when by an unobserved signal from the professor (who by long practice had the feline power of seeing in the dark), both chairs were suddenly pulled back by cords, and Major Trifle and Mr. Worth fell heavily to the floor.
               Especially Mr. Worth.
               That gigantic individual's fall caused all other sounds and manifestations to sink into nothingness.
               A shock like that of an earthquake, and an alto roar from the falling man, caused a thrill of terror to run through the assembled crowd.
               He did not remain long recumbent, for, scrambling to his feet as best he could, with an exclamation not at all like a blessing, he adjured the chair, the innocent cause of his mishap.
               "Hollo! I swear I thought I had that chair under me. Where is it?"
               Again he sought for the treacherous article, but this time with new effect.
               His huge fist encountered a skinny, shrivelled-up hand.
               He grasped it and exclaimed:
               "Who are you?"
               A voice (his sister's, indeed), which, however, in his flustration he did not recognize, replied:
               "A searcher after the truth."
               "Are you?" grumbled Abimelech. "Then you're digging down the wrong well."
               The voice continued:
               "Listening to the voices of the delectable."
               "The del trems, you mean," muttered Mr. Worth. "There isn't a ghost in the place that ain't as drunk as a biled owl."
               Here the professor, fearing the loss of a portion of his prestige as a true and legitimate medium, rapped the table very loudly; and immediately followed up the supposed manifestation by a cut-and-dry speech which he prefaced by a significant "hem!"
               "I have the satisfaction," said Nonmentis, "of informing the friends present that the evil influences which caused those disturbing effects are at an end, and the Circle is in spiritual harmony. All are requested to remain silent and keep their seats."
               "How if they won't let you?" asked Abimelech. "Ah, confound your rush-bottomed carcass, I've got you now."
               Which in truth he had, and immediately depositing his huge body upon it, he mentally defied any mere spiritual influence to oust him.
               He had scarcely accomplished this when Jedidah started up with a groan and enunciated in almost stentorian tones:
               "Lo! I have beheld a vision!"
               Her brother, now comparatively calm, recognized the voice.
               "You irrepressible old Jack-in-the-box," he squeaked, "sit down!"
               This mandate he enforced by extending his arm and compelling the person nearest him, who happened luckily to be Jedidah, to assume a sitting position.
               The professor was growing indignant at these interruptions, and cried out angrily, "Silence."
               Silence was speedily secured, and then Nonmentis, with a voice of great dignity, spoke again:
               "Will the spirits communicate?"
               After an expectant hush, three distinct raps from the lively table were heard.
               "They are now ready," said the professor in a half whisper, "to answer all the questions."
               Jedidah was up on her feet again, however, before any ghost had a chance, or rather before the professor had a ghost of a chance.
               "I have seen a vision!" she exclaimed.
               Mr. Worth, who knew now exactly where to find her, again stretched forth his hand.
               "Sit down!" said he.
               His sister gave a groan, but under Abimelech's persuasive grip, resumed her seat.
               "Will the spirits tell us," said the farmer, when a dead silence had at length been procured, "will they tell us something useful? What will flour be a barrel next spring?"
               The Major, emboldened by Mr. Worth's question, expressed a desire to know whether gold would go up or down; whilst Faunce wished to ask the spirits as to the prospects of Erie. At the same time Selina seemed to be anxious to know how long the skating would last.
               Professor Nonmentis angrily broke in upon the querists:
               "They will not reply to frivolous questions."
               Here Aunt Jedidah again stated that she saw a vision; but her enthusiastic declaration was checked, as formerly, by her brother.
               Stalker, who had been doing a devil's tattoo upon the table on his own account, here rose and said to Balderly:
               "I have no relish for this kind of thing, Silas. Let us leave."
               But his companion declared himself of a different opinion.
               "By Jove! I think it capital fun; just wait a few moments!"
               Muttering an expression of impatience, Rufus, thus entreated, resumed his seat.
               William Archer took occasion of the lull which followed the previous flutter of excitement to address the professor, the table or the spirits, it was hard to say which.
               His voice was distinct and his manner very serious:
               "Do the spirits ever inspire men in their own despite to denounce great wrongs?"
               Three loud raps were given in reply. The professor interpreted the signals.
               "They themselves answer, Yes! All spontaneous revelations are from them direct. Speak! what would they say?"
               William answered solemnly: "BE JUST AND FEAR NOT!"
               With a cry of pain, Stalker leaped from his chair.
               Archer, unheeding the action or the man, spoke again:
               "Yield up to the defrauded son the possessions you have kept from him so long a time—for never shall you have peace of mind until that restitution be made——"
               Stalker would have seized Archer by the throat and strangled him, had he not been withheld by Balderly; but Silas, powerful as he was to avert the impetuous action, could not silence the loosened tongue of his confederate.
               "Miserable trickster!" shouted Rufus, "I defy you! Who is it that accuses me?"
               William Archer turned upon him fiercely.
               "No living man!" said he; "but you have denounced yourself! The spirit of the dead is your accuser—whoever you may be. Bring lights here, and let us see his face!"
               Notwithstanding the entreaties and commands of the excited profes- sor, lights were procured, and all the tricks and devices of imposture were suddenly disclosed.
               The lights also showed the face of Stalker, now deadly pale and deformed with passion.
               He made one bound, as if to escape, but Archer and Charlie were before him at the door and barred his passage.
               A cry from those by whom he was known, made him more intensely savage than at first; and, as he stood thus, kept at bay by the man he hated, aided by his own servant, he seemed more like a wild beast than a man.
               As if the general confusion produced by this contretemps was not exciting enough, Aunt Jedidah, whom no effort of her brother's could restrain, bounded on a chair and flourished her enormous umbrella aloft, whilst she shouted like one possessed:
               "That's the man I saw changing the will!"
               "Where? How? What do you mean, woman?" gasped the utterly discomfited Stalker.
               Jedidah, still flourishing her brobdingnagian umbrella within an uncomfortable distance of Stalker's head, answered him in tones of thunder:
               "Why, in the vision, to be sure! Oh! I can't be deceived; and there's the other one," she added, pointing to Balderly, "who put the real will in his pocket. Search him and you'll find it there—in his breast pocket."
               Balderly, nonplussed for an instant, started back, but speedily recovering himself, exclaimed to those advancing upon him, pointing a pistol at them:
               "Hands off! I won't be insulted at the instance of a crazy woman. Stand back, I say, or I'll make a spirit of the first that touches me!"
               There was a devilish earnestness in the ruffian's eye that showed he made no empty threat.
               William Archer was, however, not to be abashed by any words. He quickly, and before the other could prevent it, snatched the formidable weapon from Balderly, and cocking it, proceeded with his address.
               "I think not—if you had nothing to fear, you needn't have blustered. Just let us look, for curiosity's sake; if the document is not there, we'll apologize!"
               And notwithstanding protest and effort, Mr. Silas Balderly was pinioned by uncle Abimelech and one or two others, whilst William Archer, without the slightest delicacy, thrust his hand into the coat pocket of the enraged man and drew therefrom the paper in question, which he handed to young Fullerton.
               
               Charles, who had kept aloof during the struggle, took it, and after glancing at its contents, turned to Selina.
               Archer could not deny himself the gratification of showing his triumph.
               "It was not very 'cute of you, sir," said he to Balderly, "to cultivate such a bosom friend!"
               He stepped to the door, gave a whistle, and before any present knew his intention, Messrs. Rufus Stalker and Silas Balderly found themselves prisoners in the hands of the police; several members of this remunerative and honorable force having appeared more magically than any of poor Nonmentis's spirits possibly could have done.
               Stalker groaned in agony at his own rash outburst of remorse.
               He vented his anger upon his friend.
               "Exposed! Degraded! Ruined! and by you, Balderly."
               Silas laughed lightly as he jeeringly replied:
               "Now upon my life, that's very ungrateful, considering the good luck you've had for some time. Never mind, Stalker, we shall have plenty of opportunities to console each other at our new residence. Good-by, Aunt Jedidah and Uncle Abimelech! Don't forget your loving nephew! ha! ha! ha!"
               True to his instincts to the last, he was led out.
               So also was his cowed and broken-spirited friend, Mr. Stalker, who parted from the company with a muttered curse and a baleful look at his relatives and Selina.
               Jedidah turned with an air of triumph to her brother.
               "What do you think of my vision now?"
               "I come down, sister," said Mr. Worth. "It's a stunner, by Jove!"
               And the worthy farmer smiled. He felt assured about his mortgage, and he doubted not but that the new will, or rather the old one, contained some clause or codicil by which the culture of Long Island cereals might be further promoted, whilst the mind of the cultivator would be made lighter by the removal of a load of anxiety.
               In which opinion (it may as well be told now), he was perfectly correct. The will provided for all his needs.
               The party, consisting of Mr. and Miss Worth, Selina Marvin, Charles Fullerton and William Archer, left the professor, who had with agony witnessed the arrival of the police, and proceeded to Charlie's lodgings.
               Major Trifle ventured to attract their attention; but beyond a distant recognition of Mr. Faunce and the elegant Narcissus, our friends in no way noticed Cupid.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               BEING CHIEFLY DEVOTED TO BIOGRAPHY.
               MESSRS. Stalker and Balderly, for a time, dissolved their limited partnership.
               Fullerton could not bear to prosecute his cousin, although he richly deserved it, and so the miserable victim of avarice was permitted to emigrate to the Far West.
               For a considerable time he behaved himself remarkably well, and there appeared a prospect of his becoming a really respectable member of society.
               Unfortunately, however, for him, Balderly, who had also been permitted to go "scot free," found out his friend's new abode, and attached himself with pertinacity to Rufus and his fortunes.
               At first, Stalker endeavored to shake Silas off, but old habit resumed its sway, and they became, as of old, associates and partners in many schemes, until, after repeated failures, into which they dragged many of their neighbors, they found themselves compelled to change their field of occupation.
               They did so by removing still nearer to the plains, where they led a wild, dissipated life for a time, among trappers, Indians, and Mexicans.
               The report of the discovery of a rich silver mine in the neighborhood of the settlement proved too strong a temptation for either of them to resist, and once more they picked up their few traps.
               For once the report was warranted by the actual fact, and they really accumulated, by hard labor, a large amount of money.
               Stalker proved himself wonderfully adapted for the work. He was industrious and avaricious, and these two qualities enabled him to scrape together a much larger amount of money than his fellow-miners.
               These qualities, however, proved his destruction.
               Not long after the best of the mining season had passed, and whilst only a few of the men remained, the little community was startled by a dreadful crime.
               
               Stalker was discovered one morning, outside of his tent, lying stone dead, with his throat cut.
               He had been robbed after being murdered.
               The miners were not long in tracing the crime to the right man.
               Balderly, in endeavoring to escape, was seized, and the money and other effects of his dead friend were found upon him.
               Two hours later the body of Silas Balderly was hanging by the neck from the tree, upon the branch of which a small piece of paper told the passer-by that the deed of vengeance was done by order of Judge Lynch.
               These men, linked together in early life by debauchery, became friends through crime, and died as they had lived, the one proving the destruction of the other.
               
               Major Trifle was so severely punished by an indignant husband, to whose wife he had been insolent, that he found it expedient to expatriate himself, and the last that was seen of "Cupid" was when Faunce, out of curiosity visiting a third-rate "gambling-hell" on the Continent, to his amazement discovered in the battered-looking, blear-eyed croupier, the once famous lady-slayer, Major Trifle.
               The old scamp made an effort to claim acquaintance, but Faunce utterly repudiated the claim; whereupon "Cupid" shed any number of tears, and bitterly complained of man's inhumanity to man.
               Professor Nonmentis, by some means or other, fell foul of his old friends the police, and would have been compelled to have visited the industrial establishment of Sing Sing, had he not employed an exceedingly clever lawyer, who, by some means or other, got him off.
               The professor was obliged, however, to part with every bit of property he possessed, much to his disgust, and he, too, found it convenient to leave the friendly shores of the United States.
               What became of him is not precisely known, but it is shrewdly suspected that he is now engaged in a very minor capacity upon a sheep farm in his old quarters, Australia.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               OUR FRIENDS.
               OF course they all kept Christmas. How could they fail to do so when their hearts were filled with gladness?
               Abimelech, with a cheerful glow upon his features, wanted to persuade them to allow him to order a gorgeous spread at the hotel in which he sojourned, but this they would not hear of, much as they appreciated his kindness.
               Who would dine at a hotel on a holiday, and of all holidays the merry, happy Christmas-time, when he could get a comfortable, cosy, cheerful room, with a neat kitchen not ten paces removed, from which a busy, cheery little housewife, like Alice Archer, aided by another like the happy Selina, could, in the odd minutes between boiling and roasting, run in and enjoy a merry laugh or perpetrate some innocent little practical joke; and from which, too, would creep out the savory perfume of the jolly Christmas dinner cooking, and the pleasant sounds of preparations for the coming feast, constantly reminding him of the good cheer in store, and the happiness in the immediate future, making his heart light, and putting him in good feeling with all mankind? Who indeed would dine in a cold, cheerless public-house on this festival of all the festivals of the year, when the joyousness and comfort of a home dining-place were at his command? Not one member of this happy party surely!
               So accordingly they all resolved to spend the auspicious day at William Archer's.
               William commenced to make apologies for the size of his rooms, his fears of this and his dread of that, but he was so beaten down and silenced by uproarious laughter, that he declared he had nothing more to say, but that they might do as they liked.
               Of course they intended to do that. For if they could not do as they liked when everything was either right, or coming right, of what use would it be to feel happy and confident of the future?
               
               So they all met at an early hour at Archer's modest dwelling, and immediately setting to work, they effected such transformations of furniture and arrangements, for the better accommodation of an enlarged household, that Mrs. Archer declared that they were turning her out of house and home, whereat they laughed more heartily still and set to work anew for further improvements.
               Charlie hovered between the parlor and kitchen many times during the day, hoping to capture Selina for an instant, but that young lady, overflowing with the happiness which filled her heart, was darting to and fro between the two apartments, bubbling over with disconnected fragments of song, to the intense delight and gratification of all present. So busy, so cheerful, and so homelike was her manner, that Charlie was almost beside himself. It was long since he had resolved to win and wear her—to make her the Light of his Home—but heretofore she had evaded him, for reasons satisfactory to her but not to him. Now that prosperity shone upon him, and the clouds which had so long obscured his prospects had broken away, he was resolved to be put off no longer. At length, after many efforts, he succeeded in capturing her, although she protested that she had not an instant to spare.
               She did spare that precious fragment of time however; aye, and longer still, when Charlie had once fairly broken ground with what was uppermost in this thoughts.
               "Now, Selina," said the sly fellow, as he slipped his arm around her waist, "now that I am enabled to offer you a home worthy of your acceptance, I can ask you, without fear, to become my wife."
               The arch girl looked up into her lover's face.
               "And now," she said, "I have a great mind to refuse you."
               Charles shook his head. "Oh no, you haven't," he whispered.
               "Yes, but I have!"
               "And why, Selina?"
               "Because," said she, "you have deprived me of the pleasure of marrying you for yourself alone. I should like to know," she added, "what merit there is in marrying a heap of money."
               Charles laughingly answered:
               "And yet, for my sake, I hope you will be able to endure the infliction of a little property."
               She pursed up her lips and pretended to think.
               After a due allowance of time for apparently intense reflection, she spoke demurely:
               "Well, I'll try, Charles, but it's a great disappointment to me."
               Strange inconsistency between what she said and what she felt, for even as she smiled at her own speech, she burst into a flood of happy tears and nestled her head upon her lover's breast.
               
               There never was such a Christmas dinner cooked before. Never before did turkey give such general satisfaction. Everybody got precisely what they liked best, even when the legs and wings had disappeared. And that Christmas pudding! Bless us, was there ever such a pudding! How it lit up those genial faces as it was carried in in a state of violent conflagration! How it filled the room with its aroma as the knife went in, and how rapidly it disappeared! And as it did so was pronounced an unparalleled success by everybody, in flat contradiction of that absurd old adage about too many cooks. Then how surprising it was with what readiness the jokes rolled out, and how pointed they were, and how quickly everyone saw the points. How pleasantly Selina blushed, and how cunningly Charles looked down into his claret to deceive them all as to the source from whence his color came.
               Abimelech, in the course of the evening, indulged in a speech, in which, after reviewing the recent events, he made the amende honorable to the spirits, and drank their health amidst prolonged cheering.
               Jedidah returned thanks for them, and reiterated her firm belief in the efficacy of visions, nor could she deny herself the pleasure (with her eye fixed upon her worthy brother) of animadverting upon sceptics and unbelievers.
               Alice said a few words, but as they related to the length of time which a first-class pudding requires for boiling, with a few desultory remarks upon roast joints, supplemented by a few other domestic allusions to infantile peculiarities, their particular point at the moment was not so remarkable.
               Honest William, her husband (you may be sure he was already appointed engineer-in-chief of the new factory Charles had resolved to build), spoke a few sensible and manly words, expressive of satisfaction at the turn of affairs; and wound up with a thankful wish for health and happiness toward Selina and Charlie.
               Charles endeavored to respond, but he found himself strangely troubled in doing so.
               Much that he desired to say, he was compelled to leave unsaid, in consequence of a strange choking feeling in his throat, a misty feeling in his eyes, as if tears were there, and a swelling of his heart. Indeed the happy rascal was in a state of utter bewilderment at his own joy, and that is how it is he found a difficulty in saying what he felt.
               
               Not that the company then and there assembled did not understand him.
               There was not one present who did not thoroughly appreciate his feelings, so that the few disjointed words he did manage to utter, were as plain and intelligible to them as would have been the finest oratorical effort.
               Selina could say nothing, and, even when asked to sing, she shook her head quietly, and muttered some indistinct apology.
               She, too, had been silenced by her great happiness.
               They made allowance for her, however, and the time passed in tranquil enjoyment such as they had not known for years—and the Christmas waned peacefully, and their hearts were filled with thankfulness.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            
            A. D. MELLICK, JR., & BRO.,
            Auctioneers and Dealers in NEW JERSEY REAL ESTATE, 26 Pine St., N. Y.
            Descriptive Lists issued without charge, complete, with time-tables, commutations, maps, and detailed descriptions of the towns and villages, and the property offered for sale.
            HOUSES, LOTS, AND UNIMPROVED PROPERTY FOR SALE AND TO-LET.
            HOUSES ERECTED TO ORDER.
            Streets graded, and property generally improved.
            Plans, elevations, and specifications drawn up.
            Insurances effected at lowest rates.
            Contracts, deeds, mortgages, &c., drawn up.
         
         
            
            EMPIRE SEWING-MACHINE.
            LOCK STITCH.
            Received the First Prize at the Great Fair of the American Institute, in New York, Oct. 26, 1867.
            AND HIGHEST PREMIUM FOR Best Manufacturing Machine AT PARIS EXPOSITION, JULY, 1867. WHY IS IT THE BEST! IT RUNS OVER SEAMS ALL RIGHT. IT WILL TAKE FIFTY STITCHES TO THE INCH FINER THAN ANY OTHER MACHINE.
            IT WILL SEW Heavier and thicker Goods than any other Machine.
            IT USES ANY AND EVERY KIND OF THREAD.
            IT SEWS Starched Goods as well as Unstarched.
            IT SEWS THE MOST DELICATE, THIN, SOFT FABRIC WITHOUT DRAWING.
            IT SEWS A BIAS SEAM AS WELL AS ANY OTHER.
            Empire Sewing-Machine Co., Between Houston and Bleecker Sts. 294 BOWERY, NEW YORK.
            EVERY MACHINE WARRANTED.
         
         
            A FAMILY SUNDAY PAPER.
            THE SUNDAY TIMES, And Noah's Weekly Messenger;
            PUBLISHED FOR THE PAST 25 YEARS AS A CHOICE FAMILY NEWSPAPER, FOR THE SPECIAL PERUSAL OF LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, EMBRACING Admirable and Interesting Stories; Excellent Poetry; The Latest News; Independent and Conservative Editorials; Faithful Answers to Correspondents; Dramatic and Art Criticisms; Book Reviews; All the European News in a Succinct London Letter; Essays, Sketches, Extracts, &c., &c.
            Issued at Three Dollars a Year, By E. G. HOWARD & CO., 162 Nassau St., New York.
         
         
            Empire City Skating Rink,
            Between 63d and 64th Street, and Second and Third Avenues,
            170 FEET WIDE, 350 FEET LONG.
            
               Season Tickets, $10.00. Children under 12 $8.00
               Coupon Tickets, containing 20 Coupons, $5.00. Children under 12 $4.00
               Single Admission, 50 cents. Children under 12 half price.
            
            
               
            
            This mammoth structure is spanned by eighteen arches without tie-rods, the largest in America, and during the Summer Season will be let for purposes of respectable amusement.
            Application to be made at the Rink by those desiring the use of the structure.
            President, C. P. DICKINSON. Treasurer, JOHN L. GEIB.
            Manager, ALEXANDER MACMILLAN.
         
         
            
            THE NEW YORK PRINTING COMPANY,
            81, 83 & 85 CENTRE STREET, BOOK AND JOB PRINTERS, LITHOGRAPHERS, Stereotypers and Type Founders, PRESENT TO THE PUBLIC FACILITIES WHICH ARE EQUALLED BY NO OTHER ESTABLISHMENT IN THIS COUNTRY.
            The mere concentration of all the branches of the Printing Art, under one general direction, is in itself an innovation, the importance of which will be readily appreciated by whoever has to do with the publication and illustration of books or other work where combination of Letter-press with Lithography is required;—and the aim of this Company has been to make each department of their business superior to any other of its kind. To accomplish this they have spared no expense. They have fitted up their establishment with the most IMPROVED MACHINERY, including HAND and BED AND PLATEN PRESSES, CYLINDERS, and JOB PRESSES of all kinds. Their Founts of NEW AND BEAUTIFUL FACES OF TYPE are measured by tons, and their JOB ROOM is equipped with whatever is New and Tasteful in the Foundries of this Country as well as those of England and the Continent.
            Special provision has been made for scientific works, and the characters which the condensed formulæ of the present day employ have been cut to match the various faces of type; so that with a large force of competent and welltrained Compositors, and a corps of superior Proof-readers, a want long existing in this country has been thoroughly supplied. The new edition of Professor DANA'S Mineralogy, the most difficult scientific work in the language, typographically speaking, has just been completed with an accuracy which challenges criticism.
         
         
            HORSES & CARRIAGES.
            Something New under the Sun.
            THE AUCTION TRADE IN HORSES,
            Conducted on the same principles which guide honorable people in other branches of trade, at Johnston and Van Tassell's HORSE AUCTION MART, 112 East 13th Street, near 4th Ave.
            MR. ARCHIBALD JOHNSON, the senior member of our firm, was the first in this city to put into practical operation what every person interested in horses knows is a necessary branch of the Horse Trade, namely:—A Mart where parties wishing to realize at once on Horses for which they have no further use, as well as parties wishing to purchase, can rely upon being fairly and honestly dealt with. Such is our establishment: and we have no rival, either real or pretended, in the city.
            Our references include, and generally comprise, the most esteemed business men in the community. Our business card, which appears in the most widely circulated Journals of our city, is here appended.
            AT JOHNSTON & VAN TASSELL'S Archibald Johnston, Auctioneer, HORSE AUCTION MART, 112 East Thirteenth Street, near Fourth Avenue.
            Regular Sales Every Tuesday & Friday.
            Gentlemen having private establishments which they wish to dispose of, or those wishing to purchase anything in the horse line, will find it to their advantage to give us a call.
            Our dealings are almost exclusively with merchants and business men, and our establishment is conducted on the same straightforward principles which govern honorable people in other branches of trade.
            Good stabling for horses at private sale.
            We give the purchaser of every horse that is warranted sound twenty-four hours for trial.
            Our down town office is at 39 Nassau Street, opposite the Post-Office, where a register is kept of Horses, Carriages, etc., at private and public sales. Liberal advances made on everything in the horse line.
            ARCHIBALD JOHNSTON, WM. VAN TASSELL.
            ARCHIBALD JOHNSTON, Auctioneer.
         
         
            
            BIRTHDAY, BRIDAL, AND HOLIDAY PRESENTS!
            Parlors of the Fifth Avenue Art Gallery.
            FREE EXHIBITION OF JEROME THOMPSON'S CHARMING COMPANION PICTURES.
            "HOME, SWEET HOME." Suggested by JOHN HOWARD PAYNE'S universal Ballad. 
                  
                     "'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam,
                     Be it ever so humble, there's no place like Home!
                     A charm from the sky seems to hallow us there.
                     Which, seek through the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere!"
                  
                AND "THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET." Illustrating the well-known Poem, and representing the early Home of the author, SAMUEL WOODWORTH. 
                  
                     "How dear to this heart are the scenes of my childhood,
                     When fond recollection presents them to view!
                     The orchard, the meadow, the deep-tangled wild-wood,
                     And every loved spot which my infancy knew!
                     The wide-spreading pond, and the mill that stood by it,
                     The bridge, and the rock where the cataract fell,
                     The cot of my father, the dairy-house nigh it,
                     And e'en the rude bucket that hung in the well—
                     The old oaken bucket, the iron-bound bucket,
                     The moss-covered bucket which hung in the well."
                  
               
            
            The charming CHROMO-LITHOGRAPHS of the above Pictures are now ready for delivery.
            They are perfect reproductions of the originals, and are especially adapted for HOLIDAY or occasional PRESENTS.
            On and after Monday, Dec. 7th, 1868, Free Exhibition of JEROME THOMPSON'S LATEST PICTURE, "PADDLE YOUR OWN CANOE." From sketches made in Minnesota last summer, introducing new and original effects.
            
               NEW PUBLICATIONS.
               Now in press, and will shortly be published, full Chromo-Lithographs of the following beautiful subjects:
               "SLEEPING BEAUTY," from the original, by LEFEVRE. Now ready
               "HIDE AND SEEK," from the original, by GUY. Now ready
               "THE CAPTIVE CHILD," from the original, by JEROME THOMPSON.
            
            OPEN DAY AND EVENING. ADMISSION FREE.
            ADDINGTON D. FRYE, Jr., Proprietor and Manager.
         
         
            
            THE NEW YORK LEDGER FOR THE NEW YEAR, 1869.
            The Great Family Paper.
            THE LEDGER is the most interesting paper in the world.
            More people take the LEDGER than take any other paper in the country.
            It has the largest number of great and distinguished writers.
            It contains the purest, sweetest, and most delightful love-stories, striking narratives, and instructive biographical and historical sketches.
            All questions growing out of the domestic relations, lovers' quarrels, law and business matters, are regularly answered in its columns. A vast amount of useful information is given through this attractive department of the LEDGER.
            The principal Bishops, Doctors of Divinity, and Clergymen write for it.
            WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT, the great American poet, has translated expressly for the LEDGER a thrilling Spanish Novel, which we shall publish during the new year.
            Rev. Dr. TYNG is now engaged upon an Original Story, which will be continued through twelve numbers of the LEDGER.
            We are now publishing a series of twelve short, true stories, by twelve of the most distinguished clergymen in the United States.
            Our standard popular writer, Mr. SYLVANUS COBB, Jr., is as interesting as ever, and will continue as heretofore to write only for the LEDGER.
            The millions of admirers of Mrs. SOUTHWORTH will find her original stories only in the LEDGER.
            MISS DUPUY will continue her dramatic stories, and FANNY FERN her sparkling sketches.
            HENRY WARD BEECHER will continue to furnish his weekly articles, and JAMES PARTON his biographical sketches.
            ALICE CARY, ETHEL LYNN, Dr. CHARLES D. GARDETTE, and all our other present writers, are re-engaged for the LEDGER.
            Professor WILLIAM HENRY PECK, JOHN G. SAXE, and MARY KYLE DALLAS, will hereafter write for no paper but the LEDGER.
            Two of our contributors have been Ministers to the Court of St. James. Within the past year the son of another of our contributors has been elected President of the United States.
            THE BEST that a long experience enables us to select, and that money, without stint, can buy, will be constantly spread before the readers of the LEDGER.
            OUR TERMS FOR 1869.
            NOW IS THE TIME TO SUBSCRIBE.
            Single copies, $3 per annum; four copies, $10, which is $2.50 a copy; eight copies, $20. The party who sends us $20 for a club of eight copies, (all sent at one time,) will be entitled to a copy free. Postmasters and others who get up clubs in their respective towns, can afterwards add single copies at $2.50.
            We employ no travelling agents. Address all communications to
            ROBERT BONNER, Publisher, Corner of William and Spruce Sts., New York.
         
         
            
            WEBER Grand, Square, and Upright PIANOFORTES.
            These Instruments are used by the Parepa-Rosa, Kellogg, and Ole Bull Concert Troupes, AND BY THE Conservatories of Music of New York & Brooklyn.
            THEY ARE ENDORSED BY THE FOLLOWING DISTINGUISHED MUSICIANS:
            
               George F. Bristow,
               S. B. Mills,
               William Mason,
               Clara M. Brinkerhoff,
               Dr. H. S. Cutler,
               John Zundle,
               E. Muzio,
               J. N. Pattison,
               G. W. Morgan,
               Max Maretzek,
               Henry Mollenhauer,
               Edward Hoffman,
               Charles Fradel,
               Carl Eisner,
               Harry Sanderson,
               Edward Mollenhauer,
               Louis Schreiber,
               Carl Anschutz,
               C. J. Hopkins,
               William K. Bassford,
               Mons. Lejeal,
            
            And others, as the BEST PIANOFORTE MANUFACTURED.
            WAREROOMS, No. 429 Broome St., near Broadway.
            AFTER MARCH 1st, FIFTH AVE., cor. of 16th ST., NEW YORK.
         
      
   
