
    ----CITATION----
        Bagby, George William (1828-1883). Mozis Addums' New Letters. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5699
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
          
             
               MOZIS ADDUMS' NEW LETTERS. 
               NUMBER ONE. 
             
            Leave Richmond-Supper at Ashland-The Potomac Boat-Washington Early in the Morning-The Chicago Zouaves-Beautiful Black-Eyed Girl-Barnum's Hotel-Description of Baltimore and its People-Trip from Old Point to Annapolis in the Great Eastern-Incidents of the Voyage, &c., &c. 
            PRICE, 10 CENTS. 
            
               RICHMOND: 
               MACFARLANE & FERGUSSON, PRINTERS. 
               1860.
             
          
          
             
            MOZIS ADDUMS' 
             
               NEW LETTERS. 
               LETTUR WUN. 
             
            
               RICHMOND: 
               MACFARLANE & FERGUSSON, PRINTERS. 
               1860.
             
          
       
      
         
            Mozis Addums' new letters. 
             
                
                
               Mozis Addums' Letters. 
               LETTUR WUN. 
                
                  Leave Richmun-Ashlun-Potomuk Bote-Washintun erly in the Mornin-The Shecargo Zoovs-Blac-ide yung lady-Balltymo sitty-Bonnum's Tavvun-Ixcusshun to sea the Grate Eestun, &c.,&c. 
                
               Summur wus gittinge feerse; the grass in Captul Squar wus terninge yaller like a melatter frum the urrer of his ways: you cood uv cookt a aag in wun fountin and biled the irun gooce in the uther; cole tee wus runninge like a mill-tale doun the nakes uv man; peepil went about with thar vesses unbuttund and gethringe the pusprashun frum thar browse. The boys cominge  out uv Mrs. Moazbiz, (what with thar whoppin dinnur and thar pollyticks cumbind,) wus red in the fais as gobblars gills; the ladis wus rarly vizibul tel the eavninge shaids pervaild; the very teuns uv the Ban on the Squar come out hot like the meusick uv a Callyopy; the vois uv the muskeeter was heerd in the bedd; no longer cood I stan it; so I upt and oft on a junny to the Noth. 
               It went aginst my grane to go by myself; but onable to git nobody to acumpany me, I were bleest to taik it up and go it aloan, as they sais at Euker. My fren, Mr. Tomwin, keindly incudjed me by sayinge that I cood git plenty uv cumpany if I wood only maik myself afferbul. So I writ "afferbul" on the parm of my han, as it wus, and locatid my boddy in the Fedricksbug car, on Frydy, Oggus the 3d, 1860. I felt bettur frum that momint, and lookinge out uv the car winder, I pittid the peepil on Brawd, sloly travlinge hoamwuds, like littil piggs a dragglinge uv thar hine laags. Thar wus a flacks-hed feller settinge in frunt uv me, whome I thought I wood be afferbul to, but he was bizzy readinge uv a booke, so I sed nothing to him. 
               At Ashlun I eet a lardge supper, in the midst uv menny nigger boys, which flewd aroun me like a shour uv atentiv cowbuggs. Also I notest that a flock uv sevrul yung ladis on the poche, which okashunully prommenadid by the winder and lookid in at me a eetinge, indulgid therselves in freekwunt laffinge. But it is the nacher uv the juvvinile femail to be in a pummanunt stait uv grin, and akordilnly I nuvver minded um. 
               Seagar in mouth I retide to the smoaking car, and seeing uv a weakly-lookinge yung man on the bench behine me, I detummind to put my afferbul in pracktis on him. I offud him a lite to his seagar. He ackseptid with thanks. We struck up a talk on the wether, in the cose uv which he let fall he wus frum South Carroliny. Being Suthun to the bac-boan, I were delitid to meet him, sayinge: 
               ADDUMS-"Sir, I'me rejoyst to incountur you. Next to my oan beluvd Vurginyer, I esteam South Carroliny abuv all the Suthun Staits." 
               WEAKLY MAN-"Haow?" 
               I repeetid my obzervashun. 
               WEAKLY MAN-"Wal, it is a kinder nice plais. I calkerlatid to do a smart spec o' bizniss doun Saowth, but the ager took a holt onto me, and I had to leave." 
               I begun to smelle uv a ratt. 
               ADDUMS-"Whar're you going to, now?" 
               WEAKLY MAN-"Goinge hum to Vummaount Stait, quick as steem will taik me." 
               "Full bluddid Yanky, by jing!" I ixclaimd intunnily, and abandund my afferbul ixperrymint on the spot, shut up my fly-trap, and nuvver utterly a werde untel I got to Fedricksbug, whar I stept on the flatform, sent my luv to Ellick Masin by a nigger, reterned to the car, and smoaked in perfoun silunce tel I got to the steembote at Putomuck Creak. 
               The nite beinge wom and I beinge no longer afferbul, stretcht my fraim on a wide settee on the harry-kane dec, lookt up at the stars a shininge in the cleere summur nite, and remarkt to myself in the langwidge uv Genet and Geno: 
               "Addums, you ar goinge far away." 
                
               "Yes," I replyde, "I startid fur that puppus." 
               And the next thinge I new the bote were stropt to the worf in Washintun; it were day. The passinjus got off, lookinge ruther stale, like meet thats bin cookt and got cole-onwillinge to say nuthinge to eech uther, and weighting fur the omnebuss. In about ten minnits it cum thundrin doun-a might long thing, resemblinge uv a Prezedint's Inogrul on wheals paintid pritty outtside, but full of nuthinge but dust and dirty cushins inside. I lookt at Washintun early in the morning, so quiut, with its bigg publick bildings, broad streats and vaycant lotts, the smoak curlinge out uv a few chimblis, heer and thar a cart or a hack, and a hacmun noddinge on his sect. I lookt at Washintun and sais to myself: 
               "Well," I sais, "here are the pallisis uv pollyticks and the homes uv the retchid, that abide fur a seezun, indede, but are gone to-morro, kickt into ubskeurity by the remausless boote uv Abum Linkun. How cam is the sean! Peece and dulniss rain supreame. Yet a feu munths, and the cry uv the jackall will be heerd in the prowd manshuns uv marbul, and the vulchers and buzzuds will be getherd to the feest. Maineaks will raige in the Hauls uv Congriss; kruption, like the walkinge beem ur a steembote, will stalk up and doun the Avnew; the bigg hotels will be full uv vagrunts; hacks will go to and fro; forrer banks will opin ; the Tresury will be guttid; lottry officis will revive; thar will be elloqunce in the Captul, and oystus under it; menny umbrellers and hats will be sold; and-" 
               We had done reecht the Depo, and a cock-eye boy, with raggid breachis, was pokinge the Gnashnul Intellijuncer at me. I bought it. 
               Takinge uv a seet in the ladis car, I waitid fer the uther trane to arive. It sune arove, bringing the Shecargo Zoovs, that had creatid such a fewraw over the countrey. Thar wus some 30 or 40 uv um, men uv middlin statute, not pritty in the fais, and thar clothes not overly cleen. Littil bits uv caps, without no brim, but with tossils; perdidjus baggy red breechis tuckt up to the knee fer eesy wadinge, I reckin; fancy jackits, also red, (I believe, but I disremember); yaller legings, and a groce or so uv brass buttins arangd on thar bresses tel they lookt like the tops of so menny ole fashun truncks. Sich was the Zoovs  of Shecargo, that they tell me puffoms wunders-running into battil on the flats uv thar backs, and firing thar muskits with the bottom uv thar insteps. Its all one to me, as Rabbylay sais, how they fite. I'me no milleterry man, myself, but ef Shecargo Zoovs, or enny boddy else, come foolinge arfter me, I'me goinge to taik a rock and nock um in the hed. 
               But thar wus sumthinge goinge on far mo inturestinge to me than the Zoovs. Not long arfter I took my seet in the car, in cum two yung ladis, ruther tall, with bewtifule figgers, drest in gray travlinge dressis, follerd by thar farther. I jedged he wus thar farther, becaws he pade too littil atenshun to um to be ennytlinge else; givinge his hole mine to his neuspaper, and having that rezind look on his fais that a man wars when he nose he's dun a good thing, and thinks no mo ought to be requide uv him. And I agreed with him, fer them dorters wus the best things I had sean fer a long tiem. Both had ixquisitiv foms, but one wus much prittier than the uther. The pritty one had the most wunderfule eye I uvver behell. It wus blac as nite, and when it lookt full at you, (wunst only it dun so at me,) you felt like you wus going off in a spell perduced by opeyum. I tookt these gearls to be Suthuners, by thar fine figgers, but not Virginyuns, for thar hands, though well shaped and white, wus too large for pure-bluddid stock. The blac-eyed one cummenst by taking off her bonnet and hanging it upp. Then she let doun her har-soft broun har, very long-opened a littil lether bagge, took out two coambs, a fine one and a cose one, and a bresh. Havinge coambd and bresht her hed nisely, she querld up her bac har, fastend it with blac skewers, leavinge her side har doun. She then pulled out a vile uv greese frum her bagg, pode a littil in the pam uv her han, rubd her two hans together, greezed her side har, and skewd that up. Neckst she ixstractid a clone bottil, pode sum on her hankcher, washt her fais and wiped it. Finely she got out a small sack uv flour, and flourd her countnunce. And then she terned a littil in her seat and giv that look at me, which wus wotchin uv her over the topp of my newspaper like a highener. Rezoominge her preevyus perzishun, she still notist me ubzervinge uv her admirinly, for the oggins uv vizshun in a woman are like unto them uv a hoss, inabling um to sea cleen round the bac uv thar hed. The uther sister only combed and bresht her har, tuckt it up, and let doun her vale. The pritty one dident let doun hern. Now this is a sircumstanshul fact, like evvry thing else I shell tell herearfter, and altogether one uv the coolist and most agreebul specktickles I uvver seen in a car or elsewhar. I nuvver foun out who thease gearls was. They must be frum Mississippy, whar plenty uv munny to travil on is made, but whar the puffeckshun uv Virginyur maners is not yet attained. 
               We reccht Bonnum's tavun in good time for brekfuss, which might uv bin better and not bin ixsessivly good at that. They say the Yewtaw Hous is the bess in toun now. 
               Balltymo, fer the rezin it's got a cupple uv monyumints, is called the monyumintul sitty. Richmun havin haf as menny, ought tharfo to be calld the Haf-Monyumintul sitty. But a better naim fer the lattur, (Richmun,) wood be Flour Mill Metroppolis. I dunno, tho; thar's sich an inoddinit quantitty uv loryus, doctus, logger beer shopps, forrer bancs, and long keene  church steepils here, that it seams to me they ought to be reckignized in the genrul appleashun. 
               Owing to it being bilt almost intily uv bric, Balltymo has the look, frum the top uv the Washintun Monyumint, uv a cais uv the werst kine uv urrysippiliss-havinge uv a horrid derty red aperience. Thar's a verry feu pritty stoes on Balltymo streat; sum tollibly good lookinge pryvit residunces in the naberhood uv the afosed Washintun Monyumint; a plais, hid in the trees so that you cant see it, called Wynan's Pallis; sum desunt hoss rale-rodes; and a grate menny shopps fer the sail uv sherts; and that's about all Balltymo's got to brag uv. But the peepil thar, like the peepil in Richmun, Fomvil, and New Yawk, are verry cunseatid, thinking thar littil plais uv abode is like the ainshunt Dellfy-the center uv creashun, and the verry nable uv the univuss. What has alwais struck me as beinge pequelyer in Balltymo, is the imments number uv smoothe faisted, dandyfide, iffemmynit, big briches yung men, or ruther boys aiteen or nineteen year uv age, which infests the hotells and ockupies the persishun uv whut they call drummus fer the stoes. I'me creditubbly informd that the demand in the dri-gudes housis in Balltymo fer pritty littil yung men is sich, that whenuvver any uv um dars to cum frum the inteyur uv Merrylun on a visit to the Captul uv his stait, the sto-keapers rush out and ketch um in a  dogge-net, and havinge captcherd um, apropreate um at wunst to puppysis uv traid, keeringe nuthinge fer the agny uv thar muthers, which bewails the loss uv um at hoam. This seams krewil, and yet I dunno whut bettur yuse the cood put the thinges to. Balltymo is alsoe a grate plais fer Virginyuns uv vayus kines to locaite, and when they suckseed, as the most inginrully do, it's astonishinge how devotid they git to the  Uneyun, and how they slack off frum that intents admerashun and afeekshun fer the Ole Doughminun which distinguishes them that stays at hoam and nevver leaves it. But I bleeve it's a fillyzoffykul axyum that a man kin nuvver git his prinsipuls to stay outside uv his munny-pus, and that patritizzum goes rite straight to the plais whar a fellow's bizniss is doinge well. Wun thiunge Ballytmo kin justly boast uv, and that is bewtyful ladis. Thar is no mistaik about this. It is no optickle illusion. Nary halloocynashun is it. It is a fact, as unmistakeaubull as the smell uv whiskey in a pollytishun's breth. Go when you will to Balltymo and you are jest as sertin to fine pretty gearls as you are to fine hollyhocks in a Cumlun county gardin. It constiteuts to me the cheef injoymunt uv vissitinge the sitty; and, when  thar, I rarly fale uv a cavninge to taik a walk up Charlze streat fer the saik uv meatinge the luvvly facis, the well-drest and graceful-movinge figgurs uv the ladis. As I alwais hate to go to the "Whig" Offis by way uv Goddinge's Bildinge and Bellvin's Bloc, lest wun or mo uv the thowzuns uv loryers, that congregait in that vissinnity shood dart out and sue me for breech uv prommis or salting batry which I nuvver committed at enny  tiem that i pusnully remembers, so, owinge to the akewmulashin uv dentists thar, I nuvver go up Charlze streat but with feer and tremblinge, becaws thar's no tellinge when a greedy and impoverisht dentiss, maddend by not gitting no bizness, shell jump doun on me out uv a two storie winder, and dror evvry tooth out uv my hed befo I cood tell whut wuz hapnin to me. 
               It were Satdy, you know, when I got to Balltymo, and havinge nockt aroun all the morninge and havinge sean verry little that I had'nt sean befo, I reterned to Bonnum's to dinner, whar they put me way at the upper een uv the tabil, and ixhosstid my payshunce by the lenth uv tiem it took the waytur to go and cum with the vittils. I will say this much for Bonnum's. Thar's a heap uv ornymints outside, which givs it a imposinge look. It's a conveenyunt tavun inside, and you see yo aquaintunces thar. But the cetinge is not the best, the free-nigger wayturs is not perlight as they might be, and the funnycher uv the bedd rumes, bought evyduntly seckunhan frum Broun's hotell in Washintun, must uv bin made aridginully out uv Noze Ark, when it wus broke up and sold for kindlinge wood. But things is cleen in the bed rumes, and a man kin sleap in a bedd sevrul thowzin yeers ole jest as eezy as he kin in a neu wun, providinge thar aint no rochis, which thar aint at Bonnum's. They've got a venerbul gray-hard white man at Bonnum's, which wars him a white linnin jackit and a clothes bresh all the tiem, and is naim Romeo-a obliginge ole man as uvver I see. I ast him ef he want the Romeo that Shakespeer spoke uv. He sed he guest he wus, fer he cood'n remembur the tiem when he want livinge. I ast him whar Juleyut wus. He sed he had'n saw her fer sum tiem, but the last he heerd uv her she had marrid a Baptiss preechur on the Eestun Sho uv Merrylun and was doinge well. 
               Heeringe the "Lewisanna" wus goinge to maik a ixcusshun that eveninge doun to Ole Pint Cumfut and reterne its passinjus the next day on bode the Grate Eestun, I had'n much mo than gobbild up my dinner than I took a omnybuss, rode to the wof, and got abode. I were astonisht to sea sich a splendid bote on this Bay Line, littil dreeminge that the trade uv Noffuk, which I thought consisted manely uv muskeeteers, tomarters and sweet-taters, cood support steembotes so magniffysint. But sum gentilmen I got aquaintid with on bode tole me that the Bay Line not only did a fine bizniss in frate, but in passinjus alsoe, which infummashun giv me a bettur opinyun uv the Dismul Swormp rejun. 
               We went on doun the Chessypeak at a swiff rate uv speed, passing menny and menny a sale vessil hasteninge to Balltymo, and not minding the littil stom which thretind us in the reer, but talking abunduntly about the Balltymo and Ohier rale-rode, which the peepil uv Balltymo seem to think equl to the Yawk Rivver or Sowth-side. Whut ignunce! What pezumpshun! We had on a busstin lode uv indyvidjuls, which wus all accommodatid modatid to suppur with eese, and had a plais to sleap besides. I lade doun in my clothes, not knowinge at whut momunt we shood be calld upon to sea the Bigge Shipp. Oftin in the nite as thar wus a onyushul nois, I rose frum my burth and rusht out to sea ef I cood sea the thinge. But thar wus nuthing but the wide warters uv the Bay, the starlite shininge on um, and the steembote plunginge onurd like a live creetur that knew it had to git to a sertin plais by a sertin tiem, and had maid up its mine to git thar or die in the effut. A good menny set up all nite and did'n go to bedd at all. Gazinge out on the varst ixpance uv waters, I cood'n help fealinge like a boy that's at bodinge skool a long ways frum home. Thar wus noboddy to truss to but ourselves, thar in the nite and on the grate deep. But presinly a light wood shine on the sho, in fac, we wus hardly evver out uv site uv one uv um, showinge how the lonely marriner is keered fer by his fello menne. But ef the loanly marriner did'n had no goodes in his ship that peepil wantid, drot the candle or the lamp theyd bern fer him. Sum uv the lights wus steddy, others cum out like a littil spec, blazed up brite, and died doun agin, and kep on a doinge that a way. The diffrunce wus that betwicks the eye uv a straindjir and the eye uv a ole fren, that recognisis you and kindles up to sea you. The seene, as I lookt at it by myself, carrid me bac to ole times, when a sweet littil gearl used to sing Tom Mo's "Light-house" for me; cummencinge- 
                      
                        "The seene was mo bewtifuil far to my eye 
                        Than ef day in its pried had arayd it." 
                     
                   and the lass line- 
                     "Like a star on etunnity's oshun,"
                   meaninge that the lite in the lite-house is like that. It's a bewtyful ole song, and has plezint asosiashuns for me. 
               At last, jest as day was a brakinge, we hove in site uv the Moddun Mereen Monster. She wus sevrul miles off yet, but evvryboddy wus up and a looking with all thar eyes. She lade sorter sideways to us and did'nt look so mighty big neither. But she growd and growd as we upproacht, tel prezenly she wus thar befo our mawtul vizshun, stretched out apun the waives in all the majesty uv her magniffysint pupposhuns. And at that pecise momint the sun popt his hed out uv the briny deep, and terned the red light uv his countenunce on the imposinge scene. Ah! twas a memerbul morning to Addums. The littil Curtiss Peck, which lookt like a butterfly on a logg, cumpard to the Big Vessil, wus fumblinge roun her bough, and menny uther littil skifts and craffs wus movinge aroun her, like a passel uv childun admiring uv a ellefunt. It were not long befo we all got abode. We wus reseeved at the hole we got in by a man drest outlandishly in a spottid callico jump-jackit, a straindge weskut, a red face and a singular hat, that all made him apear like whut a pofane man wood call "a dam foole," which he wus. It wus dark whar we got in. We ascendid a woodin star cais, and went through a terninge style, and next thing I ixpecktid sumboddy to let doun a par uv draw-bars and tern us into a ole field, a clovur parstur, or somethinge uv that sort, but we went on up another star cais and immerged on the varst spais uv the upper deck-a imments plane, as it twas-with here and thar a shanty in the midst, and a row uv trees, which wus the masts. But I shell not atemp to discribe the Grate Eestun. She is the wondur uv the wartry werlde. She cost sicks millyun uv dollurs; is 22,500 tunz buthin; berns 350 tunz uv cole a day; has 6 masts and spreds 6,500 yods uv canvus; kin carry 4,000 passinjus or 10,000 souljurs, which dont requi so much elbo roome as passinjus; takes 4 wheels and 8 men to steer her; she hays 112 funnysis to heat 10 bilers, which drives 8 injines, 4 paddil and 4 scrue. She's got 5 smoak stax; 10 celloons, avridginge 65 feet eech; is hilt all uv irun; with 10 wartur-tite cumpotmints, enny 5 uv which may be filled with wartur, and the ship still flote. Mo-over, she havs 20 life botes, and fier-pumps enuf to squirt 50 tunz uv wartur a minnit. Her offisers antd crue numbar 480. Her ankers ways 250 tunz. All her bulwuks, stanchurs, deck-celloons and housis, are uv sollid mehogginy. And she's a littil over half a quortur uv a mile long. It wood taik a weak to ixamming her thurrowly. 
               When we all seen her, her deck wus derty, in fac she wantid cleening badly all over. They tole me her bottom was kiverd with bornikills a foot thik. The sailers that manned her wus as derty as her dex, the fillthist white men I evver saw. Her offisers, with the ixsepslun uv her Cappin, Jon Vine Haul, wus rather stiff and horty. 
               Fer a long tiem, we wus all bizzy lookinge at the curosities uv the shipp. We wus here, thar, and evvrywhar. Doun in the scrue ingine room, whar the whole floor wus a live mass uv horryzontul mesheenry in insessunt moshun, reminding me subsequntly uv the Rapids at Nighaggry Falls, while the paddil-room, with its gigantic cranks terninge and a terninge over, like a huge torrunt uv mettul, reminded me uv the grate Katterack itself. While we wus lookinge doun frum the upper dec upon the ossillatinge sillenders, bigger than enny hoxid, and the pondrus cranks afosed, a gentilmun maid a remark which struck me. He sais: 
               "Aint you prowd to be a man?" 
               "Well," I sais, "not so mighty much. Why?" 
               "Well," he sais, "jest to look at this tremendus vessil and doun into that cavern, which seams as if it held the mesheenry to tern the werld, and to think that a little bit uv a man, a meer inseck cumpard to all this, should have made it, set it all in moshun, and made it obedeunt to him nite and day, and day arfter day, like a giant slaiv-dont it giv you a high estimmate uv yo speshes?" 
               "Yes," I sais, "sence I cum to think about it, it do." 
               And I walkt off and riz sevrul inchis in my own eyes, and stood under the bridje leedin frum one paddil hous to the uther, rifflecktinge about it. Jest then a vois at my ear sais: 
               "Addums, how are you?" 
               And up cums a Linchbugger, a ole fren, a distinguisht kemmist and luvyer. Uv cose, he wus a Linchbugger. I nuvver went ennywhar yit that I did'nt strike wun uv um. When we took on sum passinjus at Ole Pint, I confidenshully ixpectid a number of my Richmun acquaintances, and countid certin upun Mr. Tomwin. But the only wun I seen wus my naber Broun, and a feu mo. And all uv a sudden, up pops the inevittubbil Linchbugger. Blamed ef they aint evvrywhar in this werld, and I reckin pretty well scattered about in the lower part uv the uther. Ef I wus to sink a shaff into the century uv Mownt Vesoovyus, or Etny, or Pokercattypel, I hav'nt the slightist dout but what I wood find a Linchbugger thar, tryinge to spit the thing out with tubbokker juist. 
               Meentime it were gittinge hard on to 9 o'clock, and the way we all wus hongry wus a cawshun. When it wus anounst that the New Yawk passinjus wus to eet ferst, and we arfter urn, thar like to have bin a seyus row. I think the Britishers tryed to do whut wus right, and ef we all frum Balltymo, Richmun, and uther plaisis, had uv waited pashently we wood uv got as good a brekfuss as the best uv um. But, in spite uv the rules, they all went into the brekfuss room permiscuss, and the consequnts wus that a few got a verry good brekfuss and sum hardly enny a tall. I was wun of the lattur. Notwithstandinge a kine-harted gentilmun giv a Ishmun a quorter to tend to me, all I got wus sum retchid tee, dry bred, no meat and no buttur. A feller handid me a littil stone jar uv orrinje marmlid-"a good substiteut for buttur," the laybil on it sed-but it were mizerbul truck to my tace. Howevvur, I manidjed to git anuf in my craw to keep deth off, and took out the balance in seagars. 
               One sircumstunts I notist that pleezed me mightly. While evvryboddy wus a cussing and a damminge uv the Grate Eestun fer the bad manidgemint about the brekfuss, thar wus one gentilmun which presentid a strikinge contrass to the ress. He not only did'nt grumble at all, but made ixcusis fer the Britishers, shewed the justis uv feedinge the New Yawk passinjus ferst, waitid quiutly tel the croud wus dun, then went to the stewud, and perlightly made known his cais to him; and he got a ferst-rate brekfuss, although he wus the verry lass man that set doun to the tabil. Now this shews how rar treu good breedinge is. Alsoe it shews the vally uv it. This gentilmun wus frum Richmun, and havinge bin a gentilmun all his dais, he did'nt know how to be enny thing else, evin under the tryinge suckumstuntcis on bode the Grate Eestun. It were eesy fer him to act that way, but the mass uv mankine, like my humbull self, when they are right doun hungry, has got no mo idee uv sivvillity and good mannus than a Petusbugger has got a good opinyun of Bigg Richmun. 
               Arfter brekfuss, we all persecutid our reserchis aroun and about, and evvry which away. Sum went heer, and sum went thar, admiringe and wundringe with eyes wide-stretcht and garping mouth, same as a fellar frum Gnawfuk and Potesmuth, when fer the ferst tiem he beholes the marikuls uv Richmun. Mr. Broun and me went forrard, whar a gray-heddid ole chap took us and carrid us doun into the bottumless bowils uv the mighty vescil. He shewd us the anker roome, containinge uv a grate mass uv chane cabil, piled aroun in a woodin pen and much uther irun uv vayus kines. Alsoe he pinted us out the sergery, whar they taik sick men and woondid. Alsoe he ixibbitted the butchers department, in which we seen the slain carcusses uv menny anemils, principully po sheap. Alsoe he opend trap-doors, cuddies, clawzits, and cubbodes innewmrubble, and ixplaind things to us. He sais: 
               "Hall these huppartmints is seprit, and the 'ole ship being hirun, henny part uv hit kin git floodid with warter without doinge 'arm to the huther." 
               You see he were uv that specie uv Inglish which is calld Cockny, and cant pernounts creckly, puttinge in a letter "h" whar it dont belonge, and takin it away when it do. He sais: 
               OLD MAN-"Hall these 'atchis leeding frum one deck to hanuther, is closed hin stommy wether, but thar's a man'ole that hansers the saim puppus." 
               ADDUMS-"A 'man'ole!' and whut in the naim uv sence is a 'man'ole?'" 
               OLD MAN-"A man'ole, sir, is a 'ole to let a man through. It's roun, sir, jest large enuff to git through. Ere's wun, sir." 
               And he shewd me and Mr. Broun wun. Plegg! ef I had'nt thought a "man'ole" and a ole man the saim thinge. Arfterwuds when me and the ole man wus aloan toegether in the anker roome, and a feu salers a playinge uv ceards in a cornder, I ast him his privit apinyun uv the Grate Eestun. 
               OLD MAN-"Well, sir, I hought to know a good ship when I sea wun, fer I've follerd the see, man and boy, fer five and thirty year, and I tel you 'oniss, sir, that this 'ere is the best ship I hevver wus habode. Big as she is, she's as tight and trim as henny yot; 'er moddil is bewtiful, and she taiks the see like no bote I wus hevver hon. But she haint manned proply, nor she haint cleen, sir. The Cap'n is a good Cap'n, but he's got mo than he kin mannidge, and they never will git things strait like a man o' wor's man. She'll pay nothink, sir, tell the Guvvermint taiks a 'olt uv 'er." 
               And that's about the fac, I reckin. Going up stars, I fonnd the passenjus prommenadin about the imments dec, a croud at the wheel under the ornin, aud another croud at the bough. Reckolect its mo than a quorter uv a mile walk to go frum wun eend uv hel to the uther and bac, and when I got to the bough, and lookt bac to the sterne, I cood'n help saying to myself- 
               "Jeemony! whut a magnefeashunt ten-pin ally she'd maik!" So she wood. 
               When looking doun into the warter, it were difficult to relize the fac that you wus further frum the groun than ef you had bin on top the Emerrikin Hotell in Richmun. Yet sich wus the cais. Thar wus a feu ladis on bode, but nun uv um pretty. The Seckreterry uv the ship had him a dorter, which wus the most puffick spesmin uv a Irish gal in the fais that I think I uvver sea-a reel Kathean Mevoovin uv a yung womun. Still she want so mitey pritty. 
               Peepil ameused themself the best way they cood. I went doun into the carpinturs' shopp with a party and had a long talk with wun uv the carpintrus, which thar's fo or fiev uv um in all. When we partid, he giv us eech a littil peece uv wood or sumthinge as a soovnear or keepsake, which mine it wus a brass screw. The mejorrity uv folks wus at the bough, lookinge out upun the sparklinge warters of the Chessapeek, and talkinge with a offiser poastid thar. I notist wun feller, which he wus right drunk on bode the "Lewisanna" in the morninge, and when the Grate Eestun hove in site went about beetin a big plait with a tabil spoon fer a gong. I notist this feller makinge fun uv wun uv the littil Inglish offisers which stood about the middle uv the shipp, and I were feerd thar wus goinge to be a wrow. But the littil offiser tuk it verry well. 
               Gittinge on twards dinner tiem, I heerd thar wus sum mighty good brandy abode, and me and sum frens tride sum in the fom uv a brandy puntch. It were splendid. Goinge doun with the Linchbug man fer my foth dost of puntch, I met the little Inglish offiser, and beinge verry afeckshunit at the momint, threw my arm aroun him and invitid him to jine us, tellinge him it wood giv me grate plezure to taik a drink with a son uv whut the Frentch call "Puffidyus Alyun." He sed "sertny," and way we went. While the puntch wus a mixinge, the folrin breef conversashun insude: 
               ADDUMS-"I reckin, sir, you are grately anoyd by so menny inquizitiv passinjus. Aint you gittinge mighty tired uv um?" 
               LITTIL OFFISER-"Well, yes. It wus a grate bore in New Yawk. But here I dont mind it. The peepil here are verry diffrunt frum those up Noth. Here they are gentilmun; up thar they are rowdies, and puttickulully the party we had doun to Cape May."
                
               Now this testymony, cumming frum the soce it did, is vallybil, and I tel you it dun me good to heer it. I hav giv his ixact werds-no mo. 
               And so that bewtyful Sunday past away, a memerbul wun to me. As we went up the nobil Bay, the littil "Wilyum Colden," (that I've seen and bin on a menny a tiem on the Wrapperhannuck,) the "Jawge Peaboddy," and uther botes, came out to meat us, puffickly blac with peepil, and tride thar best to keepe up with us, but we past um all with the utmos eese. We all set doun to dinner toegether, and it being pretty goode, peepil quit grumblinge. Sune arfter dinner, we reecht the ainshunt toun uv Anoppolis, got off into anuther steembote, bid ajew to the Grate Eestun, and went on to Balltymo, whar I remaind tel Mundy eveninge, without nuthing happninge to me, becaws the Plugugliz and Lottry Offsis has both disappeerd toegether. I intendid to uv hav stayd til Chewsdy morninge, but the Linchbug man deciding finully not to go on the toor with me, and the omnybuss cumminge up to Bonnum's, bringinge anuther Linchbugger, that maid faisis at me sune as he saw me, I pade my bil in a hurry, and at haf past five o'cloc in the eavninge maid trax out uv toun on the Pencilvainyer Centrul Rode, an account wharoff shell be giv in my nex letter. 
                
             
         
       
       
          
             
            THE SERIES WILL CONSIST OF Ten Letters, AS FOLLOWS: 
             
               1. Baltimore and the Great Eastern. 
               2. Midnight Adventure in Pennsylvania, with an account of Sunbury, Elmira and Buffalo. 
               3. Niagara Falls, and the curious people at the Clifton House. 
               4. Toronto, Kingston, the Thousand Isles, the Rapids of the St. Lawrence, Montreal, and the Great Victoria Bridge. 
               5. Quebec at the time of the Prince of Wales' arrival there. 
               6. A trip up the wonderful river Saguenay, Riviere du Loup, Kakouna, Tadoussac, and Ha-Ha Bay. 
               7. The Grand Trunk Railroad, Point Levy, Rochmond, Island Pond, Gorham, Portland and Porsmouth. 
               8. Boston, its Sights, and its People. 
               9. New Port, its Cottages, Carriages and Characters. 
               10. The Manners, Morals, Marvels, Magnificencs, Misery and Merriment of New York. 
             
            PRICE OF THE SERIES-ONE DOLLAR. 
            A Liberal discount to the Trade. Orders must be addressed to 
            
               MACFARLANE & FERGUSSON, 
                
                  Richmond, Va. 
               
             
          
       
   
