
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). The Unknown Countess, or, Crime and Its Results .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5803 wright2-0284
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE UNKNOWN COUNTESS;
               OR, CRIME AND ITS RESULTS.
            
            BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF THE "PRAIRIE FLOWER," "LENI
               LEOTI," "FOREST ROSE," "MIKE FINK," "ELLA BARNWELL," "FEMALE SPY," "ROSALIE DU PONT,"
               "FAIR REBEL," "THE TRAITOR," "BANDITS OF THE OSAGE," "LEAGUE OF THE MIAMI," &c.,
               &c.
            
               CINCINNATI:
               PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES.
            
         
      
      
         
            The unknown countess, or, Crime and its results
            
               
               THE UNKNOWN COUNTESS; OR CRIME AND ITS RESULTS.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Dark was the night, and wild the storm,
                              And loud the torrent's roar.
                           
                        
                        —PERCY.
                     
                  
                  IT was a dark, dreary night on the 18th of November, 18—, as the clock of old
                     St. Paul's chimed forth the hour of eleven; the wind moaned piteously among the
                     roofs and chimneys of the houses, or swept past the dimly-lighted and almost
                     deserted streets of New York, with a howl that made those within, feel thankful
                     they were safely housed, and those without, to draw their cloaks more closely,
                     and press eagerly forward in the hope of soon obtaining a shelter. Signs
                     creaked, shutters groaned as they swung to and fro, doors and windows rattled,
                     while the rain beat against them with all the fury of a cold Autumnal
                     storm.
                  The guardians of the city had already forgotten their nocturnal rounds, in the
                     (to them) more important matters of self, and were snugly ensconced in their
                     old favorite corners, perhaps dreaming of the duties they should have been
                     performing.
                  Before a bright, blazing fire, which seemed even more so, contrasted with the
                     cold, dismal aspect without, in a finely-furnished apartment of a large
                     building standing near what is now called "City Hall Place," sat a
                     dark-complexioned man, of the middling size, apparently about thirty years of
                     age. At the moment he is introduced to reader, his chair was leaning back,
                     supported in its position by his feet, which were placed against the fender—his
                     head bent forward, resting on his left hand, in a manner so as to shade his
                     face, seemingly in a deep study.
                  As the clock of St. Paul's tolled the hour of eleven, he started from his
                     recumbent position, revealing, as he did so, a countenance little calculated to
                     prepossess a stranger in his favor, had there been one present. His face was
                     somewhat of an oval shape—his features regular, well formed, and withal rather
                     handsome, but for a dark sinister expression sion which they conveyed, and a slight sneering
                     smile hovering around his upper lip, engrossing the little beauty there in the
                     more powerful trait of character developed. His forehead was about the medium
                     hight, a little sloping toward the back of the head, surrounded by dark brown
                     hair, parted carelessly from the left, and falling off each way in negligent
                     profusion. His eyes were black and piercing, shaded by dark, heavy brows, at
                     this moment contracted into a sullen frown, resulting, evidently, from some
                     dark thoughts then passing through his mind. His mouth was rather diminutive in
                     size; his lips thin and compressed, and, when taken all in all, the whole
                     expression conveyed was such as is seen only in the most accomplished
                     villains.
                  His cloak, which was thrown across a chair, from which the water was
                     dripping—his boots, drawn and laid before the fire, together with the steam
                     arising from various parts of his dress, were indications of his having been
                     out in the late storm.
                  In a chair to the right, within reaching distance, was a small box, the lid of
                     which was thrown back, displaying a motley assortment of vials, papers,
                     &c., bearing Latin inscriptions, interspersed with pillboxes, denoting his
                     profession, which was that of an M. D.
                  After raising his head, he sat for a moment with his eyes fixed on the fire,
                     then muttering, "It must be done," he leaned forward, dropped his feet from the
                     fender, and struck his knee with his clenched fist, as if by way of giving
                     force to his assertion. Then pausing for a moment, he resumed—"And yet I do not
                     exactly like the business. I would there were some other way. Pshaw! What is
                     it? Only one spasm, and all is over; and what physician does not kill more or
                     less every year?" And as this seemed to be a satisfactory argument, which he
                     had carried on with himself—for there was no other person present—he reached
                     forth his hand and drew the before-mentioned box to him. Here fumbling for a
                     moment, he drew forth a small paper, containing some poisonous drug, and
                     closing the box, returned it to its former place. "This," continued he, holding
                     it toward the light, while a dark smile flitted over his countenance,
                        "this will accomplish my purpose. Now, let me see, how shall I
                     manage it?" and rising from his chair, he commenced pacing the room. "Ah! I
                     have it!" exclaimed he, after a pause of some minutes, during which he had
                     walked hurriedly to and fro; "I have it!" and returning to the fire, he was
                     about resuming his seat, when a ring from the bell connected with the street
                     made him alter his determination, and proceeding at once to the door, he opened
                     it, giving admittance to a figure closely muffled in a hood and cloak, which
                     strode directly past him and approached the fire, throwing off, as it did so,
                     the above-mentioned garments, and revealed the thin, pale features of a woman
                     of twenty-five.
                  "Ha! Mary!" exclaimed the doctor, with a start, closing the door and walking
                     directly in front of her; "what brings you here in a night like this?"
                  "I come from my mistress," was the reply.
                  "And what of your mistress?" asked he quickly.
                  "She is dying, and has sent for you."
                  "Dying!" muttered he: "Thank Heaven, I have saved my dose!" Then turning to
                     Mary, "Art sure she's dying, girl?" and he grasped her arm and looked steadily
                     in her face.
                  "As sure as I am"—you're a villain, she was about to reply, but thinking it not
                     exactly prudent, she checked the expression, and merely said, "as sure as I am
                     here."
                  "Well, then," returned the doctor, "if she is dying, of course my skill cannot
                     save her, and as it is a little windy out, why, you may return, and tell her I
                     am very much obliged for her invitation, but think for the present
                     I will remain within." As he said this, a slight sneer for a moment curled his
                     lip, and resuming his seat by the fire, he requested her not to disturb his
                     evening meditation.
                  "And do you refuse to go?" said Mary, indignantly.
                  "Most assuredly I do, my pretty one," replied he, coolly.
                  "Villain! coward!" exclaimed the other, with a vehemence that made him start,
                     "Is this your treatment of one whom you have ruined; and does your cowardly
                     soul shrink from meeting the victim of your damnable treachery? For shame! for
                     shame!"
                  "Softly, girl—softly, remember where you are," put in the doctor.
                  "Oh, that I were a man," continued she, without heeding the interruption, "if
                     it were only to chastise such inhuman monsters as you!"
                  "Cease!" ejaculated the doctor, in a tone of suppressed rage, springing from
                     his seat, his face livid with passion, his eyes flashing with a demoniacal fury
                     that made the other involuntarily start. "Cease, and do not rouse the tiger in
                     his den, or," he added, in another tone, while his features resumed their
                     habitual calm, sneering smile, "I might have occasion to dispense with your
                     agreeable company rather prematurely."
                  "Fool!" exclaimed the woman, passionately; "I see 'tis useless to bandy words
                     with you."
                  "Spoken like yourself," returned he, ironically; "and as you are quite an adept
                     in eventually arriving at the truth, have the goodness to return and present
                     your mistress with my compliments. Tell her I should be extremely happy to call
                     and see her, but the weather is so rough without that I must omit it, at least
                     for the present."
                  "And can you, who call yourself a human being—can you be so lost to all moral
                     feelings as to send such a message to a dying woman, and one whom
                        you—ha! you need not look so fierce—I repeat it,
                        you have ruined, degraded, and brought to a premature
                     death!"
                  
                  "Leave the room, girl," said he, stamping his foot in rage. "How dare you speak
                     to me in this manner?"
                  "Dare?" repeated she scornfully. "Who speaks of dare?
                     Think you to frighten me? No! were you a hundred times the fiend you are, I
                     would tell you so!"
                  "Leave the room!" again repeated he, in a voice of thunder, his passion getting
                     complete mastery of him.
                  "I shall go when I please," said she, haughtily, drawing herself up to her full
                     hight.
                  "I will stand this insolence no longer. Go peaceably, if you will—if not, by
                     force you shall!"
                  "Until I have had my say, I move not an inch, though you were ten times what
                     you seem."
                  "Ha! say you so!" exclaimed he, springing toward her like a tiger bounding upon
                     his prey.
                  "Hold!" cried she fiercely, in a tone that made him pause; "for if you do but
                     lay hands on me, by the heavens above us, I swear to plunge this to your
                     heart's core!" And drawing a dagger from the folds of her dress as she spoke,
                     she brandished it before his eyes. The doctor, evidently not prepared for this,
                     started back in amazement. "Ha, coward! you thought I was unarmed, did you? You
                     should have known me better than to think I would venture into the presence of
                     such a scoundrel without some means of securing me from violence, if not
                     insult. People generally go armed when they visit the tiger's
                     den—do they not?" This last was said tauntingly, but ere he had time to reply,
                     she resumed in a more serious tone—"You have refused the request of a dying
                     woman—one, too, whom you have basely and treacherously dishonored. Now mark
                     me"—and she raised her finger, speaking in a low, distinct voice: "I know her
                     well, and if you would not have all the curses of hell invoked upon your guilty
                     head, you must see her within half an hour. Ha! you start—turn pale—you
                     tremble! Remember, I have said!" and resuming her cloak and hood,
                     she abruptly left the room.
                  The doctor, for a moment, seemed stupified with horror, so much had her last
                     words and manner affected him; for, like most all great villains, he was a
                     coward at heart, and Mary adopted the only course that would have gained her
                     purpose. Recovering himself, he muttered, "I must go." Drawing on his boots
                     rather hastily, and wrapping his cloak, which was still wet, about him, he rang
                     a small bell, and as the servant entered, bade him await his return, saying he
                     had a call which he must attend, and proceeding to the door, he was soon lost
                     in the darkness of the night, buffeting with the storm.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              There jealous Fury drowns in blood the fire
                              That sparkled in the eye of young Desire;
                              And lifeless Love lets merciless Despair
                              From his crush'd frame his bleeding pinions tear.
                           
                        
                        HAYLEY.
                     
                  
                  THAT part of New York lying between two of its greatest thoroughfares, viz:
                     Bowery and Broadway, in and about the vicinity known as the "Five Points,"
                     presents at the present day a scene of the utmost degradation and misery. Those
                     who have never visited this part of the city can have but a faint conception of
                     the wretchedness which there exists. The houses (if such they can be called)
                     are for the most part of low, wooden structure, and, to judge by their
                     appearance, have stood for more than a century. They are fast sinking to decay,
                     and already, in many places, the timbers have rotted away, the buildings have
                     settled, thereby leaning the upper parts in a manner so as to appear in the act
                     of falling.
                  The windows present a motley assortment of boards, tin, glass, and old cast-off
                     garments. The doors, as they swing on their rusty hinges, send forth harsh,
                     discordant sounds, altogether in keeping with the wretchedness of the
                     place.
                  They are the abodes of human beings sunk in the lowest grades (for there are
                     grades even in this) of filth and debauchery, lost to all moral or virtuous
                     feelings, eking out a miserable existence, their voices cracked and harsh,
                     loaded with obscene jests, oaths, and blasphemies of the most infamous
                     character Many of them, in the winter season, are without food or fire, with
                     barely garments sufficient to cover their nakedness, and not unfrequently do
                     they die of starvation.
                  Yes, reader, 'tis no idle assertion in that great emporium, known a New York,
                     queen of this western world, while the glittering carriage of some wealthy
                     aristocrat is rolling over the pavements of Broadway, the sounds of its wheels
                     are, perhaps, grating harshly on the ears of some poor human being who is dying
                     for the want of food. However startling these things may seem to one
                     unacquainted with such scenes, they are, we regret to say it, too true.
                  If there was not so much of misery and destitution at the time of which we
                     write, it was owing, undoubtedly, to the population being far less, and of
                     course these dens of infamy were not as densely crowded as at the present day.
                     Still then, as well as now, they were the haunts of dissipation, where crime
                     threw off the mask, and stalked boldly abroad, the hideous, but acknowledged,
                     monarch of these fallen beings.
                  From time immemorial such things have existed, and down to the end of time they
                     will undoubtedly continue, (unless mankind should become regenerated either by
                     the Millenium, Fourierism, Millerism, or some other ism,) wherever there is a
                     population like New York; and as there has as yet been found no remedy, they
                     have become to be considered as among
                     the necessary evils contingent upon the human race. As such we must beg leave
                     to consider them, and pass on without further comment.
                  In a narrow, filthy alley, winding in a serpentine manner among several blocks
                     of low, dingy buildings, not far distant from the "Five Points," stood, at the
                     time of which we write, a two-story wooden building, of somewhat better
                     appearance than its neighbors, but evidently the abode of poverty. At the same
                     hour which opens our tale in the preceding chapter, from a small patched window
                     in the second story of this building, might be seen a faint light, indicating
                     its being inhabited.
                  To this, then, we must transport the reader, without any of those Hourishes
                     attendant upon a performer of magic, but in a car of an instant's creation,
                     riding the air with the speed of thought, and known by the name of Fancy.
                     Passing at once up a flight of narrow, creaking stairs, and turning to the
                     left, we open a crazy door, through the crevices of which a faint light is
                     struggling, as if with an effort to overcome the darkness, and enter the room
                     already mentioned.
                  Lying on a miserable pallet, in one corner of this apartment, and literally
                     covered with rags—her head resting on her left hand, with her elbow inclined
                     downward, in a manner so as to support it with as much ease as possible—was a
                     woman, in what might be termed the prime of life. From the outlines of her
                     features, she might once have been handsome; but whatever she might have been,
                     no beauty was there now. Her cheeks were thin, pale, and sunken; her eyes wild,
                     even to madness, and glared about with a 
                        manaical
                        maniacal
                      fury that told the wreck of all earthly hopes; her hair, loose and
                     dishevelled, clustered about her face and neck; and at this moment her features
                     were distorted, as if with pain, while the death-rattle in her throat announced
                     the misery of life to be near its final close. The tempest without raged with a
                     tremendous fury, making the house rock on its foundations; while the wind
                     rushed through here and there a crevice, with a low, moaning sound, well suited
                     to the gloom within.
                  Standing near the bed, with her face turned toward the sufferer, was a female,
                     enveloped in a long, dark mantle and hood, from the former of which the water
                     was dripping, and forming little puddles on the floor, denoting her late
                     arrival from without. A few paces distant from where she stood was a small
                     trundle bed, on which lay a child—happily too young to be conscious of its
                     misery—locked in the sweet embraces of sleep. A few indispensable articles, one
                     or two broken chairs, a rough table, on which burnt a small tallow candle,
                     completed the furniture of the apartment.
                  "And what said he, Mary?" inquired the invalid to some previous conversation
                     which had passed be-between her and the other.
                  "He refused," was the reply.
                  "Refused?" repeated the woman, raising herself still more in the bed, her eyes
                     glaring fiercely. "Refused, said you?"
                  "Even so."
                  "And—and did you tell him all?" said she, breathlessly.
                  "I did."
                  "And what said he then?"
                  "I waited not for his reply, but left him pale and trembling."
                  "Then he will come," returned the invalid; "nothing like working upon his
                     fears;" and as she spoke with evident exertion, she sank back upon the bed
                     completely exhausted.
                  For a few minutes neither spoke; the sufferer was the first to break the
                     silence. "Hark!" exclaimed she, springing up suddenly, "I hear his step already
                     on the stairs!" and the next moment the door opened and a middle-sized man,
                     wrapped in a cloak, strode into the room and approached the bed.
                  "Well, Edward Barton, you have come at last," said the dying woman, glancing
                     upon him with her fire-like eyes.
                  "Yes, I have come," returned the doctor—for the reader will at once recognize
                     that it was he—"and I would fain know why I have come. Why have I
                     been sent for in a night like this?"
                  "The first, because you feared to stay away; the last, to see me die!" replied
                     the other, in a deep, hollow voice.
                  "And could not you die as well without my being present?"
                  "No! I would have you witness the misery which you have created?"
                  "If that is all, I may as well return," said the doctor,
                     sneeringly.
                  "'Tis not all," returned she, with emphasis, raising herself in
                     bed and pointing to where the child lay sleeping. "Look there!"
                  "And what of that?" inquired he unable to comprehend her meaning.
                  "There sleeps my child—my sweet, innocent child. I would fain have it provided
                     for when I am gone, and you, Edward, must be its guardian."
                  "Me!" exclaimed he, in amazement. "Me be its guardian?"
                  "Ay! Edward Barton must, and swear to protect it!"
                  "And what if I refuse?"
                  "You dare not."
                  "Say you so? Then know I do refuse."
                  "Refuse!" screamed she, her eyes glaring still more wildly, and raising her
                     right hand, "Refuse! Then may all the direst curses of —"
                  "Hold! cried he. "Do not curse me! Sooner than that, I will take the oath."
                  "Then swear," said she, "in the sight of Heaven, as God shall be your judge,
                     and as you hope for salvation, to honor, cherish and protect that child, called
                     Marianne La Roix."
                  "I swear."
                  "And," continued she, in a kind of prophetic voice, "as you fulfill your sacred
                     vow, so may your past crimes be forgiven. But if you disregard it, may your
                     life be a life of penury and woe, loathed by your own kind, an outcast upon the
                        world abhorred by yourself, and
                     your death a death of infamy and disgrace. So invoke I the powers of darkness
                     to see it fulfilled." As she ceased she sank back completely
                     exhausted: while the storm-rocked house seemed to groan to its very center, as
                     if in witness of this solemn invocation. For a few minutes no one spoke, and
                     the moaning wind and the rushing storm were the only sounds that broke the
                     stillness of the chamber of death.
                  During this time the invalid seemed to recover her strength, and with much
                     effort she again raised herself in bed; but the unwonted fire of her eyes was
                     gone, and in its place was the fixed, dull, glassy look of death.
                     "Water—water," she murmured, in a faint and almost inaudible voice, while she
                     reached forth her hand and seemed beckoning to some one at a distance. Water
                     was quickly given her by Mary, who, since the entrance of the doctor, had
                     remained a silent spectator of the whole proceedings. This revived her, and she
                     said, in a low, but distinct voice, "Where is my child?"
                  "Here," replied Mary, walking at once to where the child lay sleeping, throwing
                     off her cloak as she did so, and, raising it in her arms, she brought it to the
                     side of its mother. It was a sweet little thing, of three years, and, opening
                     and rubbing its eyes, looked first at Mary and then at the sufferer, and
                     murmured, "Mother."
                  "Give it me—give it me!" cried the dying woman, almost frantic, and supporting
                     her while she did so, Mary placed the child in her arms. Covering it with
                     kisses, in which the icy chill of death already mingled, she pressed it to her
                     bosom again and again, with all the fond and passionate devotion of a
                     mother.
                  "Alas, Marianne! I must leave you," said she, struggling to be calm
                  "Leave me?" repeated the child, in a soft, sweet voice, not comprehending its
                     mother's meaning.
                  "Yes, Marianne, I am dying."
                  "Dying?" again repeated the child,
                  "Yes, my dear—you will never see me again."
                  "Mother!" exclaimed Marianne, passionately, the tears starting in her little
                     eyes, at the same time nestling to her bosom, where she clung as if in fear of
                     being torn away.
                  "Oh, God! oh, God!" cried the dying woman, wringing her hands in agony; "I
                     could have borne anything but this!" while the tears streamed down Mary's face,
                     and even the doctor, who stood as if rooted to the spot, seemed also somewhat
                     affected. In a moment she regained her former calmness, and in a low, tremulous
                     voice, said,
                  "Edward, to you I now resign the last tie of affection that could bind me to
                     this world. Remember your oath."
                  At the altered voice of her mother the girl again looked up, and in the same
                     sweet voice, said—
                  "You will not leave me, mother?'
                  "I must, my child."
                  "But you will come back again?"
                  "No, I can never come back," said she, her voice choked with emotion.
                  "Then what will become of little Marianne?" said the child—an appellation often
                     used by her mother.
                  "That gentleman," pointing to the doctor, "will take care of you; you must be
                     his child."
                  Marianne turned, and fastening her eyes upon the doctor, drew back with an
                     instinctive shudder. Nestling still closer to her mother, she exclaimed—
                  "No, no, no! I can never be his child. I will go with you!"
                  "I would to God you could," murmured she, faintly gasping for breath.
                  Mary, who now saw she was in the last struggles of death, eased her down and
                     took Marianne from her arms—not, however, without considerable reluctance on
                     the part of the child.
                  "Mary," said the feeble voice of the dying woman, after the lapse of perhaps a
                     minute, "come here."
                  "I am here—what is your wish?"
                  "Come nearer—I cannot see you."
                  Mary now came close to the bed, and took the invalid's hand in her own. It was
                     already cold.
                  "Stoop down," said she; and as Mary bent over her, she continued—"If that man
                     should forget his oath, you will sometimes look after my child, will you
                     not?"
                  "I will," replied the other, squeezing her hand.
                  "God bless you," she sighed, faintly struggling for breath; then partly raising
                     herself in bed, she gasped, "Ma-ri-anne"—the name died on her lips.
                  "Mother," said the child.
                  Alas! poor thing! Its mother could never answer it again. She sank back, dead!
                     The storm howled on—she heeded it not—she was dead! The struggles and trials of
                     life (and poor woman, they had been many with her) were now over. She had
                     fallen a prey to misfortune—she had tasted of the bitter cup—ay, and drained it
                     to its very dregs. But her account, whether for good or bad, was now
                     closed—scaled till the great day of judgment. * * *
                  When the doctor returned that night, the servant was much surprised on
                     perceiving with him a small child. Curiosity was much excited within him to
                     know whence it came, and for what purpose it was there; but knowing his master
                     was not one of the most amiable persons in the world, he deemed it the most
                     prudent course to be silent and have patience, and therefore received his
                     orders passively, which were to have the child well taken care of, call it
                     Marianne, and ask no questions.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              And well the imposter knew all lures and arts
                              That Lucifer e'er taught to tangle hearts.
                           
                        
                        MOORE.
                     
                  
                  IT now becomes our duty, for the further development of our tale, to go back
                     somewhat in the history of the individual who closed her unfortunate career in
                     the preceding chapter, not only to gratify the curiosity of the reader, but
                     also to clear up some points which otherwise must ever remain clouded in
                     mystery.
                  
                  Born of respectable parents, in one of the Eastern States, she had been well
                     educated, and was married at the somewhat early age of eighteen. Her husband
                     dying within the year, left her a widow at nineteen. Two years from this, she
                     wedded Eugene La Roix, a Frenchman, who, at the time, was traveling on a
                     pleasure excursion through the country. Falling in with her in one of his
                     travels, he sought and obtained her hand within three months from their first
                     interview. He was by birth a nobleman, but 
                        ownig
                        owning
                      to some new party coming into power, he was obliged to leave his
                     country, and, managing to take a considerable amount of money with him, he had
                     thus far spent his time in traveling; but quitting this on his marriage, he
                     with his wife removed to New York, where they were enabled to live in a state
                     of easy independence.
                  They had been married about three years, and had one child, a daughter, on whom
                     they doted with all the fond affection of two loving parents, when some
                     sickness in the family requiring the aid of a physician, the nearest one was
                     sent for, which unfortunately for them, chanced to be Doctor Barton.
                  Not even the serpent who tempted our first mother to partake of the forbidden
                     fruit, possessed more cunning and guile than this same individual. Without any
                     principle himself, he deemed all of the same stamp, and no sooner had he
                     planned some hellish scheme, than he set his wits to work, sparing neither time
                     nor money,—not caring by what means it was accomplished, so that his end was
                     finally gained. By cunning and intrigue, he had amassed considerable property,
                     and had married a woman about five years previous, merely because she was rich,
                     neither caring for the other farther than their mutual interests were
                     concerned.
                  Among his associates—and they were few, of a similar character—he was known as
                     an accomplished rake. Rather handsome in appearance than otherwise, and,
                     possessed of great affability of manner—of a lively, witty turn, when such was
                     requisite to further his designs—he rarely, if ever, failed of his intended
                     victim.
                  On the other hand, no sooner was his purpose gained, than he threw off the mask
                     and stood revealed the damnable hypocrite he was. His taciturn disposition, his
                     sullen and morose temper, soon left his victims open to his true character; but
                     alas! only in time to know they were irrevocably lost.
                  Such is but an imperfect sketch of the individual with whom we open our tale,
                     and who, by his profession, was introduced into the family of La Roix some time
                     previous.
                  Had Madame La Roix been like the generality of her sex, it is more than
                     probable she would have lived and died the happy and acknowledged wife of her
                     husband. But there was a something about her, although it might not be termed
                     beauty, which was very fascinating; and the doctor, at once struck with her
                     appearance, resolved from the first to work her ruin. Being successful in the
                     case which had required his aid, and, as we before remarked, possessing that
                     faculty which could win the favor of all whom he sought, it is scarcely to be
                     wondered at that an intimacy should spring up between him and Madame La Roix,
                     which, of course, he embraced every means to cultivate; and so well did he
                     finally succeed, that they considered him as an intimate friend, and he passed
                     in and out as one of the family. Both Monsieur and Madame La Roix were people
                     of high spirits, and withal possessed of a touch of jealousy. This the doctor
                     perceived, and determined to use these as weapons to complete his villainous
                     scheme. As yet not a word of discord had ever passed between them, and,
                     delighted with each other's society, they lived together (as the phrase goes)
                     as happy as heart could wish.
                  It had now been six months since the introduction of the doctor in the way
                     already related, and everything went on smoothly. About this time La Roix had
                     some business which required his attendance at Albany, and learning this some
                     days prior to his departure, and learning also that he expected to receive some
                     letters there through the post-office, Barton determined to improve this
                     opportunity to achieve his long-meditated design, and accordingly devised a
                     scheme which gained his end, and at the same time ruined the peace of a happy
                     family.
                  As it was La Roix's intention of being absent some considerable length of time,
                     Barton addressed a letter to him, dated the second day from his leaving New
                     York, wherein it stated, if he would save his wife from disgrace, he must
                     immediately return, as the writer had overheard of her intended elopement with
                     Doctor Barton, (who, by the way, it stated was a most consummate villain;) that
                     they were already collecting the plate and preparing to leave; and, finally,
                     concluded by saying, unless he returned without the least possible delay, he
                     would find his house deserted. This epistle appeared to be written in a female
                     hand, and was signed "A Friend."
                  La Roix received and read this in astonishment. At first he seemed disposed to
                     doubt it; but calling to mind the close intimacy of his wife and the doctor, it
                     flashed upon him like a truth, the more so as he believed it came from Mary,
                     the servant, and with indescribable feelings of love, hatred, and jealousy, he
                     set out upon his return. In the mean while, Barton, rightly judging the effect
                     such information would produce on one of La Roix's jealous disposition,
                     prepared a similar dose for his wife. By sending his servant to Albany, a
                     letter was placed in the post-office there, (dated there of course,) and
                     directed to Madame La Roix, which she in due time received. It read as
                     follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR MADAME.—I am extremely loth to be the writer of unwelcome intelligence, (which to a
                                 woman of your proud bearing and high standing in society I know
                                 must be) but, sooth to say, your husband is playing you a
                                 villainous trick, having already agreed to elope with a woman, who
                                 is no better than she should be; and is even now on his return to
                                 collect his most valuable articles, under pretence that he is
                                 jealous of you. I would advise you to collect and secrete your
                                 plate, jewelry, &c., ere his return. You may rely upon this
                                 intelligence as the truth, which his sudden return will prove—and
                                 nothing save my abhorrence for such proceedings, my strict
                                 adherence to justice, and your personal welfare, could have induced
                                 me to indite this epistle. My name, or how I obtained this
                                 information, must ever remain a secret. Sufficient for you that I
                                 remain your
                              
                                 FRIEND.
                              
                           
                           
                              "P. S.—I understand this woman is from New York—that she and your
                                 husband have held secret correspondence of late—and that her maiden
                                 name is Caroline."
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  The doctor was present when Madame received this letter, and at the time was
                     carelessly conversing upon some light topic, merely remarking as it was handed
                     her, "From your husband, I suppose?"
                  "Yes," replied she, her eyes lighting up with joy, and eagerly breaking the
                     seal; but as she glanced at the contents her countenance changed, and Barton
                     read in the proud, haughty flash of her eyes the success of his plot.
                  "Ah!" said he, inquiringly, appearing to misunderstand the meaning of her
                     looks—"Bad news?"
                  "Yes!" returned she, abruptly.
                  "Your husband—nothing has befallen him, I hope!"
                  "No—yes—that is—read that letter," stammered she, handing it to him—"read that,
                     and judge."
                  The doctor took the letter, and pretending to read it, suddenly sprang up from
                     his seat, and striking his clenched fist on the table near which he was
                     sitting, indignantly exclaimed, "Villain! How could he dare thus treacherously
                     to treat a loving and affectionate wife!" Then seeming to think for a moment,
                     he resumed—"Yes, and now I recollect I have another proof of his villainy—read
                     this;" and taking a crumpled letter from his pocket, bearing date about a week
                     previous, he handed it to Madame La Roix, who, perceiving it was addressed to
                     her husband, hurriedly opened it, and read thus:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR EUGENE.—I think in a week from this I shall be prepared to
                                 leave, and will meet you in Albany, where you can pretend you have
                                 gone upon important business. Be as loving as ever to your wife, so
                                 as to avoid all suspicion. Should anything happen to delay my
                                 departure, I will give you due notice of the same. Adieu until we
                                 meet.
                              
                                 "CAROLINE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "That," said the doctor, in continuation,—as having read it she murmured
                     "Scoundrel,"—"That I picked up on the morning of his departure, near the door
                     of his library, and placed it in my pocket, with the intention of showing it to
                     you, thinking it must have been intended as a joke, where, sooth to say, it has
                     remained forgotten until this moment."
                  It is needless to add that this was likewise a forgery; but coming so suddenly
                     upon Madame La Roix, and the singular coincidence of the two letters, she would
                     as soon have doubted the verity of holy writ as one line which they contained;
                     for not the least shade of suspicion crossed her mind regarding the doctor, he
                     being, as before remarked, considered only as an intimate friend, and having as
                     yet, never in any way, by word or actions, said or done aught in the least
                     repugnant to the most delicate feelings of a loyal wife. It is not surprising
                     then, that, placed in such a dilemma, and scarcely knowing what would be proper
                     for one so circumstanced, she should naturally turn to the doctor for advice,
                     which she did.
                  This was the consummation of his long secret hopes, and when he heard the
                     question, "Doctor, how would you advise me to act?" he felt his intended victim
                     was already caught in the net which must prove her ruin; and it was, therefore,
                     with an almost irrepressible gleam of triumph sparkling in his eyes that he
                     answered:
                  "Leave him at once; collect your most valuable articles and leave here; in
                     doing thus you will wound him with his own weapons."
                  "But what if there should be some mistake?" said she, doubtfully.
                  "There can be no mistake," said the doctor, "where two such letters go to prove
                     the same thing; and even if there were, no harm could accrue to being in
                     readiness for such an emergency; and if, as you hope, they should prove false,
                     you will only have had some little unnecessary trouble; whereas, on the other
                     hand, should it prove as you fear, and your husband return in the manner stated
                     in the letter and for the purpose therein represented, you will at least have a
                     noble revenge by counteracting his villainous design."
                  "True," said she, thoughtfully; "but my child—what of her?"
                  The doctor mused a moment, and then replied, "Why take her with you, of
                     course."
                  "Take her with me?" repeated the woman, sorrowfully. "Where shall I go. Pride
                     forbids me to seek my friends, who are, in fact, but friends of money. To whom
                     can I look for protection?"
                  "Madame," returned the doctor, soothingly, "I will provide for
                     you—ay, and if needs be, protect you with my life. I have long admired—yes,
                     loved; nay, start not, turn not away; I repeat it, I have fondly, devotedly and
                     passionately loved you, and, were my life required to prove my devotion, it
                     should be freely given. Owing to my strict code of honor, I have thus far
                     refrained from this declaration, and had your husband proved true, I should
                     have gone down to my grave with this
                     secret closely locked within my breast. Nor even now would I avow my passion,
                     but I feared a false delicacy might debar you the privilege of looking to me
                     for that protection which, to render, will prove one of the happiest and
                     proudest moments of my life."
                  At any other time, and under any other circumstances, such an avowal would have
                     been met with the contempt it deserved. As it was, it was received coldly and
                     in silence.
                  But why need we recount all the wiles, intrigues, and soft persuasions of this
                     villain; so well was his plot laid, and so well did he play his part, that not
                     even a suspicion of the real facts crossed the minds of either party. Each
                     believed the other to blame; nor were they ever undeceived, the doctor being
                     one shrewd enough to keep his own secrets.
                  When La Roix returned, he found his wife in company with the doctor, all the
                     articles of value packed away, and they seemingly on the eve of departure, as
                     the letter had stated. Being, as we before remarked, of a proud, jealous
                     disposition, high words ensued, each accusing the other, until, as the doctor
                     had foreseen, it resulted in their final separation,—she taking with her the
                     child and the servant, who preferred following the fortunes of her mistress to
                     seeking a new home.
                  They never met again. He, a short time afterward receiving notice of his titles
                     being restored to him, sailed for France, glad to leave a country which had
                     nearly proved fatal to his peace; and she, becoming the victim of the doctors
                     passion, learnt, alas! too late, that soft words do not always spring from
                     tender hearts. Her money failing her within a year, and receiving nothing from
                     her seducer, she was barely able to subsist by what little Mary earned; and
                     being constantly exposed, she caught a violent cold, and fever setting in, she
                     terminated her existence, as has already been seen, in the utmost degradation
                     and misery. The doctor previously becoming tired of his victim, had deserted
                     her, and fearing an issue in which he might figure publicly, he was, when first
                     introduced to the reader, secretly planning her destruction, which fate
                     prevented, and saved him the additional crime of MURDER!
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Sardanapalus.
                              —I speak of woman's love.
                           
                           
                              Myrrha.
                              
                                 —The very first
                                 Of human life must spring from woman's breast,
                                 Your first small words are taught you from her lips,
                                 Your first tears quenched by her, and your last sighs
                                 Too often breathed out in a woman's hearing,
                                 When men have shrunk from the ignoble care
                                 Of watching the last hour of him who led them.
                              
                           
                           
                              Sardanapalus.
                              —My eloquent Ionian, thou speakest music.
                           
                        
                        TRAGEDY OF SARDANAPALUS.
                     
                  
                  THE mighty stream of time flows on, and fifteen years have been numbered with
                     the past since the opening of our tale. And what are fifteen years? A mere
                     speck upon the stream of time, and lost, completely lost, beside the boundless
                     ocean of eternity. And yet, withal, how many changes may be wrought in that
                     short space of time! Let but the mighty womb of Time be pregnant with events,
                     and fifteen years may bring them forth so that the nations of the earth will
                     stand aghast and wonder! Trace back five years previous to the glorious '76,
                     and see what wondrous change was wrought in fifteen years!
                  America, our own dear, happy land was wrenched from out the tyrant's grasp,—her
                     sons, her noble sons, made free—and she became a nation of the earth! The
                     soaring eagle sought her new-born flag and waved it over the world, exulting
                     that there was a land, a nation, free as her own native eyrie!
                  
                     
                        And tyrants read in every stripe and star,
                        That God was with us in that glorious war.
                     
                  
                  Take but the common course of events, and how many thousands—ay, millions—who
                     but fifteen years ago were in the pride and glory of their strength, and who
                     bid fair for long and useful life, are now sleeping in their cold and silent
                     tombs, save by a kindred few, forgotten!
                  To-day is ours—so reads the world—and we whirl along amid the giddy, and, we
                     might say, maddening vortex of busy life, heedless and unthinking; 
                        
                           And soon with those who've gone before
                           We're numbered, and are known no more.
                        
                     
                  
                  It was a lovely morning in June, and the sun was just peeping o'er the eastern
                     hills, throwing abroad his golden rays, tipping the hills and tree-tops with
                     his mellow light, and giving to nature that fascinating beauty which only the
                     sun of a summer's morn can give. All nature was alive with music. The little
                     minstrels had tuned their silvery voices, and were pouring forth their sweet,
                     enchanting strains, as if to thank 'their Maker for the glorious day. A soft
                     and balmy breeze swept over the fields, here and there stealing the perfume of
                     some lovely flower with a gentle kiss, and, wafting on, diffused it where it
                     went—then pouring in among the trees, stirred the young leaves to dance, and
                     made them rustle forth a chorus to the joyful song of nature.
                  All was life and commotion in the great metropolis of New York. There were
                     thousands hurrying to and fro along the noisy streets to commence their daily
                     tasks. Here might be seen the merchant, with anxious look and absent gaze, deep
                     in study for some plan of future gain; there the clerk, thrice charged with the
                     important business of his master, together with the mechanic and laboring man.
                     Rich and poor, old and young, male and female, all passing on to their destined
                     ends, 
                        
                           Each in his own
                           Thoughts wrapped up, and heeding not the other.
                        
                     
                  
                  Omnibuses, cabs, drays, carts, &c., rolled over the pavements, with their
                     horses fiercely urged, as though life and death were hanging on the issue,
                     creating a din and confusion known only to city life; while ever and anon above
                     the thunder-like rumble rose the shrill voices of the hawkers, as he or she named the articles of which they
                     would dispose.
                  About a stone's throw distant from where we first opened our tale, there
                     stands—or stood at the time of which I write—a large elegant building, entered
                     by five marble steps, and fronting one of the most pleasant, as well as
                     popular, streets of the city. In the second story of this building was a large
                     airy room, both tastefully and costly furnished, to which, for the present, we
                     must direct the reader's attention.
                  The floor of this apartment was concealed under a rich Turkey carpet, on which
                     stood several mahogany chairs, one or two sofas—all of which were arranged
                     along the walls in tasteful order. In the center stood a round marble-top
                     table, on which lay a guitar, several pieces of music, together with a
                     collection of gilt-bound books, most of which were poems. Directly opposite to
                     each other, so as to give a double reflection, were two large mirrors, on
                     either side of which hung several portraits in beautiful gilt frames; while the
                     remainder of the marble-like walls were relieved by other paintings of various
                     descriptions, some of which had undoubtedly been executed by old masters. At
                     the windows hung rich damask silk curtains, through which poured in a golden
                     flood of light, softened and mellowed, giving to all within a rich and
                     beautiful appearance.
                  At one of these windows, which was partly open, sat a lovely blooming damsel,
                     apparently about eighteen years of age, her lily-white hand resting upon the
                     sill, gazing forth into the street, but altogether unconscious of what she saw,
                     for her thoughts had wandered far away to another, and to her more pleasing
                     theme. Beautiful she was alike in form and feature; but there was even more
                     than that—there was an expression, a soul-like expression, in her countenance,
                     which told of thoughts and feelings superior to most of her sex. Her eyes (and
                     what are eyes, but mirrors of the mind?) were bright, of a dark blue color,
                     shaded with soft silken lashes, and varying according to the mood of their
                     owner. If roused to ire, their expression was flashing and fiery; if mirthful,
                     sparkling and animating; if sad, (and at present they were of the latter cast,)
                     they were soft and gentle as those of a lamb. Her hair was of a dark auburn
                     color, and hung over her snowy neck in long golden ringlets, on which the
                     gentle rays of the rising sun lingered and trembled as it waved to and fro in
                     the balmy breeze, giving to it the beautiful variation of light and shade so
                     far superior to the most delicate touches of the pencil. Her checks had caught
                     the rosy tint of morning, but drawn with a finer and lovelier hue, it seemed
                     but the reflection in miniature. About her mouth there was a sweet, smiling
                     expression, over which presided two cherry lips, which might tempt even a rigid
                     monk to forego awhile the thoughts of spiritual for a taste of such earthly
                     bliss. And there she sat gazing forth into the street—a thing so lovely, so
                     gentle—she seemed rather an angel awaiting to bear away the spirit of the just,
                     than one of mortal mold.
                  Unperceived by her, another entered the room and approached, gazing the while
                     upon her lovely countenance with an admiration he could ill conceal, had he
                     been so disposed. This was a comely young man of twenty, of fine form and noble
                     bearing, dressed in the uniform of an American naval officer. His most
                     remarkable feature was an open frankness, so clearly expressed in his
                     countenance, that it required no great adept in the study of human nature to
                     tell that his was an easy conscience and guileless heart. Resolved not to
                     disturb her meditations, he stood a few paces distant, watching her with
                     intense interest, and, as 'twere, reading her very thoughts, for he rightly
                     imagined those thoughts were of him.
                  At length, starting from her revery with a sigh, she pushed back her glossy
                     ringlets, and, without altering her position, seemed to give her thoughts vent
                     in words. "Ah, me! why am I thus sad? Why doth everything wear a gloom? All
                     nature is lovely and joyful without. I see the crowd of passers-by—each wears a
                     pleasant look; I hear the merry laugh ring loud and long—and yet all falls upon
                     my senses shadowed o'er with gloom. What is the cause? Alas! I fear it bodes no
                     good. Oh, Henry! I would that thou wert here. I—"
                  "My own dear Marianne!" exclaimed the young man, springing forward, unable to
                     control himself any longer.
                  With a bound like that of the startled roe, with an exclamation of surprise and
                     joy, Marianne sprung from her seat, and the next instant the lovers were locked
                     in each other's embrace. O, joyful moment that, when heart unites with
                     heart—when soul with soul commingles! It is the acme of earthly bliss. Years of
                     toil were deemed repaid in one sweet moment such as that Let none despise pure,
                     virtuous love. Love is a noble passion, planted within our breasts by Him who
                     made us—a holy flame, lit by the torch of the Eternal. 'Tis our redeeming
                     trait—the very essence of our being—and if we ever reach that happy place,
                     'twill be our triumphant song in Heaven.
                  There is a joy too deep for words. The fountains of the heart may be so stirred
                     as to o'erflow with thoughts and feelings gushing in one mighty flood for
                     utterance, until the tongue, o'erborne with numbers, will be choked to silence.
                     Such was the joy of the lovers, as, withdrawn from each other's embrace, they
                     stood for a moment gazing upon each other. Marianne was the first to speak.
                  "O, Henry!" exclaimed she, the gentle blush mantling her face, and her eyes
                     lighting up with pleasure, "what prosperous breeze wafted you back so soon? It
                     lacks three months to a day of the time you told of returning, for I have
                     counted the days over and over again—ay, and divided them into hours, and counted even the hours. But, tell me,
                     what brought you back so soon?"
                  "In fact, I scarcely know," replied Henry; "for in my joy of meeting with you,
                     Marianne, I heeded not the cause which gave me the pleasure, though I believe
                     it was an order from government."
                  "Very like; but when did you arrive?" inquired Marianne.
                  "We anchored off the Battery at an early hour this morning," replied the young
                     man, "and anxious to see you as soon as I could, I obtained leave of absence
                     and hurried hither. Looking up to this apartment as I came near, I caught sight
                     of your lovely form at the window, and, finding the outer door ajar, I thought
                     I would surprise you, and so stole cautiously up, unbeknown to any one, and
                     took up my position where you found me."
                  "And heard, perhaps, what you should not," returned Marianne.
                  "I heard what I would had been otherwise," said Henry.
                  "Indeed! and what was that?" asked she quickly.
                  "I heard my Marianne was sad," replied he; "I would know the cause; has
                     anything happened of serious import?"
                  "Nothing, as far as I know," said Marianne. "As for the cause, I know as little
                     as yourself. For the last two days there has hung over me a gloom—a
                     foreboding—which in vain I try to shake off. I feared, Henry—and yet I scarce
                     know why—that something had happened to you."
                  "And did I then hold the uppermost place in your thoughts, my sweet
                     Marianne?"
                  "I should be less than woman, Henry, were not my first care for him I
                     love!"
                  "My own dear Marianne." exclaimed he, passionately, "and do you really love me,
                     then?"
                  "Do you doubt it, Henry?"
                  "No, no—I do not, nor would I for worlds. And yet to hear it from your own
                     sweet lips, would give it a double charm, and fill the already brimming cup of
                     joy to overflowing."
                  "Then frankly, Henry, I do love you, although I might not have told you so—at
                     least not yet—but that circumstances conspired in part to to draw it from
                     me."
                  "Dearest!" said Henry, giving her a kiss, "let that seal the bond of mutual
                     love; for dearly and devotedly do I love you in return, and you shall never
                     have cause to regret your love as misplaced. I would have sought your hand ere
                     I left for my last voyage, but that I feared our acquaintance was of so late a
                     date, you might think me presumptuous; but now that you have consented to be
                     mine—"
                  "But, Henry, you mistake," interrupted Marianne. "In saying that I love you, I
                     have given no consent to be other to you than I am."
                  "And what would you have me infer by this remark?"
                  "That at present there is a bar to our union."
                  "A bar to our union?" exclaimed Henry, in astonishment. "Surely you jest!"
                  "I would 'twere a jest," replied she, sorrowfully; "but, alas! it is too
                     true."
                  "Heavens! This is madness! Am I in an instant to be thrown from my high
                     pinnacle of hope into the yawning gulf of despair! Tell me—tell me quickly—what
                     is it? What mean you?"
                  "That your rich connections will never consent to your union with a nameless
                     orphan girl."
                  "A nameless orphan girl, Marianne? You speak in mysteries."
                  "I speak the truth, nevertheless. I am called Marianne."
                  "But surely you have another name?" exclaimed Henry, quickly.
                  "I do not doubt it," returned she; 'but what it is I know not."
                  "Why you were introduced to me as—"
                  "Doctor Barton's ward," continued she, as he halted in his remark.
                  "True, true," said Henry, musingly; "I have never thought of this before."
                  "But I have," sighed she, "and it has given me much uneasiness."
                  "Have you ever inquired of your guardian concerning this?"
                  "Yes—once! He was at 
                        the the
                        the
                      time sitting in his library. I entered the room, but as I often came
                     to look for books, he merely raised his eyes from the book wherein he was
                     reading, and seeing me, resumed his study, making no remark. I felt a little
                     delicate upon the subject, and thought I would retire and leave it to some
                     future time. I turned to go, when he, observing my hesitation, inquired if I
                     came with any message to him. I replied, my errand was to learn of my parents
                     and name. Oh, never, to my dying day, shall I forget his look. The book fell
                     from his hands—his countenance changed to a deadly pale—and rising from his
                     chair, in a harsh tone he bade me begone, and never speak to him of the like
                     again!"
                  "Indeed, this is strange," returned Henry, "and there is mystery in it
                     likewise. Have you no recollection of how you came here?"
                  "Nothing distinct. There is a vague something running in my mind, and sometimes
                     I think it a dream and sometimes reality. I was in a dark and gloomy place—so
                     dark and gloomy I often shudder when I think of it; methought I was in the arms
                     of some being, who was caressing me, calling me her child, and telling me she
                     was dying; presently another took me away from her, and told me my mother was
                     dead; then came a dark, stern-looking man, and said I must go with him; I was
                     much afraid, and tried to escape him, when methought he caught me in his arms
                     and bore me away, I knew not whither. It was dark—dreadful dark—the wind blew
                     and the rain poured down in torrents. From this my ideas became confused, and I
                     can recollect nothing further, save that I was in elegant apartments and was
                     treated kindly."
                  "It all seems very strange," remarked Henry; "and so you know not who you
                     are?"
                  
                  "Truly I do not."
                  "Well, consent to be mine, and I will give you a name."
                  "Henry," said Marianne, "you would do that now, led away by your generous
                     nature, which in after years you would regret. Perchance"—and her voice
                     faltered—"perchance I am of mean birth, not worthy of you. I know 'not but my
                     birth hath been disgraced—but that—"
                  "Marianne," returned he, calmly, "I know, under the existing circumstances, you
                     can bring many arguments against our union; but truly you know not Henry
                     Neville if you deem such of any weight with him. We are in part the creatures
                     of circumstance, and over our births have no control. Are we, then, to set our
                     own faults or virtues aside, and be rated according to the manner and by whom
                     we obtained our existence? Discard the thoughts! Let us remember we are the
                     creatures, not the creator—and who speaks against our birth speaks against Him
                     who made us! What though your parentage is enwrapt within the mystic vail? It
                     stands for nought with me. I love you for yourself alone; therefore, consent to
                     be mine, and speak no more of birth."
                  "No," said she, firmly, "it cannot be. Although I admit your arguments are
                     just, yet the world sees not as you see, and I would not have my husband
                     pointed at with the finger of scorn for marrying one beneath him. Until my name
                     is known, I will never wed. Find but that out, and prove it honorable—my hand
                     is yours—my heart you have already."
                  "Alas! then," sighed he, "I fear there is no hope."
                  "Not so. Go to my guardian, tell him of your intentions, and perhaps he may
                     inform you."
                  "Ay, I will, and know the worst," said Henry, quickly, turning to leave the
                     room.
                  "But stay, Henry—you forget this is too early an hour for my guardian to be
                     stirring, were he at home, besides, at present he is absent, and will not
                     return before eve; so come you and take a seat by me, nor deem that I can spare
                     you so soon after your long absence. Let me hear of your adventures; come, I am
                     impatient."
                  And Henry did come, and did sit beside her, and did rehearse his adventures—and
                     as he saw her gentle eyes beaming upon him, he grew eloquent—he grew
                     enraptured—his manly countenance became lit up with a noble enthusiasm—he
                     became, as it were, inspired. And there sat the lovely Marianne—her
                     countenance, too, beaming with pleasure—drinking, as it were, his very
                     thoughts—treasuring each word as though it were an oracle—and both for awhile
                     forgot their cares, the things around them, and even themselves, so enwrapt
                     were they in thoughts of each other.
                  Three hours later, and the lovers had parted with mutual sighs, yet with a
                     dawning of hope that all would in the end be right; and Marianne might be seen
                     seated at the window with a look less sad than before, while Henry Neville,
                     with graceful step, was pacing the deck of the far-famed Constitution.
                  Perhaps, ere we close the scene, it will not be deemed amiss to say a word of
                     Henry Neville. Born of rich parents, in one of those beautiful villages which
                     adorn the banks of the Hudson, he had been early sent to school, and was a
                     graduate, at the age of eighteen, from one of the Eastern Colleges. Fancying
                     that the sea was better suited to his taste than the land, his parents sought
                     and obtained for him a midshipman's berth on board the noble Constitution, and
                     already, by his gallant conduct, was he in a fair way of promotion.
                  About three weeks previous to his last cruise, being much on shore, he attended
                     a ball, where for the first time he beheld the lovely Marianne. Struck with her
                     appearance, he sought and obtained an introduction to her, and a mutual liking
                     springing up between them, they soon grew passionately fond of each other, and
                     the remainder of his leisure hours were, up to the time of his sailing, devoted
                     exclusively to her. Thus love unconsciously sprang up between them, and not
                     until their separation was either aware how much of their happiness depended on
                     the society of the other. These are relative positions in which they stood to
                     each other when introduced into our tale. With the rest the reader has already
                     become acquainted.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              His face is muffled in his cloak, but both
                              His voice and gestures seem familiar to me.
                              
                              'Tis a strange hour and a suspicious bearing.
                              
                              More mysterious, and awful ones!
                           
                        
                        MARINO FALIERO.
                     
                  
                  IN the evening of the same day mentioned in the preceding chapter, between the
                     hours of eleven and twelve, two figures might be seen moving along the northern
                     side of the Park, and, to judge from the wary glance occasionally thrown
                     around, as well as the suppressed tone of voice in which they conferred, their
                     subject was one not likely to gain them credit for honesty by reaching the ears
                     of a third party.
                  Although the weather was very warm, yet both wore cloaks, of the Spanish order,
                     being made long and brought around from the right side, and thrown across the
                     left shoulder, crossing the breast, so as to leave it to the option of the
                     wearer to conceal his features beneath it or not. One, from some motive, had
                     taken this precaution, concealing the lower part of his countenance as far up
                     as practicable without interfering with his breathing. He was a man of the
                     middling size, and in this respect much inferior to his companion, who was of
                     large stature, being full six feet in hight, and well proportioned.
                  Moving along in a westerly direction, until within the distance of fifty paces
                     from Broadway, they made a halt, as with mutual consent, under a large tree,
                     which threw its shadow some forty paces distant to the north over the sidewalk of Chambers street.
                  "Here," said the former, addressing his companion, "is a place where we may
                     confer together with little danger of being interrupted or overheard, lying, as
                     it does, so far out of the way of the more frequented paths."
                  "Well then," returned the other, in an accent that bespoke him both a foreigner
                     and a Frenchman, "let us proceed with our business at once. You have heard my
                     proposition; I await your answer."
                  "It is a business," remarked the first speaker, "which requires much thought,
                     attended as it is with much danger, as well as difficulty. In fact I scarcely
                     know how to reply. The girl's of a fiery spirit, of quick intelligence, and one
                     not easily duped."
                  "Yet can you not find a way?" inquired the other. "You know the reward is
                     ample: two hundred and fifty thousand francs is no ordinary sum for a business
                     like this."
                  "And, for the matter of that, this is no ordinary business," returned the
                     first. "Call you running a man's head into a noose, and dancing on nothing, an
                     ordinary business?"
                  "But there is no danger of that, doctor—not in the least," rejoined the other.
                     "You are not required to take her life."
                  "No," said the doctor, sarcastically, "I am not required to take her life—I'm
                     only required to rob her of that which is dearer to her than life—her virtue.
                     How long think you, she would live dishonored, worthy Monsieur?"
                  "Not long, I trust," replied his companion; "but with that we have nothing to
                     do. If she commits suicide, why, the world will wonder, and say it was a
                     suicide. I see no way that can implicate you."
                  "And think you my conscience would be less easy on that account?"
                  "Oh, as to your conscience, you must settle that with yourself. If you have
                     come to preaching morality, why, our business is at an end!"
                  "Well, you are certainly very frank about it," remarked the doctor
                  "And why not?" exclaimed the Frenchman.
                  "I own I have been paid for it—the same as I offer you, or shall be, if I
                     succeed—and why not be frank about it? I like not your hypocritical villain,
                     who, like Iago, consoles and stabs his friend at the same time. No! I undertook
                     the business, knowing exactly what it was, and setting conscience entirely
                     aside; for had that been in my way, perchance I should have left it to some
                     more fortunate individual, who had less of the troublesome article to contend
                     with. I thought you were a man like myself, or I should have saved myself the
                     trouble of rehearsing much which you have learned."
                  "And so I am a man like yourself," resumed the doctor, "as you shall find anon.
                     I like you the better for your frank, open manner, and only remarked about it
                     because I thought it so singular for a man to own himself a villain. But how
                     say you, reads the will?"
                  "Well, I cannot repeat it word for word, but the substance of it is this, that
                     his daughter receive one million of francs at the age of eighteen, or upon her
                     marriage, (with the interest of the same from the date of the will,) or in such
                     amounts as she may please to draw after the above-mentioned time; provided her
                     character stands fair, with no proof of dishonor. But if otherwise, or in case
                     of her decease, the property falls to the next heir at law."
                  "It is a very singular will," remarked the doctor; "very singular, and seems
                     made as a plaything for villains!"
                  "Yes, it is singular," returned the other, "and 'tis reported there, and I
                     doubt not with truth, that it was occasioned by his own wife proving
                     dishonorable when in this country, of which, perhaps, you have heard?"
                  "Yes, yes," said the doctor, hastily; "enough of that. But, tell me, how found
                     you out she was living with me?"
                  "From a note appended to the will."
                  "From a note appended to the will!" exclaimed the doctor. "Was my name and
                     residence written there?"
                  "It was," replied the other.
                  "You astonish me! How knew he the girl lived with me?"
                  "From a correspondent in this country he received the information, if I mistake
                     not."
                  "Indeed! I knew of but one who could have given that intelligence, and she I
                     believed long since dead."
                  "Was it then so secret?" inquired the other.
                  "Ay, so secret it was, and is, that even the girl herself does not
                     know her father's name."
                  "Is it possible?" exclaimed the other, in astonishment. "Who was the villain
                     that seduced the count's wife?"
                  "And heard you not of that, also?" asked the doctor, quickly.
                  "Not a syllable," was the reply.
                  "Well, well, then, of that anon. Let us attend now to the business of more
                     importance. If the girl dies, or is dishonored," repeated the doctor, "the
                     property falls to the next heir at law. Monsieur, who may that scoundrel be,
                     who stands next heir at law?"
                  "No matter. He is a man; let that suffice. Come, to business—to business. Tell
                     me, without prevarication, will you undertake this business or not?"
                  "And if I undertake it, and succeed, what proof have I that I shall receive the
                     two hundred and fifty thousand francs spoken of?"
                  "Proof?" exclaimed the other indignantly; "My honor!"
                  "Yes, your honor!" repeated the doctor. "Such is this world. Men talk of honor,
                     even when plotting schemes well worthy of the fiends of hell!
                        Honor, indeed! Pshaw! But I will undertake the business; for
                     money I want, and money I must have. So here, Mr. or Monsieur, (I believe I am
                     not burdened with your name as yet,) I—"
                  "My name is Cartene," interrupted the other.
                  "Well, Monsieur Cartene, here is my hand upon it, and you may rely upon my honor that what can be done
                     shall be done. Meet me here to-morrow eve at this hour. In the mean time, I
                     will see what can be done, and will be prepared to report progress. Till then,
                     adieu!"
                  "Adieu," said Cartene, as he turned away; "I will be here at the hour."
                  "And now," muttered the doctor, "now for my scheme. First I must manage to get
                     rid of this lover—this Henry Neville. Oh, cursed breeze that, which wafted him
                     back so soon—at this time, too, of all others, when I most desired his absence.
                     Ha! A thought strikes me. Perchance he—. No, no! He is too honest—there is not
                     villain enough in his countenance for that, and besides he loves the girl. No,
                     no; 'twould not do to try him. He might turn and blow the scheme. No, I must
                     get rid of him, and then perchance, I may succeed."
                  And muttering thus, went one whom the reader has already recognized as the
                     plotting, scheming villain, Doctor Barton. As his form became indistinct in the
                     darkness, and his retreating footsteps no longer audible, there was a stir in
                     the grass about ten paces distant from where he and Cartene had held their
                     conference, and a moment after, from the shadow of the tree into the sickly
                     light of a neighboring lamp, emerged a dark figure, clad in a rough female
                     dress, which one superstitious might fancy was a lineal descendant of one of
                     the witches who foretold Macbeth his destiny.
                  "Oh, you villain! You thrice-cursed, doubly-damned villain!" muttered the
                     woman, shaking her clenched fist in the direction where the doctor was last
                     seen. "So, so; this is your scheming is it? to ruin an innocent girl! You
                     little think you were overheard. So you thought I was dead, did you? Thank
                     heaven, I live to frustrate your plot. Yes, I'll watch ye—I'll watch ye! I'll
                     be here to-morrow night. Ha! ha! ha! You thought I was dead, did you? Ha! ha!
                     ha! I'll watch ye! Oh, you scoundrel!" and muttering in like, manner sometimes
                     curses, and sometimes threats, she turned in an opposite direction from the one
                     taken by the doctor, and, like him, was soon lost in the mazes of the
                     night.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Time softens much,
                              But the stern heart, when 'tis on evil bent,
                              Grows callous more by years.
                           
                        
                        —ANON.
                     
                  
                  ON the following day, about the hour of ten, Doctor Barton might be seen seated
                     in his study. Around him were piled books, grim with age—keys to unlock the
                     mind, perchance to blazon forth the fame of those whose names they bore.
                  Fifteen years had flitted past, and save now here and there the deepening of
                     some furrow on his cheek, or the sprinkling of the silver gray, time had left
                     him the thing he was when first introduced to the reader. There was the same
                     stern look, dark smile, as then—and within his breast beat the same cold,
                     unfeeling, treacherous heart. He was seated near the window of his library,
                     with his eyes rivetted upon a book lying on the table before him; but the
                     marble look, and unvarying gaze, bespoke him unconscious of what he saw, and
                     lost in the abyss of thought. Raising his eyes from the book, after the lapse
                     of perhaps a minute, he fastened them upon a small hand-bell, which stood a few
                     feet distant from the former on the same table, and seemed about sinking into
                     another reverie, when, as if a sudden thought had struck him, started, reached
                     forth his hand, and, giving the bell a hearty ring, resumed his former
                     position, and when the servant entered he found him lost in reverie. As soon,
                     however, as the doctor became aware of his presence, he started, and, turning
                     to him, in a stern calm tone, said—"Tell Marianne I would speak with her here;
                     and, mark you, let no one, upon any plea or consideration whatever, break in
                     upon our conference, as you value your safety. If any in the mean time would
                     see me, tell them to wait in the parlor. In an hour you may admit them. Go, and
                     remember your instructions."
                  "Yes, I have pledged my word, and it must be done," soliloquized he, as the
                     servant left the room. "Yes, it must be done. Oh, man, man! what a thing thou
                     art! A prey to thine one passions—a weak, short-sighted mortal! I would that I
                     could raise the mystic vail and glance into the future. And yet what boots it?
                     Would it alter aught? Would it make me other than I am? No! I must fulfill my
                     destiny—the die is cast, and I'll abide my time. I am now standing on the brink
                     of ruin. Nothing but money can save me. If I succeed, money I shall win; and
                     then away from this corrupted atmosphere—away to merry England or sunny France.
                     But if I fail, I— No, no! I will not fail! I will say, with Richelieu, 'there
                     is no such word as fail!' But, hark! she comes."
                  While soliloquizing thus, Doctor Barton had risen from his seat, and paced with
                     hurried step to and fro the apartment. As he heard her step near, he resumed
                     his seat—and when Marianne entered, she found his eyes bent on the book, as
                     previously described, apparently engaged in reading. Turning to her, he
                     motioned her to a seat, and rising, he proceeded to the door, which he shut and
                     bolted, then returning resumed his own.
                  "Marianne," began he, "I have sent for you to speak on matters which, to you,
                     will undoubtedly seem of importance, as well as to myself. But first, ere I
                     proceed, let me inquire if I have not been to you all that you could wish—all
                     that you could expect—even were I your father?"
                  "You have, indeed," replied she, affectionately, looking upon him with a tender
                     smile, that, stern as he was, went to his heart, and for the moment almost
                     unnerved him.
                  
                  "Well, well," said he, recovering, "let that pass; I did but my duty. What I
                     would say now, relates more particularly to yourself, and your future welfare.
                     First, you love Henry Neville. Nay, do not blush and turn away. You should not
                     be ashamed to own a virtuous love."
                  "Ashamed!" exclaimed she, springing from her seat, her eyes flashing fire.
                     "Ashamed to own my love for Henry Neville? No! Were all the world to hear my
                     answer, and were life and death hanging on my decision, I would proclaim it
                     with a trumpet voice, I love him. Ashamed, indeed! Does not the modest blush
                     o'ersteal the features, but that shame must lurk beneath, think you?"
                  "Nay, Marianne," said he, in a gentler tone, "you take it too much to
                     heart—pray be seated. I meant no wrong in my hasty expression, which was drawn
                     forth by the deep interest I take in your welfare. I only feared, for many a
                     flower as fair as yourself has been plucked by the ruthless destroyer from its
                     virgin stem, and left to perish, forgotten and alone, amid the blasts and
                     storms of a changing, heartless world. Believe me, dear girl, I only feared for
                     your safety."
                  "Forgive me, dear guardian," murmured Marianne, as she sank upon her seat,
                     melted even to tears by his affectionate appeal. "Forgive me—I was too hasty.
                     But such is woman's love, that, let but a shadow of doubt rest upon the
                     character of him she loves, she will bare her heart even to the scoffs and
                     scorn of thousands, so that it but shield him from reproach."
                  "Well, well," resumed the doctor again, "let that pass. That you love Henry
                     Neville, you admit—that he loves you in return may or may not be. Nay, no
                     remark," said he, as he saw her about to speak; "no remark, but hear me
                     through. I say he may love you in return or he may not; for men are such
                     heartless, selfish beings, that but few are worthy to be trusted with that
                     delicate thing, a woman's heart. If he loves you, as you would
                     fain believe, why is he gallanting other women about? Why does he resort to
                     public houses, and over his wine make it a barroom jest, that he has caught the
                     heart of another lovely female? Mind, I say another;
                     and that this last will soon be added to the accumulated list of his
                     victims."
                  "Gracious Heavens!" exclaimed she, "this is not truth! no, no, 'tis not
                     truth—'tis not reality—no, 'tis a slanderous lie—a lie as black as night; and
                     whoever first told the tale should fain repent him soon, for 'tis enough alone
                     to damn him! Dear guardian, unsay the scurrilous report, and on my knees will I
                     bless you!"
                  "I would unsay it—but"—
                  "But what?" asked she breathlessly.
                  "Tis true."
                  "Oh, God!" exclaimed she, and fell senseless from her chair. Barton instantly
                     sprang to and raised her in his arms. As he looked upon her pale, lovely
                     countenance, seeming even more lovely for the gentle melancholy shade of grief
                     pictured there—his lip quivered—his eye dimmed, and for a moment there was a
                     fearful struggle of conscience within, and he seemed about relenting from his
                     fell design. Alas! the demon triumphed, the softness passed from his heart, and
                     he became even sterner than before. "I fear I've gone too far, too sudden,"
                     muttered he, "I must be more careful, or in doing much I may overdo, and be
                     myself overdone. Thus far my plot works well, and by a skillful turn, I'll yet
                     succeed. Love is but a step from hate; and if I can make her believe he loves
                     her not, then amid the wreck of baffled love and ruined hopes, I'll strike the
                     fearful blow. Yet while I deepest strike, she must believe I am her dearest
                     friend, and each counsel must be such as would seem meet from a parent to his
                     child. Ah! she returns to conscious life." As he spoke he placed her in the
                     chair as before. Opening her eyes with a vacant stare, she murmured, "It was a
                     dream! a terrible dream!" Then as she became conscious of where she was, and
                     saw the doctor standing near her, a cold shudder passed over her, and she
                     continued, "No, no! 'twas not a dream, it was horrible, fearful reality!"
                  "You are ill," said the doctor in a soothing tone, "but do not let what I have
                     said, weigh too heavy on your heart, my child. I call you child, for I feel for
                     you the affection of a parent, and would fain give you a parent's counsel.
                     Think no more of the wretch who would thus dishonor you; let him be erased from
                     your memory; or if you think of him at all, let it be as of the scorpion, or
                     the deadly serpent, with horror, loathing, and disgust."
                  "Hold! hold! no more, no more!" exclaimed she, "you know not what you do, or
                     say, or ask! Each word you utter, pierces like a dagger to my wounded heart!
                     Ask me to blot him from my memory? 'Twould be to blot out memory's
                     self! No, while reason holds her throne, and memory her sway, I'll think—I'll
                     love—I'll pray for him, and when I cease the one, I'll cease the three; nor
                     cease the three, until my brain be flooded with the deadly waters of the
                     Lethean pool. Yet I may never see him more, but ask me not to forget him."
                  "I would not have asked you to do thus—but that another loves you dearly," said
                     the doctor.
                  "And if he love as dearly as I love, then Heaven pity him, for to all others
                     will my heart henceforth be rock—ay, adamant."
                  "And that he does love thus, with me there is no doubt," returned the doctor.
                     "But you must see him, and then decide what way you choose."
                  "See him," repeated she, "what need is there of that? It would only be a
                     painful interview and effect nothing. No! better for him, for me, I do not see
                     him."
                  "And yet withal, you must see him. I have pledged my word to that
                     effect, and hold that word too sacred to be broken without cause, or cause so
                     slight. In this will
                     command—commanding, be obeyed."
                  "Certainly," returned she gently, "if you have pledged your word, I'd have the
                     pledge redeemed. But when shall this interview take place."
                  "That will I learn anon, and so inform you; and now, before you go, I would
                     exact a pledge that you will hold no farther intercourse with Henry
                     Neville."
                  "If," said she, in a calm, proud tone, "if Henry Neville is what my guardian
                     represents him, that guardian need have no fear that his ward will throw a
                     shade upon her character, even by intercourse with one she loves, for that
                     character is her all, and sooner than disgrace which, would she with her own
                     hands clip the brittle thread of life and launch from time into the unknown
                     world beyond."
                  "Yes, well thou sayest that character is thy all,"
                     muttered the doctor, aside, under his ground teeth. "And little dost thou know
                     or dream how much that all!" Then turning to her, "You say
                        if, Marianne. Do you then doubt your guardian's word?"
                  "Nay," returned she, "I meant not so; you may yourself have been deceived. Love
                     is an exacting master, and requires proof. As the drowning man will cling to a
                     straw, so will love cling even to a doubt, and until I shall have the most
                     positive proof, will I still doubt but that even you have been deceived."
                  "Foolish girl," said the doctor, angrily, "even were it not true,
                     what could Henry Neville be to you? Would your proud spirit let you wed with
                     one above you? What think you would be his feelings when the slanderous tongue
                     should ask 'Who was his wife?' You once asked me of your birth and name. I then
                     refused the tale, from fear of wounding your tender feelings. But since things
                     have gone so far, 'twere better now you hear it. Listen! Fifteen years ago your
                     mother died, where it matters not—suffice that it was in a den of misery and
                     degradation. Called by my profession, I attended her in her last illness, not
                     with the expectation of being rewarded for my services, but because I believed
                     it to be my duty. I stood beside her bed when her spirit winged its flight to
                     the eternal world. But ere she died, she gave me some account of her past life.
                     I will not pain you by going through the details, farther than concerns you to
                     know. She, like yourself, loved, and loved one far above her. They met often
                     and in secret, and he swore he loved her as he loved his own existence, that
                     without her life would be a blank, and many other like protestations, such as
                     lovers generally use. She believed, confided, and in an evil moment, fell a
                     victim to an unholy passion. He deserted her, and she was thrown upon the wide
                     world alone, friendless, and dishonored.
                  In hopes of revenge, she lived, and you were born, an offspring of her guilt.
                     But Heavens! you are ill!' exclaimed he, as he saw Marianne struggling for
                     breath "I have gone too far?"
                  "No, no, go on," gasped she, "I'm better now." And she buried her face in her
                     hands, while the convulsive shudders passing over her slender frame, told how
                     great was the trial.
                  "Well," continued the doctor, "how she lived from this time forth were a
                     fearful tale to tell to one in your present condition. I will pass it by. Her
                     last request was, that I should take her child and rear it as my own. You were
                     then a sprightly thing of three years, and knowing her without friends, I
                     consented. She then gave me much advice relating to you; and begged me, with
                     her dying breath, to watch over and guard you from the snares and temptations
                     of the world; but, above all things, not to let you set your affections upon
                     one above you, or, if you did so, not to permit you to hold any intercourse
                     with such whatever, fearing you might, like her, be betrayed and lost. Then,
                     taking you in her arms, she blessed you and expired. Such is the tale. And now
                     tell me, have I done right in requesting you not to see this Neville
                     again?"
                  For a moment there was no answer. Marianne sat with her head bent forward—her
                     face buried 
                        in in
                        in
                      her hands, and, save a slight quivering, motionless as a statue. The
                     doctor, in the meanwhile, watched her with intense interest, and when, at
                     length, she raised her head, he started back with an exclamation of surprise,
                     so great was the change wrought by a few minutes of such mental agony.
                  All color had entirely vanished from her face, leaving it as white as the
                     "driven snow." A fearful luster shone in her eyes, which glared about with a
                     maniacal wildness, while the deep inward agony pictured in her countenance,
                     which she in vain had tried to conceal, made her a truly melancholy spectacle
                     to behold.
                  "'Tis done," said she, in a deep, hollow voice, that made the doctor
                     involuntarily start, for he fancied it the voice of her mother, and ten
                     thousand thoughts of his guilty career came rushing upon him with a whirlwind
                     force, and for a moment, the stern man was unmanned and trembled, as did the
                     ancient king when he beheld the hand write his destiny in unknown characters
                     upon the palace wall. "'Tis done, and all is lost, lost, lost—my sad
                     forebodings are fulfilled."
                  "Marianne! Marianne!" exclaimed the doctor.
                  "Who calls Marianne?" said she, staring at him with an idiotic gaze, that made
                     his very blood run chill through his veins. "Who calls Marianne? Is it you?
                     you—you?" (pointing with her finger.) "My name is Marianne! Who calls me?"
                  "Marianne, do you not know me?" asked the doctor, in alarm.
                  "Know you?" repeated she, regaining her senses. "Why, yes; you are my guardian.
                     But I am ill—very ill; I would retire to my room."
                  "Yes, girl, you had better retire," said he, relieved by her returning reason. "You look pale. I fear I have
                     said too much."
                  "No; 'tis better as it is," returned she, in a melancholy tone. "I know my
                     fate. It has been a fearful trial, and for awhile did reason totter on her
                     throne; but 'tis over now."
                  "And have I done wrong in requesting you not to see Henry Ne—"
                  "Hold!" exclaimed she, rising from her chair, and speaking with energy. "As you
                     value my peace, speak not that name again."
                  "Enough," returned he; "I am satisfied. Now go, my child, and may heaven help
                     you to bear your ills with fortitude."
                  "Amen!" responded she, and, unbolting the door, left the room with a feeble
                     step.
                  As her form disappeared, the doctor again rang the bell.
                  "Has any one called?" inquired he, as the servant entered.
                  "Two," was the reply.
                  "Their names?"
                  "One a stranger, the other Mr. Neville."
                  "Ha! Did he inquire for Marianne?"
                  "He did."
                  "And you told him—"
                  "She was in the library with you."
                  "Right. Well, what then?"
                  "He said he would speak with you."
                  "Does he wait?"
                  "He does, sir."
                  "Admit him."
                  "So, so," said the doctor, as the servant left the room, rubbing his hands with
                     delight; "So, so—just in time—my scheme works nobly. Now, then, to put him on
                     the wrong scent. I scarcely know what passion predominates with him; however
                     that I will soon learn. He comes."
                  "Good morning, Master Neville," said the doctor, approaching him with a bland
                     smile, extending his hand at the same time. "I am most happy, sir, to be
                     honored with your company. Pray, be seated." And such command had he over his
                     features, and so great was the change from the dark, stern, scheming villain,
                     to the easy, polite, affable gentleman, that one to have seen him in both
                     characters, would have doubted his being the same individual. "You have
                     returned somewhat sooner than you told of, have you not?" inquired the doctor,
                     as Henry took the proffered seat.
                  "I have, sir," replied Henry, "much sooner."
                  "How long have you been absent?"
                  "Nine months."
                  "Indeed! so long? Time passes fast. So much am I engaged in study that the
                     seasons roll around almost ere I am aware. Well, I suppose you were glad to
                     behold your native land again; for home will ever feel like home, however short
                     the absence."
                  "You say truly, I was glad—ay, my heart leapt for joy as I looked again upon my
                     native hills," returned Henry. "Nor did the time seem short; for there was one,
                     a lovely being, whom I held most dear, and whom I longed to clasp unto my heart
                     again. I come even now to speak with you of her."
                  "With me?" exclaimed the doctor, in pretended astonishment. "Pray, whom mean
                     you?"
                  "And have you not guessed my secret yet? I mean no other than your ward,
                     Marianne. I love her dearly."
                  "My ward, Marianne? Surely you jest! Does she know of this?" inquired the
                     doctor, his countenance wearing an anxious look.
                  "She does."
                  "But did not return that passion?" said the doctor, inquiringly.
                  "Even so."
                  "What say you, did she pretend to love you in return?"
                  "Pretend! No, she did not pretend, but
                        loved without pretending," replied he, indignantly.
                  "Oh, the deceitfulness of woman!" ejaculated the doctor. "Henry, you have been
                     deceived."
                  "Deceived, sir? Pray, explain."
                  "Why, Marianne is already betrothed to another."
                  "'Tis false!" exclaimed he, starting from his seat.
                  "Nay, young man—pray, calm yourself, and again be seated. I assure you it is
                     the truth; for just before you came she was with me, and talked the matter
                     over, and even named the day of marriage."
                  "Betrothed to another?" repeated Henry. "Am I in my senses? Surely, I did not
                     hear aright. There is—there must be some mistake."
                  "Then the mistake lies with yourself, Mr. Neville."
                  "Where is Marianne? Let me speak with her; for until I hear it from her own
                     lips, I'll not believe it."
                  "Nay, Mr. Neville, I should be sorry to wound your feelings, for I feel toward
                     you as a friend, and yet I fear I must. By request of Marianne herself, I
                     inform you that henceforth all intercourse between yourself and her must
                     cease."
                  "By heavens, this is a plot—a trick! I'll not believe it!"
                  "Be not rash, young man. Remember, when you doubt the truth of
                     this, you doubt my word. For honor's sake, you should
                     forbear."
                  "I humbly crave your pardon, sir," returned Henry, bowing. "My feelings were so
                     overwrought that my tongue gave utterance to words the import of which I was
                     not aware. Pray, tell me what reasons gave Marianne for this?"
                  "First," replied the doctor, "that her hand is promised to another."
                  "Again I say it is false!" interrupted Henry.
                  "Second, that her birth was far beneath you," concluded the
                     doctor, not heeding the interruption.
                  "Ha! her birth!" said Henry, with a start; "that seems more reasonable. My
                     errand hither was to speak of that."
                  "I have him now," thought the doctor; "I've touched the secret chord."
                  "Tell me what know you of her birth?"
                  "That she is the offspring of guilt," replied the doctor, speaking
                     in a slow, distinct voice, that it
                     might have more effect, "and therefore not meet to mate with Henry
                     Neville."
                  "Then she is, indeed, lost to me," sighed Henry; "for her proud spirit will not
                     let her wed with one she deems above her."
                  "Lucky for me she does not know her name," thought the doctor.
                  "Yes, she is lost to me; but ere I go, I'll speak with her again, and take,
                     perchance, (his voice faltered,) a last farewell!"
                  "It is impossible," returned the doctor; "she will not see you."
                  "Oh, say not thus! She will at least grant one last interview."
                  "No! I know her too well. She even charged me not to mention your name again in
                     her presence."
                  "Notwithstanding, I will make the trial," said Henry, in a determined tone.
                     "She shall know that I am here and would speak with her. Then, if
                     she refuse to see me, will I believe there is no constancy in woman, and not
                     till then."
                  "As you like," said the doctor, ringing the bell. "Here comes the servant, who
                     will convey your message."
                  "Go," said Henry, turning to the servant, "tell Marianne, Henry Neville awaits
                     in the library and would speak with her again, perchance for the last
                     time."
                  As he left to obey his orders, there was a few moments of anxious suspense,
                     amounting almost to agony. Neither Barton nor Neville were disposed to break
                     the death-like stillness, for both were occupied with thoughts and feelings
                     difficult to describe, but each as different from the other as is day from
                     night. In the breast of Henry was the pure and refined feelings of confiding
                     love, saddened with grief, and alternately wavering between the conflicting
                     emotions of doubt and fear—doubting, yet fearing, the truth of what he had
                     heard. With the guilty doctor, fear was the most predominant. Fear, that for
                     once Marianne might give way and grant an interview, well knowing if such took
                     place, his villainy would be discovered, the two hundred and fifty thousand
                     francs, which he had already began to consider as his, lost, and he exposed to
                     the scoffs and scorn of all honest people, his property torn from him by his
                     creditors, (for nought but this money could save him,) and he either confined
                     within the walls of a prison, or left to roam the world a beggar. So woven was
                     his web of fate, he fancied all hung on the decision of Marianne—and so intense
                     his feelings, that when he heard the returning footsteps of his servant,
                     respiration with him became difficult. Not so with Henry; he believed this
                     interview (not doubting it would be granted, the doctor to the contrary,
                     notwithstanding,) would alter nothing, save that he should behold the being
                     dearest to his heart, and hear her voice once more, though that voice should
                     utter but the final parting word, farewell!
                  As the servant entered the room, both held their breath, as 'twere, to catch
                     the slightest sound that might shape itself in answer to their fears. Walking
                     directly to Henry, the servant placed a slip of paper in his hand, and, bowing,
                     left the room. With a trembling hand and beating heart, Henry glanced at the
                     light pencil marks traced thereon, and as he did so, his gaze became riveted
                     there, as though by a charm, his lips quivered, and his face paled to an ashy
                     hue; while athwart the doctor's features, who had watched him intently, shot a
                     gleam of triumph, the contracted brow relaxed, and a dark smile played around
                     his mouth—his breathing became easy, for he had read in Henry's every look the
                     success of his scheme.
                  "Am I not right?" inquired the doctor, a malicious smile stealing over his
                     countenance; "did I not tell you true?"
                  "You did," groaned Henry, sinking into a chair. "Alas! you did. There is her
                     answer," handing Doctor Barton the paper. It contained but a few syllables, and
                     read as follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR HENRY:—There are circumstances which debar you all further
                                 intercourse with her who pens these lines. Go and forget her. Go
                                 and be happy. We must never meet again on the shores of time. God
                                 bless you! Farewell.
                              
                                 "MARIANNE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "Yes, go, Neville, and forget her," said the doctor, as he read it. "Go and
                     forget her—she is not worthy of you."
                  "Yes, I will go," rejoined Henry, gloomily. "I will go, but I never can forget
                     her; where one loves, one cannot forget."
                  "And can you love after such perfidiousness?" inquired the doctor.
                  "Love," replied Henry, "is not a school-boy's toy, to be used and laid aside at
                     pleasure. Love, enkindled within our breasts, becomes a part and being of
                     ourselves, and, unless by other passions counteracted, burns unquenchless as
                     Vesuvius' fires. We love, without knowing why we love, and the same secret
                     cause which creates that love, may serve, perchance, to fan the flame; so that
                     others, who see not as we, will wonder at our feelings, when we would wonder,
                     too, did we but see as they. You ask if I can love, after such perfidiousness?
                     Did I see the perfidy of which you speak, it might, perchance, be different. I
                     know not but that love may blind my eyes; but whatever the cause, as I do not
                     see her false, therefore, I love."
                  "You do not see her false, because you will not," returned the
                     doctor, sarcastically. "If she be not false, why does she treat you thus?"
                  "I see it all. She deems her birth beneath me, and therefore—"
                  "Pshaw!" interrupted the doctor, "you should not be thus duped!"
                  "Duped?" exclaimed Henry: "What mean you?"
                  "That she used that only as a feint."
                  "A feint?"
                  "Ay, a feint! If she loved as you believed, her whole soul must have gone with that love; and think you she
                     would have sacrificed her own, and the happiness of him she loved, merely on
                     the plea that he was better born than she? Pshaw! Discard such silly reasoning;
                     and, if you have any pride or self-respect, be a man. Believe me no woman would
                     refuse a lover because she believed him above her; for when she marries, she
                     becomes an equal with him; instead of his sinking to her, she rises to him; and
                     what woman would not be better than she is, think you, if she possessed the
                     power to be so, provided there was no other whom she better liked?"
                  "True, true," said Henry, musingly. "By heavens! if I thought her false. But,
                     no, no—it cannot be; for even when I returned, I stole in upon her, unbeknown,
                     and in her heart musings heard her make mention of my name, which she would not
                     have done, had I not occupied her thoughts."
                  "Did she mention all your name?" inquired the doctor quickly.
                  "I heard but Henry,"
                  "As I thought!" returned he, with a gleam of triumph flashing in his eyes. "You
                     should have known that her betrothed is Henry, likewise."
                  "Her betrothed!" gasped Henry, "and is it really true, then?"
                  "As holy writ," returned the doctor.
                  For the space of two or three minutes Henry made no remark; his features became
                     deathly pale, over which settled a shade of gloom, as a dark cloud is seen to
                     shoot athwart the sun, when in the zenith of his glory, giving to the day a
                     melancholy cast. Rising from his seat, with the calm, settled look of one who
                     has determined upon some point with unshaken firmness, he thanked the doctor
                     for his advice and information, bade him good morning, and, with a heavy step,
                     and as heavy a heart, left the mansion of Doctor Barton.
                  "Fool!" muttered the doctor, as he saw him disappear, "thou hast indeed been
                     duped; and fool thou art, a blinded fool, or thou hadst seen through my shallow
                     scheme! But such is mankind—they ever believe the story told the last, the
                     nearest truth. Well, well, the better it is for me; for only by such dupes can
                     I ever gain my end. So far, my plot goes well, and if I can succeed in one more
                     plan, my scheme is then complete. Now, then, for that;" and sinking into
                     another reverie, the doctor was soon engaged in studying measures to carry out
                     his base design. As these will be made known in the succeeding chapter, we for
                     awhile will leave him and turn to that.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              How oft the wisest, on misfortune's shelves,
                              Are wrecked by errors most unlike themselves?
                           
                        
                        CAMPBELL.
                     
                  
                  "WELL, doctor, what success?" inquired Cartene, as they met agreeable to
                     appointment on the following evening.
                  "The best," replied the doctor, cheerfully; "everything has worked to my best
                     desire thus far, and even exceeded my most sanguine expectations."
                  "Indeed! That is good news, certainly. Pray, tell me of your proceedings."
                  "First, then, my plan was to break off all intercourse between Marianne and her
                     lover."
                  "Ha!" interrupted the other, "has she then a lover?"
                  "She had," replied the doctor, with emphasis on the latter word.
                     "She had a lover—one Henry Neville, a stripling officer aboard the
                     Constitution—though I much doubt if there is any love between them now. But to
                     my story. Well, then, you must know my first and chief plan was to break off
                     all intercourse between them. To effect this, I sent for Marianne, and, under
                     the pretence of giving her parental advice, I, among other things, cautioned
                     her against the said Neville—told her his whole intention was to ruin her,
                     &c., &c. Finding this did not exactly answer the turn I desired, and
                     knowing her to be of a lofty spirit, I determined to work upon her pride what I
                     had failed to do upon her affections. I told her he was far above her in birth,
                     and that for her to wed with him, would but entail misery upon them both. With
                     a serious countenance, I then informed her she was of low birth—in fact, the
                     offspring of guilt; that I acted but from her mother's dying injunctions in
                     what I did; and, finally, wound up by appealing to herself if I had done wrong
                     in requesting her not to see this Neville again. Ere I had fairly concluded the
                     sentence, she interrupted me, and bade me, as I valued her peace, never to
                     mention his name again in her presence. This was what I most desired, and,
                     leaving me on the plea of illness, she retired to her own apartment."
                  "But how did she bear this in the meanwhile?" inquired the other.
                  "As well as could be expected. Of course she fainted once or twice; but that,
                     you know, is generally the ladies' resource, when they hear unpleasant
                     news."
                  "Fainted?" repeated the other. "How did that at first affect you?"
                  "Affect me?" replied the doctor, sarcastically. "Umph! I mind not such
                     trifles."
                  "Trifles? Ah, I perceive you are an accomplished villain," returned Cartene,
                     approvingly.
                  "I said you would find me out anon," resumed the doctor. "But to proceed. As
                     soon as Marianne had retired, I was informed by my servant that Neville was
                     awaiting an opportunity of speaking with me. This, of course, was good news,
                     being the very one I most wished to see. At first I was at a loss how to
                     proceed to sow the seeds of discord in his unsuspecting breast; but Fortune
                     favored me—for once the heartless jade was true. He commenced speaking of his
                     return, his joy of again meeting with his ladylove, and then said he had come
                     to speak with me of her. Of course, I feigned astonishment that I should know of whom he spoke, when he could
                     do no less than inform me it was my ward, Marianne. I then told him he had been
                     deceived—that she was already betrothed to another. This I saw he was too much
                     disposed to doubt, so, changing my manner of attack, I touched upon her birth,
                     and found this the very thing of which he wished to learn. I informed him, as I
                     previously had her, that she was an offspring of guilt. This seemed to have the
                     desired effect, for he muttered something about her being lost to him, as her
                     proud spirit would not let her wed with one above her, which led me to
                     conjecture this had been previously discussed by them, and that she had decided
                     not to wed with him, at least unless her birth proved honorable; and upon this
                     conjecture I acted with good effect afterward. Although I struck upon this mode
                     of argument by chance, yet it proved of more service in furthering my scheme
                     than any I could have devised. He then requested to have an interview with her,
                     which I in vain tried to dissuade him from; so, making a virtue of necessity, I
                     called the servant, and bade him convey his message to Marianne. Never, in the
                     course of my life, did I undergo more agony of mind, than in the few minutes of
                     my servant's absence; for I truly felt all hung on the decision of Marianne;
                     and I feared she might give way and grant an interview, and my hard-studied
                     scheme, on the point of succeeding, be detected But, thanks to her proud
                     spirit, she was true as steel. The messenger returned and presented Henry with
                     a slip of paper, whereon was traced, in fine pencil marks, a declination of all
                     further intercourse with him, bidding him go and forget her, &c. This,
                     together with what I had told him, and a little additional argument, settled
                     his business, and he left, with the firm determination pictured on his
                     countenance, of never confiding in woman again."
                  "Capital! capital!" returned the other, as the doctor concluded his account of
                     the affair. "You seem a perfect master of human nature. You must have studied
                     much."
                  "Ay, I have—and had some little practice, too," rejoined the doctor.
                  "Well, I suppose this last affair concluded your business for to-day so now how
                     do you intend to proceed?"
                  "Nay, there you are too fast; it did not conclude my business for
                     to day. I have done more—much more."
                  "Indeed! You have not already completed your scheme?" said Cartene,
                     inquiringly.
                  "Well, no—I have not completed it, exactly; but I have gone so far that I
                     already feel confident of success. But, hark! Methought I heard a noise."
                  "What was it like?" inquired the other.
                  "Like the groan of some person in distress."
                  "O! The breeze rustling through the trees, perhaps. But go on with your story.
                     I'm impatient for the sequel."
                  "Well, then, soon after Henry left, I sent for a young man whom I had formerly
                     known, and who I knew to be an accomplished rake. I first swore him to the most
                     solemn secrecy as to what I should reveal, and then informed him there was a
                     lovely female within, who, for some important reason, must be dishonored, and
                     agreed to give him one thousand dollars, in case he would complete her ruin; to
                     which he readily agreed. I had almost forgotten to mention, that, previous to
                     this, I had told Marianne of one who had fallen in love with her, and made her
                     promise to see him, on the grounds that I had already pledged my word to that
                     effect, &c. This, of course, smoothed the way for their interview, which
                     took place at an early hour this evening; and although she treated him very
                     coldly, so well is he acquainted with the sex, that he assures me he is
                     confident of success. I then told him to use his most seductive arts, and if he
                     could complete his design without using force, I would double the sum; but that
                     it must be done, by force, if necessary, even at the peril of her life."
                  "But when is this to take place?" inquired the other.
                  "I have determined upon one week from to-night," replied the doctor; "at which
                     time a vessel sails for France, in which I have already secured a passage, for
                     it will be very unsafe for me to remain longer here. I have planned everything
                     to a nicety. He is to meet her every day during the time, and make what
                     impression he can upon her, by a frank, guileless manner, which he can assume
                     at will. I shall, on the evening in question, despatch my servants in various
                     quarters, so that no one may be near to render her any assistance, should it
                     become necessary for him to use violence."
                  "But if she scream, may it not be heard by some one without?" inquired
                     Cartene.
                  "Care has been taken to provide for that," replied the doctor. "Under the
                     pretence the room she now occupies will be wanted for some special purpose, I
                     have so arranged it, that she occupies a center room of the rear wing, where
                     the loudest cries are insufficient to reach the ears of any one standing close
                     beside the walls without."
                  "Well, I must admit your scheme is admirably arranged, and every part shows the
                     work of a master hand."
                  "Yes," returned the doctor, "I think it well arranged; and now, as for
                     yourself, I would have you here on that evening about this hour."
                  "Yes, I understand," said Cartene, "and will be here with the money."
                  "Well, then, as our business is all and satisfactorily arranged, we will
                     adjourn until that hour. So, adieu; and when we again meet, I trust my news
                     will be most welcome."
                  "Adieu, and success attend you," returned Cartene, and the next moment these
                     two dark, though petty, conspirators had parted.
                  
                  Again the same female figure, previously described, might be seen stealing from
                     her place of concealment and hurrying away with an agitated step, as though
                     there was something of importance to be done, requiring caution, decision, and
                     energy. But as at present we can follow none, individually, we will leave all
                     three for a time, and open upon another scene.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              And speak, mysterious stronger! (Gertrude cried);
                              It is! it is! I knew—I knew him well!
                              
                              And art thou here? or is it but a dream?
                           
                        
                        GERTRUDE OF WYOMING.
                     
                  
                  A WEEK has elapsed since the close of the preceding chapter, and we must now
                     turn our attention to one who holds no inferior part in this drama of life.
                  Seated within a small, but well-furnished apartment, beside a table, on which
                     rested her arm, supporting her head, in a position not unfrequently used for
                     study, and apparently lost to all external objects, was the pale, care-worn,
                     but still lovely Marianne. Ay, lovely, indeed, she was, which even the most
                     fastidious critic must have admitted, were it only to show himself as such. But
                     it was not the loveliness on which we like to gaze, nor, in fact, on which we
                     could have gazed unmanned, with a heart less hard than adamant. There was
                     beauty—there was loveliness—but it was the beauty and loveliness of grief. Had
                     we beheld it in marble—had we seen the soft, sweet shade of melancholy,
                     pictured in her countenance, chiseled in stone—long, long, would we have gazed,
                     admired, praised, ay, and perchance have loved the artist for his beautiful
                     conception, his masterly execution, and the soft and tender feelings gushing
                     o'er his soul as a thing so angelic was pictured to his mental perception, on
                     which he must have gazed, himself entranced, and chiseled while he gazed. A
                     great change has been wrought since last observed by the reader—a change far
                     more easy to behold than describe. There are no striking points on which we can
                     dwell, and picture forth by description; but, like the gentle rose, plucked
                     from its virgin stem, there is a gradual fading and drooping throughout her
                     lovely countenance.
                  The room, as before remarked, was well, and, we may add, richly furnished; but
                     as the reader, like ourself, is undoubtedly anxious for the sequel of the
                     story, we will not pain him or her, by going through a lengthy description of
                     what concerns neither, but leave such things to some more fortunate author,
                     whose patience and brains far exceed ours, and pass on—merely remarking, by the
                     way, that the floor was covered with a carpet—that on one side stood a bed,
                     denoting it a sleeping apartment—and upon the table burnt a small lamp, sending
                     forth a sickly light, as if that, too, had partaken of the grief of the fair
                     occupant.
                  It was evening—and the great bell of the City Hall had just pealed forth the
                     hour of ten, and, as its heavy tones died away, Marianne started from her
                     trance-like musings, and brushing back the golden locks clustering around her
                     lily cheeks, murmured,
                  "Ten o'clock, and have I thus unconsciously sat here two hours, which have
                     seemed but as many minutes, when at other times even the minutes lengthen
                     themselves, as 'twere, to hours? But I was thinking of him! And
                     yet, why should I? He can never be aught to me? No; there is an insurmountable
                     barrier between us! And yet to think—to let memory dwell on him—is the only
                     comfort I now enjoy! Alas! I shall not enjoy even that long. Yet why do I sigh,
                     alas? Will it not be better for me when I have passed the rugged bounds of
                     time? when I have landed on that blissful shore, where the wicked cease from
                     troubling and the weary are at rest? And yet, dear Henry, could I but see thee
                     once again—ask thee to forgive me, methinks I could die happy. But, no! no!
                     that can never be! I, perchance, will never see thee more until we meet (for we
                     must meet again) at the great seat of Judgment, or before the throne of the
                     Eternal! And I shall soon be there. This inward grief is wearing me away; and,
                     at the longest, but a few more suns can roll athwart the boundless blue, ere I
                     shall number one with those who are themselves unnumbered. Yes—all my bright
                     and happy dreams have vanished—fled as dew before the morning sun; the cloud of
                     sorrow is hovering over me, blighting my hopes and darkening the future. Why am
                     I thus selected as the mark, the target, for the deadly shafts of fate? Deadly,
                     did I say? No! I will not say deadly—far, far worse than that; for they pierce
                     even to my very heart, giving the pain, but without sending death to give
                     relief. Why do all treat me coldly, even to my guardian, who was once so kind?
                     What have I done to merit this? Why does this stranger persist in his advances
                     when he must see they are repugnant to my feelings? Alas! alas! alas! There is
                     a mystery I cannot fathom—a foreboding of coming ill! The heavy cloud of
                     destiny seems hanging over me, charged with the artillery of heaven! I see the
                     forked lightnings of anger flashing around—I hear the howling winds of despair
                     mingled with the rumble of the mighty thunder of conflicting passions—while,
                     methinks, a voice is speaking above the roar, 'Thy doom of woe is sealed.' Yes,
                     there is no escape—I am hemmed in on every side—all, all is lost! But, ah! I
                     see a light in the distance—the cloud breaks way—it is! it is the dawning of
                     hope! O, blessed, blessed Hope! that ever comest to cheer—to break the heavy
                     gloom! Without thee we were lost, indeed! Thy very emblem should be the noble
                     form of the great archangel, standing
                     midway between heaven and earth, bearing in one hand the trumpet, to proclaim
                     joyful tidings, and in the other, the golden torch, to light us o'er the rocks
                     and shoals of life's uncertain, stormy ocean."
                  As Marianne concluded her soliloquy, she bent forward and buried her face in
                     her hands, and for a few minutes remained thus motionless. A light, quick tap,
                     at the door, startled her, and rising, she hurried thither with an agitated
                     step, and, as she opened it, to learn the cause, a tall figure glided past her;
                     as she turned to observe the intruder, the door was shut with violence, and
                     quickly bolted, the lock sprung, and the key removed—all of which was the work
                     of an instant, and completed ere she had time to recover from the astonishment
                     caused by such proceedings.
                  "Great heavens! Merton! and here! What is the meaning of this?" cried she, in
                     alarm, as she recognized in the individual before her the one previously
                     alluded to, as being employed by the doctor to accomplish his hellish
                     design.
                  He was a tall man, apparently about twenty-five years of age, rather high of
                     forehead, of a dark complexion, black glossy hair, which he wore long, curled
                     in a manner not unlike the gamblers and pickpockets of the present day. His
                     features were well formed, and by many would have been considered handsome; but
                     there was an expression in his small black eyes, which was anything but
                     flattering in regard to his moral character.
                  "Hist!" replied he, in answer to her interrogation. "Pray, be seated. I merely
                     came to have a few minutes' conversation with you; be not alarmed."
                  "But this is not the time nor place to talk with me, sir," returned she,
                     sternly. "You forget I am a woman, and have a character to lose. Why is that
                     door bolted and locked?"
                  "To prevent intrusion from without, and egress from within," replied Merton,
                     coolly.
                  "Ha! your words have a secret meaning. What would'st thou with me?"
                  "Much."
                  "Say on."
                  "I would have thee mine."
                  "That can never be—thou hast had thy answer before. Go and leave me."
                  "But I say it must be so; thou must be mine."
                  "Must!" cried Marianne, contemptuously, drawing herself up to her
                     full hight. "Villain, begone, ere I expose thee to the contempt thy actions and
                     thy words deserve. Go!"
                  "Nay, young lady, not so fast. Again I tell thee, thou must be
                     mine," returned he, calmly and firmly. "Seek not to alter it—it is said."
                  "Art thou a man? Hast thou the feelings of a man?" said she,
                     indignantly. "If so, pride, at least, should teach
                     thee not to ask again of her who has thrice denied thee."
                  "Ay, my haughty beauty, pride has so taught me; and know I am not
                     here to ask, but to command."
                  "What! dost thou dare heap insolence on insolence? Begone, or I will call my
                     guardian."
                  "Then call, 'twill be in vain."
                  "Gracious heavens! What mean you?" exclaimed she, wildly, as a sudden thought
                     flashed upon her.
                  "Well, then, I will tell you what I mean," replied he, deliberately folding his
                     arms, and fastening his keen black eyes upon hers, until she shrank from their
                     gaze as she would from those of the deadly serpent. "I will tell you what I
                     mean. I am paid by your affectionate guardian, to dishonor you. For some
                     reasons, unknown to myself, he considers such a course requisite. Whatever his
                     reasons are, I care not; I have agreed to fulfill my part, and I am now here
                     for that purpose. I pray you be resigned to your fate: there is no escape. Care
                     has been taken to have all the servants absent; so that even should you be
                     foolish enough to scream, which I trust you will not, it can reach the ears of
                     none who will render you the least assistance."
                  "Oh, God! oh, God!" exclaimed she, "to what am I destined! But, no! no! you do
                     not—you cannot mean what you say! My guardian, too, he would not thus attempt
                     to destroy my peace forever."
                  "Lady, it is true—all I have said is true. Come, consent, peaceably; otherwise,
                     force must be used."
                  "Fiend! tempter! devil! away—away!" cried she, as he moved toward her. "Consent
                     to my own degradation—consent to become a thing to be by honest people loathed!
                     Never! Had I a thousand deaths to die, I'd die them all, sooner than be such a
                        thing!"
                  There was a dignity in her manner—a holy fire in her eye (if we may so use the
                     expression,) as she spoke, that overawed Merton, and for a moment the stubborn
                     villain trembled before the innocent, helpless girl, as the culprit might be
                     supposed to tremble before the judge about to give him his sentence. It was the
                     secret power which virtue, at times, will exercise over vice. Recovering
                     himself, in a moment—ashamed and angry at the cowardice thus displayed, and, as
                     if to atone for this—he sprang toward her with the desperation of a madman,
                     exclaiming—
                  "By heavens! I'll have thee now, nor hell itself shall wrench thee from my iron
                     grasp, until thou art the thing thou loathest!"
                  With one wild scream of despair, Marianne sprang back, to elude his grasp—when,
                     with a tremendous crash, the door parted in its very center, through which
                     sprang a form with the rapidity of lightning, and, ere the startled occupants
                     had time to comprehend the meaning, Merton, with a mighty blow, was stretched
                     senseless upon the floor, and Marianne was caught to the bosom of Henry
                     Neville.
                  Starting back, and looking wildly into his face, then rubbing her eyes, as if
                     to assure herself it was reality,
                     Marianne rushed back to his arms, exclaiming—
                  "It is no dream! It is—it is my own dear Henry!" and overcome by the sudden
                     transition from despair to joy, she fainted upon his breast.
                  "Yes, poor girl, it is thy Henry!" murmured he, as he bent over and implanted a
                     kiss upon her marble-like forehead; and as he gazed upon her, and thought of
                     the agony she must have suffered to work a change so visible in one short week,
                     tears started to his eyes, and, for the moment, the man was as the child. But
                     action was necessary, for Merton was fast returning to consciousness; and
                     laying her gently upon the bed, he again bent over her and implanted a second
                     kiss; at the same instant the sharp report of a pistol rang through the room,
                     and, whizzing past his head, a ball was lodged in the wall a few feet beyond.
                     Starting and whirling around, his gaze encountered Doctor Barton standing in
                     the doorway.
                  "Ha! have I missed thee?" cried the doctor, with a look that, courageous as he
                     was, made Henry's blood run chill, and for a moment held him in check. "I have
                     missed thee? Then take that!" and dashing down the discharged pistol, he raised
                     another, and deliberately glancing along the barrel, his finger touched the
                     trigger. At this instant, when Henry's fate seemed inevitable, Barton's arm was
                     beat down by some one from behind; and as the second report rang out, Merton,
                     who was rising from where he had been felled by Henry, uttered a groan, and
                     fell back again, senseless, the ball having pierced his side.
                  "And would'st thou add murder to thy crimes?" cried a shrill voice in his ear,
                     that made the doctor start and tremble—for well he remembered that voice,
                     although its tone had been silent to him for fifteen years.
                  "Who speaks?" cried he, wheeling around and confronting the figure, already
                     spoken of as overhearing the conference between the doctor and Cartene.
                  "Ay, well you may ask who speaks," said the woman, in a heavy, solemn voice.
                     "'Tis the spirit of your victim, the mother of Marianne, which does and will
                     speak to your guilty soul forever. Dost thou not remember her curse, if you
                     wronged her daughter?"
                  "I do—I do!" replied the doctor, turning pale, his gaze sinking to the floor,
                     for the moment losing his wonted self-control.
                  "Ah, you need not speak! Your pale countenance and downcast eye would tell as
                     much," returned the woman. "Remember, that curse shall be
                     fulfilled!"
                  "Who art thou, old hag?" cried the doctor, angrily, making an effort to appear
                     collected. "Who art thou that durst enter my dwelling and talk to me thus?"
                  "Who am I? Canst thou not guess who I am? Behold!" As she spoke, she threw off
                     the covering, and revealed her features to the doctor.
                  "Ha! Mary!" muttered the doctor, with a start; "It is as I suspected. So all my
                     villainy will be discovered; but I may yet escape." Saying this, he turned and
                     made for the stairs, down which he seemed to fly, rather than run, until he had
                     nearly reached the bottom, when a misstep precipitated him upon the floor, and
                     as he regained his feet, Henry (who had closely watched him during his
                     conversation with Mary, and perceiving his intention, had sprung after him with
                     the agility of a cat,) now seized him roughly by the collar, exclaiming—
                  "Hold! thou more than devil! Not thus shalt thou escape!" and, forcing him back
                     in spite of his resistance, returned to the room of Marianne.
                  During his absence, which had been but a minute, Marianne had partly recovered
                     from her swoon; and when he returned, Mary was bending over and unloosing her
                     dress, to give her air, while the tears standing in her eyes told, far more
                     than words, the feelings of her heart.
                  Starting up, like one awakened from a startling dream, yet doubts whether it be
                     a dream or reality, Marianne gazed hurriedly around the apartment, and
                     perceiving Henry and the doctor, the truth flashed upon her, a gentle blush
                     mantled her cheeks, and sinking back, she murmured, "It is no dream." Then
                     fastening her eyes upon Mary, they became riveted there, as though by a spell;
                     her breathing came quick and heavy; and, partly rising, without withdrawing her
                     gaze, she gasped, "Who art thou? Surely—surely I have seen thy face before; yet
                     when or where I cannot tell."
                  "Yes, child," said Mary, gently, "thou hast seen my face before, for I nursed
                     thee when an infant. I was a servant in thy father's mansion , and
                     stood beside the deathbed of thy mother."
                  "My father!" exclaimed she, "Oh! do not—do not mention him."
                  "And why not? His name was never sullied with dishonor."
                  "What!" gasped she; "Was he—was he—my—my legal father?"
                  "He was."
                  "Speak—speak!" cried Henry; "His name?"
                  "Count La Roix."
                  "Marianne!"
                  "Henry," cried she, rushing into his arms, "take me—take me—I am thine!" and
                     locked in each other's embrace, for a moment the lovers forgot, in their
                     ecstacy of joy, there was such a thing as mortality—and that it was but the
                     word of a poor woman, and that woman a stranger, on which rested their
                     hopes.
                  "Here is much mystery," said Henry, who was the first to speak. "I pray you,
                     good woman, explain."
                  "Yes, I will explain," returned Mary; "but first, I would tell you, there
                     (pointing to the doctor) stands the author of all your misery."
                  "My guardian!" said Marianne, affectionately. "Is it possible that you, who,
                     until of late, have treated me thus kindly—is it possible that you can be that
                     villain?"
                  "Yes, girl," replied the doctor
                     calmly, "it is not only possible, but true. When I told you of your mother, I
                     told you the truth but in part. I am the villain who seduced and brought her to
                     an ignominious death; but you were then a child—a legal child of Count La Roix,
                     late deceased, and by whom you not only inherit the title of Countess, but with
                     it one million of francs, willed to you in case you married, or arrived at the
                     age of eighteen—provided, there was no blemish upon your character; but, in
                     case of that, or your decease, this fell to the next heir at law. This said
                     heir at law, or his agent, learned that you lived with me, sought me out, and
                     found me at a time when I expected every day my property to be torn from me by
                     my creditors, laid his plan open to, and offered me an immense sum, could I
                     succeed in staining your fair name. Goaded by my almost unnatural desire to
                     obtain this money, in an evil moment I consented. How far I have succeeded, you
                     already know. Had I succeeded, this night would I have sailed for
                     France. But fate decreed it otherwise; I yield to fate."
                  "But why, dear guardian," said Marianne, tenderly,—"why did you
                     listen to that villain, who was plotting against my eternal peace? Why did you
                     not tell me of my name, and that I was an heiress? Half, willingly, would I
                     have given you, had you required it, Ay, all, rather than you
                     should have been thus dishonored. As yet, you can escape the eyes of the world.
                     You say you would have sailed for France. Go, then, now; if you lack the means,
                     money shall be provided you. Go, live and repent, and become a better man." Ere
                     she concluded, the tears rolled down her cheeks, and her voice became choked
                     with emotion.
                  At first, the doctor listened calmly and coldly, as one who expects nothing but
                     contempt and reproaches; but as he saw her disinterested kindness—saw the look
                     of tenderness she cast upon him—his heart seemed to creep to his throat—tears
                     started to his eyes—tears, the first he had shed for long, long years—and,
                     unable to stand, he leaned against the wall for support.
                  "And you—you would have done this," said he, as soon as he recovered strength
                     to speak. "You would do this—you would set me free—me, who have been plotting
                     your destruction? Recall, recall those words—they pierce my heart like daggers.
                     Say you hate, you loathe, detest, abhor me: I can bear anything but kindness,
                     and that from you. Oh, God! what a wretch have I been!" and his whole frame
                     shook, convulsed with inward emotions,
                  It was a noble sight, to see that dark, stern man, whose very heart had been
                     but the receptacle of crime, trembling and affected even to tears by a few
                     tender words of an innocent girl, and both Henry and Mary found it difficult to
                     restrain the emotions caused by such a spectacle.
                  Recovering his former composure, and turning to Marianne, the doctor said,
                     "Dear girl, had I met with such as you when I was young perchance I should have
                     been saved the commission of crimes which are now weighing me down, as 'twere
                     to hell; for already do I feel the fires of my coming torment—the seven times
                     heated fires of a guilty conscience. You ask me to go and screen myself from
                     the world: I will obey you, for I would not be held up to the public gaze. You
                     ask me to repent and become a better man: that cannot be—my sins have reached
                     even to heaven—my name is blotted from the book of life. Your mother's curse
                     rings in my ears; for that must be fulfilled—and all, all, all is lost! But,
                     ere I go, let me do one just act," and, approaching Marianne, he took her hand
                     and placed it in that of Henry's. "You are worthy each of the other. May the
                     blessings of heaven rest upon you! Farewell! farewell!"
                  Turning upon his heel, he had glided from the room ere the listeners were aware
                     he had done speaking. They never saw him more. A short time after, a paragraph
                     appeared in the papers, announcing the death, by suicide, of Dr. Barton; his
                     name being discovered by papers found upon the body
                  We must now draw our tale to a close. But little more need be said. Merton,
                     upon examination, was found to be seriously, but not dangerously, wounded. He
                     was taken to the hospital, where, after a long confinement, and much bodily and
                     mental suffering, he recovered, reformed, and became a useful member of
                     society.
                  Cartene, who, in fact, was "the next heir at law," finding matters had taken a
                     wrong turn, made for the South, where, in attempting to rob a bank, he was
                     afterward shot.
                  Mary afterward related to the lovers, the whole particulars concerning herself
                     and Marianne; but, as the reader is already acquainted with nearly all that
                     appertains to our story, we will conclude by touching upon a few points. After
                     the decease of Madame La Roix, Mary (although she had never made herself known
                     to Marianne), had watched her in secret, according to the promise made to her
                     mother when on her deathbed, and had written to Count La Roix, informing him of
                     the whereabouts of his daughter. Passing through the Park, on the evening of
                     Cartene's first introduction to the reader, she, by chance, heard the name of
                     Marianne mentioned, and, observing the speaker closely, thought she recognized
                     the features of Doctor Barton. Determined to be satisfied, she followed, and,
                     as has already been seen, discovered the whole plot. Sending for Henry, she had
                     explained to him, in part, how matters stood, which, together with what he had
                     heard himself from the doctor, determined him to follow her advice. By bribing
                     the servants, they had secreted themselves within the mansion on the evening in
                     which the doctor had intended to complete his design. Finding the room which
                     Marianne was to occupy, Henry had taken up his position near the door, provided
                     with an axe, in case it should become necessary to force a passage by splitting the door. He had seen
                     Merton enter, but, fearing lest there might be some mistake, had anxiously
                     waited without, until, hearing Marianne's scream, with one blow of his axe he
                     severed the door, and rushed in just in time to save her. The doctor, who had
                     also been anxiously awaiting the result of his scheme, hearing the noise, came
                     to learn the cause, and perceiving how matters stood, enraged, and fearing lest
                     his villainy should be exposed, attempted Henry's life, from which he was
                     prevented, as has been shown, by Mary.
                  Doctor Barton's wife having been dead several years, his property was divided
                     among his creditors, and in a few days from the foregoing events, the splendid
                     mansion had passed into other hands. * * *
                  Years had rolled away, and in a retired part of France, living in genteel,
                     though not extravagant splendor, might be seen a gentleman and lady, who,
                     whenever they went abroad, were generally accompanied by an elderly female,
                     acting in the capacity of a servant, though treated as an equal. Had curiosity
                     led you to inquire who they were, you would have received the appropriate,
                     though somewhat singular answer, "The fair foreigners."
                  They mingled but little in society, occasionally an American called to see
                     them, and was treated with much politeness. If Yankee curiosity led one to
                     inquire of the gentleman "who was his wife previous to his marriage" (and
                     occasionally it did), his answer invariably was; "When I wooed her, she was the
                     UNKNOWN—when I won her, COUNTESS MARIANNE."
               
               THE END.
            
            
               BLANCHE DE BEAULIEU.
               
                  I.
                  WHOEVER, on the evening of the fifteenth of December, 1795, might have left the
                     little town of Clisson, to go to the village of Saint Crepin, and had stopped
                     upon the crest of the mountain at the foot of which runs the river la Moine,
                     would have seen a strange sight on the other side of the valley.
                  At first, in the spot where he would have looked for the village hidden among
                     the trees, in the midst of the horizon, already dusky in the twilight, he would
                     have perceived three or four columns of smoke, which, separate at their base,
                     joined in widening, floated a moment like a burnished dome, and, yielding
                     quietly to a damp west wind, rolled in that direction, lost in the clouds of a
                     lowering, hazy sky. He would have seen this base redden slowly, then all smoke
                     cease, and, in its place, forked tongues of flame burst from the roofs of the
                     houses, with a dull roaring, then twisting spirally, then again curving and
                     raising itself like the mast of a vessel. It would have appeared to him, that
                     soon after all the windows opened to belch forth fire. Occasionally, when a
                     roof fell in, he might have heard a dull sound, he might have seen a brighter
                     flame filled with thousands of sparks, and, by the red glare of the increasing
                     conflagration, the shining of arms, a circle of soldiers extending afar. He
                     might have heard shouts, and bursts of laughter; and, he might have said in his
                     fright, "God pardon me! It is an army warming themselves by burning a
                     village."
                  In fact, a republican brigade of some twelve or fifteen hundred men had found
                     the village of Saint Crepin deserted, and had set it in flames.
                  This was not cruelty, but an expedient of war; a plan of the campaign, as any
                     other might have been; and the one which experience had proved to be the
                     best.
                  Nevertheless, a cottage standing by itself was not consumed; they appeared even
                     to take every necessary precaution to prevent the fire from reaching it. Two
                     sentinels guarded the entrance, and every moment orderly officers and
                     aids-de-camp went in and out carrying orders.
                  He, who issued these orders, was a young man; he appeared to be from twenty to
                     twenty-two years old; with long, light-colored hair, parted on his forehead,
                     which fell wavingly on each side of his pale and thin cheeks; his entire face
                     bore the impress of that fatal sadness which is to be seen upon the brow of
                     those destined to an early grave. His blue cloak, while enveloping him, did not
                     entirely conceal the badge of his rank, two General's epaulettes; though these
                     epaulettes were made of worsted—the Republican officers having made a patriotic
                     offering to the Convention of all the gold ornaments about their dress. He was
                     leaning upon a table, with a geographical chart spread out before him, on which
                     he was tracing in pencil, by the light of a lamp, which was itself eclipsed by
                     the glare of the conflagration, the route that his soldiers were about to
                     follow. It was General Marceau, who, three years later, was killed at
                     Altenkirchen.
                  "Alexandre!" called he, raising himself self half-way, "Alexandre! everlasting sleeper, are you dreaming of San
                     Domingo, that you sleep so long?"
                  "What's the matter?" inquired he to whom this was addressed, starting upright
                     in surprise, and whose head almost touched the ceiling of the cabin, "What's
                     the matter? is the enemy upon us?"—and these words were pronounced with that
                     light creole accent which preserved its softness, even in the midst of the
                     threatening tone.
                  "No, but an order has arrived for us from the commander-in-chief, General
                     Westermann."
                  And whilst his colleague read the order, for he to whom he had spoken was his
                     colleague, Marceau looked with childish curiosity upon the muscular form of the
                     herculean mulatto before him.
                  He was a man twenty-eight years old, with short, crisp hair, brown complexion,
                     high forehead and white teeth; whose almost supernatural strength was well
                     known to the army, which had seen him in a fight split a helmet down to the
                     cuirass, and once upon a parade strangle a fractious horse, which he was
                     riding, between his thighs. Nor had he long to live, but, less fortunate than
                     Marceau, he must die far from the battle field, poisoned by the order of a
                     king. This was General Alexandre Dumas—my father.
                  "Who brought this order?" asked he
                  'The people's representative, Delmar."
                  "'Tis well, and where are these poor devils going to meet?"
                  "In a wood, a league and a half from here; look at the map, there it is."
                  "Yes; but on the map there are no ravines, no mountains, no tree stumps, no by
                     ways, embarassing the true route, where one can scarcely find one's self even
                     in the daytime. Infernal country! and withall that it is always so cold."
                  "Look!" said Marceau, pushing the door open with his foot and showing the
                     village on fire, "go out and warm yourself.—Ha what is the matter,
                     citizens?"
                  This question was addressed to some soldiers, who, in seeking for provisions
                     had discovered, in a sort of kennel attached to the cottage where the two
                     Generals were, a Vendean peasant, who seemed so drunken, that it was probable
                     he was unable to follow the villagers when they had abandoned their homes.
                  Let the reader figure to himself, a stupid faced farmer, with a large hat, long
                     hair, and grey waiscoat; a being, formed in the image of a man, but a degree
                     lower than the brute; for it was evident that instinct was wanting to this mass
                     or flesh. Marceau put a few questions to him; his patois and the wine rendered
                     his answers unintelligible. He was about to give him up as a laughing stock to
                     the soldiers, when General Dumas, briskly ordered the cottage to be evacuated,
                     and the prisoner to be shut up in it. He was still at the door, a soldier
                     pushed him inside; he went staggering against the wall, tottered an instant,
                     swaying about on his half-bent legs; then, falling heavily, stretched himself
                     out and remained without moving A single sentinel remained before the door, and
                     they did not even take the trouble to close the window.
                  "We shall be able to leave in an hour," said General Dumas to Marceau, "we have
                     a guide."
                  "Where is he?"
                  "That man."
                  "Yes, if we start to-morrow, that may be. There is sleep enough in what that
                     fellow has drunken to last him twenty-four hours."
                  Dumas smiled, "Come," said he, and he led him to the shed where the peasant had
                     been found; a single partition separated it from the interior of the cabin, and
                     it was filled with cracks which allowed everything that occurred there to be
                     seen, and the least word of the two Generals, who an instant before had been
                     there, to be overheard.
                  "And now," added he lowering his voice, "look!"
                  Marceau did so, giving way to the ascendency which his friend exercised over
                     him, even in the most common affairs fairs of life. He had some, difficulty in
                     distinguishing the prisoner, who had accidentally fallen into the darkest
                     corner of the cottage. He laid like a sick man, still in the same spot; Marceau
                     looked around to seek his colleague; he had disappeared.
                  When he again looked into the cottage, it appeared to him that the fellow had
                     made a slight movement; his head had been moved to a place whence he could see
                     at once all the inside of the room. Soon after he opened his eyes with the long
                     yawn of a man just awaking, and he saw that he was alone.
                  A single flash of joy and intelligence passed over his features.
                  Then it was evident to Marceau that he had been the dupe of this man, if a
                     look, still more scrutinizing, had not already convinced him of it. He examined
                     him then with renewed attention; his face had resumed its former expression,
                     his eyes had closed again his movements were those of a man about to fall
                     asleep again; in one of these movements, he struck the small table upon which
                     were the map and the order of General Westermann, which Marceau had thrown upon
                     it; it fell with a crash; at the noise, the soldier on duty opposite the door,
                     put his head in, saw what had caused it, and said laughingly to his comrade,
                     "'T is that citizen dreaming."
                  The prisoner heard these words; his eyes re-opened, a look of hatred, for an
                     instant, followed the sentinel, then, with a rapid movement, he seized the
                     paper upon which the order was written, and concealed it in his bosom.
                  Marceau held his breath; his right hand seemed to clutch his sword hilt, his
                     left hand and his forehead only supported his body against the partition.
                  The object of his attention was at this time resting on his side; soon, by
                     means of his elbow and knee, he advanced slowly, still lying down, toward the
                     door of the cabin; through the opening between the door and the sill he saw the
                     legs of a group of soldiers who were in front of it. Then patiently and slowly
                     he began to glide toward the open window; then, when he had reached within
                     three feet of it, he sought in his bosom for his arms, concealed there,
                     gathered himself up, and with a single spring, the spring of a panther, threw
                     himself out of the cabin Marceau shouted; he had not had time to foresee or
                     prevent this flight. An other shout replied to his; it was a curse. The
                     Vendean, in falling out of the window, found himself face to face with General
                     Dumas; he tried to stab him with his knife, but the latter seized him by the
                     wrist, turned it against his own breast, so that the Vendean had but to push to
                     stab himself.
                  "I promised you a guide, Marceau, here he is; and a knowing one, I hope." "I
                     can have you shot, my fine fellow," said he to the peasant, "but it is more
                     convenient for me to let you live. You have heard our conversation, but you
                     shall not carry it to those that sent you—citizens," he addressed himself to
                     the soldiers whom this curious scene had gathered, "some two of you take each a
                     hand of this man, and place yourselves with him at the head of the column; he
                     shall be our guide; if you perceive that he deceives you, if he makes an
                     attempt at flight, blow his brains out and throw him over the hedge."
                  Then a few orders, given in a low tone, passed throughout this broken line of
                     soldiers, which extended itself around the ashes of what was once a village.
                     These groups arranged themselves; each platoon seemed to fasten itself upon the
                     one before it. A black line was formed; it descended along the deep road which
                     separates Saint-Crepin from Montfauçon, fitted into it like a wheel into a rut,
                     and when, a few moments after; the moon shone out between two clouds and was
                     reflected for an instant by this string of silent shining bayonets, one would
                     have believed that he saw an immense black serpent with steel scales, gliding
                     in the darkness.
               
               
                  
                  II.
                  A night march is a melancholy thing for an army. War is a beautiful thing, on a
                     fine day when the sky-shines upon the mêlée; when people arrange themselves
                     around the battle-field like the seats in a circus, and applaud the conquerors;
                     when the quivering tones of brass instruments cause the undaunted heart-strings
                     to thrill; when the smoke of a thousand cannon covers you like a shroud; when
                     friends and enemies are by to see how bravely you die: it is sublime! But at
                     night! Ignorant how you are attacked, and how to defend yourself; to fall
                     without seeing who struck the blow, or whence it came; to feel those still
                     standing wounding you with their feet, and marching over you without knowing
                     who you are! Oh! then, 'tis no time to take positions like a gladiator; one
                     rolls, and twists, bites the ground, and tears it up with his fingers—'t is
                     horrible!
                  The reason why that army marched sadly and silently, was because it knew that
                     on each side of its route extended high hedges and entire fields of broom and
                     thorn bushes; and that, at the end of this road, there would be a fight—a fight
                     in the dark.
                  It marched on for half an hour: from time to time, as I have already said, a
                     ray of the moon would shine between the clouds, and show the peasant who acted
                     as guide at the head of that column, his car attentive to the least noise, and
                     constantly guarded by the two soldiers that marched at his side. Sometimes they
                     would hear on the flanks a rustling of leaves; the head of the column would
                     stop suddenly, and many voices cry out "Who goes there?" Nothing
                     replied, and the peasant said, laughing "'T is a hare starting from its resting
                     place." Sometimes the two soldiers thought they saw something move before them,
                     which they could not make out; they said to each other, "Look there!" and the
                     Vendean replied, "'T is your shadow, let us keep on." Suddenly, at a turn in
                     the road, they saw two men stand before them; they essayed to shout; one of the
                     soldiers fell without having time to speak a word; the other staggered a
                     second, and had only time to say, "Help!"
                  Twenty muskets were fired in an instant; by the glare of this light, they could
                     see three men running; one of them staggered, and drew himself along the
                     declivity for a moment, hoping to reach the other side of the hedge. They ran
                     up to him, it was not the guide; they questioned him, he made no answer; a
                     soldier pierced his arm with his bayonet, to see if he were really dead; he
                     was.
                  Marceau then became the guide. The study which he had made of the localities,
                     gave him a hope that he would not lose himself. At last, after a march of a
                     quarter of an hour, they saw the black mass of the forest. It was there,
                     according to the information which the Republicans had received, that the
                     inhabitants of a few villages, the remnants of a number of armies, some
                     eighteen hundred men were to assemble, to hear mass.
                  The two generals divided their little band into a number of columns, with
                     orders to surround the woods, and to follow all the paths which led toward its
                     center; they calculated that half an hour would suffice to take up these
                     respective positions. A platoon stopped on the road which they found before
                     them; the others extended themselves in a circle upon its wings; for a moment,
                     the noise of their regular tramp could be heard, and then it grew fainter as
                     they receded; it ceased suddenly, and all was silent. The half hour which
                     precedes a battle passes rapidly. Scarcely has the soldier time to see that his
                     musket is in order, and to say to his comrades, "I have twenty or thirty francs
                     in the corner of my knapsack; if I am killed, you will send them to my
                     mother."
                  The command, Forward! sounded, and each one trembled, as though he
                     had not been awaiting it there.
                  As they advanced, it seemed to them that the cross-roads, which formed the
                     center of the forest, were lighted up; on approaching, they perceived torches
                     shining; soon objects became more distinct, and a sight, which none of them had
                     any idea of, presented itself to their view.
                  Upon an altar, clumsily represented by a few stones heaped together, the Curé
                     of Sainte-Marie de Rhe was saying mass; old men surrounded the altar, torch in
                     hand; outside of them, women and children prayed on their knees. Between the
                     Republicans and this group was placed a wall of men, which, upon a smaller
                     scale, presented a plan of battle prepared for defense or attack; it was
                     evident that they had been forewarned, even if the runaway guide had not been
                     recognized in the front rank; now he was a Vendean soldier, in full uniform,
                     bearing upon his left breast the red heart, which served as a rallying badge,
                     and in his cap, the white handkerchief which replaced the plume.
                  The Vendeans did not wait to be attacked: they had spread sharp-shooters
                     throughout the woods; they commenced firing: the Republicans advanced with
                     carried arms, without firing a shot; without replying to the continued fire of
                     their enemies; without offering any words after each discharge, other than
                     these "Close up the ranks! close up the ranks!"
                  The priest had not terminated mass, he still continued; his audience seemed
                     unconscious of what was passing around them, and remained upon their knees. The
                     Republican soldiers still advanced. When they were some thirty paces from their
                     enemies, the front rank knelt; three rows of muskets were levelled. like corn
                     bent by the wind. The firing commenced: they saw the ranks of the Vendeans grow
                     thin; and a few balls, passing through them, reached the foot of the altar,
                     killing women and children. There was then a moment of shouting and tumult in
                     the crowd. The priest raised the Host, all heads bowed to the earth, and all
                     was silent.
                  The Republicans made a second discharge at the distance of ten paces, as calmly
                     as if on review, with as much precision as if before a target. The Vendeans
                     replied smartly, but neither had time to reload: it was now work for the
                     bayonet; and here, all the advantage was on the side of the regularly armed
                     Republicans. The priest still continued to perform mass.
                  The Vendeans gave way. Entire ranks fell without noise other than curses. The
                     priest perceived this; he made a sign; the torches were extinguished, the
                     combat continued in the darkness. Thenceforth it was a scene of disorder and
                     carnage, where each one struck blindly and fiercely, and died without asking
                     quarter; quarter, so seldom given, even when demanded in the same language.
                  Nevertheless these words: "Mercy! Mercy!" were pronounced in an imploring voice
                     at Marceau's feet, as he was about to strike.
                  It was a Vendean youth, an unarmed child, who was striving to get out of this
                     horrid mêlée.
                  "Mercy! Mercy!" cried he; "Save me! in the name of heaven, in the name of your
                     mother!"
                  The General drew him some paces from the battle-field, out of view of the
                     soldiers, but he was soon compelled to stop; the young man had fainted. This
                     excess of fright on the part of a soldier astonished him; he did not hasten the
                     less however to relieve him; he opened his coat to give him air—it was a
                     woman!
                  There was not a moment to lose; the orders of the Convention were strict; all
                     Vendeans found with arms in their hands, or taking part in any assemblage,
                     whatever the age or sex, must perish upon the scaffold. He seated the young
                     girl at the foot of a tree, and ran to the field of battle. Among the dead, he
                     perceived a young Republican officer, whose height seemed to be near that of
                     the unknown; he quickly took the uniform and chapeau and returned to her. The
                     coolness of the night soon brought her out of her fainting fit.
                  "Father! Father!" were her first words; then getting up and putting her hands
                     to her forehead, as if to collect her wandering thoughts. "Oh! this is frightful: I was with him,—I have left
                     him;—my father! my father! he will be killed!"
                  "My young mistress,—Mademoiselle Blanche," said a voice which came from a head
                     which appeared suddenly behind a tree, "the Marquis de Beaulieu lives, he is
                     safe. Hurrah for the king and the good cause!"
                  He who uttered these words disappeared like a shadow; but not so quickly,
                     however, but that General Marceau had time to recognize the peasant of
                     Saint-Crepin.
                  "Tinguey! Tinguey!" cried the young girl, extending her arms toward the
                     farmer.
                  "Silence! a word will denounce you; I will not then be able to save you, and I
                     wish to do so! Put on this coat and this chapeau, and await me here."
                  He returned to the field of battle, gave his soldiers orders to retire upon
                     Chollet, left his colleague in command of the troops and returned to the side
                     of the young Vendean girl.
                  He found her ready to accompany him. Both directed themselves toward a kind of
                     road which crosses Romagne, where Marceau's servant awaited him with led
                     horses, which could not traverse the interior of the country where the roads
                     were ravines and gulleys. There, his embarassment was increased: he feared that
                     his young companion could not bestride a horse, and would, therefore, be
                     compelled to walk; but she soon re-assured him by managing her horse, with less
                     strength, perhaps, but with all the grace of the best cavaliers.*
                        She noticed Marceau's surprise and smiled.
                  
                     
                     *Though what follows will not account for this skill, so rare among our
                        women, yet the custom of the country justified it. The ladies of the
                        castle bestrode a horse, literally speaking, like a fashionable gentleman
                        of Long Champs; they wore under their dresses, which were raised by the
                        saddle, pantaloons similar to those which are put on children. The women
                        of the common people did not take even this precaution, although the
                        color of their skin made me believe to the contrary for a long time.
                  
                  "You will be less astonished," said she to him, "when you know me; you will see
                     by what a train of circumstances the exercises common to men have become
                     familiar to me; you appear to be such a good man, that I will tell you the
                     events of my life, so young yet so full of trouble."
                  "Yes, yes, by and by," said Marceau; "we shall have plenty of time, for you are
                     my prisoner, and on your own account I do not wish to set you free Now we must
                     get to Chollet as soon as possible. So seat yourself securely in your saddle
                     and gallop my cavalier."
                  "Gallop it is," replied the Vendean girl, and three quarters of an hour
                     afterward they entered Chollet. The Commander-in-chief was at the Mayor's
                     office. Marceau ascended, leaving his servant and his prisoner at the door. In
                     a few words he gave an account of his mission, and returned with his little
                     escort to seek a lodging at the hotel Sans
                        Culottes, an inscription which had replaced the one formerly on
                     the sign—Au Grand St. Nicholas.
                  Marceau engaged two rooms; he led the young girl to one of them and advised her
                     to throw herself, still dressed, upon the bed, to take a few moments repose, of
                     which she must have been in great need after such a frightful night as she had
                     just passed, and then went to shut himself in his own room, for now he had a
                     life dependent upon him, and it was necessary that he should find means to
                     preserve it.
                  Blanche, on her part, had need of thought also; first of her father, and then
                     of this young Republican General, with his sweet face and soft voice. It all
                     seemed a dream to her. She walked about to assure herself that she was really
                     awake, stopped before a mirror, to convince herself that it was truly she, then
                     she wept to think of the deserted situation in which she found herself; the
                     idea of her death, death upon the scaffold, did not occur to her; Marceau had
                     said with his soft voice. "I will save you."
                  And then, why should they cause her, born but yesterday, to die? Beautiful
                     tiful and inoffensive, why should men desire her head and her blood? Scarcely
                     could she convince herself that she was in any danger. Her father on the
                     contrary, a Vendean chief—he slew and might be slain; but she, poor young
                     thing, still hand in hand with childhood—oh! far from believing in these
                     sorrowful prestiges—life was beautiful and joyous, the future immense; this war
                     would cease, the deserted castle would see its master return. Some day, a young
                     man, fatigued, would come there to ask hospitality; he would be twenty-four or
                     five years old, with a sweet voice, light hair, and a general's uniform; he
                     would stay a long time;—dream on, dream on, poor Blanche!
                  There is a time in youth, when misfortune is so much a stranger to existence,
                     that it appears they never can become acquainted; however melancholy an idea
                     may be, 'tis cast aside with a sigh. It is because they see life only on one
                     side of the horizon; it is because the past has not had time to make them
                     suspect the future.
                  Marceau dreamed likewise, but he had already looked into life; he knew the
                     political hatreds of the time; he knew the unreasonableness of revolutions, he
                     sought a way to rescue the sleeping Blanche. One only presented itself to his
                     mind: that was to conduct her himself to Nantes, where his family dwelt. For
                     three years he had not seen either his mother or his sister, and finding
                     himself only a few leagues from that city, it would appear very natural that he
                     should ask leave of absence, of the General-in-chief. He stopped at this
                     thought. Day began to break, he presented himself at General Westermann's
                     quarters; that which he asked was granted without difficulty. He wished to be
                     allowed to go at once, thinking that Blanche could not leave any too soon; but
                     it was necessary that his leave of absence should bear a second signature, that
                     of the representative of the people, Delmar. Not an hour since he had arrived
                     from the expedition, with the troops; he was taking a short repose in an
                     adjoining room, and as soon as he awoke the General-in-chief promised Marceau
                     to send it to him.
                  On re-entering the inn he met General Dumas, who was seeking him. The two
                     friends had no secrets from each other, he soon knew all the adventures of the
                     night. Whilst breakfast was preparing, Marceau ascended to the room of his
                     prisoner, who had already asked for him; he announced the visit of his
                     colleague, who hastened to present himself; his first words reassured Blanche,
                     and, after a short conversation, she felt only the bashfulness natural to a
                     young girl, seated between two men whom she scarcely knows.
                  They were about to seat themselves at the table, when the door opened. The
                     people's 
                        respresentative
                        representative
                     , Delmar, appeared upon the threshhold.
                  Scarcely have we had time at the commencement of this story, to say a single
                     word about this new personage.
                  He was one of those men whom Robespierre placed as an arm, at the end of his
                     own, in order to reach into the provinces; whom he thought had learned his
                     system of regeneration, because he had said to them: We must regenerate; and
                     under whose hands the guillotine was more active than discriminating.
                  This sinister apparition made Blanche tremble, even before she knew who he
                     was.
                  "Ah! ah!" said he to Marceau, "you wish to leave us already, citizen General,
                     but you behaved so well last night that I cannot refuse you anything;
                     nevertheless, I am a little vexed with you for allowing the Marquis de Beaulieu
                     to escape—I had promised to send his head to the Convention."
                  Blanche stood up, pale and frigid as a statue of terror. Marceau placed himself
                     before her, without attracting attention.
                  "But that which is deferred is not lost," continued he. "The grey-hounds of the
                     Republic have good noses and sharp teeth, and we will follow his trail. Here is
                     your leave-of-absence," added he; "it is countersigned; you may depart when you
                     please; but, before you go, I have
                     come to breakfast with you: I do not wish to part with so brave a man as you,
                     without drinking to the safety of the Republic, and to the extermination of all
                     brigands."
                  "In the position in which the two generals found themselves, just then, this
                     mark of esteem was any thing but agreeable. Blanche had seated herself and had
                     gained some little courage. They seated themselves at the table, and the young
                     girl, to avoid facing Delmar, was obliged to take a place at his side. She
                     seated herself far enough away not to touch him, and was reassured, by degrees,
                     as she perceived the people's representative was more occupied by the meal,
                     than by the guests who partook of it with him. Nevertheless, from time to time,
                     one or two bloody words fell from his lips and caused a chill to pass through
                     the frame of the young girl; but, beside this, no real danger seemed to
                     threaten her the generals hoped he would leave without speaking a word to her
                     directly. The desire to set out was a pretext, on Marceau's part, for
                     shortening the meal; it was nearly finished. Each one began to breathe more
                     freely, when a volley of musketry was heard in the city square, opposite the
                     inn; the generals jumped to their arms, which they had laid aside near them.
                     Delmar stopped them—"Well done, my brave fellows," said he laughing, and
                     balancing himself in his chair. "Good! I like to see you on your guard; but
                     re-seat yourselves there is nothing for you to do there."
                  "What is this noise, then?" asked Marceau.
                  "Nothing," replied Delmar, "only shooting the prisoners taken last night."
                  Blanche screamed with fright.
                  "Oh! the unfortunate beings!" cried she.
                  Delmar put down the glass which he was about to carry to his lips—turned slowly
                     toward her,
                  "Ah! this is mighty fine," said he; "now if soldiers tremble so like women, we
                     must dress women like soldiers; you are very young, 'tis true," added he taking
                     her two hands and looking in her face, "but you 'll get used to it."
                  "O! never! never!" cried Blanche, without thinking how dangerous it was for her
                     to manifest such sentiments before such a witness. "Never could I get used to
                     such horrors."
                  "Child!" said he, letting her hands drop, "do you think that a nation can be
                     regenerated, without letting blood? repress factions, without building
                     scaffolds? Have you ever witnessed a revolution pass the level of equality over
                     a people, without cutting a few heads off? Woe then, woe to the great, for the
                     wand of Tarquin has pointed them out!"
                  He was still a moment, then continued:
                  "Besides, what is death? A sleep without dreaming, without awaking; what is
                     blood? a red liquid, almost like that in this bottle, and which produces its
                     effect upon our mind, only by the ideas we attach to it. Sombrueil has drunken
                     it. Well! you are silent! Let us see, have you not, at your tongue's end, some
                     philanthropic argument? In your place a Girondist would not be silent."
                  Blanche was now compelled to continue the conversation.
                  "Oh!" said she, tremblingly, "are you sure that God has given you the right to
                     kill thus?"
                  "Does not God himself kill?"
                  "Yes, but he sees beyond life; but man, when he kills, knows not what he gives
                     or what he takes away."
                  "Well! so be it; the soul is either immortal, or it is not; if the body is only
                     matter, is it a crime to return, a little sooner, to matter, that which God has
                     loaned it? If a soul inhabits it, and this soul be immortal. I cannot kill it;
                     the body is but a covering, that I take from it, or, rather, a prison from
                     which I release it. Now, listen to advice, for I really wish to give it to you;
                     keep your philosophical reflections, and your school-boy arguments, to defend
                     your own life, should you over fall into the hands of Charette or Bernard de
                     Maringy; for they will grant you no more mercy than I have to their soldiers.
                     As for myself, you will repent the repeating them a second time in my hearing:
                     bear this in mind." He went out.
                  There was a moment's silence. Marceau laid down his pistols, which he had
                     loaded during this conversation.
                  "Oh!" said he, following him with his finger, "Never did man, surely, come so
                     near death as you have just done, and miss it. Blanche, do you know that if a
                     word or a gesture had escaped him which could have proved that he had
                     recognized you, do you know, I would have blown his brains out?"
                  She did not listen. A single thought possessed her; it was that this was the
                     man commissioned to follow the remnant of the army commanded by the Marquis de
                     Beaulieu.
                  "Oh my God!" said she, concealing her face in her hands—"Oh! my God! when I
                     think that my father may fall into the hands of this tiger; that if he had been
                     made prisoner last night, it is possible that there, before—'T is execrable, 't
                     is atrocious; is there then no pity in this world? Oh! forgive me, forgive,"
                     said she to Marceau: "who ought to know to the contrary better than I? My God!
                     oh God!"
                  At this moment the servant entered, and announced that the horses were
                     ready.
                  "Let us go; in heaven's name let us go! There is blood in the very air we
                     breathe here."
                  "Let us go," said Marceau, and the three descended at once.
               
               
                  III.
                  Marceau found a detachment of thirty men at the door, which the
                     General-in-chief had caused to be mounted to escort him as far as Nantes. Dumas
                     accompanied them some distance; but, a league from Chollet, his friend strongly
                     insisted that he should return; further on, and it might be dangerous to return
                     alone. He then took leave of them, put his horse to the gallop, and disappeared
                     soon after at a corner of the road.
                  Then Marceau wished to find himself alone with the young Vendean. She had the
                     story of her life to relate to him, and it seemed to him that her life ought to
                     be full of interest. He rode up to the side of Blanche.
                  "Well!" said he, "now that we are quiet, and have a long journey before us, let
                     us talk—let us talk of yourself; I know who you are, and that is all. How came
                     you in that assemblage? Where did you become accustomed to wear men's clothes?
                     Speak. We soldiers are accustomed to hear short and hard words. Speak to me now
                     at length—of yourself, of your childhood, I pray you.
                  Marceau, without knowing why, could not accustom himself, in speaking to
                     Blanche, to use the Republican language of the time.
                  Blanche then related to him the events of her life: how her mother died while
                     she was yet young, and left her still a child in the hands of the Marquis de
                     Beaulieu; how her education, superintended by a man, had familiarized her with
                     those manly exercises, which, since the breaking out of the insurrection of La
                     Vêndée, had been very useful to her, and had enabled her to follow her father.
                     She unfolded to him all the incidents of that war, from the émuette at
                     Saint-Florent up to the fight in which Marceau had saved her life. She spoke at
                     length, as he had wished, for she saw he listened with satisfaction. At the
                     moment she finished her recital, Nantes appeared on the horizon, its lights
                     trembling in the haze. The little troop crossed the Loire, and, a few moments
                     after, Marceau was in the arms of his mother.
                  After the first salutations, he presented his young fellow-traveler to his
                     family; a few words sufficed to interest his mother and sisters deeply in her
                     behalf. Scarcely did Blanche manifest a wish to retake the dress of her sex,
                     ere the two young girls, carried away by emulation, disputed between themselves which should have the pleasure of
                     acting as her femme-de-chambre.
                  This conduct, simple as it might seem at first sight, was nevertheless, greatly
                     enhanced by the circumstances of the time. Nantes was struggling under the
                     pro-consulate of Carrier.
                  'Tis a strange sight to the mind and the eye, to witness a whole city bleeding
                     in the grasp of a single man. One asks whence came this strength, that takes
                     its own way over the eighty thousand souls which it governs? and how is it that
                     when this single being says, "I will it," they do not all rise to
                     say "'Tis well! but we do not wish it." It is because there is in
                     the souls of the mass a habit of slavishness—though single individuals may
                     sometimes have ardent desires to be free. It is because the people, as
                     Shakspeare has said, know no other way of recompensing the assassin of Cæsar
                     than by making Cæsar of him. This is why there are tyrants of liberty, as there
                     are monarchal tyrants.
                  Then blood ran through the streets of Nantes, and Carrier—who was to
                     Robespeirre what the hyena is to the tiger, and the jackal to the lion—gorged
                     himself with the purest of this blood, waiting till he should pay it back
                     mingled with his own.
                  There were entirely new modes of massacreing; the guillotine did its work too
                     quickly. He invented the Noyade,*
                      the name of which is synonymous with his; boats were built expressly
                     for it in the port; it was well known for what purpose, and the people came to
                     see them in the dock-yard; it was a new and curious thing, with its twenty feet
                     trap doors, which opened to precipitate the unfortunate beings, destined to
                     this punishment, into the depths of the sea, and the day on which the trial was
                     made, there were almost as many people on the banks of the river as when they
                     launch a vessel with a bouquet at her main-mast and flags on every yard.
                  
                     
                     *A machine for drowning several persons at once.
                  
                  Oh! three times woe to men, who like Carrier, apply their genius to the
                     invention of various instruments of death; for all ways of destroying man is
                     easy to man! Woe to those who, without reflection, have caused useless murders!
                     They have made our mothers to tremble on pronouncing the words revolution and
                     republic, synonymous with them, with the words massacre and destruction. And,
                     our mothers made men of us at fifteen years of age, which of us, on leaving the
                     hands of his mother, did not, like them, tremble at the words revolution and
                     republic? Which of us had not his political education to remodel before daring
                     to look those figures—93—which he had regarded so long as fatal, cooly in the
                     face? Which of us did not need the strength of mind of a man of twenty-five to
                     look steadily at those three 
                        Collossuses
                        Colossuses
                      of our revolution, Mirabeau, Danton, and Robespierre? But now we have
                     become accustomed to the sight of them, we have studied the ground upon which
                     they trod, the principles upon which they acted, and we involuntarily recall to
                     mind those terrible words of another time—"chaque un d' eux n'
                     est tombé que parce qu' il a voulu enrayer la charette du bourreau qui avait
                     encore besonge à faire;"*
                      it was not they who went ahead of the revolution, but the revolution
                      went ahead of them.
                  
                     
                     *Each of them fell only because he wished to clog the wheel of the
                        executioner which still had work to do.
                  
                  Nevertheless, let us not complain, modern rehabilitations are quickly made, for
                     now people write the history of the people. It was not so in the time of the
                     gentlemen historians of the crown; have I not heard it said, while yet a child,
                     that Louis XI was a bad king, and Louis XIV a great prince?
                  Let us return to Marceau and to a family, whom his name protected even against
                     Carrier himself. Such was the reputation of the young General for pure
                     republicanism, that suspicion dare not even attach to his mother and sisters.
                     This is why one of them, a young girl of sixteen, like one ignorant of what was
                     passing around her, loved and was beloved, and the mother of Marceau, timid as
                     all mothers are, saw a second protector in a husband, and hurried as much as
                     she could, a marriage just on the point of being accomplished, as Marceau and
                     the young Vendean arrived at Nantes; so his return at that time was a source of
                     double rejoicing.
                  Blanche was placed between these two young girls who became her friends on
                     kissing her—for there is an age when each young girl thinks she finds an
                     eternal friend in the acquaintance of an hour. They went out together; a thing
                     almost as important as a wedding occupied them—a woman's toilette. Blanche
                     ought no longer to wear her male attire.
                  Soon they brought her back—dressed by their double assistance. She had to wear
                     the dress of one, and the shawl of the other. Foolish girls! 'tis true that the
                     ages of the three did not equal that of Marceau's mother, though she was still
                     handsome.
                  When Blanche re-entered, the young General took a few steps toward her. and
                     stopped astonished. In her first dress he had scarcely remarked her celestial
                     beauty and elegance, which she seemed to have resumed with her woman's dress.
                     She had, 'tis true, done all she could to appear beautiful; for a moment, she
                     had forgotten war, La Vêndée and carnage, before her glass; it was because the
                     most innocent soul has its coquetry when it begins to love, and because it
                     wishes to please him it loves.
                  Marceau endeavored to speak, but could not utter a word; Blanche smiled and
                     held out her hand to him joyfully, for she saw she had appeared as beautiful to
                     him as she wished to appear.
                  In the evening, the betrothed of Marceau's sister came, and, as all love is
                     selfish, from self-love to maternal affection, there was one house in the city
                     of Nantes, an only one, perhaps, where all was joy and happiness, whilst around
                     them all was grief and tears.
                  Oh! how Blanche and Marceau gave themselves up to this new life! how far
                     beneath them did any other seem! it was almost a dream; occasionally only would
                     Blanche's heart beat and tears tremble in her eyes; it was when, suddenly, she
                     thought of her father; Marceau reassured her; then, to wean her attention from
                     these thoughts, he would recount to her his early campaigns; how the collegian
                     became a soldier at fifteen, an officer at seventeen, a colonel at nineteen,
                     and a general at twenty-one. Blanche would make him repeat these things
                     frequently, for, in all that he said, there was not a word of loving
                     another.
                  And yet, Marceau had loved, loved with all the power of his soul—at least he
                     thought so. Then, soon he had been deceived, betrayed; contempt, after much
                     struggling, had taken possession of a young heart filled with prejudices. The
                     blood which burned in his veins cooled slowly; a gloomy lethargy had replaced
                     excitement; Marceau, in fine, before becoming acquainted with Blanche was only
                     a sick man, deprived, by the sudden absence of fever, of energy and strength,
                     which he owed only to its presence.
                  Well, all those dreams of happiness, all those elements of a new life, all
                     those fascinations of youth, which Marceau had believed lost to him forever,
                     returned upon him in a future still in distinct, but which he could attain some
                     day; he was himself astonished that a smile would sometimes come and pass
                     across his lips without a cause; his lungs played freely, and he no longer felt
                     any of that difficulty in breathing which, only yesterday, wasted his strength
                     and made him wish for an early death as the only relief from his
                     sufferings.
                  Blanche on her part, first drawn toward Marceau by a natural feeling of
                     obligation, attributed to this sentiment the various emotions that agitated
                     her. Was it not perfectly natural that she should constantly wish for the
                     presence of the man who had saved her life? Words coming from his mouth, could
                     they be indifferent to her? his features, stamped with so deep a melancholy,
                     ought they not to awake pity? and when she saw that he sighed on looking at
                     her, was she not always ready to say,
                     "What can I do for you, my friend, for you who had done so much for me?"
                  Thus, agitated by these various feelings, which every day gained new strength,
                     Blanche and Marceau passed the first days of their stay at Nantes; at last the
                     time appointed for the marriage of the young general's sister arrived.
                  Among the jewels ordered for her, Marceau had selected a costly brilliant
                     ornament, which he offered to Blanche. Blanche looked at it with the coquetry
                     of a girl, then quickly closing the casket,
                  "Do jewels become my situation?" said she, sorrowfully; "jewels for me! whilst
                     my father is perhaps flying from farm-house to farm-house, begging a morsel of
                     bread to keep life in him—a barn for his sleeping place! whilst proscribed
                     myself No let my plainness conceal me from all eyes; think I might be
                     recognized."
                  Marceau urged in vain, she would consent to accept nothing but an artificial
                     red rose which she found among the ornaments.
                  The churches were closed, the marriage was performed at the Hotel de Ville; the
                     ceremony was short and sad, the girls regretted the absence of the choir,
                     ornamented with wax tapers and flowers; the dais hung over the heads of the
                     newly married couple, under which they exchanged smiles with those that held
                     it; and the blessing of the priest who says: "Go children, may you be
                     happy."
                  At the door of the Hotel de Ville, a deputation of watermen awaited the newly
                     married couple. The rank of Marceau had caused this mark of respect for his
                     sister; one of the men, whose features did not seem unfamiliar, bad two
                     bouquets; he presented one to the bride; then advancing to Blanche, who looked
                     attentively at him, he offered her the other.
                  "Tinguey, where is my father?" asked Blanche, growing pale.
                  "At St. Florent," replied the waterman, "take this bouquet, there is a letter
                     inside of it. Hurra for the king and the good cause, Mademoiselle Blanche!"
                  Blanche wished to stop him, to speak to him, to question him, but he had
                     disappeared. Marceau had recognized the guide, and could not but admire the
                     devotedness, the skill, and the boldness of the peasant.
                  Blanche read the letter anxiously. The Vendeans had sustained defeat after
                     defeat; an entire population had emigrated, retreating before fire and famine.
                     The remainder of the letter was filled with thanks to Marceau. The Marquis had
                     learned all through the watchfulness of Tinguey. Blanche was very sad, that
                     letter had carried her back into the midst of the horrors of war; she leaned on
                     Marceau's arm more than usual; she spoke to him nearer and in a tone more soft.
                     Marceau would have wished her still more sorrowful; for the greater the sorrow,
                     the more do we give way to it, and, as I have already said, there is a great
                     deal of selfishness in love.
                  During the ceremony, a stranger, who had, he said, something of the utmost
                     importance to communicate to Marceau, had been introduced into the hall. On
                     entering, Marceau, whose head was bent over Blanche, whose arm was resting on
                     his, did not perceive him at first, suddenly felt that arm tremble, he looked
                     up; Blanche and he were face to face with Delmar.
                  The representative of the people advanced slowly, his eyes fixed upon Blanche,
                     a smile on his lips; Marceau, with perspiration on his brow, saw him approach,
                     as Don Juan saw the statue of the commander.
                  "Citizeness, have you a brother?"
                  Blanche stammered, and was ready to throw herself into the arms of Marceau.
                     Delmar continued.
                  "If my memory and your likeness do not deceive me, we breakfasted together at
                     Chollet. How is it that since that time I have not seen him in the ranks of the
                     Republican army?"
                  Blanche felt her strength about to fail; the piercing eye of Delmar followed
                     every movement, and she was on the point of falling under his gaze, when he
                     turned from her and fixed his eyes upon Marceau.
                  Then it was that Delmar trembled in his turn. The young General had his hand
                     upon the hilt of his sword which he grasped convulsively. The features of the
                     representative of the people soon retook their habitual expression; he appeared
                     to have entirely forgotten what he had just been saying, and taking Marceau by
                     the arm, he led him to the recess of a window, conversed with him some time
                     upon the present situation of La Vêndée, and told him that he had come to
                     Nantes to concert with Carrier new measures of severity which it was necessary
                     to take on account of the revolts. He told him that General Dumas had been
                     recalled to Paris, and soon leaving him, he passed with a bow and a smile
                     before the couch upon which Blanche had fallen on quitting the arm of Marceau,
                     and where she still remained, cold and pale.
                  Two hours afterward, Marceau received orders to start without delay to rejoin
                     the army of the West, and there resume the command of his brigade.
                  This sudden and unlooked for order astonished him; he thought he saw some
                     connection between this and the scene which had taken place a short time
                     before; his leave did not expire for a fortnight yet. He hastened to Delmar to
                     get some explanation of the affair he had left, immediately
                     after his interview with Carrier.
                  He must obey; to hesitate was to be lost. At this time the generals were
                     subject to the power of the representatives of the people sent by the
                     Convention, and, if some reverses were caused by their want of experience, more
                     than one victory also was due to the alternative constantly before these
                     chiefs, either to conquer, or lose their heads upon the scaffold.
                  Marceau was near Blanche when he received that order. Stupified by a blow, so
                     unexpected, he had not the courage to tell her of his departure, which would
                     leave her alone and unprotected in the center of a city each day sprinkled with
                     the blood of her countrymen. She saw he was troubled, and her uneasiness
                     surmounted her timidity; she approached him with the anxious look of a well
                     beloved wife, who knew that she had a right to question, and she did question
                     him. Marceau handed her the order which he had just received. Scarcely had
                     Blanche cast her eyes upon it, ere she understood to what danger want of
                     obedience would expose her protector; her heart broke; nevertheless she found
                     strength to prevail on him to set off without delay. Women possess this sort of
                     courage more strongly than men, because at home they lay bashfulness aside.
                     Marceau looked at her sorrowfully, "And you too, Blanche," said he, "do you
                     order me to go away? Indeed," said he, rising, and as if speaking to himself,
                     "who could make me believe to the contrary? Madman that I am! When I thought of
                     this departure, I sometimes believed it would cause regrets and tears." He
                     strode rapidly. "Fool! regrets, tears! As if I was not indifferent to them!" On
                     turning about he found himself opposite to Blanche; two tears rolled down the
                     cheeks of the silent girl, whose bosom heaved with suppressed sobs. In his turn
                     Marceau felt tears in his eyes.
                  "Oh! pardon me, Blanche, pardon me," said he; "I am so unhappy, and unhappiness
                     makes us suspicious. Always at your side, my life appeared to be mingled with
                     yours; how then can I separate my hours from your hours my days from your days?
                     I had forgotten every thing; I thought it would be forever thus. Oh! misery,
                     misery! I dreamed and now I awake. Blanche," added he, more calmly, and in a
                     sadder tone, "the war which we carry on is a cruel and bloody one, it may be
                     that we shall never see each other again." He took the hand of the sobbing
                     Blanche. "Oh! promise me, that if I fall, stricken down far from you—Blanche, I
                     have always had a presentiment that my life would be short—promise me that your
                     memory will sometimes recall me to your thoughts, my name to your lips, that it
                     was not a dream; and I, I promise you, Blanche, that if there be time with me,
                     between life and death, to pronounce
                     nounce a name, a single name, it shall be yours."
                  Blanche was choked with tears; but in her eyes shone a thousand promises, more
                     tender even than those Marceau asked of her. With one hand she pressed that of
                     Marceau, who was at her feet, and with the other she showed the red rose in her
                     hair.
                  "Always, always!" murmured she, and she fell fainting. Marceau's cries brought
                     his mother and sisters. He thought Blanche dead; he rolled in agony at her
                     feet. In affection, hopes and fears, every thing is exaggerated. The soldier
                     was but a child.
                  Blanche opened her eyes, and blushed at seeing Marceau at her feet, and his
                     family around her.
                  "He goes" said she, "perhaps to fight against my father. Oh! spare my father;
                     if he should fall into your hands, remember that his death would kill me.—What
                     would you more?" added she, lowering her voice; "I thought of my father only
                     after having thought of you." Then, soon gathering fortitude, she prayed
                     Marceau to depart; he, even, comprehended the necessity of doing so, and no
                     longer resisted her entreaties and those of his mother. The necessary orders
                     for his departure were given, and, an hour after, he had received the farewell
                     of Blanche and his family.
                  In leaving Blanche, Marceau followed the road which he had traveled with her;
                     he advanced, without hastening or slackening the pace of his horse; and each
                     locality recalled to his mind some word of the story of the young Vendean girl;
                     he reviewed, in a manner, the history which she had related to him; and the
                     danger which she ran, of which he had not thought much while near her, but
                     which, now that he was away from her, appeared to him very great. Each word of
                     Delmar's rang in his ears; each moment he was about to stop his horse, and
                     return to Nantes; and he had need of all his strength of mind, not to give way
                     to his wish of returning to see her.
                  If Marceau had been able to occupy himself with any thing but what was passing
                     in his own mind, he would have perceived, at the end of the road, and coming
                     toward him, a cavalier, who, after having hesitated a moment to assure himself
                     that he was not mistaken, had put his horse to the gallop to meet him, and he
                     would have recognized General Dumas as soon as he had been recognized by
                     him.
                  The two friends jumped from their horses and threw themselves into each other's
                     arms.
                  At the same instant, a man, his hair reeking with perspiration, his features
                     bloody, clothes torn, jumped over the hedge, rolled, rather than walked the
                     length of the slope, and fell without strength and almost voiceless at the feet
                     of the two friends, uttering the single word, "arrested!" It was
                     Tinguey.
                  "Arrested! who? Blanche?" cried Marceau.
                  The peasant made an affirmative gesture; the unhappy man could no longer speak.
                     He had come five leagues, running over fields, hedges, furze and thorns;
                     perhaps he might have run a league or two further, if necessary, to overtake
                     Marceau, but having reached him, he fell.
                  Marceau looked upon him, with his gaping mouth and staring eyes.
                  "Arrested! Blanche arrested!" repeated he, constantly, while his friend applied
                     his wine-flask to the closed teeth of the peasant. "Blanche arrested! This,
                     then, is why they sent me away. Alexandre," cried he, taking his friend's hand
                     and compelling him to rise, "Alexandre, I return to Nantes. You must follow me
                     there, for my life, my fortune, my happiness, all is there." His teeth
                     chattered violently; his whole body shook with convulsive movements. "Let him
                     tremble who has dared to place hand upon Blanche. Do you know that I love her
                     with all my heart; that life without her is nothing to me; that I will save her
                     or die? Oh! fool! Oh! madman that I was to leave! Blanche arrested! And where
                     have they taken her?"
                  Tinguey, to whom this question was addressed, had begun to recover. The veins
                     on his forehead could be seen to swell as if they were about to burst; his eyes
                     were blood-shot; and so oppressed was his breathing that scarcely could he, to
                     the question, "Where was she taken?" a second time repeated, reply—
                  "To the prison at Bouffays."
                  Scarcely were these words uttered ere the two friends had taken the road to
                     Nantes, at a gallop.
               
               
                  IV.
                  There was not a moment to lose; it was toward Carrier's house, Place de Cours,
                     then, that the two friends directed their steps. When they reached it, Marceau
                     threw himself from his horse, mechanically took his pistols, which were in the
                     holsters, concealed them under his coat and rushed to the apartment of him who
                     had the fate of Blanche in his hands. His friend followed him more coolly,
                     though ready, nevertheless, to defend him if he had need of his aid, and to
                     risk his life with as much carelessness as if on the battle-field. But the
                     deputy from La Montagne,*
                      knew too well how he was execrated not to be unjust, and neither by
                      importunity nor threats could the Generals obtain an interview with him.
                  
                     
                     *
                        La Montagne, or Les Montagnards, the Mountain, or the Mountaineers, a party of the French revolution, so called
                        from their occupying the higher benches of the hall. The Deputies of the
                        Mountain faction sent into the departments, as Carrier
                        was, were called in derision, proconsuls—Trans.
                  
                  Marceau descended more tranquilly than his friend had expected. He appeared
                     within a moment to have adopted a new plan which he had hastily matured. And
                     there was no longer any doubt of it, when he suddenly stopped, and requested
                     General Dumas to go instantly to the post-house, and with two horses and a
                     carriage, await him at the gate of Bouffays.
                  The rank and the name of Marceau gave him admittance into that prison; he
                     ordered the jailer to conduct him to the dungeon where Blanche was confined.
                     The latter hesitated a moment, Marceau reiterated his order in a more
                     imperative tone, and the keeper obeyed, making a sign to him to follow.
                  "She is not alone," said his conductor, on opening the low arched door of a
                     dungeon, the darkness of which made Marceau shiver; "but she will not be long
                     in getting rid of her companion—they guillotine him to-day." With these words,
                     he closed the door upon Marceau, making him promise to shorten, as much as
                     possible an interview which might compromise him.
                  Still blinded from his sudden passage from the light of day to the darkness of
                     night, and not being able to see into the obscurity which surrounded him.
                     Marceau reached out his hands like a man in a dream, endeavoring to pronounce
                     the word Blanche, which he could not articulate; he heard a scream: the young
                     girl threw herself into his arms; she had recognized him instantly; her sight
                     had already become habituated to the darkness.
                  She cast herself into his arms, for it was a moment when terror made age and
                     sex forgotten; it was a question of life or death. She fastened herself upon
                     him like a shipwrecked man upon a rock, with inarticulate sobs and convulsive
                     grasp,
                  "Ah! ah! you have not forsaken me, then!" cried she, at last. "They arrested
                     me—dragged me here; in the crowd that followed me I saw Tinguey; I cried to him
                     'Marceau! Marceau!' and he disappeared. Oh! I was far from hoping to see you
                     back—here—but you are here—you are here. You will not leave me again?—You will
                     take me with you, will you not?—You will never leave me here."
                  "I would snatch you away this instant at the price of my life; but—"
                  "Oh! look; feel these streaming walls, this dirty straw; you, who are a
                     General, can you not—"
                  "Blanche, this is what I can do; I can knock at this door, dash out the brains
                     of the keeper who may open it; lead you to the yard, let you breathe the fresh air, see the sky, and be
                     killed in your defense; but I dead, Blanche, they would bring you back to this
                     dungeon, and there would not exist upon this earth a single man who could save
                     you."
                  "But can you?—you?"
                  "Perhaps."
                  "Soon?"
                  "Two days, Blanche, I ask two days But now reply in your turn,—reply to a
                     question upon which depends your life and mine—answer as you would answer to
                     your God—Blanche, do you love me?"
                  "Is this a time and a place where such a question should be put, and where it
                     should be answered? Do you think that these walls are accustomed to hear
                     avowals of love?"
                  "Yes, this is the time—for we are between life and the grave, between existence
                     and eternity. Blanche, hasten and reply to me—each moment steals a day from us,
                     each hour a year,—Blanche, do you love me?"
                  "Oh! yes, yes."—These words escaped from the heart of the young girl, who,
                     forgetting that her blushes could not be seen, hid her head in the arms of
                     Marceau.
                  "Well then! Blanche, you must accept me as your husband this moment."
                  The body of the girl shook with emotion.
                  "What can be your intention?"
                  "My intention is to snatch you from death; we will see if they dare to send the
                     wife of a Republican general to the scaffold."
                  Blanche then comprehended his thoughts. She shuddered at the danger to which he
                     would expose himself to save her. Her love gained new strength from it; but
                     collecting her fortitude, "It is impossible," said she, firmly.
                  "Impossible!" interrupted Marceau, "impossible! But this is folly:—and what
                     obstacle can intervene between us and happiness, since you tell me you love me?
                     Do you believe, then, that this is play? But listen, then, listen, 't is thy
                     death! See! the death of the scaffold, the executioner, the axe, the cart!"
                  "Oh! pity! pity! 't is frightful But yourself—once your wife, if that title
                     will not save me, it will lose you with me!"
                  "This, then, is the motive that has caused you to reject the only way of safety
                     left you! Well! now listen to me, Blanche; for I have an avowal to make; on
                     seeing you, I loved you; love has become a passion; I look upon it as my life;
                     my existence is yours, and my lot shall be yours; happiness or the scaffold, I
                     will share all with you; I will not leave you again—no human power shall
                     separate us; or, if I quit you, I have only to shout, Hurrah for the
                        King! these words would re-open to me your prison doors, and we would
                     go out again only together. Well! so be it; it will be something to be a night
                     in the same dungeon, a passage in the same cart, and a death upon the same
                     scaffold."
                  "Oh! no, no—go then; leave me, in heaven's name leave me."
                  "Go away! Take care what you say, and what you wish—for if I go
                     hence without your being mine, without your having given me the right to defend
                     you, I will go and find your father; your father of whom you no longer think,
                     and who weeps for you, and I will say to him: 'Old man, thy daughter could have
                     saved herself, and she would not; she wished that thy last days should pass in
                     mourning, and that her blood should spurt out even upon thy white hairs. Weep,
                     old man, weep—not that thy child is dead, but that she did not love thee enough
                     to live.'"
                  Marceau had repulsed Blanche; she had fallen upon her knees some distance from
                     him, and he walked about with his teeth clenched, his arms across his breast,
                     with the laugh of a maniac or the damned. He heard the sobs of Blanche; tears
                     came to his eyes; his arms dropped lifeless, and he fell at her feet.
                  "Oh! in pity,—by that which is the most sacred in this world, by the grave of
                     your mother. Blanche, Blanche, consent sent to become my wife; you must; you
                     ought."
                  "Yes, you ought, young girl," interrupted a strange voice, which made them
                     tremble, and both rise. "You ought, for it is the only way of preserving a
                     life, scarcely begun; religion commands it, and I am ready to bless your
                     union."
                  Marceau, astonished, turned around and recognized the Curé of Saint-Mariede
                     Rhé, who took part in the assembly which he had attacked the night Blanche
                     became his prisoner.
                  "Oh! father," cried he, seizing his hand and drawing him toward her, "O father!
                     obtain from her, her consent to live."
                  "Blanche of Beaulieu," replied the priest, in a solemn tone, "in the name of
                     thy father, whom my age and the friendship uniting us gives me the right of
                     representing, I adjure you to accede to the importunity of this young man; for
                     your father himself, if he were here, would do what I am doing."
                  Blanche seemed actuated by a thousand opposite feelings; at last she threw
                     herself into the arms of Marceau;
                  "Oh! my friend!" said she to him, "I have not strength to resist you longer.
                     Marceau, I love you! I love you, and I am your wife."
                  Their lips joined; Marceau was at the height of joy; he seemed to have
                     forgotten every thing. The voice of the priest soon snatched him from his
                     ecstacy.
                  "Hasten children," said he, "for my moments are numbered here below; and if you
                     still delay, I can no longer bless you, except from heaven."
                  The two lovers trembled; that voice called them back to earth.
                  Blanche walked to him with looks of affright,
                  "Oh, my friend," said she, "what a time to unite our destinies! What a temple
                     for a marriage ceremony! Do you believe that an union consecrated under these
                     dark and dismal vaults can over be a durable and happy one?"
                  Marceau trembled, for he was himself touched with a superstitious dread. He led
                     Blanche toward a place in the dungeon where the light, shining through the
                     cross-bars of a narrow window, made the darkness less deep; and there, both,
                     upon their knees, awaited the benediction of the priest.
                  The latter extended his arms and pronounced the sacred words. At the same
                     moment, a sound of arms and of soldiers was heard in the passage; Blanche,
                     frightened, threw herself into Marceau's arms.
                  "Can it be that they have come for me already?" cried she. "Oh my friend, my
                     friend, how frightful death would be at this time."
                  The young General had thrown himself before the door, a pistol in each hand.
                     The soldiers fell back astonished. "Reassure yourselves," said the priest,
                     presenting himself, "it is I they seek—it is I who am about to die."
                  The soldiers surrounded him.
                  "Children," said he, in a strong voice, addressing the newly married couple;
                     "children, kneel; for, with one foot in the grave I send you my last blessing,
                     and the blessing of a dying man is sacred."
                  The astonished soldiers kept silent; the priest had taken from his breast, a
                     crucifix, which he had succeeded in concealing from all their searches; he
                     extended it toward them; about to die himself, it was for them he prayed. There
                     was a moment of silence and solemnity in which all there believed in God. "Let
                     us go," said the priest.
                  The soldiers surrounded him; the door was closed, and all disappeared like a
                     vision of the night.
                  Blanche threw herself into Marceau's arms.
                  Oh! if you leave me, and they should come for me like this—if I have you not to
                     assist me to pass this door. Oh! Marceau, think of it—the scaffold! I! I upon
                     the scaffold! far away from you, weeping and calling upon you, without your
                     answering me. Oh! do not go away, do not go away! I will throw myself at their
                     feet, I will tell them I am not guilty,—that if they will leave me in prison
                     all my life with you, I will bless
                     them. But if you leave me—Oh! do not leave me then."
                  "Blanche, I am certain of saving you, I will answer for your life; in less than
                     two days I will return with your pardon, and then it will not be a whole life
                     in a prison and a dungeon, but in the free air, in happiness—a life of freedom
                     and love."
                  The door opened, the jailer appeared. Blanche held Marceau more closely in her
                     arms; she would not let him go, though each moment was precious; he softly
                     loosed his hands from the chain that held them, promised her that he would
                     return before the expiration of the second day: "Love me always" said he,
                     rushing out of the dungeon. "Always," said Blanche, falling back, and showing
                     him, in her hair, the red rose which he had given her; and then the door closed
                     upon her like that of hell.
               
               
                  V.
                  Marceau found General Dumas at the house of the keeper, he asked for ink and
                     paper.
                  "What are you going to do?" asked General Dumas, alarmed at his agitation.
                  "To write to Carrier, to request two days delay of him, and to tell him that
                     his life shall answer to me for the life of Blanche."
                  "Unhappy man," replied his friend snatching the letter from him which he had
                     just commenced, "you threaten, when you are in his power; have you not
                     disobeyed the order you have received to join the army? do you think, that once
                     doubting you, his fears will even stop to seek for a plausible excuse? In less
                     than an hour you would be arrested; and what then could you do for her or
                     yourself? Believe me, your silence will induce forgetfulness on his part, for
                     his forgetfulness alone can save her."
                  Marceau's head rested upon his hands; he seemed to reflect deeply.
                  "You are right," said he getting suddenly up, and he led his friend into the
                     street.
                  A few persons were collected about a post-chaise. "If it should be foggy this
                     evening," said a voice, "I do not know what would prevent a score of good lads
                     entering the city and carrying off the prisoners; it is a pity to see how
                     Nantes is guarded." Marceau trembled, turned around, recognized Tinguey,
                     exchanged looks of intelligence with him and hastened into the carriage.
                     "Paris!" said he to the postillion giving him gold; and the horses started off
                     with the speed of lightning. Everywhere the same diligence, everywhere by dint
                     of money Marceau obtained promises that horses should be ready for the morrow,
                     that no obstacle might prevent his return.
                  It was on this journey that he learned that General Dumas had sent in his
                     resignation, demanding, only as a favor, to be employed as a soldier in some
                     other army; he had consequently been placed at the disposal of the committee of
                     Public Safety, and was on his way to Nantes when Marceau met him upon the road
                     to Clisson.
                  At eight o'clock in the evening the carriage which held the two generals
                     entered Paris.
                  Marceau and his friend separated at the Palace Egalité. Marceau went on foot to
                     the street Saint Honoré, turned down it on the side of Saint-Roch, stopped
                     before the house number 366, and asked to see citizen Robespierre,
                  "He is at the Theatre de la Nation," replied a young girl, some sixteen or
                     eighteen years of age, "but if you will return in two hours, citizen General,
                     he will have returned."
                  "Robespierre at the Theatre de la Nation! are you not mistaken?"
                  "No citizen."
                  "Well, I will go and seek him there, and if I do not find him I will return and
                     await him here. Here is my name; Citizen General Marceau."
                  The Theatre François had just split into two troupes; Talma,
                     accompanied by the patriotic commedians had gone to the Odeon. It was to this
                     theater, then, that Marceau went, quite surprised to find that he should have
                     to look for the austere member of the Committee of Public Safety at a play. The
                     play was the Death of Cæsar. He entered the balcony; a young man
                     offered him a seat by his side in the front row. Marceau accepted it hoping to
                     be able from that position to see him whom he sought.
                  The play had not commenced, a strange uneasiness was visible among the
                     audience, bursts of laughter and an exchanging of signs proceeded from a group
                     seated near the orchestra, as from head quarters; that group overlooked the
                     house, a man overlooked that group—that man was Danton. Around him, speaking
                     when he was silent, and silent when he spoke, were 
                        Canille
                        Camille
                      Desmoulins, his idol, Phillippaux, Hérault d' Séchelles and La Croix,
                     his apostles.
                  This was the first time Marceau had been in the presence of this Mirabeau of
                     the people; he had recognized his loud voice, his imperious gestures, his
                     domineering brow, even before his name had been frequently pronounced by his
                     friends.
                  We must now be permitted to say a few words on the state of the different
                     factions into which the Convention was divided; they are necessary to a full
                     understanding of what is about to follow.
                  The Communes and the Mountain had united to effect the revolution of the
                     thirty-first of May. The Girondists after having vainly tried to federalize the
                     provinces, had fallen, almost without defense, in the midst of those whom they
                     had elected, and who dared not even give them an asylum in the days of their
                     proscription. Before the thirty-first of May, power was nowhere; after that
                     day, the need of an unity of strength was felt, to effect a promptness of
                     action; the Assembly possessed the most extended authority; a faction had made
                     itself master of the Assembly; a few men commanded this faction; power
                     naturally fell into the hands of these men. The Committee of Public Safety, up
                     to the thirty-first of May, had been composed of neutral members of the
                     Convention; the time of its renewal arrived, and the extreme Mountaineers took
                     their seats there: Barrère remained as representative of the old Committee, but
                     Robespierre was elected a member of it; Saint-Just, Collot d' Herbois,
                     Billaud-Varennes, sustained by him, were checks upon their colleagues, Hérault
                     de Séchelles and Robert Lindet. Saint-Just took upon himself the office of
                     surveillance, Couthon that of softening those propositions the most violent in
                     their principles, Billaud-Varennes and Collot d' Herbois, directed the
                     proconsulates of the departments; Carnot busied himself with the war
                     department; Cambon with that of finance; Prieur (Cote d' Or) and Prieur (of the
                     Marne), with the business of the interior and the administrative departments,
                     and Barrére, who soon united with them, became the daily spokesman of the
                     party. Whilst Robespierre, without having any definite functions. watched over
                     the whole, directing this body politic as the head directs the body corporal,
                     and moved each limb at will.
                  It was in this party that the revolution was embodied—it wished it with all its
                     consequences, that the people might some day enjoy its results.
                  This party had to contend with two others; one of which wished to go all
                     lengths, the other to curb it—these two parties were,
                  That of the Communes, represented by Hébert.
                  The other of the Mountain, represented by Danton.
                  Hébert made himself popular in the Père
                        Duchesne by obscenity of language; insults followed the victims
                     there—laughter the executions. In a short time his progress became formidable.
                     The Bishop of Paris and his Vicars abjured Christianity; Catholic worship was
                     replaced by that of reason; the churches were closed; Anacharis Klootz became
                     the apostle of the new goddess. The Committee of Public Safety was alarmed at
                     the power of this ultra-revolutionary faction which they thought had fallen with Marat, and which based
                     itself upon immorality and atheism; Robespierre determined to attack it alone.
                     On the fifth of December, '93, he attacked it from the tribune, and the
                     Convention, who had strongly applauded his abjuration against the demands of
                     the Communes, decreed, at the request of Robespierre, who also had his religion
                     to establish, that all violence and measures against the liberty of
                        worship were forbidden.
                  Danton, in the name of the moderate party of the Mountain, demanded the
                     cassation of the revolutionary government. The Vieux
                        Cordelier, edited by Camille Desmoulins, was the organ of the
                     party. The Committee of Public Safety, that is to say, the dictatorship, had
                     not been, according to him, created but to repress disorders within and conquer
                     without; and, as he believed it had repressed in the interior and conquered on
                     the frontier, he demanded that this power, now, in his opinion, useless, should
                     be broken, to the end that hereafter it might not become dangerous; the
                     revolution had been put down, and he wished to reestablish it upon ground not
                     yet cleared.
                  It was these three factions, which, in the month of March, '94, the time at
                     which the events of our story occurred, divided the Convention. Robespierre
                     accused Hébert of atheism and Danton of venality; and, in his turn, was accused
                     by them of being ambitious, and the word dictator began to circulate.
                  This then was the state of affairs when Marceau, as we have said, saw Danton
                     for the first time, making a tribune of the orchestra, and casting upon those
                     that surrounded him, his powerful sentiments. The play was the Death of
                        Cæsar; a kind of word of command had been given to the Dantonists;
                     they were all at the representation, and, upon a signal to be given by their
                     chief, they were to apply the following lines to Robespierre
                  
                     
                        "Oui, que César soit grand, mais que Rome soit libre.
                        Dieu! Maitresse de I'Inde, esclave au bord du Tibre,
                        Qu'importe que son nom commande a l'univers.
                        Et qu'on l'appelle reine alors qu'elle est aux fers?
                        Qu'importe à ma patrie, aux Romains que tu braves,
                        D'apprendre que César a de nouveaux esclaves?
                        Les Persans ne sont pas nos plus fiers ennemis,
                        Il en est de plus grands; je n'ai pas d'autre avis."
                     
                     *
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Yes, let Cæsar be great, but let Rome be free. God! Mistress of the
                        Indies, yet a slave on the banks of the Tiber. What matters it that her
                        name commands a world, and that they call her queen, while she is in
                        chains? What matters it to my country, to you brave Romans, to know that
                        Cæsar has new slaves? The Persians are not our fiercest enemies—there are
                        greater ones. This is my opinion.
                  
                  This is why Robespierre, who had been informed of this by Saint-Just, was at
                     the Theatre de la Nation that evening, for he comprehended what a weapon this
                     would be in the hands of his enemies if they could make the accusation they had
                     against him popular with the people.
                  In the meantime, Marceau looked vainly for him in this brilliantly illuminated
                     house, where the single row of boxes remained in the slight shadow caused by
                     the projection of the gallery above them, and his eyes, wearied with the
                     fruitless search, reverted every moment to the group in the orchestra, whose
                     noisy conversation attracted the attention of the entire audience.
                  "I saw our Dictator to-day," said Danton; "they wished to reconcile us."
                  "Where did you meet him?"
                  "At his house; I was compelled to go up to the third story room of the
                     'Incorruptible.'"
                  "And what did you say?"
                  "That I was aware of the hatred the Committee bore me, but that I did not fear
                     it. He replied that I was wrong, it had no bad intentions toward me, but it was
                     necessary I should explain myself."
                  "Explain yourself! Explain yourself! that were well with men of good
                     faith."
                  "Exactly what I replied to him; then his lips contracted, his brow wrinkled. I
                     continued, 'Certes the royalists must be repressed; but necessary blows only
                     should be struck, and the innocent ought not to be confounded with the guilty.'
                     'Eh! who has told you,' replied Robespierre, sharply, 'that we have caused one
                     innocent one to perish?'—'What do you think of that? not an innocent one has
                     perished!' exclaimed I, addressing Hérault de 
                        Sechelles
                        Séchelles
                     , who was with me, and I left."
                  "And was Saint-Just there?"
                  "Yes."
                  "What did he say?"
                  "He passed his hands through his fine black hair, and from time to time
                     arranged the tie of his cravat like that of Robespierre."
                  Marceau's neighbor, whose head was resting on his hands, trembled, and that
                     kind of hissing which comes from between the closed teeth of a man restraining
                     himself, was heard. Marceau took no further notice of him, but turned his
                     attention again to Danton and his friends.
                  "The fop!" said Camille Desmoulins, speaking of Saint-Just. "He thinks so much
                     of himself that he carries his head as high on his shoulders as the consecrated
                     Host."
                  Marceau's neighbor removed his hands; he recognized the soft and handsome face
                     of Saint-Just, pale with rage.
                  "And I," said the latter, rising in all his pride, "Desmoulins, I will make you
                     carry yours like a Saint Dennis." He turned about, they opened to let him pass
                     out, and he left the balcony.
                  "Eh! who thought he was so near?" said Danton, laughing. "Ma foi, the packet
                     reached its destination that time."
                  "Apropos," said Phillippeaux to Danton, "have you seen De Laya's pamphlet
                     against you?"
                  "What! De Laya write pamphlets! Let him re-write L'Ami des Lois;
                     I would like to read it: is the pamphlet sensible?"
                  "Here it is;" Phillippeaux handed him a small work.
                  "What! he has put his signature to it, pardieu! But do n't he know, then, that
                     if he do n't come under my protection, they will cut his throat? Hush! hush!
                     the curtain rises."
                  "Hush!" was heard throughout the house; a young man, who was not in the
                     conspiracy, nevertheless kept up a private conversation, although the actors
                     were on the stage. Danton reached out his arm, touched him on the shoulder with
                     the end of his finger, and with a courtesy in which there was a slight tinge of
                     irony,
                  "Citizen Arnault," said he to him, "allow me to listen as though they were
                     performing Marius à Minturnes."
                  The young author had too much pride not to accede to a wish expressed in these
                     terms; he ceased, and the most perfect silence allowed one of the worst
                     exhibitions that ever took place in a theatre to be listened to,—that of
                        The death of Cæsar.
                  Notwithstanding this silence, it was evident that not one member of this little
                     conspiracy, which we have pointed out, had forgotten the object for which he
                     came; glances were exchanged; signals crossed each other, and became more
                     frequent as the actors approached the lines which were to cause the explosion.
                     Danton said to Camille in a low voice, "'T is Scene Third;" and he even
                     repeated the lines at the same time with the actor, as if to hurry his
                     delivery, when he came to those which preceded them,—
                  "Cæsar, we await thy august clemency, A gift most precious, a boon most just,
                     Above all the offices bestowed by thy goodness."
                  "CÆSAR.—What do you dare to ask, Cimber?
                  "CIMBER.—Liberty."
                  Three rounds of applause welcomed these words.
                  "All goes well," said Danton, half rising.
                  Talma commenced—
                  "Oui, que Cæsar soit grand, mais que Rome soit libre,"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *See page 62.
                  
                  Danton rose upright, looking about him with the glance of a general at the head
                     of an army, who wishes to assure
                     himself that every one is at his post, when his eyes suddenly rested upon a
                     point in the house; the grating of a box had just risen; Robespierre drew his
                     sharp, livid features into the shade. The eyes of the two enemies met, nor
                     could they withdraw them from each other; there was in the expression of
                     Robespierre's all the irony of triumph, all the insolence of security. For the
                     first time, Danton felt a cold sweat over his body; he forgot the signal he was
                     to have given; the lines passed by without applause or disapprobation, he fell
                     vanquished. The grating of the box closed, and all was finished. The Guillotineurs
                     *
                      got the better of the Septembriseurs:
                     †
                     
                     ninety-three fascinated ninety-two.
                  
                     
                     *Robespierre's party.
                  
                  
                     
                     †The Jacobin party, who justified the murder of the prisoners at Paris and
                        Versailles, on the 3rd September, 1793.
                  
                  Marceau, whose pre-occupied mind thought of any thing but the tragedy, was
                     perhaps the only one who saw this scene, which lasted but a few seconds,
                     without comprehending it; yet he had had time to recognize Robespierre; he
                     threw himself out of the balcony, and arrived in time to meet him in the
                     lobby.
                  He was as calm and cool as though nothing had occurred; Marceau presented
                     himself, giving him his name. Robespierre extended his hand to him; Marceau,
                     giving way to his first impulse, drew back his own. A dark smile passed across
                     the lips of Robespierre.
                  "What is your business with me?" said he to him.
                  "A few minutes' interview."
                  "Here, or at my house?"
                  "At your house."
                  "Come, then."
                  And these two men, agitated by emotions so different, walked beside each other;
                     Robespierre indifferent and calm, Marceau anxious and agitated.
                  This, then, was the man who held the fate of Blanche in his hand—the man of
                     whom he had heard so much said—whose incorruptibility alone was evident, but
                     whose popularity would seem problematical. Indeed, to gain it, he had not used
                     any of the means employed by his predecessors. He had neither the stirring
                     eloquence of Mirabeau, nor the paternal firmness of Bailly, nor the impetuosity
                     of Danton, nor the smutty eloquence of Hébert: if he worked for the people, it
                     was without parade, and without accounting to the people. In the midst of the
                     general leveling of language and dress, he had preserved his polished language
                     and fastidious dress.*
                      In fine, as much pains as others took to lose themselves in the mass,
                     so much he appeared to take to raise himself above it; and it was perceptible,
                     at first sight, that this singular man could only be to the multitude an idol
                     or a victim: he was both.
                  
                     
                     *The habitual costume of Robespierre is so well known, that it has become
                        almost proverbial. The 20th Prariel, the day of the fete de l'Etre Supreme, of which he was the
                        pontiff, he was dressed in a dark blue cost, muslin vest, embroidered
                        upon a rose-colored ground; breeches of black satin, white silk
                        stockings, and shoes with buckles completed his costume. It was in this
                        same dress he went to the scaffold.
                  
                  They arrived; a narrow stairway led them to a room in the third story;
                     Robespierre opened the door; a bust of Rousseau, a table, upon which the
                        Social Contract and Emile lay open, a bureau
                     and a few chairs formed all the furniture of the apartment. The greatest order
                     was visible throughout it.
                  Robespierre noted the effect that this sight had upon Marceau.
                  "Here is the palace of Cæsar," said he, smiling—"what have you to ask of the
                     dictator?"
                  "The pardon of my wife, condemned by Carrier."
                  "Your wife, condemned by Carrier! the wife of Marceau the Republican of ancient
                     days! the Spartan soldier! What is he doing at Nantes, then?"
                  "Committing atrocities."
                  Marceau then drew for him the picture which we have placed before the eyes of
                     the reader. Robespierre, during the recital, moved uneasily in his chair,
                     without interrupting him; then Marceau ceased.
                  "This is how I am always compromised mised!" said Robespierre in a hoarse tone,
                     for the internal emotion which he felt, sufficed to effect this alteration in
                     his voice. "Every where, where my eyes are not to see, or my hand to arrest, is
                     there useless bloodshed! There is, nevertheless, enough blood which must be
                     shed, and we have not yet reached the end."
                  "Well, then, Robespierre, my wife's pardon!"
                  Robespierre took a sheet of white paper.
                  "Her maiden name?"
                  "Why do you wish it?"
                  "'T is necessary to assure her identity."
                  "Blanche de Beaulieu."
                  "The daughter of the Marquis de Beaulieu—the brigand Chief?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *The Vendean leaders were called Brigands.
                  
                  "Blanche of Beaulieu, the daughter of the Marquis de Beaulieu."
                  "And how did she become your wife?"
                  Marceau related the circumstances to him.
                  "Young fool! young idiot!" said he, "you ought—"
                  Marceau interrupted him,
                  "I want neither abuse nor advice; I ask you for a pardon, will you give it to
                     me?"
                  "Marceau, the ties of family, the influence of love, will they never lead you
                     to betray the Republic?"
                  "Never."
                  "If you should find yourself, in arms, opposed to the Marquis of Beaulieu?"
                  "I would fight him, as I have already done?"
                  "And, should he fall into your hands?"
                  Marceau reflected a moment—
                  "I would send him to you and yourself should be his judge."
                  "You swear that to me?"
                  "Upon my honor."
                  Robespierre retook his pen.
                  "Marceau," said he to him, "you have had the good fortune to keep yourself
                     uncontaminated in the eyes of all; for a long time I have known you, for a long
                     time I have wished to see you." Perceiving Marceau's impatience, he wrote the
                     first three letters of his name, and then stopped. "Listen: in my turn," said
                     he, looking at him fixedly, "I ask five minutes of you; I give you a life for
                     five minutes; 't is well paid for."
                  Marceau signified that he would listen; Robespierre continued:
                  "I have been calumniated to you, Marceau; nevertheless, you are one of those
                     rare men, by whom I desire to be known; what matters to me the opinions of
                     those I care not for? Listen, then; three Assemblies have in turn managed the
                     destinies of France, have placed them in the hands of one man, and have
                     accomplished the mission with which the time had charged them. The Constituent,
                     represented by Mirabeau, has shaken the throne; the Legislative, embodied in
                     Danton, has overturned it. The labor of the Convention is immense, for it must
                     complete its overthrow, and it must begin to rebuild. I have high hopes there:
                     't is to become the representative of that epoch, as Mirabeau and Danton have
                     been the types of theirs. There will be three men in the history of France,
                     represented by three different figures—91, 92, 93. If the Supreme Being gives
                     me time to finish my work, my name will be above all these names; I will have
                     done more than Lycurgus among the Greeks, than Numa at Rome, than Washington in
                     America; for all of these had but a new-born people to still, and I!—I have an
                     old society to regenerate. If I fall,—my God! spare me any blasphemy against
                     Thee in my last hours; if I fall before the wished for time arrives, my name,
                     which will not have accomplished one half of what it had to do, will retain the
                     bloody stain, which the other half would have obliterated; the revolution will
                     fall with it, and both will be calumniated.—This is what I had to say to you,
                     Marceau, for I wish, at all events, that there shall be a few men, who will
                     keep my name living and pure in their hearts, like the flame in the
                     tabernacle,—and you are one of those men."
                  
                  He finished writing his name.
                  "Now here is your wife's pardon—you can go without even taking my hand."
                  Marceau took it and pressed it strongly; he wished to speak, but tears
                     prevented his articulating a word, and Robespierre himself spoke first and said
                     to him:
                  "Come, you must go—there is not a moment to be lost; Au revoir."
                  Marceau rushed down the stairs; General Dumas came up as he was going down.
                  "I have her pardon!" cried he, throwing himself into his arms. "I have the
                     pardon, and Blanche is saved—"
                  "Congratulate me in my turn," replied his friend; "I have been appointed
                     General-in-chief of the army of the Alps, and I come to thank Robespierre for
                     it."
                  They embraced each other. Marceau hurried into the street ran to the Palais
                     Egalité, where his carriage awaited him, ready to return with the same speed
                     with which it had brought him.
                  Of what a weight was his heart relieved! what happiness did he anticipate! what
                     felicity, after so many trials! His imagination plunged into the future; he saw
                     the moment when, from the threshold of the dungeon, he would shout to his
                     wife—"Blanche, you are free! you are free through my means; come, Blanche, and
                     let your love and your kisses repay me this debt of life."
                  Nevertheless, an indefinable uneasiness would cross his mind—occasionally, a
                     sudden shivering would seize his heart; then he would urge the postillions,
                     promise them gold—shower it upon them, and promise them still more: the wheels
                     rolled, the horses dashed at full speed. Still it appeared to him that he
                     scarcely advanced. Every where relays were ready,—no delays; all seemed to
                     share the agitation which tormented him. In a few hours he had left Versailles,
                     Chartres, Le Mans, La Flèche behind him! he perceived Angers; suddenly he felt
                     a terrible, dreadful shock—the carriage was overturned and broken; he got up,
                     wounded and bloody, separated the traces of one of the horses with his sabre,
                     jumped upon him, reached the first post-house, there took a race-horse, and
                     continued his journey still more rapidly.
                  At last he has crossed Angers; he sees Ingrande, reaches Varades, passes
                     Ancenis—his horse streaming with foam and blood. He discovers Saint-Donatien,
                     then Nantes—Nantes! which holds his soul, his life, his future! A few moments
                     more, he will be in the city—he reaches the gates; his horse falls before the
                     prison of Bouffays: what cares he—he has arrived!
                  "Blanche! Blanche!"
                  "Two carts have just gone from the prison," replied the keeper—"she is in the
                     first."
                  "Curses upon him!" and Marceau rushed, on foot, into the midst of the people,
                     who crowd about him, who hurry to the Grand Square; he overtook the last of the
                     carts; one of the condemned men recognized him.
                  "Save her, General! I could not, and I have been taken. Hurrah for the King and
                     the good cause!" It was Tinguey.
                  "Yes! yes!" and Marceau opened a way for himself; the crowd wounds him, presses
                     him, but drags him on; he reaches the Grand Square with it; he is opposite the
                     scaffold, he waves the paper in the air, shouting "Pardon! pardon!"
                  At this instant the executioner, seizing the head of the young girl by its
                     light hair, showed the hideous sight to the people: the crowd, terrified,
                     turned away in affright, for they thought they saw her vomit streams of blood!
                     Suddenly, in the midst of this silent crowd, a fierce cry, which appeared to
                     exhaust the entire human strength, was heard: Marceau had recognized, between
                     the teeth of that head, the red rose which he had given the young Vendean.
               
            
            
               A MASKED-BALL.
               I HAD given the order—"not at home to any body;" one of my friends forced himself
                  upon me.
               My servant announced Mons. Antony R—. I perceived, behind Joseph's livery, the
                  corner of a black riding coat; it was probable that the wearer of that riding coat
                  had also seen the flap of my robe-de-chambre—it was impossible to deny myself;
                  "Very well! ask him in," said I aloud, "Let him go to the devil," said I to
                  myself.
               When at work, it is only the woman we love that can disturb us with impunity, for
                  she is always desirous of knowing what we are doing.
               I advanced to meet him, then, with the half sulky face of an author interrupted in
                  one of those moments when he wishes least to be so. But when I saw him so pale and
                  wan, the first words I uttered were these:
               "What is the matter with you? what has happened?"
               "Oh! let me breathe," said he, "I am going tell you about that; besides it may be
                  a dream, or perhaps I am a fool."
               He threw himself upon a sofa, and let his head fall into his hands.
               I looked at him with astonishment; his hair was damp with the rain—his boots, his
                  knees, and the lower parts of his pantaloons, were covered with mud. I went to the
                  window; I saw his servant and his cabriolet at the door; I could not comprehend
                  it.
               He saw my surprise.
               "I have been to the Cemetery of Père La Chaise," said he.
               "At ten o'clock in the morning?"
               "I was there at seven—Cursed masked-ball!"
               I could not guess what a masked-ball and Père La Chaise had to do with each other.
                  I decided upon my course, and turning my back to the chimney, I began to roll up a
                  cigaretto, between my fingers with all the phlegm and patience of a Spaniard.
               When I had completely finished it, I handed it to Antony, who I knew was
                  ordinarily very susceptible to this sort of attention.
               He made me a sign of thanks with his head, but pushed back my hand.
               I stooped to light the cigaretto for myself; Antony stopped me.
               "Alexandre," said he to me, "I pray you, listen to me."
               "But you have been sitting there a quarter of an hour and have said nothing to
                  me."
               "Oh! 't is a strange adventure!"
               I arose, put my cigar upon the mantel and crossed my arms like a man 
                     resiged
                     resigned
                   to his fate; and I began to believe, like himself, that he must have
                  become a fool.
               "Do you remember the ball at the Opera, where I met you?" said he to me after an
                  instant's silence.
               "The last, where there were some hundred persons or more?"
               "The same—I left you with the intention of visiting the one at the Varieties,
                  which had been spoken of to me as a curiosity, in the midst of the many curious
                  things of our time; you tried to dissuade me from going there; but a fatality
                  urged me on. Oh! why were you not there to see—you who have the faculty of
                  description? Why was not Hoffman, or Collet, there to paint the picture, at once
                  fantastic and burlesque, which was spread
                  out before my eyes? I had left the Opera empty and sad, I found the hall full and
                  joyous; lobbies, boxes, pit, all were full. I made a tour of the hall; twenty
                  masks called me by my name and told me theirs. There were some of the highest
                  aristocracy and richest men in the disguises of clowns, postillions, harlequins,
                  or fishermen. They were all young people of worth, good hearts, and good families,
                  and there, forgetting family, arts, politics, reenacting a night of the Regency,
                  in the midst of our grave and strict age. I had been told it, but I did not
                  believe it!—I went up a few steps, and resting myself against a column, half
                  concealed by it. I fixed my eyes upon this sea of human beings moving beneath me.
                  Those dominos of every color, those mingled costumes, those grotesque disguises,
                  formed a spectacle which resembled nothing human!—The music began to play—oh! it
                  was then!—These strange beings moved to the sound of the orchestra, whose harmony
                  reached me, mingled with shouts, laughter, and huzzas; they seized each other by
                  the hands, by the arms, around the neck, a large circle was formed; 
                     begining
                     beginning
                   by a circular movement, the dancers, male and female, stamped with their
                  feet, raising a dust, with the noise, whose atoms were visible in the dim light of
                  the lustres; turning in their rapid crossings with fantastic postures, obscene
                  jestures, and shouts full of debauchery; turning more and more rapidly, staggering
                  like drunken men, shrieking like lost women, with more of delirium than joy, more
                  of madness than pleasure; like a chain-gang of the damned, accomplishing an
                  infernal penance under the rod of demons. All this passed before my eyes, under my
                  feet. I felt the wind caused by the rapidity of their course; each one of those
                  that knew me, threw at me as they passed, words to make me blush.
               All this noise, all this buzz, all this confusion, all this music, was in my head
                  as well as in the hall! Suddenly, I did not know whether what I saw before my eyes
                  was a dream or reality. I began to ask myself if it was not I that was foolish and
                  they who were in their senses; strange desires to throw myself into the midst of
                  that Pandemonium seized me, like Faust among the witches, and I felt that then I
                  would have cries, gestures, postures, laughter like theirs. Oh! from thence to
                  madness was but a step. I was frightened, I rushed out of the hall, pursued even
                  to the street door, with yells which resembled the roarings of love which comes
                  from the caves of wild beasts.
               "I had stopped an instant under the portico to collect my thoughts, I was
                  unwilling to risk myself in the street in such a confusion of mind; perhaps I
                  should have lost my way; perhaps been thrown under the wheel of some vehicle which
                  I might not have seen coming. I was as a drunken man must be when he begins to
                  recover reason enough in his darkened brain to perceive the state he is in, and
                  who, feeling that he is recovering his senses, but not yet his strength, remains
                  immovable, his eyes fixed in astonishment on some post in the street, or on a tree
                  in some public walk.
               "At this time a carriage stopped in front of the door, a woman got out of the
                  door, or, rather, threw herself out. She entered the portico, turning her head
                  right and left like one lost; she was dressed in a black domino, had her face
                  covered with a velvet masque. She presented herself at the door.
               "'Your ticket?' said the door-keeper.
               "'My ticket?' replied she 'I have none.'
               "'Then get one at the office.'
               "The domino returned to the portico, searching rapidly in all her pockets,
               "'No money!—Ah this ring—a ticket of admission for this ring,' said she.
               "'Impossible,' replied the woman who distributed the tickets, 'we do 'nt make
                  those kind of bargains here.' She pushed back the brilliant, which fell to the
                  ground and rolled to my feet. The domino remained without moving, forgetting the
                  ring, lost in thought.
               "I picked up the ring and handed it to her. I saw her eyes fix on mine through the
                  mask, she looked at me a moment with hesitation; then suddenly passing her arm
                  through mine,
               "'You must procure me an entrance,' said she to me—'in pity you must.'
               "I am just going out, Madam,' I replied.
               "'Then give me six francs for this ring and you will have rendered me a service
                  for which I will bless you all my life.'
               "I put the ring back upon her finger; I went to the office, I bought two
                  tickets—we entered together.
               "Arrived in the lobby, I felt that she staggered; she then formed with her other
                  hand a kind of ring about my arm.
               "'Do you suffer?' asked I.
               "'No, no, 'tis nothing—a dizziness, that is all,' replied she.
               "She led me into the hall.
               "We entered this joyous Charenton.
               "Three times did we make a tour of it, avoiding with much trouble those seas of
                  masks which rushed upon each other; she, trembling at each obscene word she heard;
                  I blushing to be seen with a woman on my arm who dared to hear such words; then we
                  returned to the end of the hall, she fell upon a seat, I remained standing before
                  her, my hand resting on the back of the seat.
               "'Oh! this must appear to you strange,' said she, 'but not more so than to me, I
                  assure you; I had not any idea of that (she looked at the ball), for I have never
                  seen such things even in my dreams. But they wrote me. look you, that
                     he would be here with a woman; and what a woman must she be who
                  can come to such a place as this?'
               "I made a gesture of surprise, she understood it.
               "'I am here, you would say, would you not? Oh! but with me, 'tis a different
                  thing; I seek him, I am his wife These people, 'tis
                  madness and debauchery which brings them here; oh! with me—with me—'t is infernal
                  jealousy! I would have gone anywhere to seek him; I would have passed a night in a
                  cemetery; I would have been at the Grève, on a day of execution; and yet I assure
                  you, while a girl, I was never once in the street without my mother; as a wife, I
                  have not taken a step out of doors unattended by a lackey; and, nevertheless, here
                  I am, like these women who know the place, behold me taking the arm of a man whom
                  I do not know, blushing under my mask at the opinion with which I must inspire
                  him! all this I know!—Have you ever been jealous, Monsieur?'
               "'Frightfully so,' replied I.
               "'Then you will pardon me—you know all; you know that voice which shouts to you,
                  go! as in the ears of a madman; you have felt that arm which urges you on to
                  shame, to crime, like that of fate; you know how, at such a moment, we are capable
                  of doing anything, provided we can revenge ourselves.'
               "I was about to reply; she got up suddenly, her eyes fixed upon two dominos
                  passing at this moment before us.
               "'Be silent,' said she, and she drew me after them. I was thrown into the midst of
                  an intrigue of which I did not comprehend anything; I felt all the strings
                  vibrate, but none of them could lead me to the end; but this poor woman seemed so
                  agitated, so very interesting, I obeyed her like a child, so imperious is true
                  passion, and we began to follow the two dominos, one of whom was evidently a man,
                  the other a woman. They spoke in low tones; the sounds scarcely reached our
                  ears.
               "''T is he!' murmured she, ''t is his voice; yes, yes, 'tis his height.'
               "The taller of the two masks began to laugh.
               "''T is his laugh,' said she, ''t is he, Monsieur, 't is he! the letter spoke
                  truly. Oh God! oh God!'
               "The masks kept on, we followed them continually; they left the hall, we went out
                  after them; they took the stairs to the boxes, and we ascended in their company;
                  they did not stop till they reached the highest row; we seemed their shadows. A
                  little box with a grating door opened; they went in; the door closed upon
                  them.
               
               "The poor creature that I held upon my arm frightened me by her agitation; I could
                  not see her face; but pressed against me as she was I could feel her heart beat,
                  her body shiver, her limbs tremble. There was something very strange in the way in
                  which this spectacle of unheard of sufferings, which I had before my eyes, of
                  which I did not even know the victim, and the cause of which I was completely
                  ignorant, had happened with me, yet for nothing in the world would I have
                  abandoned this woman at such a moment.
               "When she had seen the two masks enter the box, and the door close upon them, she
                  remained a moment perfectly still, as if thunder struck; then she threw herself
                  against the door to listen. Placed as she was the least movement would betray her
                  presence and lose her; I drew her away violently by the arms, I opened, by pushing
                  the spring, the box adjoining, I drew her in there with me, I lowered the grating
                  and shut the door.
               "'If you will listen,' said I to her, 'at least listen here.' She fell upon her
                  knees and glued her ear to the partition, and I stood upon the other side, my arms
                  folded, head bowed, and thoughtful.
               "All that I had been able to see of this woman, had appeared the very type of
                  beauty. The lower part of her face, not concealed by the mask. was youthful,
                  finely colored, and rounded; her lips vermillion and fine; her teeth, which the
                  velvet reaching to them, made appear still more white, were small, separated and
                  shining; her hands, perfect models; her two hands could span her waist; her hair,
                  fine, black and silky, escaped in profusion from the hood of her domino, and the
                  child's foot which peeped out from her dress seemed scarcely able to sustain her
                  body—light, graceful, aerial as it was. Oh! she must be a wonderful creature! Oh!
                  he who had held her in his arms—had seen all the faculties of that soul employed
                  in loving him—who had felt against his heart those palpitations, those tremblings,
                  those nervous spasms, and who could say 'all that—all that is from love—from love
                  of me, for me alone among men, for me, angel elect, oh! that man!—that man!—'
               "Such were my thoughts, when I saw this woman suddenly rise, turn toward me and
                  say in a broken and angry voice.
               "'Monsieur! I am handsome. I assure you; I am young; I am nineteen. Up to this
                  time I have been as pure as an angel of creation—well!' she threw her two arms
                  around my neck, 'Well! I am yours,—take me!'—
               "At the same moment I felt her lips glued to mine, and the effect of a bite rather
                  than a kiss, ran throughout her trembling and distracted body; a cloud of flame
                  passed before my eyes.
               "Ten minutes afterward, I held her in my arms fainting, half-dead and sobbing.
               "She recovered slowly. I perceived her haggard eyes through her mask; I saw her
                  pale face, I heard her teeth chatter as in the shiverings of a fever. I saw
                     all that.
               "She recalled to mind what had just passed, she fell at my feet.
               "'If you have any compassion,' said she to me sobbing, 'any pity, turn your gaze
                  from me, do not seek to know me; let me depart and forget all; I will remember for
                  both of us!'
               "At these words she got up, rapid as a thought that escapes us, rushed to the
                  door, opened it, and turning once more toward me,
               "'Do not follow me; in heaven's name Monsieur, do not follow me!' said she.
               "The door, pushed violently, shut itself between us, robbing me of her like an
                  apparition. I have never seen her again!
               "I never saw her again! and during the six months that have passed since then, I
                  have sought her everywhere, at balls, at the play, on the public walks; every time
                  that I saw at a distance, a woman with a small waist, with a child's foot, with
                  black hair, I have followed her, I have approached her looked into her face,
                  hoping that her blushes would betray her. In no instance did I meet her, no where
                  did I see her again, except in the night, except in my dreams! Oh! there, there
                  she returns, there I feel her, I feel her embraces, her kisses, her caresses, so
                  ardent that they have something infernal in them; then the mask drops, and a most
                  strange face appears to me, sometimes indistinct as if covered with a cloud;
                  sometimes shining as if surrounded with glory; sometimes pale, with a skull, white
                  and bare, with the sockets of the eyes empty; with teeth few and loose. In fine,
                  since that night, I have not lived; burning with a senseless love, for a woman
                  whom I do not know, hoping ever, and ever deceived in my hopes, jealous without
                  any right to be so, without knowing of whom I ought to be so, not daring to avow
                  such folly, and yet followed, undermined, consumed, devoured by it."
               On finishing these words he took a letter from his bosom,
               "Now that I have told you all," said he to me, take this letter and read it."
               I took it and I read,
               "Perhaps you have forgotten a poor woman who has forgotten nothing, and who dies
                  because she cannot for-"get?
               "When you receive this letter, I shall no longer be. Then go to the Cemetery of
                  Père La Chaise, ask the keeper to show you among the last graves, that which will
                  bear upon its tomb-stone, the simple name of Mariè, and when you are opposite to
                  it kneel down and pray."
               "Well!" continued Antony "I received this letter yesterday, and I have been there
                  this morning. The keeper led me to the grave, and I kneeled there two hours,
                  praying and weeping. Do you understand? she was there, this woman! The burning
                  soul was stolen; the body, gnawed by it, had bent until it broke under the weight
                  of jealousy and remorse; she was under my feet; she had lived, and she had died
                  unknown for me; unknown!—and taking a place in my life, as she has taken one in
                  the grave, unknown; and shutting up my heart in a cold and inanimate corpse, as
                  she has been shut in a tomb. Oh! do you know of anything like this? Do you know of
                  any event so strange? So now there is no more hope. I shall never see her again. I
                  would dig open her grave, but I should not find the features with which I could
                  recompose her face, and I love her always! Do you understand, Alexandre? I love
                  her like a madman; and I would kill myself this moment to rejoin her if she would
                  not remain unknown to me in eternity as she has been in this world."
               At these words he snatched the 
                     letler
                     letter
                   from my hands, kissed it many times, and began to weep like a child.
               I took him in my arms, not knowing what to reply to him. I wept with him.
            
            
               
               JAMES I. AND JAMES II.
               
                  HISTORICAL FRAGMENTS.
                  I.
                  INTRODUCTION, by the aid of which the reader will become acquainted with the
                     principal personages of this history, and with the author who wrote it.
                  IN 1830, passing by Chevet's door, I perceived an Englishman in the shop, who
                     was turning about and turning about, in every sense of the words, a tortoise
                     which he was bargaining for, with the evident intention, when it should become
                     his property, of making turtle-soup of it.
                  The air of profound resignation with which the poor animal allowed itself to be
                     examined by the cruelly gastronomical looks of its enemy, without even
                     withdrawing itself by entering its shell, touched me. A sudden wish to snatch
                     it from the pot, into which its hind legs were already plunged, seized me, and
                     I entered the shop, where I was well known at that time, and winking at Madame
                     Beauvais, I asked her if she had kept the tortoise for me that I had engaged
                     yesterday in passing.
                  Madame Beauvais comprehended me with that quick wit which characterizes the
                     class of Parisian shop-keepers, and, politely sliding the animal from the hands
                     of the customer, she gave it to me, saying, in English, with a very marked
                     accent, to the Islander who looked at her with astonishment,
                  "Pardon, Milord, the petite tortue, it was sold to Monsieur this morning."
                  "Ah!" said our impromptu lord to me, in very good French; "does this beautiful
                     animal belong to you, Monsieur?"
                  "Yes, yes, Milord," replied Madame Beauvais.
                  "Well! Monsieur," added he, "you have a little animal that will make beautiful
                     soup; I am only sorry that it is the only one of the kind which Madame has at
                     this time."
                  "We have the hope of them to receive others to-morrow," replied Madame
                     Beauvais.
                  "To-morrow will be too late," carelessly replied the Englishman; "I have
                     arranged all my affairs to blow out my brains to-night, and I desired to eat a
                     bowl of turtle-soup before that."
                  On uttering these words, he bowed to me and departed.
                  "Pardie!" said I to myself, after a moment's reflection, "it is no more than
                     right that so gallant a man should be humored in his last wish."
                  And I rushed out of the shop shouting, like Madame Beauvais, "Milord! Milord!"
                     But I could not tell where Milord had gone; I could not put my hand upon
                     him.
                  I went home quite thoughtful: my humanity toward an animal had become
                     inhumanity to a man. What a singular machine is this world, where good cannot
                     be done to one without doing harm to another. I reached la rue de l'Université,
                     I mounted to my third story, and placed my purchase upon the carpet.
                  It was only a tortoise of the most common species; Testudo Lutaria, sive aquarium dulcium; which means, according to
                     Linnæus among the ancients, or Ray among the moderns, the marsh, a fresh-water
                        tortoise.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *It is known that reptiles are divided into four classes: the Chelonians,
                        or tortoise, forming the first class; the Saurophians, or lizards, the
                        second; the Ophidians, or serpents, the third; and last, the Batracians,
                        or frogs, the fourth.
                  
                  Now, the fresh-water tortoise, holds nearly the same place in the social order
                     of the Chelonians, that grocers do among us in the civil rank, and the National
                     guard in the military order.
                  It was, besides, the most singular body of a tortoise, that ever drew its four
                     feet, its head and its tail under the cover of a shell. Scarcely did it feel
                     itself upon the floor, ere it gave me evidence of its eccentricity, by sparring
                     right toward the fire-place with a speed that entitled it, at that moment to
                     the name of Gazelle, and by using all its exertions to get
                     through the wires of the fender, to reach the fire, the light of which
                     attracted it; at last, after an hour's trial, seeing that what it desired was
                     impossible, it concluded to go to sleep, first passing its head and fore feet
                     through the openings nearest to the fire, thus selecting for its own peculiar
                     enjoyment, a temperature of some fifty or fifty-five degrees of heat, which
                     made me think that, whether it was its inclination, whether it was its fate, it
                     was destined to be roasted some day or another, and that I had only altered its
                     mode of cooking in rescuing it from the seething pot of the Englishman, to
                     carry it to my room. What follows in this history will show that I was not
                     mistaken.
                  As I was compelled to go out, and fearing some mishap might befall Gazelle, I
                     called my servant.
                  "Joseph," said I, when he appeared, "take good care of that animal."
                  He approached it with curiosity.
                  "Ah! look," said he, "'t is a turtle—it would bear a carriage on its back."
                  "Yes, I know it would; but I desire you may never undertake to make a trial of
                     it."
                  "Oh! it would n't do it any harm," replied Joseph, who was anxious to display
                     his knowledge of natural history before me; "the Laon diligence might pass over
                     its back without breaking it." Joseph mentioned the Laon diligence because he
                     was from Soissons.
                  "Yes," said I to him, "I believe that the great sea-turtle, the testudo mydas, would be able to support such a
                     weight, but I doubt if this one, which is of a smaller species—"
                  "No matter for that," replied Joseph, "these little animals are like Turks;
                     and, look you, a carrier's cart might pass over—"
                  "Well, well; you will buy salad and snails for him."
                  "What! snails! has he got the belly-ache? The master with whom I lived before
                     coming with you, used to take snail broth because he was sick. Well! even that
                     did n't prevent—"
                  I went out without listening to the rest of the story; half way down the
                     stairs, I noticed I had left my pocket-handkerchief. I returned immediately. I
                     found Joseph, who did not hear me re-enter, acting Apollo Belvidere—one foot on
                     the back of Gazelle, the other suspended in the air, so that not a grain of the
                     one hundred and thirty pounds that the scamp weighed, was lost to the poor
                     animal.
                  "What are you doing there, fool?"
                  "I told you so, Monsieur," said he, proud of having demonstrated to me in part,
                     what he had advanced.
                  "Give me a handkerchief, and let that animal alone."
                  "Here it is, Monsieur," said Joseph, bringing me the handkerchief, "but there
                     is not the least fear for him—a waggon might pass over—"
                  I escaped as rapidly as possible, but I had not descended twenty steps when I
                     heard Joseph, as he was closing my door, mutter between his teeth—
                  "Pardie! I know what I say—and then, besides, it can be seen by the
                     conformation of these animals, that a cannon loaded to the mouth might—"
                  Fortunately the noise in the street prevented my hearing the termination of
                     this confounded speech.
                  In the evening, as usual, I returned quite late. The first step I took in my
                     room I felt something crack under my boot. I quickly raised my foot, throwing
                     all the weight of my body on the other leg; the same cracking was heard again;
                     I thought I was walking on eggs. I lowered my light—my carpet was covered with
                     snails.
                  
                  Joseph had obeyed me to the letter; he had bought salad and snails, had put
                     them all in a basket, in the middle of my room; ten minutes after, whether it
                     was that the heat of the apartment had enlivened them; or whether it was the
                     fear of being devoured had put them all in motion, the whole caravan had
                     started, and had already made considerable headway, which it was very easy to
                     judge of by the shining traces left upon the carpet and on the furniture.
                  As to Gazelle, she was resting at the outside of the basket, the sides of which
                     she could not climb. But some empty shells convinced me that the flight of the
                     Israelites had not been so rapid but that she had had her teeth upon some of
                     them, before they had had time to cross the Red Sea.
                  I soon began a critical review of the batallion which manœuvred in my room, and
                     by which I had no wish to be charged during the night; then with my right hand
                     delicately picking up the promenaders, I put them, one after another, into
                     their guard-house, which I held in my left hand, the cover of which I closed
                     upon them.
                  In about five minutes I saw that if I left all this menagerie in my room, I
                     should run the risk of not sleeping a minute; there was a noise as though a
                     dozen mice had been shut up in a bag of nuts. I decided upon taking them all to
                     the kitchen.
                  Walking along, I thought that, in the way Gazelle was going on, I should find
                     her dead of indigestion in the morning if I left her in the midst of a
                     storehouse of provisions so well filled; at that instant, as if by inspiration,
                     I remembered a certain tub, placed in the yard, and in which the Restaurateur,
                     on the lower floor, put his fish to clean; that seemed to me such an admirable
                     hotel for a testudo aquarium dulcium, that I
                     thought it useless to break my head in seeking another for her, and on taking
                     her from her refectory, I carried her directly to the place of her
                     destination.
                  I went up again quickly and went to sleep, persuaded that I was the most
                     ingenious man in France, in the way of expedients.
                  In the morning Joseph aroused me quite early.
                  "Oh! Monsieur, here is a farce!" said he, planting himself before my bed.
                  "What kind of a farce?"
                  "Something your tortoise has done."
                  "What?"
                  "Well! Do you believe that she left your room, I don't know how, that she went
                     down the three stories, and coolly put herself into the Restaurateur's
                     fish-tub?"
                  "Simpleton' Could you not guess that I had put her there
                     myself?"
                  "Ah well! You have made a pretty piece of business of it, any how!"
                  "How so?"
                  "How so! because she has eaten a Tench, a beautiful Tench weighing
                     three pounds."
                  "Go and find Gazelle, and bring me the scales."
                  While Joseph executed this order, I went to my library, opened my Buffon at the
                     article, Tortoise, for I was determined to convince myself whether these
                     Chelonians were Icthyophagists, and I read as follows:
                  
                     "This fresh water tortoise, Testudo aquarium
                           dulcium [that was it] loves marshes and still waters
                        particularly; when it is in rivers or ponds, it attacks all kinds of fish
                        indiscriminately, even the largest; it bites them under the belly, wounding
                        them severely, and when they are weakened by the loss of blood, it devours
                        them with great avidity, and scarcely leaves the bones, the head, and even
                        the swimming bladder, which sometimes ascends to the top of the water."
                  
                  "The devil!" said I "the Restaurateur has Mons. Buffon on his side; what he
                     says may indeed be true."
                  I was in a train of reflection upon the probability of the accident, when
                     Joseph returned, holding the accused in one hand and the scales in another.
                  "You see," said Joseph, "they eat a good deal, these kind of animals do, to
                     keep up their strength, and of fish in particular, because it is very
                     nourishing ing; do you believe without that they would be able to bear a
                     carriage on their backs? See how hearty the sailors are in the seaports, it is
                     because they eat nothing but fish."
                  I interrupted Joseph.
                  "How much did the tench weigh?"
                  "Three pounds—the fellow demands nine francs."
                  "And Gazelle has eaten it all up?"
                  "Oh! she has only left the bones, the head, and the bladder."
                  "It must be so; Mons. Buffon must be a great naturalist.*
                      Nevertheless," continued I, in a low voice, "three pounds—that seems a
                      great deal."
                  
                     
                     *As we must give to each one their due—it was the continuator of Buffon,
                        Mons. Dandin, that should receive this eulogy.
                  
                  I put Gazelle in the scales, she weighed but two pounds and a half, shell and
                     all.
                  The result of this experiment was, not that Gazelle was innocent of the act of
                     which she was accused, but that she must have committed the crime upon a whale
                     of much smaller dimensions.
                  This seemed also to be the opinion of the fellow himself for he appeared very
                     well content with the five francs that I gave him as an indemnity.
                  The adventure with the snails, and the accident with the tench, rendered me
                     less of an enthusiast about my new acquisition; and, as chance would have it,
                     that same day I met one of my friends, an original, and a painter of genius,
                     who, at this time, had turned his study into a menagerie, I told him that on
                     the morrow I would augment his collection by a new specimen, belonging to the
                     estimable class of Chelonians, which seemed to please him very much.
                  Gazelle slept that night in my room, where everything passed very quietly,
                     seeing the snails were absent.
                  In the morning Joseph came into my room, as usual, rolled up the carpet at the
                     foot of my bed, opened the window and began to shake it to beat out the dust,
                     but suddenly he screamed, and leaned out of the window as if about to jump
                     out.
                  "What is the matter Joseph?" asked I, half awake.
                  "Ah! Monsieur, your tortoise was asleep upon the carpet and I did not see
                     it—"
                  "And—."
                  "And, without intending it, I shook it out of the window."
                  "Simpleton," and I jumped out of bed.
                  "Look!" said Joseph, whose face and voice assumed an expression of ease quite
                     encouraging. "Look! she is eating a cabbage!"
                  Indeed the animal had instinctively withdrawn its body within its cuirasse and
                     had fallen upon a heap of oyster-shells, the looseness of which had weakened
                     the blow, and finding at her door a vegetable to her taste, she had gently put
                     out her head from her shell, and occupied herself with a breakfast as
                     tranquilly as though she had not just fallen from a third story window.
                  "I told you so, Monsieur!" repeated Joseph in the gladness of his heart, "I
                     told you that nothing could hurt these animals. Well! while she is eating, look
                     you, a carriage might pass over—"
                  "No matter, go down quickly, and bring her to me."
                  Joseph obeyed. During this time I dressed myself, an occupation which I had
                     finished before Joseph reappeared; I went down then to meet him, and found him
                     haranguing in the midst of a circle of inquisitive folks, to whom he was
                     explaining the circumstance which had just occurred.
                  I took Gazelle from his hands, jumped into a cab, which took me to faubourg
                     Saint Denis, No. 109. I mounted to the fifth story, and I entered the study of
                     my friend who was about to paint.
                  He had around him a bear lying on his back and playing with a faggot; an ape
                     seated upon a chair, tearing the hairs out of a brush one after another, and in
                     a large jug, a frog squatted upon the third round of a little ladder by means
                     of which it could reach the surface of the water.
                  
                  My friend was named Decamps, the bear Tom, the ape James I,*
                        and the frog Mademoiselle Camargo.
                  
                     
                     *Thus named to distinguish him from James the Second, an individual of the
                        same species, belonging to Mr. Tony Johannet.
                  
               
               
                  II.
                  How James I vowed a deadly hatred to James II, and that on account of a
                     Carrot.
                  My entrance created a sensation.
                  Decamp raised his eyes from that wonderful little picture of the learned dogs,
                     which you all know, and which he was then finishing.
                  Tom let the faggot, with which he was playing, fall upon his nose, and fled
                     growling to his niche, built between the two windows.
                  James I quickly threw the brush behind him, and picked up a straw which he
                     innocently carried to his mouth with his right hand, whilst he scratched his
                     thigh with his left and raised his eyes piously to heaven.
                  Indeed Mademoiselle Camargo languidly ascended another step of her ladder,
                     which, under other circumstances, would have been considered as a sign of
                     rain.
                  I placed Gazelle at the door upon the threshhold of which I had stopped,
                     saying, "My dear friend, there is the animal—you see I have kept my word."
                  Gazelle was not happy in a moment; the motion of the cab had so disarranged
                     her, that, probably to collect her thoughts and to reflect upon her situation
                     during the journey, she had retired all of her person within her carapace; so
                     that when I put her down, she had every appearance of an empty shell.
                  Nevertheless, when Gazelle felt, by the retaking of her center of gravity, that
                     she was on solid ground, she ventured to show her nose at the largest opening
                     of her shell; for greater security, however, this portion of her person was
                     prudently accompanied by her two fore feet, and as though all her limbs had
                     simultaneously obeyed the elasticity of a hidden spring, the two hinder feet
                     and the tail appeared at the hinder end of the carapace. Five minutes later and
                     Gazelle had spread all her sails.
                  Nevertheless she remained a moment lying-to, moving her head from right to
                     left, as if to take her bearings; then her eyes became suddenly fixed,—she
                     advanced as rapidly as though she was disputing the race with the hare of La
                     Fontaine, toward a carrot laying at the foot of the chair which served as a
                     footstool to James I.
                  This latter, saw the new arrival advance toward him indifferently enough, at
                     first, but when he saw the end she had in view, he gave signs of real
                     uneasiness, which he manifested by low growling, which changed as she advanced,
                     into sharp cries, interrupted by the chattering of his teeth. At last, when she
                     was not more than a foot distant from the precious vegetable, James' agitation
                     became real despair; he seized the back of his chair with one hand and the
                     cross-piece covered with straw with the other, and probably with the hope of
                     frightening the spunging animal that was about to rob him of his feast,
                     throwing out his two feet like a kicking horse, accompanying these evolutions
                     with all the gestures and all the grimaces that he thought likely to nonplus
                     the automaton-like impassability of his enemy. But all in vain, Gazelle did not
                     move a step slower for all that. James I did not know to what saint he should
                     now apply.
                  Happily for James I unexpected assistance arrived at this moment. Tom, who had
                     retired to his den, on my arrival, had become accustomed to my presence, and
                     like us, lent some attention to the passing scene; astonished at first to see
                     the unknown animal move, now become, thanks to me, a messmate in his lodgings,
                     he had followed him in his course toward the carrot with growing curiosity.
                     Now, Tom did not dislike carrots, and when he saw Gazelle about to reach the
                     precious vegetable, he took three steps, trotting and raising his big paw, he
                     placed it heavily upon the back of the poor animal, who, laying flat upon her
                     shell, incontinently entered her carapace, and remained immovable two inches
                     from the eatable which at this time had a 
                        tripple
                        triple
                      struggle in play for it. Tom seemed very much surprised to see head,
                     legs, and tail disappear as if by enchantment. He placed his nose near the
                     shell, smelled noisily at the openings; at last, and as if to be perfectly
                     satisfied with the singular organization of the object he had before him, he
                     took it up, turning it about and around between his paws; then as though
                     convinced that he had been deceived in conceiving so 
                        absurb
                        absurd
                      an idea as that such a thing was endowed with life and could walk; he
                     let it fall carelessly, took the carrot between his teeth and started to regain
                     his den.
                  This was not what James wished, he had not thought that the service which his
                     friend Tom had rendered him would be spoilt by such an exhibition of
                     selfishness; but as he did not have the same respect for his 
                        comrad
                        comrade
                      as for the stranger, he jumped rapidly from the chair, where he had
                     prudently remained during the scene we have just described, and seizing by its
                     green top, the carrot which Tom held by the root, he pulled with all his
                     strength, grimacing, scolding, chattering his teeth, whilst with the hand which
                     was still free, he struck strong blows upon the nose of his pacific antagonist,
                     who, without replying, but also without letting go the object of the contest,
                     contented himself with lowering his ears upon his neck, shutting his little
                     black eyes every time the nimble hand of James came in contact with his big
                     face; at last victory remained as things usually happen, not with the
                     strongest, but with the most impudent. Tom opened his teeth, and James,
                     possessor of the unhappy carrot, jumped upon a shelf, carrying the spoils of
                     the fight which he hid behind a bust of Malagutti, on a shelf six feet from the
                     floor; this operation accomplished, no descended more tranquilly, certain that
                     neither bears nor tortoises could reach it there.
                  On reaching the last step, and when he was about to put his foot upon the
                     floor, he prudently stopped, and, looking toward Gazelle whom he had forgotten
                     in the heat of his quarrel with Tom, he perceived that she was in a position
                     anything but offensive.
                  Indeed, Tom, instead of replacing her carefully in the position in which he had
                     found her, had, as we have already said, negligently let her fall haphazard, so
                     that on coming to her senses the unhappy animal, instead of finding herself in
                     her proper situation, that is to say upon her belly, was turned upon her back,
                     a position, as every one knows, repugnant in a supreme degree to every
                     individual of the race of Chelonians.
                  It was easy to see, by the expression of confidence with which James approached
                     Gazelle, that he had decided at first sight, that her accident had put it out
                     of her power to make any defense. Notwithstanding, arrived within some six
                     inches of this monstrum horrendum, he stopped
                     a moment, looked into the opening on his side and began with an appearance of
                     apparent carelessness to make a tour of cautious inspection, examining her as a
                     general would a city he wished to besiege. The reconnoisance finished, he
                     stretched out his hand, touched the extremity of the shell with the end of his
                     finger; then soon throwing himself boldly backward, he began, without losing
                     sight of the object that occupied him, to dance joyously on his feet and hands,
                     accompanying the movement with a kind of song of victory, habitual to him
                     whenever, by a difficulty overcome or a danger boldly met, he thought he ought
                     to felicitate himself upon his skill or courage.
                  Nevertheless, this dance and song was suddenly broken off; a new idea crossed
                     James' brain, and seemed to absorb all his thinking faculties. He looked
                     attentively at the tortoise, to which his hand, in touching it, had imparted a
                     rocking motion, which was rendered still more lengthy by the spherical form of
                     its shell, he approached her, walking sideways like a crab; then, when near
                     her, he raised himself upon his legs,
                     straddled her like a man would his horse, saw her move for a moment between his
                     legs; at last, perfectly assured by the searching examination he had just made,
                     that all was as it appeared, he seated himself upon this moveable seat, and,
                     without taking his feet from the ground, he imparted an oscillating movement to
                     it, balanced himself joyously, scratching his side and winking his
                     eyes—gestures which, to those who knew him, were the expression of exquisite
                     happiness.
                  Suddenly James uttered a piercing cry, made a perpendicular bound of three
                     feet, fell upon his back, and rushing to his shelf, went to take refuge behind
                     the head of Malagutti. This revolution was caused by Gazelle, who, fatigued
                     with a game where it was evident none of the pleasure was hers, had at last
                     given signs of life by scratching the naked legs of James I with her cold and
                     sharp claws, who was the more confused by this aggression, as an attack from
                     that quarter was the last thing he expected.
                  At this moment a customer entered, and Decamps signed to me that he wished to
                     be left alone with him. I took my hat and cane and went away.
                  I had already reached the landing-place, when Decamps called me back.
                  "Apropos," said he to me, "come to-morrow and spend the evening with us."
                  "What are you going to do to-morrow?"
                  "We have a supper and reading."
                  "Bah!"
                  "Yes, Mademoiselle Camargo is going to eat a hundred flies, and Jadin to read a
                     manuscript.
               
               
                  III.
                  How Mademoiselle Camargo fell into the possession of Mons. Decamps.
                  Despite the verbal invitation from Decamps, on the morrow I received a printed
                     one. This double notice was to remind me to be punctual, and that the guests
                     were admitted only in robes-de-chambre and slippers. I was prompt at the hour
                     and exact as to uniform.
                  It is a curious thing to see the study of a painter when he has coquettishly
                     decorated his four walls, to do honor to the invited guests with his holiday
                     gems furnished by the four quarters of the globe. You think you are entering
                     the dwelling of an artist, and you find yourself in the midst of a museum, that
                     would do honor to an incorporated French city. That armor representing Europe
                     in its earliest days, dating from different reigns, and, by their forms,
                     betraying the time of their fabrication. This one, burnished on the two sides
                     of the breast, with its sharp and shining angle, and its engraved crucifix, at
                     the foot of which is a virgin, praying, with this inscription—Mater Dei, ora pro nobis, was made in France and
                     presented to Louis XI, who had it hung upon the walls of his old chateau at
                     Plessisles-Tours. That one, whose convex breast still carries the marks of
                     blows from the mace, from which it had shielded its owner, was embossed at the
                     tournay of Maximilian, and came to us from Germany. That other one, which shows
                     the labors of Hercules in relief, has perhaps been worn by king Francis I, and
                     certainly came from the Florentine study of Benvenuto Cellini. That Canadian
                     tomahawk and this scalping-knife, came from America; the one had broken French
                     heads, and the other taken off perfumed locks. Those arrows and this dagger,
                     are East-Indian; the point of the one and the blade of the other are deadly,
                     because they have been poisoned by the juice of herbs of Java. This crooked
                     sabre was tempered at Damascus. That yataghan, which carries upon its blade as
                     many notches as it has cut off heads, was snatched from the dying grasp of a
                     Bedouin. And last, that long gun, with the butt-plate and bands of silver, was
                     brought from Casauba by Isabey perhaps, who may have got it from Yousouf in
                     exchange for a sketch of the bay of Algiers, or a drawing of the Emperor's
                     fort.
                  Now that we have examined in succession these trophies, each one of which
                     represents a nation, let us cast our eyes upon those tables, where a thousand
                     different objects are scattered pell-mell, all astonished at finding themselves
                     gathered there. Here are Japanese porcelains, Egyptian figures, Spanish knives,
                     Turkish poniards, Italian stilletos, Algerine slippers, Circassian pantaloons,
                     idols from the Ganges, crystals from the Alps; look well; there are enough of
                     them to occupy a day.
                  Under your feet are skins of the tiger, the lion and the leopard, brought from
                     Asia and Africa; over your head, with wings extended, and as if endowed with
                     life, there are the sea-gull, who, at the instant when a wave curves itself,
                     ready to break, passes through its vault as through an arch; the margat, which,
                     when it sees a fish appear near the surface of the water, folds its wings and
                     falls like a stone upon it; the sea-turtle-dove, which, at the instant the
                     hunter aims at him, dives to reappear at a distance that puts him out of reach;
                     and last, the king-fisher, this halcyon of the ancients, whose plumage shines
                     with the brightest colors of the beryl and the lapis lazuli.
                  But that which, on a reception evening at a painter's study, is most worthy of
                     fixing the attention of an amateur, is the heterogenous collection of carved
                     pipes which await, like Prometheus' man, that the fire of heaven should be
                     stolen for them. For, you must know, that nothing is more fantastic and
                     capricious than the minds of smokers. One prefers the plain earthen pipe, to
                     which our old grumblers have given the name of burn-mouth;
                     another fills with common government tobacco, called corporal tobacco; another
                     cannot bring anything in contact with his delicate lips, except the amber
                     mouth-piece of an Arabian chibouque, and that filled with the black tobacco of
                     Algiers, or the green of Tunis. This one, solemn as one of Cooper's Indian
                     Chiefs, methodically draws from the peaceful calumet, whiffs of the Maryland
                     weed; that one, more sensual than a nabob, winds the flexible tube of his
                     Indian hucca like a serpent around his arm, which permits only the smoke of the
                     latakie, cooled and perfumed with rose and benzoin, to reach his lips. There
                     are those who, from habit, prefer the foam pipe of the German student and the
                     strong Belgian cigar cut fine, to the Turkish narghile, extolled by Lamartine,
                     and to the tobacco of Sinai, the reputation of which is enhanced or depreciated
                     according to where it is cultivated, whether on the mountains or on the plain.
                     Others there are, in fine, who would break their necks to keep the gourgouri of
                     the negroes in an upright position, whilst an accommodating friend, mounted on
                     a chair, endeavors, with a full supply of live coals and of breath, first to
                     dry, then to light the clayey grass of Madagascar.
                  When I entered the house of this Amphytrion, the selections had all been made,
                     and all the places occupied; on seeing me they all moved closer to each other;
                     and, by a movement which, by its precision, would have done honor to a company
                     of the National Guard, every pipe, whether of wood or earthen, horn or ivory,
                     jasmin or amber, was taken from the loving lips that embraced them and extended
                     toward me. I made a sign of thanks with my hand, drew a paper of regulation
                     tobacco from my pocket, and began to roll up between my fingers the Andalusian
                     cigarrito, with all the patience and skill of an old Spaniard.
                  Five minutes after, we swam in an atmosphere sufficiently dense to support a
                     steamboat of an hundred and twenty horse power.
                  As soon as the smoke would allow, there were seen, besides the guests, the
                     ordinary inmates of the house with whom the reader has already become
                     acquainted. There was Gazelle, who, from the evening of her arrival, had taken
                     up a singular occupation; it was no less than attempting to climb the marble
                     chimney-piece, to reach a lamp by which to warm herself, and who gave herself
                     up obstinately to this futile exertion. There was Tom, of whom Alexander ander Decamps had made a resting
                     place, somewhat as one would use the cushion of a divan, and who occasionally
                     raised his head sadly under his master's arms, breathing loudly to expel the
                     smoke which had entered his nostrils, then laid himself down again with a heavy
                     sigh. There was James I seated upon a stool by the side of his old friend Fau,
                     who had, by dint of the whip, brought his education to the perfection which it
                     had attained, and for which he had the greatest thankfulness, and above all the
                     most submissive obedience. And last, in the midst of the circle, in her jar,
                     was Mademoiselle Camargo, whose exercises, gymnastic and gastronomic, were more
                     particularly to be the subject of the evening's entertainment.
                  It is important, on reaching the point at which we are, to glance back, and
                     show our readers by what a strange concurrence of circumstances Mademoiselle
                     Camargo, who was born on the plains of Saint-Denis, found herself in company
                     with Tom, who had his origin in Canada, with James, who saw day on the coast of
                     Angola, and Gazelle, who was fished out of the marshes of Holland.
                  It is well known what a commotion is to be witnessed at Paris in the
                     neighborhood of Saint-Martin and Saint-Denis, when the month of September
                     ushers in the hunting season; one then meets none but citizens returning from
                     the canal, where they have been to try their hands upon swallows,
                     leading dogs in leashes, carrying guns upon their shoulders, hoping to be less
                        bungling this year than last, and stopping all their
                     acquaintances to say to them—"Are you fond of quails and
                     partridges?"—"Yes."—"Well! I will send you some by the third or fourth of next
                     month."—"Thank you."—"By-the-by, I killed five swallows in eight shots."—"Well
                     done."—"That was not bad shooting, was it?"—"Excellent."—"Adieu."—"Good
                     night."
                  Now, toward the end of the month of August, one thousand eight hundred and
                     twenty-nine, one of these hunters entered the great gate of the house No. 109,
                     Faubourg Saint-Denis, asked the porter if Decamps was at home, and, on his
                     replying affirmatively, went up the five flights of stairs leading to the study
                     of our celebrated painter, leading his dog, step by step, and knocking the
                     barrel of his gun against the wall as he went.
                  He found no one there but the brother Alexander.
                  Alexander is one of those intellectual and original men, who would be
                     recognized as artists only from seeing them pass, who are capable of any thing,
                     if they were not too inveterately idle ever to busy themselves seriously about
                     any one thing; having an appreciation of the beautiful and just, recognizing
                     them wherever they may find them, without inquiring whether a work with which
                     they are pleased, is acknowledged by a coterie or is signed with a name;
                     otherwise, a good fellow in every acceptation of the term, ever ready to empty
                     his pockets for his friends, and, like all men prepossessed with one idea (who
                     are worth the trouble), easy to lead, not by weakness of character, but by a
                     distaste for argument and by fear of fatigue.
                  With this disposition of mind, Alexander allowed himself to be easily persuaded
                     by his newly arrived friend that he would take great pleasure in hunting with
                     him on the plain of Saint-Denis, where there were, they said, this year, bevies
                     of quail, covies of partridges and flocks of hares.
                  In consequence of this conversation, Alexander ordered a hunting coat of
                     Chevreuil, a gun of Lepage and gaiters of Boivin; all costing him six hundred
                     and sixty francs, without reckoning the shooting license which was given to him
                     by the Prefect of the Police on his presenting a certificate of good moral
                     character, which the Commissioner of his district gave him without
                     hesitation.
                  On the thirty-first of August, Alexander perceived that he still needed one
                     thing more to become a complete sportsman, that was a dog. He immediately went
                     to the man who, with his pack, had sat to his brother for the picture of the
                     learned dogs, and asked him if he had not what he wanted.
                  The man replied that he had some animals of wonderful instinct in that way,
                     and, passing into a room on the same floor, communicating with his kennel, he,
                     in a trice, took off the three-cornered hat which decorated a kind of black and
                     white briquet,*
                      returned immediately and showed him to Alexander as a dog of the true
                     breed. The latter remarked that this dog of the true breed had straight,
                     pointed ears, which was contrary to all received opinions in such matters; but
                     to this the man replied that Love was an English dog, and that it was the
                     height of fashion among English dogs to have ears like these. As, all things
                     considered, this might be so, Alexander was satisfied with the explanation, and
                     carried Love home with him.
                  
                     
                     *Untranslatable, meaning something similar to our terms whiffet, or
                        pheiss-dog.
                  
                  The next morning at five o'clock, our Sportsman came to waken Alexander, who
                     was sleeping like a happy fellow; he rated him soundly for his idleness,
                     reproached him on account of the delay, thanks to which, they would find the
                     plains, on their arrival, all alive with shooters.
                  In fact, as they approached the barrier,†
                      the detonations became more frequent and noisy. Our sportsmen quickened
                     their steps, passed the customhouse, turned into the first lane that led to the
                     fields, threw themselves into a cabbage bed, and fell at once into the midst of
                     a very busy scene.
                  
                     
                     †Gates, where duties are collected from persons bringing provisions, etc.,
                        into the city.
                  
                  It is necessary to have seen the fields of Saint-Denis on the opening day of
                     the shooting season, to form an idea of the mad scene which is there presented.
                     Not a lark, not a sparrow, passes that is not saluted with a thousand shots. If
                     it falls, every game-bag is opened, thirty shooters claim it, and thirty dogs
                     quarrel about it; if it continues its flight, all eyes are fixed upon it; if it
                     alights, every body runs; if it rises again, every body fires. It sometimes
                     happens that here and there a few pellets of shot, aimed at animals, reach the
                     men—this must not be minded; besides, there is an old proverb current among the
                     sportsmen of Paris, which says, that "lead is man's friend." On this score, I
                     can count three friends whom a fourth has lodged in my thigh.
                  The smell of the powder and the noise of the guns produced their usual effects.
                     Scarcely had our Sportsman snuffed the one and heard the other, ere he threw
                     himself into the melée and immediately began to take his part in the infernal
                     racket which had surrounded him in its circle of attraction.
                  Alexander, less susceptible than he, advanced with a more moderate gait,
                     closely followed by Love, whose nose did not leave his master's heels. Now,
                     every one knows that the duty of a sporting dog is to beat the fields, and not
                     to examine if there be any nails missing in one's boots. This reflection
                     naturally occurred to Alexander in about half an hour. Consequently, he made a
                     motion with his hand to Love and said, "Seek!"
                  Love immediately raised himself upon his hinder legs and began to dance.
                  "Look!" said Alexander, placing the but of his gun upon the ground and looking
                     at his dog; "it seems that Love, besides his University education, possesses
                     some very amusing talents. I think I have made an excellent purchase."
                  Nevertheless, as he had bought Love to hunt, and not to dance, he took
                     advantage of his being once more on his four feet to make another motion to him
                     more expressive, and to say to him in a louder tone, "Seek!"
                  Love laid himself out full length, closed his eyes and imitated death.
                  Alexander took his eye-glass, and looked at Love. The knowing animal was
                     immovability itself; not a hair of his body stirred; one would have thought he
                     had died some twenty-four hours since.
                  "This is very fine," said Alexander: "but, my dear friend, this is not the time
                     to give ourselves up to this kind of
                     amusement; we came here to hunt, let us hunt. Hie on! beast, hie on!"
                  Love did not budge.
                  "Mind! mind!" said Alexander, drawing from the ground a pole which had been
                     used to support pea-vines upon, and advancing toward Love with the intention of
                     applying it to his shoulders.
                  Scarcely did Love see this pole in the hands of his master, whose movements he
                     had followed with an expression of remarkable intelligence, ere he got upon his
                     feet. Alexander, who saw this, defered the punishment, hoping that he was now
                     about to be obeyed; he held out the pole before Love, and said to him for the
                     third time, "Seek!"
                  Love took a run and jumped over the pole.
                  Love understood three things admirably; how to dance upon his hinder legs, how
                     to imitate death, and how to jump for the king.
                  Alexander, who at this time did not appreciate this last talent any more than
                     the others, broke the pole upon Love's back, who ran howling to the side of our
                     Sportsman.
                  Now, just as Love reached him, our Sportsman fired, and, by the greatest
                     chance, an unhappy lark, killed by the shot, fell into Love's mouth. Love
                     thanked Providence for sending him such a blessing; and, without troubling
                     himself as to whether it was roasted or not, he made but one mouthful of
                     it.
                  Our Sportsman threw himself upon the unfortunate dog with the most terrible
                     imprecations, seized him by the throat and squeezed it so tightly that he was
                     compelled to open his mouth, whatever wish he might have had to the contrary.
                     The Sportsman franticly plunged his hand into the gullet and drew out three
                     feathers from the lark's tail. As to the body that was safe enough.
                  The owner of the lark sought in his pockets for his knife to disembowel Love,
                     and by that means regain possession of his game; but, unfortunately for him,
                     and fortunately for Love, he had lent it the evening before to his wife to
                     sharpen the skewers, in advance, with which she should have to spit the
                     partridges, and she had forgotten to return it to him. Compelled, in
                     consequence, to resort to some less violent mode of punishment, he gave Love a
                     kick sufficient to break down a gate, carefully put the three feathers which he
                     had saved into his game-bag, and shouted at the top of his voice to
                     Alexander—"Make yourself easy, my dear friend, I will never hunt with you in
                     future. Your shabby Love has just eaten up a fine quail for me. Ah! come here,
                     rascal!—"
                  Love had no desire to return there. On the contrary, he ran, as fast as his
                     legs would carry him, to his master's side, which proved that, all things
                     considered, he preferred the blows from the pole to the kicks of the foot.
                  Nevertheless, the lark had given Love an appetite, and, as he saw individuals
                     that seemed to him to belong to the same species rise before him from time to
                     time, he began to run every where, in the hope, no doubt, that he would finally
                     meet with a second windfall like the first.
                  Alexander could scarcely keep up with him, and cursed while following him; this
                     was because Love hunted in a way entirely contrary to that adopted by other
                     dogs—that is to say, with his nose up and his tail down. This denoted that his
                     sight was better than his smell; but this exchanging of physical faculties was
                     intolerable to his master, from whom he always kept some hundred paces distant,
                     raising the game at double gun-shot distance, and chasing and barking till it
                     was out of sight.
                  This way of acting lasted the entire day.
                  About five o'clock in the afternoon, Alexander had traveled about fifteen
                     leagues, and Love more than fifty; the one was weakened by shouting and the
                     other by barking; as to the Sportsman, he had accomplished his purpose, and had
                     separated from the others, to go and shoot snipe in the marshes of Pantin.
                  All at once Love pointed.
                  But it was a point so staunch, that one would have said, like the dog of
                     Chephalus alus, he was changed into stone. At this sight, so strange for him,
                     Alexander forgot his fatigue, ran like a madman, fearing all the time that Love
                     would break his point before he could arrive within gun-shot. But of this there
                     was no danger; Love was as if nailed to the earth.
                  Alexander reached him, took the direction of his eyes, saw that they were fixed
                     upon a tuft of grass, and under this tuft of grass he saw something brown. He
                     thought it was a young partridge separated from its company; and, trusting more
                     to his cap than to his gun, he laid his piece upon the ground, took his cap in
                     his hand and approached softly as a child wishing to catch a butterfly, then
                     lowered the cap upon the unknown object, quickly inserted his hand under it,
                     and drew out a—frog.
                  Any one else would have thrown the frog away; Alexander, on the contrary,
                     thought that since Providence had sent this interesting animal to him in a
                     manner so wonderful, it was because it had some ulterior, hidden design in
                     view, and that it was destined to great things.
                  So he put it carefully into his game-bag, carried it safely home, put it, on
                     his arrival, into a jar, out of which we had the day previous eaten the
                     cherries, and poured upon its head all the water in the decanter.
                  These cares for a frog would have appeared extraordinary on the part of a man
                     who might have found it in a manner less complicated than Alexander had done;
                     but Alexander knew what this frog had cost him, and he treated it
                     accordingly.
                  It cost him six hundred and sixty francs, without reckoning anything for his
                     shooting licence.
               
               
                  IV.
                  Continuation of the history of Mademoiselle Camargo.
                  "Ah! ah!" said Doctor Thierry on entering the study the next day, "you have a
                     new lodger."
                  And without paying any attention to the friendly growling of Tom, or the
                     forward grimaces of James I, he advanced to the jar containing Mademoiselle
                     Camargo and plunged his hand into it.
                  Mademoiselle Camargo, who did not know that Thierry was a very learned Doctor,
                     and a very intelligent man, began to swim, in circles, as fast as she could,
                     which did not prevent her being seized in an instant by the end of her left
                     leg, and drawn out of her domicil feet first.
                  "Look," said Thierry turning it about somewhat as a country woman does her lace
                     bobbin, "it is the Rana temporaria: so called
                     because of those black spots reaching from the eye to the tympanum; which sees
                     as well in running water as in still; that some authors call the dumb frog,
                     because it croaks only under water, whilst the green frog can croak only out of
                     water. If you had some two hundred like this, I would advise you to cut off
                     their hind legs, serve them up like a chicken fricasee, send to Corcelet's for
                     two bottles of Bordeaux-Mouton, and invite me to dinner; but having but one we
                     will content ourselves, with your permission, with clearing up, by its means, a
                     still uncertain point in Natural History, though many authors hold it as a
                     fact; it is that this frog can remain six months without eating.
                  At these words he let Mademoiselle Camargo fall, who immediately began, with
                     that joyous suppleness of which her limbs were capable, to make the circuit of
                     her jar two or three times; after which perceiving a fly that had fallen into
                     her domain, she sprung to the surface of the water and swallowed it.
                  "I will let you have that one," said Thierry, "but understand, that is all you
                     will get for one hundred and eighty-three days;" for, unfortunately for
                     Mademoiselle Camargo, 1830 was leap year; science gained twelve hours by this
                     solar accident.
                  Mademoiselle Camargo did not appear at all troubled by this threat, but
                     remained boldly with her head out of
                     water, her four legs hanging carelessly, and with the same perpendicularity as
                     though she was resting on solid ground.
                  "Now," said Thierry opening a drawer, "let us provide furniture for the
                     prisoner."
                  He took out two cartridges a gimblet, a penknife, two brushes and four matches.
                     Decamps watched him in silence, and without comprehending anything of the work
                     to which the Doctor paid as much attention as if he were preparing for a
                     surgical operation; then he emptied the powder into a snuffer-tray, and kept
                     the balls, threw the feather and badger hair to James and kept the brush
                     handles.
                  "What devilish nonsense are you about there?" said Decamps snatching his two
                     best brushes from James, "you will ruin my establishment."
                  "I am making a ladder," said Thierry gravely.
                  In fact, by the aid of the gimblet he had just pierced the two leaden balls,
                     had fitted the ends of the brush handles into the holes, and, in these,
                     intended for the uprights, he fitted the matches cross ways to serve for steps.
                     In about five minutes the ladder was completed and lowered into the jar, on the
                     bottom of which it rested fixed there by the weight of the two bullets.
                     Mademoiselle Camargo had scarcely become proprietress of this piece of
                     furniture, ere she made a trial of it, as if to be assured of its strength, by
                     mounting to the topmost round.
                  "We shall have rain," said Thierry.
                  "The Devil!" said Decamps, "do you think so? And my brother wished to go
                     hunting to-day."
                  "Mademoiselle Camargo would not advise him to do so," replied the Doctor.
                  "How so?"
                  "I have just made you an economical barometer, my dear fellow. Each and every
                     time Mademoiselle Camargo shall climb her ladder, it will be a sign of rain;
                     whenever she shall descend it, you may be sure of fine weather; and when she
                     shall keep herself in the middle, do not venture out without a parasol or a
                     cloak: changeable, changeable."
                  "Well, well, surely!" replied Decamps.
                  "Now," continued Thierry, "we will close the mouth of the jar with parchment as
                     if it still contained all its cherries."
                  "Here," said Decamps, handing him what he asked for.
                  "We will tie it with a string."
                  "Here is some."
                  "Then I must ask you for some sealing-wax; good: a light; that 's it: and, for
                     my own satisfaction (he set fire to the wax, covered the knot, and placed the
                     signet of his, ring upon it); there, that will do for six months."
                  "Now," added he, making a few holes in the parchment with the penknife, "now, a
                     pen and ink?"
                  Did you ever ask for pen and ink of an artist? No?—well—never do so, for he
                     will do as Decamps did; he will offer you a pencil.
                  Thierry took it and wrote upon the parchment.
                  "2 SEPTEMBER, 1830."
                  Now, on the evening of this party, of which we have been trying to give our
                     readers an idea, one hundred and eighty-three days—that is to say, six months
                     and twelve hours was completed, during which time Mademoiselle Camargo had
                     invariably, and without being once mistaken, indicated rain, fine and
                     changeable weather; a regularity so much the more astonishing, as, during that
                     lapse of time she had net imbibed an atom of nourishment.
                  So when Thierry, drawing out his watch, announced that the last second of the
                     sixtieth minute of the twelfth hour had expired, and the jar had been produced,
                     a universal feeling of pity spread through the company on seeing to what a
                     miserable state the poor animal was reduced, who, at the expense of its
                     stomach, had just thrown so great and important a light upon an obscure point
                     of science.
                  "Look," said Thierry, triumphant, "Schneider and Roësel were correct."
                  "Correct, correct," said Jadin, taking the jar and raising it to the height of
                     his eye, "I am not satisfied yet that Mademoiselle Camargo is not defunct."
                  "We must not listen to Jadin," said Flers; "he was always very hard upon
                     Mademoiselle Camargo."
                  Thierry took a lamp and held it behind the jar; "Look," said he, "and you will
                     see her heart beat."
                  And truly, Mademoiselle Camargo had become so thin, that she was as transparent
                     as crystal, and all the circulatory vessels could be distinguished; it could
                     even be seen that the heart had but one ventricle and but one auricle; but
                     these organs performed their functions so feebly, and Jadin was so near
                     correct, that it was scarcely worth while to contradict him, for no one would
                     have given the poor creature ten minutes to live. Her legs had become as
                     slender as a thread, and the hind legs held to the hinder part of the body only
                     by the bones which formed the spring, by the aid of which frogs jump instead of
                     walk. A kind of moss had grown upon her back, which, through a microscope,
                     appeared a real marine vegetable, with its stems and flowers. Thierry, in his
                     character as a botanist, even pretended that this almost imperceptible moss
                     belonged to the class of lentisks and water-cresses. No one discussed the point
                     with him.
                  "Now," said Thierry, when we had all examined Mademoiselle Camargo, "we must
                     let her sup quietly."
                  "And what is she going to eat?" asked Flers.
                  "I have her supper in this box;" and Thierry, raising the parchment, introduced
                     into the space filled with air so large a number of flies, deprived of one
                     wing, that it was evident he had passed the entire morning in catching them,
                     and the whole of the afternoon in mutilating them. We thought that Mademoiselle
                     Camargo had sufficient for the remaining six months; one of us made a remark to
                     that effect.
                  "Mistake," said Thierry; "fifteen minutes hence there will not be one
                     left."
                  The most incredulous of us manifested some doubt of this. Thierry, strong in
                     his recent success, carried Mademoiselle Camargo back to her resting place,
                     without even deigning to reply to us.
                  He had not yet reseated himself when the door opened, and the keeper of a
                     neighboring 
                        restaurat
                        restaurant
                      entered, bearing a waiter upon which was a tea-pot, a sugar-dish and
                     some cups. He was closely followed by two lads carrying a two handled willow
                     basket, in which were munition-bread, briòche,*
                      a head of salad, and a large number of small cakes, of every shape and
                      of all kinds.
                  
                     
                     *A kind of cake.
                  
                  The munition-bread was for Tom; the briòche for James I., the salad for
                     Gazelle, and the little cakes for ourselves.
                  They began by waiting upon the animals first; then they told the gentlemen that
                     they were at liberty to help themselves as they could; which seemed to me, for
                     want of a better plan, to be the best possible way of doing the honors of the
                     house.
                  There was a moment of seeming disorder, whilst each one helped himself to his
                     liking and according to his ability. Tom, growling, carried his bread to his
                     den; James, with his briòche, hid behind the busts of Malagutti and De Rata;
                     Gazelle drew the salad slowly under the table; and as for ourselves, we took,
                     as is usual in such cases, a cup in the left hand and a cake in the right, and
                        vice versa. In about ten minutes, the tea
                     and the cakes had disappeared. Consequently, the keeper of the 
                        restaurat
                        restaurant
                      was summoned; he appeared with his acolytes,—"More" said Decamps; and
                     the Restaurateur went out backward and bowing to fulfill this order.
                  "Now, gentlemen," said Flers, looking at Thierry with a bantering smile, and at
                     Decamps with a respectful air,—"while waiting for Mademoiselle Camargo to
                     finish her supper, and whilst they are bringing some more cakes, I think it
                     will be well to fill up the time by reading Jadin's manuscript. It treats upon
                     the early years of James I, whom we all have the honor of knowing intimately,
                     and in whose welfare we have so great
                     an interest that the smallest details collected concerning him, acquire great
                     importance in our eyes. Dixi."
                  Each one of us bowed in token of approbation; one or two even clapped their
                     hands.
                  "James, my friend," said Fau, who in his character of teacher, was the most
                     intimate of any of us with the hero of this story, "you see they are talking
                     about you; come here." And immediately after these two words he whistled in a
                     peculiar manner, which was so well understood by James that the intelligent
                     animal made but one jump from his shelf to the shoulders of him that spoke to
                     him.
                  "Well done, James; 't is very nice to be obedient, particularly when you have
                     your cheek-pouch full of briòche. Salute these gentlemen,"—James carried his
                     hand to his forehead military fashion,—"and should your friend Jadin, who is
                     going to read your history, utter any calumny about you, tell him he is a
                     liar."
                  James bowed his head up and down in token of a perfect understanding.
                  This was because James and Fau were bound in the bonds of harmonious
                     friendship. It was, on the part of the animal more especially, a love such as
                     is seldom seen much of among men; and to what was this owing? We must
                     acknowledge, to the shame of the monkey tribe be it said, it was not by
                     embellishing his mind as Fenelon did for the Grand Dauphin, but by flattering
                     his vices, as Catharine did with Henry III, that the teacher had acquired such
                     a deplorable influence over his pupil. Thus James, on arriving at Paris, was
                     but an amateur in good wines, Fau had made a drunkard of him; he was a sybarite
                     only after the manner of Alcibiades, Fau had made a cynic of him of the school
                     of Diogenes; he was delicate like Lucullus, Fau had rendered him a glutton like
                     Grimaud de la Reyniere. It is true that he had gained by this moral corruption
                     a crowd of physical enjoyments, which made a very distinguished animal of him.
                     He knew his right hand from his left, imitated death for the space of ten
                     minutes, danced upon a rope like Madame Saqui, went to hunt with his gun upon
                     his shoulder and a game-bag on his back, showed his shooting license to the
                     forest-keepers and his backside to the gend'armes. In short, he was a charming
                     wild fellow, whose only mischance was, that he was born under the Restoration
                     instead of having been born under the Regency.
                  So, if Fau knocked at the street door, James would tremble; if he ascended the
                     stairs, James would feel that he was coming. Then he uttered short cries of
                     joy, jumped about on his hind feet like a kangaroo; and, when Fau opened the
                     door, he jumped into his arms in the way they do at the Theatre Français in the
                     play of the Two Brothers. In fact, all that was James' was
                     Fau's, he would have taken the briòche out of his mouth to offer it to him.
                  "Gentlemen," said Jadin, "seat yourselves if you please, and light your pipes
                     and cigars. I am ready."
                  Each one complied. Jadin hemmed, opened the manuscript and read what
                     follows.
               
               
                  V.
                  How James I was torn from the back of his expiring mother, and taken on board
                     of the trading brig Roxelana, Captain Pamphile.
                  On the twenty-fourth of July, 1827, the brig sailed from Marseilles to load
                     with coffee at Mocha, spices at Bombay, and tea at Canton; it stopped to renew
                     its provisions at the bay of Saint-Paul de Loanda, situated, as every body
                     knows, in the center of Lower Guinea.
                  Whilst this change was being made, Captain Pamphile, now on his tenth voyage to
                     the Indies, took his gun, and, with the thermometer at seventy, amused himself
                     by ascending the banks of the river Bango. Captain Pamphile was the greatest
                     hunter before God that had appeared upon the earth since Nimrod.
                  He had not advanced twenty steps into the tall grass bordering the banks of the
                     river, when he felt his foot turn upon something round and slippery like the
                     trunk of a young tree. At the same moment, he heard a sharp whistling, and saw
                     the head of an enormous boa, upon whose tail he had trodden, raised some ten
                     steps before him.
                  Any other than Captain Pamphile would certainly have felt some fear on seeing
                     himself threatened by that enormous head, whose bloody eyes shone like two
                     carbuncles while looking at him; but the boa did not know Captain Pamphile.
                  "God's throne, reptile, do you hope to scare me?" said the Captain; and at the
                     instant the serpent opened his jaws, he sent a ball, which passed through the
                     palate and out at the top of its head. The serpent fell dead.
                  The Captain began by quietly reloading his gun; then, taking his knife from his
                     pocket, he went toward the animal, opened its belly, separated the liver from
                     the entrails, as the angel Tobias did, and, after a moment's active search, he
                     there found a little blue stone about the size of a hazel-nut.
                  "Good," said he, and he put the stone into his purse where there was already a
                     dozen similar ones. Captain Pamphile was as learned as a Mandarin; he had read
                     the Thousand-and-one-Nights, and sought for the Bezoard enchanted by the prince
                     Caramalzaman.
                  Since he thought he had found it, he started again to hunt.
                  In about fifteen minutes he saw the grass shake some forty paces in front of
                     him, and heard a terrible roaring. At this noise every living creature seemed
                     to recognise the master of creation. The birds ceased singing; two gazelles,
                     frightened, jumped up and rushed over the plain; a wild elephant, which could
                     be distinguished at the distance of a fourth of a league from there, upon a
                     hill, raised his trunk to be ready for the fight.
                  "Prrrrou! Prrrrou!" said captain Pamphile, as if he was about to
                     flush a bevy of 
                        patridges
                        partridges
                     .
                  At this noise, a tiger that was lying down till then, got up lashing his flanks
                     with his tail, it was a royal tiger of the largest size. He made a leap and
                     neared the hunter some twenty paces.
                  "Scoundrel!" said captain Pamphile, "do you think that I am going to shoot at
                     that distance, and spoil your hide? Prrrrou! Prrrrou!"
                  The tiger made a second spring which brought him twenty paces nearer; but the
                     instant he touched the ground the gun was fired, and the ball entered his left
                     eye. The tiger rolled over like a rabbit and immediately expired.
                  Captain Pamphile quietly reloaded his gun, took his knife from his pocket,
                     turned the tiger on his back, cut its skin open on the belly, and took it off
                     as a cook would a hare's, then he wrapped himself in the hide of his victim,
                     as, four thousand years before then, the Nemean Hercules had done, from whom,
                     as a Marseillais, he pretended he was descended; then he started again to
                     hunt.
                  Half an hour had not passed when he heard a great noise in the waters of the
                     river whose banks he was following. He ran quickly to the brink and saw that it
                     was a hippopotamus, swimming against the current, and which from time to time
                     came to the surface to breathe.
                  "Bagasse!" said Captain Pamphile, "here is what will save me six francs in
                     glass ware;" that being the price of cattle at Saint-Paul de Loanda, and
                     Captain Pamphile was considered very economical.
                  Consequently, guided by the air bubbles which showed when it was coming to the
                     surface to breathe, he followed the course of the animal, and, when its
                     enormous head was out of the water, the hunter, selecting the only 
                        vulnerapart
                        vulnerable part
                     , put a ball into its ear. Captain Pamphile could have hit Achilles
                     heel at five hundred paces.
                  The monster turned about several seconds, groaning frightfully, and lashing the
                     water with its feet. For one moment one would have thought it was about to be
                     swallowed up in the vortex which it
                     made in its agony; but soon its strength failed, it rolled over like a bale;
                     then by degrees the white and shining skin of its belly appeared in place of
                     the black and rough skin of its back, and in the last effort it made it
                     grounded on its back among the grass which grew at the edge of the river.
                  Captain Pamphile quietly reloaded his gun, took his knife from his pocket, cut
                     down a small tree about the size of an axe-helve, sharpened it at one end,
                     split it at the other, pushed the pointed end into the belly of the
                     hippopotamus, and put a sheet from his memorandum book into the split end, upon
                     which he wrote with a pencil "To the cook of the trading brig
                     Roxelana, from Captain Pamphile, hunting upon the banks of the
                     river Bango."
                  Then he pushed the animal with his foot, which, taking the current, quietly
                     descended the river ticketed like the portmanteau of a commercial traveler.
                  "Ah!" said captain Pamphile, when he saw his provisions well under way for his
                     vessel, "I think I have well earned my breakfast." And as though this were a
                     truth only necessary to be known to himself for all the consequences that could
                     be deduced therefrom at that time, he spread out the skin of the tiger, seated
                     himself upon it, took a flask of rum from his left hand pocket which he placed
                     at his right side, took from his right hand pocket a magnificent guiava which
                     he placed at his left side, and from his game-bag a bit of biscuit which he put
                     between his knees; then he began to fill his pipe that he might have nothing
                     fatiguing to do after his meal.
                  It may be that you have seen Deburau prepare with great care his breakfast for
                     the harlequin to eat;—you recollect his face, do you not, when turning around
                     he saw his glass empty and his apple stolen?—yes?—well! look at Captain
                     Pamphile who found his flask of rum overturned and his guiava gone.
                  Captain Pamphile, to whom the Minister of the Interior had not interdicted the
                     use of speech, uttered the most wonderful "Throne of God!" that
                     ever issued from the mouth of a provincial since the foundation of Marseilles;
                     but as he was less credulous than Deburau, had read the ancient and modern
                     philosophers and had learned, in Diogenes and in Mons. Voltaire, that there was
                     no effect without a cause, he began at once to seek for the cause, the effect
                     of which had been so injurious to him, but without appearing to do so, without
                     moving from the spot where he was, and seeming all the time to be munching his
                     dry bread. His head only moved for nearly five minutes like that of a Chinese
                     doll, and that fruitlessly, when suddenly something fell upon his head and
                     stuck in his hair. The Captain raised his hand to the spot and found the rind
                     of the guiava. Captain Pamphile raised his head and saw directly over him an
                     ape grimacing among the branches of a tree.
                  Captain Pamphile stretched out his arm for his gun without losing sight of the
                     thief; then placing the butt against his shoulder, he fired—the ape fell at his
                     side.
                  "Robber!" said captain Pamphile looking upon his new prey, "I have killed a
                     double-headed ape."
                  In fact the animal lying at Captain Pamphile's feet had two distinct and
                     separate heads, and the phenomenon was the more remarkable as one of these two
                     heads was dead, and had the eyes closed, whilst the other was living and had
                     its eyes open.
                  Captain Pamphile, who was desirous of clearing up this strange point in natural
                     history, took the monster by the tail, examined it attentively; but at the
                     first glance all astonishment ceased. The ape was a female, and the second
                     head, that of its young one, which she had upon her back at the moment when she
                     was shot, and which had fallen with her without leaving its maternal back.
                  Captain Pamphile, whom even the devotedness of Cleobis and Biton would not have
                     caused to shed a tear, took the little monkey by the skin of its neck, tore it
                     from the dead body which it held in its embrace, examined it a moment as
                     attentively as Monsieur Buffon would have done, and, pinching his lips with an
                     air of internal satisfaction.
                  "Bagasse!" cried he, "'t is a green-monkey; it is worth fifty francs if a
                     farthing, delivered at the port of Marseilles;" and he put it into his
                     game-bag.
                  Then as captain Pamphile was fasting, in consequence of the incident we have
                     related, he concluded to return to the bay. Besides, although the hunt had
                     lasted only about two hours, he had killed in that time, a boa, a tiger, a
                     hippopotamus, and carried back a living green-monkey. There are a great many
                     Parisian shooters who would be content with such luck for all their lives.
                  On reaching the deck of the brig, he saw the entire crew engaged about the
                     hippopotamus, which had fortunately reached its destination. The surgeon of the
                     vessel pulled out its teeth to make knife handles for Villenave and false teeth
                     for Désirabode; the boatswain took off the skin and cut it into strips to made
                     dog whips and gaskets to punish the younkers; and lastly, the cook cut off some
                     steaks from the chine, and some broiling pieces from the ribs, for Captain
                     Pamphile's table; the rest of the animal was to be cut up and salted for the
                     use of the crew.
                  Captain Pamphile was so well pleased with this activity that he ordered an
                     extra distribution of rum to the crew, and deducted five lashes of the gasket
                     from the count of a younker condemned to receive seventy.
                  That night they sailed.
                  In view of the extra supply of provisions, Captain Pamphile judged it useless
                     to stop at the Cape of Good Hope, so, leaving Prince Edward's Islands to the
                     right and Madagascar to his left, he launched himself upon the Indian seas.
                  The Roxelana sailed bravely on before the wind, making her eight
                     knots an hour, which (so sailors say) is a good rate for a trading vessel, when
                     a sailor on the look-out at the mast-head cried "Sail ho!"
                  Captain Pamphile took his glass, pointed it at the reported vessel, looked at
                     it with his naked eye—again pointed his glass at it, then after a moment of
                     attentive examination he called his mate and silently put the instrument into
                     his hands. This latter immediately put it to his eye.
                  "Well! Policar," said the Captain, when he thought that he, whom he spoke to,
                     had had time to examine the object in question at his ease, "what do you make
                     of this patache?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *A small light vessel.
                  
                  "Faith, Captain, I say she is of a curious build; as to her colors (he carried
                     the glass once more to his eye), Devil burn me if I know what power she
                     represents; it is a green and yellow dragon upon a white ground."
                  "Well, bow to the ground, my friend, for you have before you a vessel belonging
                     to the son of the Sun, to the father and mother of the whole human family, to
                     the king of Kings, to the sublime Emperor of China, and of Cochin-China; and,
                     further, I notice, by her round bows and slow sailing, that she does not return
                     to Pekin with an empty hull."
                  "The devil! the devil!" said Policar, rubbing his ear.
                  "What say you to attacking her?"
                  "I think it would be funny—"
                  "Would n't it? Well, I think so, too, my child."
                  "Then we must—"
                  "Get our old iron upon deck, and spread every rag of sail."
                  "Ah! she sees us now."
                  "Then let us wait till dark; until then let us keep upon our course that she
                     may suspect nothing. As well as I can calculate by her sailing, before five
                     hours we shall be up with her; we will sail side by side all night and in the
                     morning, we will say 'Good day' to her."
                  Captain Pamphile had adopted a system—instead of ballasting his vessel with
                     rocks and pig-iron, he placed at the bottom of the hold a half dozen of
                     swivels, four or five twelve pound carronades and a long eight pound piece;
                     then by mere chance, he had added a few
                     thousand cannon cartridges, some fifty muskets and a score of boarding
                     cutlasses. Whenever an occasion like the present offered itself, he had all his
                     little ballast brought upon deck, fixed the swivels and carronades upon their
                     pivots, trained the long eight-pounder to the rear, distributed the muskets
                     among his men, and began to establish what he called his "system of barter." It
                     was in this commercial attitude that the Chinese vessel found him the next
                     morning.
                  The astonishment on board of the Imperial ship was great. Yesterday the captain
                     had recognized a merchant vessel, and had gone to sleep upon it, smoking his
                     pipe of opium; but, behold, in the night, the cat had become a tiger, and
                     showed his claws of iron, and his teeth of brass.
                  They went to tell captain Kao-Kiou-Koan what a fix they found themselves in. He
                     had just finished a delicious dream; the son of the Sun had just given him one
                     of his sisters in marriage, so that he found himself brother-in-law to the
                     Moon.
                  So he could scarcely comprehend what Captain Pamphile wanted. 'T is true, this
                     latter spoke Provençal, and the newly married one replied in Chinese. At last a
                     native of Provence was found on board of the Roxelana that could
                     speak Chinese a little, and on board of the sublime Emperor's vessel a Chinese
                     that could speak Provençal tolerably, so that the two captains were at length
                     enabled understand each other.
                  The result of this dialogue was that one-half the cargo of the Imperial vessel
                     Captain Kao-Kiou-Koan passed at once into the hold of the trading brig Roxelana, Captain Pamphile.
                  And as this cargo was composed entirely of coffee, rice and tea, the result was
                     that Captain Pamphile had no occasion to stop at either Mocha, Bombay or Pekin;
                     which was a great saving a him in time and money.
                  This put him into such good humor, that, on passing the Island of Rodrigo, he
                     bought a parrot.
                  "Gentlemen," said Jadin, breaking off, "as it has been impossible for me to
                     learn whether this parrot was a Jacot or a Cacatoës, and as the thing was
                     important, I wrote to Captain Pamphile to obtain from him the most exact
                     information relative to the family of this new personage that we have brought
                     upon the stage; but, after having disposed of his merchandise to advantage he
                     had departed on his eleventh voyage to the Indies. Madam Pamphile did me the
                     honor to reply, that her husband would return about the months of September or
                     October next I am compelled, then, to defer, till that time, the continuation
                     of the history of James I and James II."
                  This declaration of Jadin's naturally recalled the minds of all of us to the
                     present, and our eyes to the clock. I was midnight, the military hour for
                     nearly all of us that lodged above the fifth story.
                  Each one got up to retire, when Fat reminded Doctor Thierry, that there was
                     still a verification of his assertion to be made.
                  The Doctor took the jar, exposed it to the view of all of us. There was not a
                     single fly left; in exchange Mademoiselle Camargo had reached the size of a
                     turkey egg, and seemed to have come out of a pot of wax.
                  Each one went away complimenting Thierry on his extensive erudition.
                  Next morning we received a letter conceived in the following words:
                  "Messrs. Louis and Alexander Decamps have the honor of informing you of the
                     grievous loss they have just suffered in the death of Mademoiselle Camargo, of
                     indigestion, during the night of the second of September."
               
            
         
      
   
