
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Brisée .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5893 wright2-0367
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               BRISÉE.
            
            
               
                  "L'expérience du monde brise le cœur ou le bronze."
               
            
            
               
                  
                     "Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?"
                     "'Tis brief, my lord."
                     "As woman's love."
                  
               
            
            
               
                  "I too was once in Arcadia."
               
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1862.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1862, by J. B.
                  LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United
                  States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. 5
               
               CHAPTER II. 11
               
               CHAPTER III. 28
               
               CHAPTER IV. 51
               
               CHAPTER V. 60
               
               CHAPTER VI. 76
               
               CHAPTER VII. 101
               
               CHAPTER VIII. 127
               
               CHAPTER IX. 133
               
               CHAPTER X. 159
               
               CHAPTER XI. 177
               
               CHAPTER XII. 184
               
               CHAPTER XIII. 194
               
               CHAPTER XIV. 208
               
               CHAPTER XV. 225
               
               CHAPTER XVI. 235
               
               CHAPTER XVII. 238
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. 247
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Brisée
            
            BRISÉE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     
                        "A maiden knight, to me is given
                        Such hope, I know not fear."
                     
                  
               
               THE fifteenth of May saw the seventeenth birthday of Clare Hungerford. She had
                  lived through her life until then without much incident, had thriven as girls and
                  flowers do under a broad, full sunshine, tempered, not marred, by here and there a
                  cloud no bigger than a man's hand. No fennel-leaf embittered her cup, there was no
                  loss in her past, no fearfulness in her future. She now stood before the closed
                  door which was about to open and usher her upon the yet untried region of
                  womanhood, as gay, as light of heart, as unchecked and untaught as the ideal of
                  her sex and age should be. She will cross that threshold to find the world at her
                  feet, for she goes forth armed with youth and grace and beauty; but let her
                  develop her own mind and heart without being trumpeted by adjectives. Her
                  attractions are too subtle to be defined, her beauty not to be expressed by a
                  picture, nor by words. She comes before us a girl of seventeen, like all girls of
                  seventeen, yet most unlike them, having escaped the quicksands that environ their
                  young feet, yet showing unmistakable tokens of sisterhood and common parentage.
                  See her where she stands, with the look, the divine look of hope, joy, and
                  beauty—a look which is the most of heaven, and stays shortest on earth of any
                  human glory—a morning glory that fades
                  beneath the first hot ray of passion, and is replaced by the lily or rosemary*
                   of a woman's life. A woman's life! How can it ever be told? A story many
                  times attempted, always failed in: either a surface sunlight glancing over waves,
                  or a deep, dark under-current, unseen, unfathomed.
               
                  
                  *"Rosemary, that's for remembrance."
               
               Mais "commencons au commencement," as Count Hamilton would say, and that will be
                  six months after the date with which Clare's life and our story begins. She danced
                  literally and figuratively upon roses for six months, and then went to Washington
                  to learn to dance on thorns. Up to this time, she has been occupied with her
                  family, her friends, her books, her horse and dog, her dreams and hopes; and now
                  she is to be launched into society. To speak technically, she is to come out in
                  Washington. To her, all society is at present a mysterious fairy-like region; a
                  mêlée, not of material weapons, sword, lance, and spear, but a joust where eyes,
                  hearts, and tones meet and strike fire and melody; and there is a sweet flutter in
                  the young blood, when she thinks that ere long the lance-shafts may be made to
                  flee for her sake. But all the world knows what the young dream of it, for the
                  world itself was once young and had its visions.
               Clare had a fair start in the race. The Hungerfords had some money and an
                  admirable position. Their genealogical tree took root much deeper than any
                  American antiquary ever troubles himself to dig for precedents, and they proved
                  their blood by their breeding. "Bon sang ne peut mentir," and the Hungerfords bore
                  up the prestige of knightly ancestors and high-bred ancestresses unexceptionably
                  well. The Hungerfords had a homestead, and, indeed, an estate but little impaired
                  in acres and oaks on the banks of the Hudson; they had a good deal of silver with
                  dents in it, and a crest on the other side, a motto which sounded modest and was
                  intensely arrogant, a few pictures, and immense traditional, vague, undefined,
                  patrician feeling, that bore in upon you from the moment you were thrown with
                  them, although there was no affectation of stateliness, but the heartiness of high
                  breeding in their greetings and manners. They were what is known as a charming
                  family, refined, high toned, well informed, and thoroughly versed in the "slang"
                  and habits of society. They had taken a house in Washington, where they were
                  spending the winter, partly for the sake of transacting some vexatious government
                  business in which Mr. Hungerford was involved, and partly because it is a terra
                  incognita to Marian, who wearies for the triumphs of new hunting-grounds. They are
                  sure of popularity and distinction; they will make their house a pleasant one; Mr.
                  Hungerford will offer you wine and cigars, in which he is a connoisseur; you will
                  wonder whether Mrs. Hungerford roused herself from her apathy to superintend the
                  wonderfully good coffee; and Marian will take care to have a half-light in the
                  parlor, the freshest flowers, the newest books, the choicest knick-knacks, the
                  people you would most like to meet—to say nothing of the Hungerfords themselves,
                  who are individually and collectively more interesting and agreeable than nine out
                  of ten.
               Mr. Hungerford was a man of deep thought, fine education, and refined tastes; a
                  most civilized pagan. His life and theories were very much those of a Greek
                  philosopher, while the Christianity of the nineteenth century had so far permeated
                  his tone of feeling and thought as to render him what in the language of the day
                  would be styled an estimable citizen, a good husband and father; devoted to his
                  children, ever striving for their confidence and intimacy, he had yet strayed too
                  far from the paths on which their feet were set, to walk many steps with them.
               His wife was but the same repetition of a story that would be wearisome from its
                  commonness, were it not heart-rending ing
                  from its pathos. Gentle, unselfish, resigned to perform a round of duties
                  distasteful but not onerous, while at the same time sunken in an apathy worse than
                  death, Mrs. Hungerford lived—for what? Iago has described her type. She was born
                  "to suckle fools and chronicle small beer."
               Clare was her youngest child; her other daughter, Marian, was a few years older,
                  and many fathoms shallower: a girl of twenty, who had been put into the society
                  mill, and ground out and down to the universal pattern; nevertheless, she had
                  versatility and originality; was high toned and high bred, unstable as water,
                  shifting as the sand, a thoroughly French nature, modified by a thoroughly
                  American education; with high principle, in which she believed so firmly that she
                  never felt called upon to test its honesty by practice; with the unshaken belief
                  that she was the incarnation of sentiment and romance, a belief founded on a fancy
                  for moonlight drives and Longfellow's poems, and a knack of arranging flowers
                  prettily; with the most perfectly practical tone of feeling and action, divested
                  of all fine illusions, and tending to calculation; an unconscious self-deceiver; a
                  desperate flirt on the surface, and a most ready prey if you penetrated a few
                  steps within. Such was Marian Hungerford.
               It is the night of her first ball in Washington. She has just given the last touch
                  to her dress and appointments, and is surveying her sister, who looks
                  indifferently at herself in the glass, as the maid fastens the last pin in her
                  dress, and then falls back to express her admiration. It is Clare's first ball.
                  She stands before her dressing-glass, on her face the look of the future—ah! that
                  look! Her course begins tonight, to end—where? Clare Hungerford's undeveloped
                  capacities are fearful in extent and uncertainty; for who will leap into the
                  chariot and guide the wild horses as they dash uncurbed into the field? Latent in
                  her lie depths of passion, passion that must conquer to be conquered; vanity not
                  yet awakened, ambition scarcely aroused, unequaled sensitiveness tiveness, a
                  measureless thirst for excitement and admiration, a devastating jealousy, strong
                  will, untamed energy. See how they toss and foam and rise and swell under the thin
                  coating of sticks and straws that lie on the surface! She is going forth to-night
                  to have these depths stirred. Will an angel trouble the waters, or will some
                  soulless boy smile with pleasure as he sees the reflection of his own face? Will
                  she ever stand on a hard-fought field, and cry with Pyrrhus: "One more such
                  victory, and I am undone!" or will she cross "the Alpine summits of great pain" to
                  know herself queen of the fair land below her feet? How can she conquer? They send
                  her forth to battle, to bear the brunt of the devil's headlong charging legions,
                  without a guard, a theory of action, a day's discipline; she does not even feel a
                  sense of danger; and when she awakens to the knowledge that the combat is for
                  life, for death, she will not have a fair field and no favor; for we in society
                  are more cruel than the ring, who stand to see human strength undisciplined pitted
                  against human strength undisciplined, and promise the brutalized men fair play,
                  inasmuch as we trample on the fallen, and join in the cry, "Que diable allait—elle
                  faire dans cette galère!" If the galley be purple-sailed and gem-studded, the
                  world cheers from the bank, but let the poor boat strand on the shallows, and
                  then——.
               But Clare has none of these misgivings; in fact, no anxiety at all beyond the
                  natural one concerning the quantity and quality of her partners. The carriage came
                  to the door; they were crushed in—whirled away; five minutes, and they were there;
                  five minutes more of waiting in the line of carriages, their turn came, the steps
                  were let down, the gas-light blazed upon the carpeted pavement, there was a slight
                  confusion, a gathering up of cloaks, a grasping of fans, and the three women stood
                  in the dressing-room. Clare glanced around half defiantly at the shoulders and
                  wreaths that rose and fell around her, recognized no one, felt a slight sinking at
                  her heart, asked how she must go in, grew
                  impatient at Marian, who pulled down her skirts, tied her sash, and said "she
                  would do." They descended the stairs, the presentation followed; the hubbub of
                  voices, the distant music, the blaze of light, the various or indifferent glances
                  that met her, all bewildered and distressed Clare. The hostess was welcoming the
                  influx of guests, Marian was already surrounded, and Clare was more than pleased
                  to welcome an old acquaintance in Mr. Clay, of the Engineers, while Mr. Clay was
                  very willing to appear on good terms with the new beauty. Before the first dance
                  was over, other men had been brought up and introduced, dancing men and talking
                  men, with whom Clare went through the figures of a dance and the commonplaces of
                  society, rendered rather more interesting than usual to the men by Clare's daring
                  expression of opinion. She made observation upon the women that they were badly
                  dressed and ugly, upon the men that they lacked air and breeding; she said that
                  the belle of the season wanted freshness, and that her co débutantes wanted style;
                  and then she wondered why she should tell what she thought to people for whom she
                  cared nothing. The room was crowded, she was hustled and jammed, she felt bored
                  and forlorn, désillusionnée, and a little
                  sleepy; she thought she would prefer a quiet evening at home with Shelley or
                  Tennyson, or even to be in bed. So the evening wore away. Toward its close, as she
                  was dancing a quadrille with an under-bred loquacious member of Congress from the
                  South, she raised her eyes, and met those of her vis-à-vis, a gentleman she had
                  not before noticed; his partner she had known by reputation as a beauty and a
                  belle, and he seemed on very easy intimate terms with her. His eyes met Clare's,
                  as he took her hand in a figure of the dance. There was nothing in his glance, an
                  involuntary recognition of her beauty, it may be, but it marked him to her as
                  being the only man she had seen who was more than a dancing and talking machine.
                  She took a few more turns round the ball-room, was summoned by her father, and
                  they drove home, Marian and Clare to a short chat and a sound sleep, and all to a
                  conclusion that Washington society was not very attractive at the first start.
                  Clare said sleepily, as she laid her head on the pillow, that if her second ball
                  was not very much pleasanter than her first, she did not think she would ever know
                  a third. And then those eyes came across her memory. And then she fell asleep.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        "What is it all? An ancient tale
                        Ten thousand times besung;
                        That part of paradise which man
                        Without the portal knows,
                        Which has been since the world began,
                        And will be till its close."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     "A metaphor of Spring and Youth and Morning."
                  
               
               THE weeks rolled on, and so did the gayeties. They established Clare as a beauty,
                  a belle when she liked, and Marian as a favorite and generally sought-for center
                  of a circle of Congressmen, lobbyers, visitors, department clerks, navy and army
                  officers, and a few independent gentlemen of fortune. The girls had now their set
                  of habitués and intimates, prominent among whom stood Clare's friend of the
                  quadrille. He had been introduced to her at a reception the day after their first
                  meeting, and these weeks had placed him very gradually and surely in her train and
                  favor, at least so said the world. Walter Mordaunt was very popular and very
                  generally known, went everywhere, did everything that was done in society, a man
                  never spoken of as a parti, but always welcomed as a friend. Indeed, "how could he
                  think of marrying?" said the world; and he had heard it said, and felt it implied
                  so often, that he was settled in the prospect, and without repining. His life was
                  pleasant on the surface; his salary was
                  large enough to procure luxuries for one, though it would not have bought more
                  than necessities for two; his rooms were nicely furnished and generally filled
                  with his companions, so that he was never alone; and he rarely troubled himself
                  with the reflection that his life might be purer, better, more satisfactory. Why
                  should he think of marrying? He fancied that he did not care for it. The love of
                  his life had not yet come to him, though he had known many women; and, a man of
                  thirty, he had the experience of fifty. He was a practical illustration of the
                  deep French saying, "Si jeunesse savait, si vieillesse pouvait!" His principles,
                  originally good, had been shattered by a wild, wandering, irresponsible life; his
                  code was inconsistently generous and unselfish, self-indulgent and unjust; his
                  perceptions and sensibilities were by nature those of a woman in delicacy, and he
                  had only blunted them enough to affect his action and tastes, not enough to blind
                  him. With strong passions, overruling impulses, which had only been restrained at
                  intervals by necessity, without great mental power, but with a thoroughly
                  masculine nature and character, Mordaunt was dangerous to women, in the truest
                  sense of the word, involuntarily dangerous; with a most varied experience of the
                  world, and a thorough comprehension of the game, he yet carried into his
                  intercourse with women all the wild impulse of his youth, backed by the knowledge
                  of his maturer years. He had tasted all the springs of excitement and drained most
                  dry; he had never had a great passion; he had forgotten that he possessed the
                  capacity for it. He had drunk of "the Naphthaline river of passion accurst," but
                  his deepest needs and most real thirst were yet unquenched. At thirty he was
                  thrown with Clare Hungerford; he had never met her counterpart, but he had met one
                  or two very fair specimens of her type, uncommon though that type was. Why should
                  she so attract him? He had met fresh girls, pretty girls, and young girls many
                  times before; but this girl had an attraction hitherto unknown to him; there was a
                  mysterious sympathy between them. She, too, was swayed from her orbit by his
                  approach. It was the old story of Tristram and Iseult; no love potion ever
                  compounded could work more surely. This girl of seventeen is matched against a man
                  of thirty, and that man utterly enchained by her. What chance has she? Has she a
                  straw to grasp at, a twig to catch as the current bears her swiftly along? Nay, is
                  she not more than willing to float down the stream? The lorelei sings enticingly
                  and sweetly as she does from the green waters to the loiterer on the sandy beach
                  who has never seen a ship go down at sea. The rocks on a lee-shore are not the
                  only ones that wreck a life.
               They are in love with each other. They are turning over together the
                  leaves of that old, old book; they cannot see that the story is blotted and tear
                  stained, blotted too often with life-blood, whether from the stilled heart of the
                  bravest Greek, dead on his marriage-day, with Polyxena's fatal hand in his, or the
                  dark drops that stain the floor at Holyrood, or the unsung, unmarked traces on the
                  thorny pathway of many lives in the nineteenth century. The old, old story! The
                  sweetest story that mortal lips and mortal ears will ever tell or hear, as old as
                  the stars, as fresh as the spring. A dream they tell us, but a dream brighter than
                  any waking hour, with such "glory and freshness" that the day comes when we
                  remember it as the one reality in life.
               Day after day, night after night, of morbid, unnatural, artificial excitement
                  followed one another, and days and nights only drove them nearer to the end.
                  Surely and more surely the great flood swept over Clare's life, drowning the Past,
                  the Future; and surely and more surely the syren's song filled the ears and heart
                  of Walter Mordaunt, and it was only in reaction that he remembered that he had
                  always said and believed that he could not marry. And then he told himself that he
                  was doing nothing wrong; no relation was acknowledged between them, by either one
                  or the other; they stood on the most uncertain footing; it was only a girl's first fancy; she would probably marry some
                  one else; and the thought made him writhe with agony, and the agony was only
                  soothed by her voice, her look, and in his fierce fever he drank of the fair
                  stream, so poisonous to his diseased being, until he could not bear to live
                  without the draught.
               On the night of the eighteenth of February, a large ball was given. Clare went to
                  it in a fit of desperation, thinking she cared for nothing, not conscious that she
                  cared for nothing but Mordaunt. Her mood lent a depth and intensity to her glance
                  and surface-manner most unlike the usual butterfly demeanor of ball-room
                  frequenters. She looked like a woman bound to act out her destiny that night, and
                  although her beauty burned into most souls, the effect was strange and startling.
                  She struck Mordaunt the moment he entered the room, moody and depressed, after a
                  day spent alone in bitter retrospect. He had sat alone over the coal fire, and
                  smoked a cigar, and thought long and drearily over his past, which lay in ashes
                  behind him, and his future, which seemed an ever-plodding struggle for his daily
                  bread. He had gone back to the days of his happy, hopeful boyhood; he remembered
                  his fair Southern home—it should have been his, and he had hacked his name with
                  all the sense of ownership on the live-oak that shaded the door. He remembered his
                  horse, so carefully chosen at a fair in Louisville; the faithful dog that had
                  followed him through so many miles of glade and marsh; the long, wide hall, where
                  the few family pictures hung—they used to brighten up that hall with cedar and
                  holly at Christmas—in summer the doors stood open, and he almost fancied that he
                  again smelt the jasmine and magnolias that scented those early spring days. He
                  started as he remembered how everything had gone with the crash that ended his
                  boyhood. Then Walter had the world before him, and then he cried, in Pistol's
                  vein, "Why, then the world's mine oyster, which I with sword will open." Fourteen
                  years had gone by; he had lost, thrown away, or been robbed of his chances in
                  life; he had had periods of wild excitement and brilliant success, times of utter
                  depression and bitterness of soul; he had loved fair women and known brave men;
                  and now, when his life's desert seemed about to blossom as the rose, when this
                  girl's smile illumined his soul until he dreamed "glad confident morning" back
                  again—now he felt bound to stand aside from her path, doomed to obscurity and
                  labor, to sleepless nights and loveless days. In the first pressure of necessity
                  he had accepted a clerkship—meaning to relinquish it when better days should dawn;
                  but those days had never come, and now he dared not. Without capital, without
                  friends, without expectations, he was tied to his desk and salary. He was too
                  practical to forget the unpleasantness of "cold mutton and fading beauty," and he
                  had nothing else to offer, except his love; and when this wild love rose over his
                  heart and to his lips, he cursed it down again and turned away from her. What
                  right had he to make her love him? He went from this bitter reverie—death in his
                  heart and a smile on his lips—into the ballroom. He saw her the moment he entered
                  the room; she was standing against a pillar, talking to a young Virginian, whose
                  admiration was most unequivocally expressed. Mordaunt gazed for a moment, flushed,
                  bit his lip as he saw her interested manner and intent look, crossed the room,
                  said what every one says on meeting, and tried to look indifferent as he asked,
                  "What dance may I have, or are you already engaged too deep for me?"
               "Oh, no! I can talk the fourth waltz with you."
               "I have promised to talk the fourth waltz with Mrs. Stoddard."
               "I am sorry, Mr. Mordaunt; I have nothing else left;" and she sank into a chair.
                  He turned to go—he caught her eye—she whispered almost inaudibly, "Don't leave
                  me." He paused, hesitated, threw himself into a chair, and in a few minutes the
                  Virginian was ousted, and Mordaunt re
                  mained master of the field. He looked into her eyes and saw her soul there.
               "Don't look at me so," he murmured; "don't turn away," he said. His eyes melted
                  into hers for a few seconds; then suddenly he said fiercely, "When you go home,
                  take off your gloves and burn them; take them between tongs and burn them; I
                  cannot bear to see these men, all about us, touch your hand. Good Heavens! how
                  beautiful you are to-night!"
               "Am I?" she said dreamily; "do you care for beauty? It does so little for one, I
                  think."
               "I care for some beauty," he answered; "but at times when you look worn and
                  depressed, I care most for you. I could"—he caught the words on his lips, and
                  became moody and silent.
               "You wanted to talk to Stanton," he said at length;" "you looked as if you did:
                  why did you look so? He can be nothing to you. Is he so agreeable?"
               "I like Mr. Stanton very well," said Clare; "but you know—I wanted to talk to
                  you."
               "Did you? Will you give me a violet from those in your bosom?"
               As she took two or three from her bouquet de corsage, Mr. Clay approached to claim
                  his dance.
               "One moment, Mr. Clay;" and she turned to Mordaunt, and said hurriedly, "Will you
                  be at the reception to-morrow?"
               "At one," he said. She turned, took Mr. Clay's arm, and vanished. As Mordaunt
                  looked after her, two gentlemen passed him; they were talking of Clare. Her name
                  caught his ear, and he heard—"Yet she receives his attentions." "True; but, my
                  dear fellow, it is of no use to argue; I saw a likeness of her this morning at the
                  artist's, an admirably faithful one; and, if ambition was ever written on any
                  face, it is on hers. She will never marry for love alone." Their voices were lost
                  in the sudden burst of music; but the words he had heard quivered through him.
                  "Never for love alone!" and he had nothing but love to give. A gay laugh sounded
                  near him; he looked up; before him stood Mrs. Stoddard, a clever, fast, daring
                  woman, who had married for love in spite of her theories, and now made her husband
                  pay for her mistake; a woman of thoroughly good impulses, but unprincipled and
                  untamed. She and Mordaunt were intimate from time to time, and his extreme
                  fascination for women, and her extreme susceptibility to men, brought them
                  together. It was the fourth waltz; but the caprice of some young lady, aided by
                  the gallantry of some young gentleman, had changed it to a quadrille, and Mrs.
                  Stoddard had come to claim her partner. They took their places nearly opposite to
                  Clare Hungerford, and Mordaunt's eyes were fixed on her. As she came forward in
                  the dance, and Mordaunt turned to his partner, she said in a tone of great
                  interest, "How beautiful she is!"
               "Yes," he answered.
               "I believe you are more than half in love with her," said Mrs. Stoddard,
                  lightly.
               The blood rose in a torrent to his face, and he said hoarsely, "Good God! what am
                  I that I should think of her? I have not the right."
               Then, as the music changed into a wild gallop, one of those haunting German airs
                  which are the soul of our waltz music, he broke into a chant of the air. His
                  partner laughed, and said, "I did not know you had such a fine basso."
               "Oh, yes!" he rejoined. "I am quite a notoriety at our stag-parties; they always
                  call on me toward the close. It takes very little voice to sing a good song after
                  supper."
               "Couldn't you contrive to smuggle me in to one of those suppers? I am not handsome
                  enough for a page, and too clumsy for a waiter. But I should like so much to hear
                  your jokes and criticisms, and see you show your stolen violets, and boast of your
                  favors; in fact, to see your unvarnished, unadorned mannishness."
               
               "Well, I will make you an offer. Obtain admittance for me to one of your midnight
                  councils, when you all comb your hair, and lay aside your braids, and fuss, and
                  feathers, and divest yourselves of the gas-light sentiment with which we poor
                  beggars ennoble you."
               "Not a fair bargain! I appeal to you, Mr. Clay; is this a fair offer?" and as Clay
                  plunged into the conversation, Mordaunt watched his chance and broke away.
               The next day, Clare dressed with some care, and drove to the reception with Mrs.
                  Hungerford and Marian. She was surrounded on her entrance, and it was some time
                  before she could assure herself that Mordaunt was not there. One o'clock came and
                  passed—there was still a matinée dansante to look in at, yet Clare delayed until
                  delay was no longer possible. Then she scrawled a few words on a card, and gave it
                  to a harmless young man who floated about society in an aimless way, and made
                  himself useful by holding bouquets, carrying cloaks, calling carriages, and such
                  innocent occupations. He promised to give the card to Mr. Mordaunt when he came
                  in, and Clare left the room a little less worried. The first person she
                  encountered at the matinée was a gentleman whom she had known quite well the
                  summer before, and who had but just arrived in Washington. Mr. Cary had been
                  expecting to see her come in for some time. He had determined to talk to her, and
                  by skillful generalship and knowledge of the game, he soon managed to absorb her
                  attention. He secured a couple of chairs fenced in by the circle arranged for the
                  German, and, having planted her there, he threw himself into their subject of
                  conversation with so much élan and earnestness, that she was soon thoroughly
                  interested, and they talked as if they were alone in the room. The reaction from
                  her disappointment had raised Miss Hungerford's spirits; she knew that she had an
                  interlocutor capable of understanding and appreciating anything she might say. Mr.
                  Cary was thoroughly intellectual and thoroughly well educated; he exerted himself
                  self throughout this conversation, and, as the hours passed, they were drawn from
                  generality into personality.
               "No, Mr. Cary!" she said. "I will not admit a theory that is contradicted by the
                  experience of ninety-nine out of one hundred. The theory comes too much into our
                  everyday life for us to enter into abstractions regarding it. I have known case
                  after case where a man and a woman have undertaken a friendship, and, in all of
                  them, either one or the other or both were bitten."
               "But, Miss Hungerford, the feeling is so different, the line so marked, there
                     is a danger, but it is so well defined, a probability of passing
                  the gulf, but you can always 'look before you leap.'"
               "I do not think so. A man and a woman go on cheating themselves into a belief that
                  they of all the world are friends, and they descend so easily, so gradually, that
                  no step can be pointed to, no moment recalled, at which the change was worked, and
                  yet—yet they wake up, like my Lord Byron, and find themselves, not famous, but in
                  love. Indeed, Mr. Cary, no one shuns and detests truisms more than I; but all the
                  world is generally more than half right, and all the world laughs in its sleeve at
                  your theory."
               "Well, Miss Hungerford, I have one unanswerable argument—unanswerable, at least,
                  by you."
               "What is it, Mr. Cary?"
               "Your own practice," he said, half in jest; but at the words, Clare blushed
                  deeply. She raised her eyes, and there, standing in the doorway beyond the
                  dancers, was Walter Mordaunt. He stood in an indifferent and careless attitude,
                  with his face turned slightly from her, but she could see that it was set and
                  grim. She felt embittered and roused by his seeming nonchalance, and turned to
                  Cary with twice her former vivacity. They resumed their conversation, and
                  discussed books and people. Cary, though shallow, was a foeman worthy of Clare's
                  steel, though her opinions were luxuriantly heretical, and she insisted on
                  discarding precedents dents and
                  authorities in a way that would have made most people's teeth chatter. He brought
                  forward to support a theory some lines from the Princess, and then offered the
                  whole poem as a proof that great superiority in a woman does not necessarily
                  interfere to destroy her capability of living along in the routine of humdrum
                  commonplace.
               Clare broke in with a shout of triumph: "You have ruined your own theory! The
                  Princess! I can tell you what Ida's life was after her marriage with that
                  good-looking, inferior blond, as if I had known her well. She was Pegasus in
                  harness; she had hours and days of galling, rebellious bitterness; she dreamed
                  herself free, and woke a slave. Her daily duties palled, and she longed for a
                  ramble in the breezy morning over the hills, with her leopard gamboling about her.
                  I think Tennyson did well to stop there. Mr. Cary, when you have made such a
                  match, do a little fine talking, and stop."
               "What would you have a woman do?" he said. "Marry to gratify what is strongest in
                  her—her ambition, par exemple?"
               "No, I cannot say that, for then she degrades her womanhood, and, besides, I don't
                  think her ambition ought ever to get the upper hand."
               "Ah, Miss Hungerford! you are too well in hand; you have yourself too thoroughly
                  under control to be a fair type of your sex—you are so impassive."
               "Am I, indeed? I know very little of myself, I think, although I analyze and
                  dissect my feelings and motives until I am in a fearful confusion sometimes."
               "For instance—"
               "Oh! well, I hear three or four times a day, directly or collaterally, that I am
                  cold and heartless. The first time, I laugh; the second time, I laugh not quite so
                  heartily; the third, I stop to think over; and the fourth, gathers up the other
                  three, and they fall like a lump of ice on my heart, (which I still persist in
                  having,) and chill it; then I wonder, and muse, and compare, generally to no
                  purpose, so I wind up by a sharp canter, and come home feeling happier."
               "I don't believe your body and mind are bound together so closely as that."
               "You do not know me, I think. They are more bound together than any one's I know.
                  But this is too egotistical. Let us join Marian—there she is. You dine with us
                  to-day, I believe? I think I heard you accept her invitation."
               "I did, most certainly; and after dinner will you read that bit of Browning with
                  me?"
               "Yes—no—we will see. Don't you think Browning dives a thought too deep for a
                  tea-party? And we are to have one to-night. Don't say good-by, but à plaisir."
               She crossed the room and reached the door as Mordaunt turned from it. He bowed.
                  She said, with a slight embarrassment in her manner, "Have I not an engagement
                  with you?"
               "You had," he said.
               "Will you walk home with me?" she said, pleadingly. "I told mamma I meant to
                  walk."
               He bowed mutely, and they left the house together.
               "Why did you not come to Mrs. Willoughby's, at one o'clock?"
               "I couldn't. I rushed there as soon as I could; you were gone; I followed you to
                  this other place, and found you perfectly absorbed and sold in bondage to that
                  fellow Cary."
               "Did you get my note? Don't speak to me so, Mr. Mordaunt."
               "You do not care what I say. Why should you? I did not think you would have
                  treated me so," he went on. Her eyes filled with tears. "I would walk to Baltimore
                  to give you the least pleasure, but I am hurt. I did not think you would have
                  treated me so."
               "You are cruel, cruel," she said, with a quiver in her voice. "Please don't speak
                  so. I am sorry. I am so sorry. Don't you believe it? It was not my
                  fault."
               
               He offered her his arm. They had wandered into a less frequented street. He drew
                  her arm closer, and pressed her hand to his heart. She turned her eyes, still
                  glistening with tears, on him.
               "Little one," he said, "you must not try me so. I am rough to you, but you will
                  forgive me." He longed, oh! how he longed to kiss away her tears, and to pour
                  forth his heart; but his sense of duty, his sense of her powerlessness to resist
                  him, held him back. He thought she, pure as heaven and bright as the day, cared
                  for him, but his knowledge of other women modified his belief. If he had realized
                  that her soul was his for all time, then he might have thrown himself before her,
                  he might have said, "I give you my life, do with it what you will;" but this he
                  could only know too late. He thought 
                     
                        "She will weep her woman's tears,
                        She will pray her woman's prayers,
                        But her heart is young in pain,
                        And her hopes will grow again,
                        By the sun-time of her years."
                     
                  
               
               He did not know—how could he?—that he had touched the main-spring, that he had
                  struck the rock, that these were in deed and in truth the living waters that
                  gushed out, and that the fountains are broken up but once, never to be sealed
                  again.
               They walked on in silence, not unmeaning to either, until a bell tolled five, and
                  Clare was reminded of the dinner hour. There was a slight sense of something
                  clandestine as she withdrew her arm involuntarily when they entered a
                  thoroughfare, but she choked it down, and they walked rapidly homeward. At the
                  last turn, he paused, took her hand, pressed it to his lips, and said, "God bless
                  you, little one." They parted: she bore her hand into her room, her hand fresh
                  with the imprint of his lips; should she kiss it off? She blushed at the fancy,
                  dropped it, and dressed hurriedly for dinner.
               How she shrank from the thought of going down to the world again! But it had to be
                  done. The blaze of light in the parlor dazzled her eyes, but did not prevent her
                  seeing her mother's inquiring look; and, as she turned away, Marian came up
                  eagerly, reproached her for being so late, and wound up by saying she looked pale
                  and tired, that her dress was unbecoming, that she should have worn a different
                  sash. To which Clare responded that she had no other sash to wear, that she had
                  not chosen the dress, and "Marian, don't bully me, for I am too worn out to stand
                  it."
               Clare had a wretched evening. Her head ached, and she could not talk to Mr. Cary,
                  who tried to revive the morning's conversation; but the spirit came not at his
                  call. Clare was bored and ennuyée, and showed it, and her manner to Mr. Cary was
                  most unpropitious; to own the truth, she snubbed him unmercifully. She did not do
                  her duty to the tea-party, and wound up by devoting herself to a poor shy girl,
                  who was rather alarmed at finding herself out of her own house, and excessively
                  surprised at Miss Hungerford's sudden alternations of energetic heterodoxy and
                  utter silence. I cannot imagine what she would have said if she had seen Clare
                  throw herself on a sofa at the end of the evening, and groan out a lazy
                  satisfaction at the departure of the guests.
               "I wish they had not come, Marian. Marian, why did they come?"
               "Because they were invited, I believe," answered Marian, absently, as she shut
                  down the piano, and straightened the cover. "Oh, Clare! did you know there was a
                  letter for you?"
               "A letter! Oh, Marian!" There was a rush, a clutch, and Clare ran up stairs, laid
                  the letter on her dressing-table, and looked at it as she undressed herself.
               It was from Agnes Conyers, this letter that Clare seized so eagerly, and is
                  answering so furiously, looking like a Valkyria, with her long golden cloud of
                  hair drooping over her paper.
               
               Agnes Conyers was a very remarkable woman. She was but twenty years of age, so
                  that her development was not fully complete; the last mellowings of the full
                  summer sun were yet to deepen her tints and ripen her crudities: still time had so
                  far perfected her that her character was already harmonized; she had found the
                  key-note of her life, and there were no discords in her melodies. She possessed
                  one or two thoroughly masculine virtues to such an extent that you did not become
                  sensible of her innate femininity until admitted to her inner life. A most
                  delicate honor, a singleness of purpose, a oneness of character were hers in the
                  highest degree. She had, perhaps, more capacity than originality of intellect,
                  more character than cleverness, but although she was compounded of but few
                  elements, the combinations were so simply grand that they struck you deeply. Her
                  friendship with Clare Hungerford based itself upon a unity of taste, a sympathy of
                  nature that it would be impossible to define; they had been thrown much together,
                  they had grown into one another's hearts very surely; their friendship had but few
                  of the characteristics that so infallibly mark "young girls' intimacies," it was
                  more of a brotherhood, a camaraderie, than
                  anything else, and yet it had depths and shades to it. Those girls could look into
                  one another's eyes, and clasp hands most honestly, for no shadow, no suspicion, no
                  unworthy thing had tainted their faith in one another.
               Their letters were left by Clare, lying upon her writing-desk, the one hastily
                  thrust into its torn envelope, the other sealed and directed to 
                     MISS CONYERS, Blythewood, Denton P. O., New York.
                  
               
               These two letters, the first written since their parting, have some interest, and
                  may be of some use. Here they are, Miss Conyers's first:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              BLYTHEWOOD, February 16th.
                              MY DEAREST CLARE:
                           
                           What has Washington done to you with its vile alchemy? You have not
                              written me a line since you reached the place, and I have waited
                              patiently and steadily for six weeks. It is not possible for you to
                              have jumped into a vacant belleship at once; your heart cannot have
                              been turned as well as your head. I won't put you through the routine
                              of "have you forgotten me?" and the garnishing reproaches. You know we
                              never affect that style; but do "write to a fellow"
                              sometimes, for it is dull enough here. I have ridden over to Oakhurst
                              twice, patted Hotspur, pinched Folly's ears, pulled a bunch of early
                              violets from your frame, and I was going, Clare, to survey your rooms,
                              but I could not get up the necessary steam, my courage did not rise
                              high enough; so I ran through the deserted parlors, mounted and rode
                              away. Tell Mrs. Hungerford, with my love, that the place is, in
                              material points, in admirable order—but oh, Clare! such a spiritual
                              wilderness! I don't want to flatter you, my dear, doubtless your
                              tender little ears burn continuously without my small
                              rushlight being applied to them, but I do miss you mightily, and I
                              worry over you. Please look out for yourself, and don't entangle
                              yourself with—but how idle this is! My experience is not great, and
                              were it ten times greater, could avail you nothing. The more reason
                              for my bothering over and bewailing your absence from me. Write to me
                              freely if you can—at any rate write. Tell me what you do, and whom you
                              see, put me in those petty trivial details that make the picture
                              life-like, from the breakfast hour to the number of your bouquets. If
                              I cannot live with you, let me be with you at times. Have you read the
                              Idylls, and are they not very exquisite? Not altogether winter reading
                              perhaps, but still to be enjoyed at any time; the least Tennysonian of
                              all Tennyson's works—inferior, I think, to his best things, but still
                              such pictures of the time and of the people, such pure English, such
                              simple diction! you like
                              them, I am sure. Do you ride much? How about Marian? Has she overrun
                              her strength, and does she sigh for new worlds to conquer? Why don't
                              she try it on with the man in the moon? Dear old friend, I cannot
                              write you a nice first letter. I think too much of you to talk lightly
                              to-day. Tell me all about yourself, and when anything comes to pass
                              here I will jot it down for you. By-the-by, the masculine element,
                              which is of course bound to emerge somewhere, in a letter addressed to
                              you, has just risen to the surface. I had almost forgotten. I have met
                              recently young Lorimer, who has just returned from Europe, and is
                              living at that lodge his father bought. Don't you remember our old
                              traditional storehouse of romance? He is certainly very interesting,
                              and I should like you to meet him. Of course my terms with him are too
                              easy to be exciting, for the old family intimacy placed us at once on
                              a footing which you could never reach; so don't chaff me,
                              Mademoiselle. Enough of him, however; some day I will write you a
                              sketch of his life and character, both of which are most striking. Now
                              for my question, and we will drop the subject. Have you met Mr.
                              Mordaunt—Walter Mordaunt? I knew him slightly once, the only
                              Washington man I ever knew.
                           
                              Yours, mit Lieb und Schmerzen,
                              AGNES CONYERS.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              WASHINGTON, February 19th.
                              MY DEAREST AGNES:
                           
                           I never apologize for not having written, and, in this case, I could
                              not, with truth, for I wrote you a long letter soon after I came here.
                              I gave you an account of my first ball, how stupid the men were, how
                              ugly the women, not at all the kind of thing to accompany the "sound
                              of revelry by night." Did you really never get that letter? You will
                              never know what you have lost, it was such a clever letter!
                           Agnes, I can't write decently to-night. My head aches a little, and my
                              heart is heavy. I rose so late this morning and have not been to take
                              a long walk or a ride or anything to give me any physical excitement,
                              and Marian and I have had a skirmish. Mamma went to see twenty old
                              ladies, all stupid, all old, all in a fossil state of existence, and,
                              as I really did not care to be told twenty times how much I had grown,
                              and to have twenty different resemblances found for me, why, I
                              announced that I did not mean to go. Whereupon, Marian mounted the
                              rostrum, and delivered an oration on the subject of duties to society
                              in general, and to these twenty dowagers in particular, the beauty of
                              self-sacrifice, the necessity of exercise for herself. At length the
                              truth leaked out, she wanted to go shopping! She wanted to buy a
                              purple ribbon to wear to-night, for Mr. Cary was to be here, and he
                              thinks she looks well in purple! Now, as Mr. Cary only looked at me, I
                              don't think he noticed whether Marian wore pink and purple
                              combined!
                           Oh, Agnes! I am writing you such nonsense. But how can I help myself?
                              I lead such a foolish, aimless, brainless life; I am always with
                              people, and people are always with me, and I hate them all, and I
                              don't like anybody except you, and I wish we could go to some South
                              Sea Island and wear our hair down our backs and eat no flesh save that
                              of our visitors, (the favorite Washington fare.)
                           If we come here next winter, you must come with us; and I think we
                              will come, for papa's business becomes more complicated every day, and
                              Marian likes this whirl, and mamma has no objections. You will meet
                              some old friends; you will meet Walter Mordaunt. We know him very
                              well. It is growing very late, and I have gone through a great deal
                              to-day. I have quarreled with Marian, and flirted with Frederick Cary.
                              Oh, Agnes! I wish I could see you, and talk to you, and feel your hand
                              on my head "now this minute," as we used to say in childhood. These
                              blots are made by my hair, which falls on the paper when I bend my
                              head.
                           Agnes, here is something for you. They leave scissors about the house and I have used them to
                              send you the most golden streak on my head.
                           
                              Yours, dear,
                              CLARE HUNGERFORD.
                           
                        
                        
                           P. S.—Don't be intimate with the Lorimer girl, and don't fall in love
                              with the Lorimer man, but write me all about them.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        "Only discern
                        
                        Infinite passion, and the pain
                        Of finite hearts that yearn."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Mine was the moment's natural boon,
                        Lighting at will on these or those,
                        Pleasures as constant as the moon,
                        And loves eternal as the rose.
                        I prize the humblest ancient hour,
                        When, winged with light, my spirit flew,
                        For honey's sake, from flower to flower,
                        Nor ever asked where amaranth grew."
                     
                  
               
               "REALLY, Mr. Cary, you will give yourself too much trouble."
               "Really, Miss Hungerford, that has nothing to do with it. Nothing would be easier
                  than to break my engagement, nothing pleasanter than to take that walk. Indeed,
                  Miss Hungerford, my mind is made up. I mean to do it—of course, with your
                  co-operation."
               "Of course, with my co-operation, for, as the point of the walk seems to be my
                  company, you cannot very well do without it. But—what do you mean to tell Mrs.
                  Stoddard?"
               "I shall write her a note—such a note! I shall tell her an unavoidable contingency
                  has arisen; that she has my regret, and I hope I have her forgiveness."
               "I am afraid you will offend her."
               "Offend her! Oh, no! We are friends of old. Pshaw!" he said, suddenly, as he rose
                  from his seat and came and stood before her, "it is not Mrs. Stoddard's anger you
                  dread; it is another wrath, and another obstacle. I see. And are you really so
                  little your own mistress, so bound by words and promises, that you dare not—yes,
                  dare not—walk with me?"
               His tone was jesting, his words might have passed for badinage, his look made them
                  earnest.
               "Really, Mr. Cary—"
               "Really, Miss Hungerford—"
               "You said that before;" and she looked up in his face and laughed.
               He laughed too, but he was determined to carry his point. He sat down beside her
                  and renewed the siege.
               "Oh, Miss Hungerford! Miss Hungerford! How sorry I am to see this change! Do you
                  remember yourself last summer? How free, how unthralled, how willing to accede to
                  the most exorbitant wish of the poorest beggar, you were then! Now—"
               "How different now! Thank you."
               "Is it not the truth?"
               "Are you my father confessor?"
               "I wish I were. May I be for once? Tell me your sins of omission and commission. I
                  will listen and correct. Don't you think it would be nice?"
               "No! It would bore you dreadfully to listen, and worry me dreadfully to tell."
               "Just answer me one question—only one. Why won't you walk with me to-morrow? Are
                  you engaged to walk with any one else?"
               "No, not exactly."
               "Oh, Miss Hungerford! what a struggle was there between your truth and
                  dissimulation, and truth did not conquer."
               "Truth is not a virtue we learn in society, Mr. Cary; but we do learn a certain
                  amount of shrewdness, and that shrewdness tells me it is by far the wiser plan to
                  acknowledge an engagement, especially
                  such an unimportant one as that for to-morrow."
               "It may be unimportant to you—not to me. It is my last chance, for I
                  am going home the day after to-morrow."
               "You are very glad to go home, I fancy."
               "That is a diversion from the subject. Could you, would you deprive me of the last
                  walk with you?"
               "You will be here again, I suppose. Baltimore is not Hindostan."
               "Your geography is perfect, but, as far as you are concerned, it might be. Will
                  you come to Baltimore before you go home?"
               "Why should I go to Baltimore? I know very few people there—a good many men, and
                  no girls."
               "Come to shop; a great many people do; and I will give you the most fascinating
                  dinner ever given in this country. Is it a settled thing?"
               "I hate shopping."
               "But you would like my dinner. Give me your promise."
               "I will come some day, and cut your acquaintance if I have not more pleasure than
                  I ever had in my life."
               "We will see. Mais en attendant, you have promised me that walk?"
               "I have promised you nothing of the kind. I warn you, Mr. Cary, your persistency
                  is making me very stubborn."
               "Your stubbornness is making me very persistent. Let me try bribery. Will you come
                  if I give you—my Browning?"
               "Mr. Cary! What a temptation!"
               "My Browning, with its clear type and its white paper and its binding! There is no
                  such binding in the world. Is it a bargain? And the marks!"
               "It would not be fair in me to take those marks. You must rub them out."
               "Rub them out indeed! No, Miss Hungerford, those marks are not only pencil marks,
                  they are the essence of my heart and brain and life." And he was silent for a
                  moment. "Think of the asphodel from the Campagna that marks one page!"
               "I don't think I can resist the asphodel, but"—and as she hesitated, the door
                  opened to admit Marian, Mrs. Stoddard, and Mordaunt.
               "How dramatic!" said Mrs. Stoddard, with a loud laugh, (all her laughs were loud.)
                  "Mr. Cary looks agitated, Miss Hungerford hesitating. What can it mean? Is it a
                  tragedy in high life?"
               "Oh, Mrs. Stoddard! then you must be the farce that follows the tragedy," answered
                  Mr. Cary quickly. "You have mistaken our expressions. Miss Hungerford is too
                  decided ever to hesitate."
               "And Mr. Cary is too well veneered ever to appear agitated," was Mrs. Stoddard's
                  reply.
               "The veneering seems about to break through," interrupted Marian. "Don't quarrel,
                  dear friends—don't, I beg of you."
               "No, I can't quarrel with you, Mrs. Stoddard," said Cary, with a smile, "at least
                  not now, for I have a favor to ask of you."
               "Do you want me to sit by you?" she asked, as she noticed that Mordaunt made a
                  step forward to take the seat by Clare's side; but Cary's quick eye observed the
                  same thing, and he slipped into his former seat, as he answered with a smile, "No,
                  for I am going to sit by Miss Hungerford."
               Mordaunt seated himself on the nearest chair, threw back his head, and gazed
                  grimly at the whole party. Mr. Cary remained complacently where he was,
                  exquisitely amused at Mordaunt's discomfiture, and desirous of tormenting him
                  still further. It was impossible for Clare to move without attracting too much
                  attention, and she watched Mordaunt's chafed look with secret anxiety, knowing
                  well how jealous and unreasonable he was,
                  and how miserable he made her by his fierce doubts and self-reproaches. She
                  resolved to encourage no under-tone remarks that Cary might make, but Cary made
                  none. In truth, his principal object was to punish Mordaunt for interrupting him,
                  not only that morning, but many times before, and this, added to his secret
                  delight at Mordaunt's disappointed air, determined him to see the play out; so he
                  sat upon the sofa, looking perfectly impracticable, rebutting all Mordaunt's
                  attacks with a gay, good humor, and galling him to the quick with an air that said
                  "I am here with much pleasure to myself and to Miss Hungerford, and here I intend
                  to stay." Mordaunt's consciousness that he was behaving ill made it impossible for
                  him to behave well, and he would have relapsed into total silence, had not Mrs.
                  Stoddard forced him to talk. Mrs. Stoddard was principled against tête-à-têtes,
                  unless her head was one of the two concerned; therefore she insisted upon every
                  one's taking his or her share in the conversation. Marian aided her. Marian had
                  always fancied that Mr. Cary was attentive to her, therefore she talked to him;
                  and she knew that Mordaunt was, therefore she talked to him most persistently; and
                  yet, before they parted, Cary almost hated her, and Mordaunt thanked her in his
                  soul. When they all rose to go, Cary said to Clare, in a low voice, "The Browning
                  is yours;" and "The walk is yours," she answered.
               "Who is going to walk with you?" asked Marian suddenly. "Is it you, Clare? For if
                  it is to-day, you can't do it—it is too late now; and if it is to-morrow, you
                  can't do it, because we are going to ride, and alone."
               Cary bit his lip. Mordaunt smiled.
               And Clare said, perversely, "Day after to-morrow then, Mr. Cary. Don't go home
                  until the next morning;" and Cary smiled and Mordaunt bit his lip, and the door
                  closed behind them.
               "Marian," said Clare, turning to her sister with a smile and a flush of
                  excitement, "I am going to have a present."
               "Well, dear," said Marian, who was at that moment absorbed in a calculation of the
                  morning's expenditures, and who had not understood one word of Clare's
                  announcement. "I'm sure I am glad. Clare, have you seen me drop a small bundle? It
                  is too provoking! I can't have lost it in the street."
               "Why can't you?"
               "Because it was in my pocket;" and as she put her hand in her pocket, she cried,
                  "Here it is! How very strange! And here, Clare, this is for you; papa told me to
                  give you this," and she handed her a letter from Agnes Conyers.
               Clare flung herself into a chair, burst open the envelope, and read the letter
                  twice through.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              BLYTHEWOOD, February 25th
                           
                           CLARE! CLARE! are you indeed clair de lune, veritable moonshine, and
                              can I never be sure of you for a week together? Was hat man dir, du
                              armes Kind, gethan? Why did you write at night, and why did you write
                              with such an affectation of lightheartedness that it made my heart
                              heavy? Well, if you will "to Cupar, you maun to Cupar," and I must
                              stand aside. Those wild beasts in Washington have already dismembered
                              you, and there is no help for it.
                           I am going, Clare, to tell you my Lorimer conte, not because you asked
                              me and are curious, but because I must write about something
                              impersonal to either of us to-day. Here are my facts.
                           Edward Lorimer and his sister, who lives with him, are the last of
                              their name in this country. Their parents died when they were little
                              children, and left these two and one other boy, who died when he was
                              eighteen and Edward sixteen. Alice, the sister, was the eldest, and
                              soon after her brother's death fell in love with and became engaged to
                                 a young fellow "who wooed
                              and who rode away." Edward never knew of it until the thing was over,
                              and Ferrers had crossed the water. He devoted himself to his sister
                              for two years, and with great success, made himself all in all to her,
                              and then took her to Europe. He was then nineteen, with quite a nice
                              property. He established her for a few weeks in a quiet country place
                              in England, left her on a plea of business, crossed the Channel seas,
                              went to Paris, found the whereabouts of Ferrers, tracked him to
                              Plombières, insulted him, was challenged, fought, crippled him for
                              life, returned to England, kept his secret, which only oozed out
                              through the journals, and which then was known only as to facts, not
                              as to causes, traveled over Europe with his sister, who was much
                              admired and a good deal fêted, for eighteen months; he has been here,
                              that is, in America, two years. He holds a commission in the army, but
                              is now on leave of absence—ground, ill health. They, he and his
                              sister, will spend the summer at Rosenshaw. Now for my fancies; they
                              are utterly irreconcilable with my facts, and yet I am as confident of
                              their justice. You know, Clare, there are some men whose lives are
                              uneventful and uncheckered during their early manhood, who develop
                              naturally and gradually, being neither forced nor blasted, who work
                              out no deep problems, chase no chimeras, who are not sui generis in
                              fact, nor even of an unusual type, and yet, if you meet them, they
                              interest you; if there are no chasms and sheer descents in their
                              characters, there are pleasant shady glades, green pastures, and still
                              waters. These men are not common, and yet—how is it?—they make no
                              mark, they live well and wisely, make some girl happy, cherish their
                              children, keep out of life's bustle and noise, and die at peace with
                              themselves and all the world. Such a man Edward seems, and yet such he
                              cannot be; his life belies it, and sometimes, although rarely, his
                              face. He is a brown-eyed blond, with a good figure and beautiful
                              teeth; never botches anything, from a bow to a bouquet; is thoroughly
                              educated, with singularly gularly fine powers of criticism; this is
                              his usual self, and the only self that most people ever see; he is a
                              Sphinx, I assure you. You see, Clare, how could he execute the purpose
                              of his life and then be outwardly what he is? Those two years and a
                              half of cabined-up resolve should have marked his brow, and the blood
                              on his hands should sometimes tinge his soul. But indeed it does not.
                              Do you wonder he interests me? But you must be tired. Now I claim a
                              return; give me a sketch of some one who interests you.
                           It is growing late, "the shadows slant down the snowy sward." Ah,
                              Saint Agnese, ora pro me! and do you too, Clare. Good night.
                           
                              Yours,
                              AGNES CONYERS.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Having finished the second perusal of this letter, Clare proceeded to answer
                  it.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              WASHINGTON, March 1st.
                           
                           ST. AGNES! whose life was one of vigils and prayerfulness, who knew no
                              earthly love, desert not thy namesake!
                           And, invocation aside, don't you think you are in danger of
                              Lorimers?
                           And, jesting aside, I ought not to chaff you, ought I? I think Edward
                              Lorimer a very fine fellow, and a very remarkable character. There is
                              something very fine about that "cabined revenge;" it must have been as
                              irresistible as fate. How that hot flood of hate and passion and
                              revenge must have boiled and seethed and worked under the calm
                              outside! I should like to see him. I suppose I shall some day.
                           Well, I have a hero, not exactly a hero of a hundred fights, unless
                              you consider life a fight worth winning, though he has hardly won it
                              so far, nor is even a hero at all, simply a very interesting man,—at
                              least he interests me. You knew him slightly once; I think you said so
                              in your letter. Agnes, he is
                              interesting because he is so manly and fiery, and so passionate in his
                              feelings. His love would last a lifetime, and make a woman happy,
                              unless she were characterless, in which case she would be overwhelmed
                              and lost. He is not wonderfully clever, not more clever than most men,
                              but he has been very well educated. His family were very rich at one
                              time, but they lost everything, and his life, which must have been
                              charming before, became one constant struggle and privation. I think a
                              long course of petty annoyances and cares is so much more telling in
                              its effect than one great blow. The effect in this case has been to
                              render Mr. Mordaunt's mind more practical in its turn than it would
                              otherwise have been; he knows exactly what it would cost to do without
                              certain things, and, though he is indifferent so far as regards
                              himself, yet he could not bear to see any person he cared for deprived
                              of them. His strong feelings, his perfect high breeding, his
                              tenderness and gentleness to women, combine to render him rarely
                              attractive—in fact, he is called dangerous; and Marian prides herself
                              on having resisted his fascinations. She says he is in love with
                              her.
                           You have never seen the horse I ride here—such a nice horse, but not
                              so spirited as Hotspur. Mr. Mordaunt rides so well! Most Southern boys
                              are bred to it from childhood, I believe.
                           There is such a pretty girl here—her name is Warburton; she has what
                              is considered a charming voice; I think it a little husky. Mr.
                              Mordaunt admires her and it extremely.
                           My dear Agnes, this is the end of this letter, but not the end of my
                              love.
                           I am so tired, but I like you all the same.
                           
                              Yours dearly,
                              CLARE HUNGERFORD.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It is a hard thing to fix the fleeting fancies, to repeat the ethereal nonsense of
                  these "Cynthias of the minute;" and all the records of Clare Hungerford's first
                  winter crumble like their kind at one's touch. How she rode and danced, walked and
                  talked, was run after and cringed to, set the fashion, and became the toast, there
                  is not a beauty, from Helen of Troy to Eugènie of France, who has not gone through
                  a course of the same dishes under new names; only then they besieged cities, now
                  they all dress their hair à l'impèratrice. But still this girl did some real
                  living, and so did two other people whom she met that winter, Walter Mordaunt and
                  Frederick Cary; both loved her, both were madly pursuing her, and she fled on and
                  on through labyrinths of flowers, flowers that when your foot pressed them uttered
                  sharp thorns: already she has lost herself in the maze; she stumbles on, led by a
                  relentless fate, whither? Will not a light shine around about her in this noonday
                  darkness?
               In pursuance of the plan that postponed Frederick Cary's walk, Clare and Marian
                  started out for a morning canter. They formed a charming and most effective
                  contrast in their styles; their horses were almost matches, two light-footed,
                  high-spirited blacks, chosen by their father expressly for their Washington rides,
                  as the horse which Clare rode habitually at home was too conspicuously difficult
                  to manage, and Mr. Hungerford's horror of a solecism in good taste was almost as
                  strong as his objection to a broken bone.
               Marian rode well, and more gracefully than her sister, without half the
                  unconscious facility and taking recklessness that Clare showed in every gesture
                  when on a horse. They rode sharply along the road,—Marian, studiously correct in
                  posture and action; Clare, her jockey-cap well down over her eyes, slouching her
                  shoulders a little, and yet making it evident that her horse and herself were one
                  for the time, when, at a turn, they were joined by Mordaunt and Cary, who had
                  accidentally met on the road. Marian had that morning been elaborately explaining
                  to her sister that she (Marian) knew a great deal of men, that Clare knew very
                  little, and that, consequently, such a man as Mr. Mordaunt was very easy for Marian to penetrate and analyze,
                  though most intricate for Clare. "So, my dear child, you really must let me tell
                  you that you see too much of him; he has a way with him that means nothing, and
                  yet a young girl might easily take it for a personal thing. Now, the other night,
                  when he put us all into the carriage at Mrs. Prescott's, he pressed my hand in the
                  most extraordinary way, and he often does those things."
               "Well, Marian," said Clare, "Mr. Mordaunt is a friend of mine, that's all. I wish
                  you could learn to let me row my own boat. Why do you have Morley and George
                  Willoughby always hanging about, and making Caryatides of themselves for the back
                  parlor mantle-piece, and bores of themselves for every girl in both parlors but
                  you?" Clare hurled these facts at Marian so fiercely that the conversation was
                  temporarily checked. When, however, they met the two gentlemen in question, Marian
                  took Mordaunt unto herself, naturally supposing that a man who had squeezed her
                  hand, however inadvertently, was sure to be better company than one who never
                  vouchsafed her more than the commonplaces of society. Clare, however, kept her
                  horse abreast, and the four rode on in line—line of battle Clare desperately
                  determined it should be. They all launched into a jolting talk. Cary began, "We
                  are to have a few more balls, I understand."
               "Are we, indeed?" said Clare. "Well, I shall not be at them."
               "Have you withdrawn to rest upon your laurels, or do you disdain such a mere
                  slaughter of the Innocents as these balls are likely to be?"
               "Neither the one nor the other; but if I am to be talked to in this way before
                  lunch, I might as well go out in the evening; one gets nothing worse, then, at all
                  events, and one sees some pretty girls, prettily dressed, having a good time."
               "Have you seen Miss Warburton?" said Mordaunt carelessly lessly. "I spent last
                  evening with her. She is one of the handsomest women I have ever seen—and such a
                  voice! A cross between a siren and a nightingale."
               "Very bad teeth, hasn't she?" said Marian.
               "Not last night," said Mordaunt. "I cannot speak for the morning. You know, Miss
                  Marian, gas-light and full dress work wonders; and I kept my eyes shut all the
                  time we talked, for fear of breaking the illusion of her voice."
               "How poetical!" said Clare. "Ah, me! why are men never born with such beguiling
                  voices? It would be so jolly, such a real relief, to have a fair pretense of
                  shutting your eyes while you are being talked to sometimes. Here is a good bit of
                  turf for a canter. Good-by all;" and she cantered off. Cary started at the
                  instant, gained her side, and they stretched away over the even grass, until Clare
                  felt her impatience dissipate, and her heart lighter. She looked joyous enough as
                  she turned to her companion, and said, "Pull up your horse; let us take our ease,
                  while 'our steeds with slow grass-muffled hoofs' breathe a little. Is not this a
                  lovely bit of ground? Can we be only three miles from Washington?"
               "That is all. I wish we were a hundred off—somewhere in the vague sun-lighted
                  distance."
               "You would soon be tired of me, Mr. Cary."
               "Try me," he said, lending a little depth to his tone. "It is not a dangerous
                  experiment for you, and you are fond of chemistry, I know; you don't know what
                  absorbing properties I possess."
               "Don't I, indeed! Do you suppose I did not see you the other night, draining Miss
                  Prescott's soul, and lacerating Henry Willoughby's feelings?"
               "You mistook. I wanted to know what Miss Prescott could tell me, and I simply took
                  what she had to give. I did not poach on Mr. Willoughby's manor, if it is his. No;
                  sentiment I never talk to strange women."
               "Miss Hungerford," said Mordaunt, suddenly riding up, "your horse seems to be chafed, and is restive: may
                  I dismount, and examine his bridle and bit?"
               "Oh no, thank you; he is very like myself, headstrong, and don't like to be
                  bridled and bitted at all."
               "As you like," he said coldly, still riding by her side.
               "Sing us something, Mr. Cary," said Marian; "something suitable."
               "There is nothing suitable, Miss Hungerford, except something pastoral, and that
                  is not my style."
               "Can't you do it by hook or by crook?" asked Clare.
               "I am afraid not; but here we are at the third legitimate rhyme—a brook—shall we
                  ford it?"
               "Certainly," said Clare, as her horse and Mordaunt's plunged at once knee deep
                  into the stream; her horse stumbled; Mordaunt gripped the bridle, twisted his hand
                  in it, lifted the horse almost completely off his feet, and kept his hold, while
                  Clare sat steadily still until they had scrambled up the opposite bank. He then
                  withdrew his hand, jumped off, arranged her bridle, mounted, and they rode on.
               "It is good to be as strong as you are, Mordaunt," said Cary. "That was a hard
                  pull."
               "Yes, but only for a moment," Walter answered lightly; "suppose we take this
                  by-road; you have never seen it, and it is very wild and picturesque."
               "Ride with me, then," said Clare, "and show me the points." He drew his horse a
                  little closer to hers, and they sprang together down the wooded road.
               "Oh, Mr. Cary," said Marian, "come the other way. I want to show you that view I
                  spoke of the other night. I could spend hours looking at it."
               Cary saw he was not to be saved except by "mortal man," and mortal man, save
                  himself, there was none near; so he set his teeth, touched his horse, and waded
                  about in Marian's mind, which hardly came over his boot-tops. It is better to ride
                  with the other two. They cantered slowly along the wild road; they talked, they
                  fell, or rather glided into their real relation, and in a little while convention
                  had faded away; and Mordaunt's eyes met Clare's even as Adam's met Eve's time and
                  again. "Ah," she said, "if we could but ride, 'ride together, forever ride!"
               "I feel to-day as if we might. I feel as if nothing could take you from me. Last
                  night you hovered over me like a spirit; you seem so much of heaven to me, I
                  hardly dare ask you to stay with me on earth."
               "You do not know how essential a humanity I have about me. Do I not give proofs of
                  it daily?"
               "To me? Oh, no! When I see you, I tremble and catch my breath; to other women I
                  talk as a man to a woman, to you as a crusader to his patron saint. I have lived
                  so much, so long, with spirits and bodies dissonant to my own and different from
                  yours, that it is hard to put myself upon a common footing with you."
               "Let me stoop to you, then," she said, bending her graceful head and glancing into
                  his eyes.
               "Will you, indeed? Oh, that you would! that you could! but it is impossible—"
               "What is impossible?"
               "Everything, I think, that one cares for—everything is unattainable and far
                  removed. Let me at least have this hour unmingled—without retrospect or
                  foreboding—with you beside me. I can fancy this vista interminable; this sunlight
                  never waning, the grass forever green, this ride eternal. Oh, little one! this is
                  not a good or a happy place—this world we are born into. Let us, you and I,
                  forsake it for this morning; let us forget all we have ever learned, and one of us
                  at least will be happy."
               "Can I indeed make you happy? If I only could do it more continuously, if I were
                  less powerless—but, good Heavens! what ails your hand?"
               He had rested his hand on the pommel of her saddle as she began to speak, and her
                  eyes had caught sight of a crimson stain. Hastily checking her horse, she seized
                     his hand with both her own, looked at
                  it and burst into tears. When Mordaunt gripped her bridle, the strain and twist
                  cut through the flesh and made an ugly gash—painful, though, of course, not
                  dangerous. He had repressed the impulse of pain which he felt at the time, and
                  now, although his hand had stiffened, and gave him considerable pain, he was
                  utterly unprepared for such passionate emotion as Clare showed. She wept over it,
                  caressed it with inarticulate murmurs and piteous exclamations; she grazed it with
                  her lips, she held it to her heart, and all with such a childish abandon, that
                  Mordaunt could not have made a step forward; he simply steadied himself, met her
                  redoubled attraction with all the self-control he could muster, and let nothing
                  escape him except once, as the tears welled up afresh in her eyes and she caught
                  his hand again in hers.
               "Oh, little one! oh, darling! do you care for my being hurt so much?"
               She was a little recalled to her self-possession by his exclamation; still it was
                  some time before she could think or talk of something else. "Poor hand, poor
                  hand!" she would say from time to time, and her eyes would fill again.
               Mordaunt had never before seen her so softened, so melted; she had never been so
                  much his, had never so strongly attracted him. It was a chance shot, but it had
                  quite broken her down; she felt so much attendrissement, so much self-reproach; she drew him on and on, on
                  and on, as they rode, until he too gave way and poured his heart out in a burning
                  tide of such passionate, strange words, telling her that he loved, loved, loved
                  her, that he would die for her, if he could not live with her. "Oh, my life, my
                  soul, I adore you! from the first moment I saw you I was yours; let me lie at your
                  feet; I ask for nothing more. I am not worthy even of that; you are the only ideal
                  I have ever had—the glory of my manhood—I have never loved before, I shall always
                  love you. I cannot marry; I cannot ask you to share poverty and privation, but I
                  love, I adore, I worship you; you are my love, my life. Do not leave me, stay in
                  my life, shine on it." She quivered under every word as if it were a stab; she
                  trembled and drooped. A few moments more, and they pulled up at the
                  stepping-stone. He threw himself from his horse, held his hand for her to step
                  upon, and murmured, as she passed him, "I wish I could lie in your path and have
                  your feet trample me. I wish you could feel my heart throb under your
                  footsteps."
               "Would you have me tread out my own life?" she said as she left him.
               Marian and Cary were at the door; they had but just returned. Cary had lingered
                  for a word with Clare. It was not a propitious moment. He stepped forward as she
                  came up the steps and said, "Finis coronat opus; will you not give me one
                  word?"
               "A dozen, if you want them; but to what purpose, and in what language—Latin?"
               "No; if you won't speak English, I think I should choose the langue d'oc."
               "Quelle jolie tour! I am sorry, but I am not enough of a Provençale to—say what I
                  don't mean. Still, I'll give you a word, nay, a whole verse, and then you'll have
                  both rhyme and reason. 
                     
                        'Look, a horse at the door,
                        And little King Charles is snarling;
                        Go back, my lord, across the moor,
                        You are not her darling.'
                     
                   "Come, Marian, we must dress for dinner;" and she turned into the house.
               Cary sprang off the steps with a hasty bow to Miss Hungerford, and joined
                  Mordaunt, who was standing, his hand still on the horse's bridle, in a dreamy
                  delicious reverie.
               "Star-gazing, and the sun not down?"
               "Oh, no! a day dream purely. Cary, which way?"
               "To my rooms."
               "Good-by, then."
               
               "Good-by, Mordaunt."
               So they parted.
               "Marian, why am I not fond of needle-work?" said Clare, as they took off their
                  bonnets and brushed their hair. It was Sunday morning, and they had just returned
                  from church.
               "Good gracious, Clare! how do I know? Because you are not good at it, I
                  presume."
               "But you know I always like things better when I do them badly. You might as well
                  say that you do not enjoy Willoughby's commonplaces, because you are commonplace
                  yourself."
               "Clare, you are very rude—indeed, you are; and now that we are on the subject of
                  your manners, I must tell you conscientiously what I think. I am a very keen
                  observer, you know, and your manners don't bear criticism. You are too abrupt, too
                  indifferent. Last night, for instance, you turned short off in the middle of
                  something Mr. Cary was saying and broke into my conversation with Mr. Mordaunt.
                  Now, Clare, when you see two people absorbed in each other, don't interrupt them.
                  It did not make so much difference last night, for Mr. Cary had been wanting the
                  whole evening to say something to me, and it gave him a chance; but then Mordaunt
                  was extremely thrown back. I could not persuade him to renew the subject later in
                  the evening."
               "Indeed, Marian, if the men who are in love with you will be attentive to me, I
                  cannot well avoid it. Here is the card of Mr. Cary's last bouquet. I should not
                  wonder, if you held it to the fire, if the heat might not bring out your name
                  written in sympathetic ink over mine."
               "Nonsense, Clare. You cannot be serious for ten minutes; and there is something
                  else I wanted to say. Mamma thinks you receive too much attention from Mr.
                  Mordaunt, when you are too young to marry any one, and certainly cannot marry him.
                  Who would dress your hair?"
               "Oh! I should have it cut."
               "You don't mean, Clare, that you really think of marrying Walter Mordaunt! Indeed,
                  I am afraid Agnes Conyers has done you no good."
               "Upon my word, Marian, one would suppose you knew Agnes Conyers."
               "And I do know her very well; much better than you do. I see through
                  her."
               "Oh, you do! Well, I see through men much better than women—they are so
                  transparent."
               "Clare, Clare, how ignorant you are! Men are not what you think them—you don't
                  understand. I know men thoroughly, and you are too facile, too inexperienced!"
               "Marian, do you think that drinking marsala gives you a fine taste for
                  ammontillado?"
               "What has that to do with it?"
               "A good deal; but I can't explain, and I want some bread 'to all this sack.'"
               "I think you are too trifling to bear with," said Marian, as Clare danced down the
                  staircase. At the door she met a servant, who handed her a package in the whitest
                  paper tied with the most irresistible knot. She opened it—a note and Browning's
                  Poems—the note as follows:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MY DEAR MISS HUNGERFORD:
                           
                           Tantalus was a joke to me. I cannot walk with you today; more than
                              that, I cannot see you to say so, but must make as neat a parcel of
                              Browning and my regrets as is practicable. I have been recalled
                              peremptorily to my métier, and I
                              leave Washington an hour before our engagement should have been
                              consummated. It is hard, is it not, that what I fought so hard for,
                              and gave so much to earn, is mine and yet not mine? won't
                              you, at least, not make it any one's else? Do me this grace, I pray
                              you. Won't you spend an hour with Browning?
                              
                                 
                                    "Telling my memories over
                                    As you tell your beads,
                                    All the memories plucked at Sorrento,
                                    The flowers and the weeds."
                                 
                              
                           
                           For "Sorrento" read Washington; and believe me,
                           
                              Very faithfully yours,
                              FREDERICK CARY.
                              WASHINGTON, March 3rd.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               As Clare stood, the note in her hand, the Browning on the table beside her, Walter
                  Mordaunt entered the room. His quick eye saw the note and the masculine hand that
                  blackened the paper; but, curious as he was to know the writer, he felt he had no
                  right to ask. When, in the course of conversation, an allusion was made to Cary,
                  Mordaunt turned to Clare and said, "You are going to walk with Cary this
                  afternoon, I believe?"
               "No," she answered, "he went home to-day very unexpectedly."
               "Then your afternoon is free. Will you walk with me?"
               "I don't think—I can—very well?"
               "Why not? If you can walk with one man, surely you can with another."
               She put the note into his hand; he read it, tossed it away, and said angrily, "If
                  Mr. Cary's request is so much more binding on you than my entreaty—if you never
                  mean to walk with any one again except that conceited coxcomb—that heartless
                  fop—"
               "How very unjust!" and she paused, unwilling to say more.
               "Unjust to him! Of course. Give a man money, and you give him everything in a
                  woman's eyes."
               "You are unjust to me, Mr. Mordaunt; it is not a question of money, or even of
                  Frederick Cary. He asked so little that I was willing to grant it; and now—"
               She rose, left the room, ran up stairs, and came down in her walking dress.
                  "Come," she said, and stood in the door and beckoned with a pretty imperiousness.
                  He smiled brightly and followed her, and they were happy once more.
               It was a lovely Sunday afternoon, a day "most cool, most calm, most bright;" a
                  rest day full of peace and light; there was a taste of spring in the air, and a
                  promise of her in the trees. They walked together, arm in arm, in an unfrequented
                  street that soon became a country road. It was always so now. Their walks were by
                  mutual, unspoken consent through the suburbs; his arm was taken as they left the
                  thoroughfares, and dropped as they approached them; their position was that of
                  betrothed lovers, in everything but the name; a look brought him to her side; her
                  hand answered to his pressure, her eye to his longing glance; further than this
                  they had not strayed; but destiny is a relentless mistress, and we are all her
                  born slaves.
               As they walked thus, her hand on his arm, suddenly he paused, pointed to a little,
                  modest, country cottage showing on a slope to the left among the trees, and said,
                  with an inexpressible tenderness of tone and manner, "Could you be happy living
                  there?"
               "Yes, I could," she answered simply, for they were beyond coquetry, and she had a
                  woman's instinct to feel that he needed all the encouragement she could give.
               "Happy on twelve hundred a year, and two rooms?" he said, smiling.
               "Why not? I am not made of such poor stuff as you think, and I care so little for
                  money and money's worth. You would bear it less well than I could, for you are a
                  man, and a man always feels those things more than a woman."
               "Not I! I have no ambitions and aspirations now."
               "I cannot bear to hear you say so," she said earnestly. "Let me renew your youth;
                  am I powerless? Your losses are but lessons; many a man begins life at thirty; and
                  I could wait so patiently, and be ready with so little rose-bloom lost when you
                  came home to me at last."
               "Would you wait for me?" he said. "I bear much for you now, my child. I can see your mother is uneasy
                  at my presence, and, but for you, there does not breathe a woman for whom I would
                  support suspicion; and yet they must know—the world has surely chanted it often
                  enough in their ears, 'too poor to marry, too poor to marry.' If I had the whole
                  world, I would only care to have it to lay it at your feet. You are the dream of
                  my life, little one."
               "Won't you trust me?" she said timidly. "Do you not believe in me? I am not as
                  other women are, not as that Mexican woman was whose ring you wear on your
                  finger."
               "Pshaw!" he said; "she was nothing, but I did not choose you to put the ring on.
                  No, she was not like you."
               A short pause. The dying sun warned them away, and they retraced their steps. How
                  much of old romance those muddy crossings and narrow alleys could reveal! How the
                  haggard women and slouching men who gazed after the two as they strolled along,
                  two uncommon and striking figures anywhere, most of all there, surmised and
                  guessed! and yet there was no footprint on the yielding soil, although every step
                  was on each other's heart—deeper and deeper in.
               They reached Clare's home; Mordaunt came in for a moment; they found the parlor
                  deserted. He looked around, crossed the room, and turned. She was standing, her
                  bonnet fallen back, leaning upon the back of a chair, her hands clasped. He had
                  never been so ému, so deprived of his
                  self-possession, so possessed by her. He walked quickly to her, threw his arms
                  lightly around her, and kissed her cheek. For the first time. Shall we berhyme
                  this kiss? No, it shall not be made dramatic; the tragedy it began was too real.
                  From the days of Francesca da Rimini to those of Arthur Donnithorne, the story has
                  been too same in its very precipices. "The memory of a kiss," which the author of
                  Adam Bede makes her hero see in the eyes of his mistress, is a most vivid memory,
                  a memory that, when all else goes, clings by us, that makes a man of seventy, on
                  his death-bed, by his side his faithful wife who has borne him many children, and
                  those children crowding near, mutter, as the years flee away into the shadows of
                  eternity, old words and old names, fresh with the scent of his youth's first love
                  dream.
               He kissed her again and again, always on her cheek, and most gently, saying
                  incoherently, "I cannot help it, I cannot help it."
               "Go, go!" she said.
               He opened the door, paused, said, "You have made me so happy!" The door closed on
                  him, and she was alone.
               Alone! She stood still in the same attitude, to all outward seeming the same girl
                  who had stood there five minutes before, but the change had begun and ended. She
                  had no time for thought or remorse then; she dressed, and dined, and talked, and
                  laughed, but all the evening her cheek glowed and flushed with the memory of that
                  touch; her color took a deeper rose-heart tinge from the thrill that had gone
                  through flesh and blood and burned down into the soul beneath. She might rub her
                  cheek in vain; the mark was there, never to be seen by mortal eye, but never to be
                  forgotten, never to be effaced.
               Clare had never looked more beautiful, had never been more sparkling or gay, but
                  the reaction was to come. As Mr. Clay and Mr. Stanton still lingered in the
                  parlor, Mr. Hungerford entered and sat down beside Clare. Mr. Clay made a half
                  apology for not having gone. "You see, Mr. Hungerford, Miss Hungerford still keeps
                  us, though she laughs at us so unmercifully."
               "Oh, well, make the most of your time!" Mr. Hungerford said with a smile. "I mean
                  to take these girls off to-morrow afternoon."
               "Papa, papa!" and Marian sprang from her seat, and Clare sank back on the sofa.
                  "You are not in earnest—it can't be—no time to pack, no time to say good-by;" and
                  "I don't mean to go," said Clare decidedly.
               The young men pleaded; Mrs. Hungerford said mildly that it was impossible. Mr. Hungerford said that on
                  this occasion then the impossible must be achieved. His business required him to
                  go to Europe for a month; he intended to sail on Saturday, and wished to see them
                  safely settled at Oakhurst before he said good-by.
               "Settled! you may well call it settled! Oakhurst in March! Dismal, dreary, and
                  deserted!" exclaimed Marian despairingly.
               "The rooms will not be aired," said Mrs. Hungerford.
               "I have a great deal to do," said Clare.
               "The first time in your life you ever had, then," said Marian spitefully, for she
                  was ready to quarrel with any one, and the young men had gone; but neither spite
                  nor sanitary considerations, nor refusal to stir, moved Mr. Hungerford. The decree
                  had been uttered, and they were obliged to submit.
               Clare's "good deal to do" resolved itself into one thing—to see Mordaunt before
                  she went. The train left Washington at a quarter past three, and he was generally
                  at the department until that time. She wrote him a note, saying only, "We leave
                  Washington at three;" and bribed the small gamin de Washington, who theoretically
                  ran errands for them, and practically embittered their lives, to take it quickly.
                  She left almost all her packing to be done by her maid, but there were her
                  treasures to collect and put away, her books and withered flowers, her letters and
                  notes and scraps of paper. And having accomplished this, she sat in the parlor,
                  and talked to the shoals of people who came, her heart beating, her thoughts
                  wandering at every ring of the bell, and there were many, for Marian had gone out
                  to pay farewell visits, and announced the melancholy news to every one she met.
                  "Surely he must know," she thought; "surely he must have heard;" but he did not
                  come. Time flew on, eleven, twelve, one o'clock—and no Mordaunt; every one in
                  Washington had come and gone, and still no Mordaunt. Clare took a desperate
                  resolution. She went out, notwithstanding Marian's remonstrances and prophecies
                  that she would be too late; she walked past his office, hoping she might see him,
                  or hear of him in some way. Every one she met seemed, at a little distance, to
                  look like him; once she was sure she heard his footstep behind her; she knew his
                  footstep; her heart beat, her color mounted, her foot lingered; the footstep came
                  more quickly and more near—alas! it passed her, and her disappointed eye saw a
                  rough farmer's coat, not the neat, dark suit she had expected. She reached home
                  only in time to choke down something to eat, and to be scolded. As she was getting
                  into the carriage, she saw the boy who had carried the note and who had but just
                  returned. Mr. Mordaunt had gone into the country early that morning, and would not
                  be back until six o'clock. The carriage door was shut with a slam, and Clare was
                  driven off with a heavy heart.
               Washington and Walter Mordaunt lay behind her; life and loneliness before her.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  
                     "Lover and friend hast Thou put far from me, and hid mine acquaintance out
                        of my sight."
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "For though my lips may breathe adieu,
                        I cannot think the thing, farewell."
                     
                  
               
               TWO days of dust and disagreeables, two nights sleepless and restless, and the
                  Hungerford party drove through their own oak avenue, to the door of their
                  homestead. A good deal of bustle and confusion, an unpacking of trunks and
                  answering of questions, supper eating, and then they all dropped off, tired and
                  sleepy, to bed.
               Clare slept soundly, heavily,—for she was physically worn out; her heart and mind
                  had been on the strain for fortyeight hours, and they could bear it no longer.
                  Respite was granted her, and she slept; and slept a dreamless sleep.
               
               The next morning, the sixth of March, dawned clear and cold. Clare opened her
                  eyes, and they fell upon an old familiar picture, the head and bust of a young
                  girl, enveloped in a nest of rosebuds, with an eager, expectant look, gazing into
                  the future. The picture was a charming ideal, well realized, and beneath it Clare
                  had written 
                     
                        "O gioventu—prima vera della vita,
                        O prima vera, gioventu dell 'anno."
                     
                  
               
               In a moment, the words seemed a spell to disenchant her life. She seemed to see
                  the gulf which these latter months had placed between her and this girl with whom,
                  at seventeen, she most naturally identified herself, and she rose with a
                  consciousness that she alone, of all things there, was changed. She wandered about
                  her room, after her toilet was made, looking aimlessly for some token of her old
                  self that could bind her present self by sympathy to old times.
               It was in vain. The old books were there, but the marks she had scrawled a year
                  before seemed to have lost their significance; the pictures on the walls, all so
                  dear to her, looked upon her, it seemed to her morbid fancy, with cold, strange
                  glances; she threw open the window that showed her favorite view; she had often
                  seen it, in its winter aspect before, but never had it looked so cold and bleak.
                  She turned hastily away, and there, upon the table, lay Mr. Cary's Browning. It
                  touched "the electric chain wherewith we are darkly bound." She opened it Her eyes
                  fell on the lines,— 
                     
                        "How the March sun feels like May!
                        Only my love's away!
                        I'd as lief that the blue were gray."
                     
                  
               
               She closed the book hastily, threw herself into a chair, and thought herself back
                  in Washington, whither the lines led her. Then first the truth came over her, that
                  the old glad life was over, that it had ended when she crossed the threshold to go
                  to Washington, and that when she recrossed it, the evening before, her second life
                  had ceased; that that March morning was the beginning of a third existence, more
                  real and enduring than the others, and that she must face her fate. All this was
                  vague and dim; but it unfolded itself surely and gradually, and settled down on
                  her heart like a leaden weight.
               That morning was only the first of a series, a series which was not long, but most
                  bitter. She was in the full grasp of a struggle, most racking at any time, but the
                  more so to her that it was her first. She had not learned the secret of heavy days
                  and tearful nights—the secret so many of us know.
               Her days were a burden to her; she had no occupation, no diversion of any kind;
                  but she could bear them. But the nights! The long, long nights, when she was left
                  to herself, when she could lock her door, and show what she felt, for there was no
                  human eye to see, no human ear to hear any extorted groan or sigh. Poor child!
                  Sometimes she would walk up and down the room until she slept from sheer physical
                  fatigue; across her dreams would come the voice and hands and eyes of Mordaunt;
                  once more he was by her side, once more she trod with him the familiar streets of
                  Washington, once more she saw his bleeding hand and watered it with her tears. In
                  her dreams she was happy. But the waking was despair.
               Let us not linger over her struggles, or analyze all the workings of her heart and
                  mind; let us rather hurry over this part of her life to its results. The contest
                  was not long. Clare had not the nature to lengthen her pangs and draw out her
                  agonies. She drank her cup in quick, long draughts. She knew now that the mist had
                  been lifted, now that tranquil days and unexcited nights had shown her undistorted
                  facts,—she knew that she had been wrong and unwise; she knew that she had abused
                  the confidence placed in her by her mother; she knew that she had bound herself to
                  a man who thrust forward persistently the fact that he could not marry; that,
                  although she might argue herself into the mental conviction viction that no orthodox pledges had been given,
                  yet that she was, at that moment, as much entangled and ensnared as if her
                  betrothal had been defined and public; then she knew that the only thing left was
                  to break off—what? All connection, so that they would meet on a defined footing,
                  if, indeed, they ever met again. She thought over all their intercourse; and
                  although each review more firmly convinced her of his love, yet each review showed
                  to her reason that marriage was not contemplated by him as more than a delicious
                  dream of possibility. Surely, then, she owed it to herself, and to him, and to her
                  family, to end the affair at once. The reaction from the wild excitement nerved
                  her to it. She determined on it, and she wrote to him at once. Her letter ran
                  somewhat thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              OAKHURST, March 15th.
                           
                           Although there is no acknowledged relation between us, yet I feel that
                              our souls are bound by a chain which, however insensible, yet needs to
                              be wrenched asunder before I, at least, can feel myself free.
                           I have no right to remain in the position I am now in. I have no right
                              to deceive my family, none to keep up a clandestine relation.
                              Therefore, I now break off all connection with you most solemnly. Let
                              all things be as though they had never been. Never again can I take
                              your hand in mine, never again feel your lips upon my cheek. My tears
                              blot this paper as I write—but my heart weeps, too, and its tears
                              cannot be quenched. Do not try to change me—you know this is my duty,
                              you can never know how cruel a one. And now, before I say God be with
                              you—forever, let me tell you what you know, and what you must never
                              doubt, that you are the love of my life, that I can never love any
                              other man as I have loved, as I do love you.
                           Do not dare, Mr. Mordaunt, to judge me by other women; I am not like
                              them—but you must trust me, and forgive me—and now, once more, may God
                              guard you forever.
                           
                              CLARE HUNGERFORD.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               She allowed herself no time for deliberation, but sent the letter as soon as
                  written. Three days, three nights of feverish anxiety and prostration. Then the
                  answer came. A mere scrawl, only a blotted half sheet, most unlike Mordaunt:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           You have done very rightly—very wisely. No doubt your sense of your
                              own rectitude will sustain you. You have left nothing for me to say.
                              You have broken the chain, indeed, but the end remains knotted
                              painfully about my heart. These words that I write to you, I write as
                              they stagger out of my heart. It will not do to say more.
                           May God in heaven bless and keep you! is the fervent prayer of
                           
                              WALTER MORDAUNT.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               A man never spares a woman when he loves her. Had Walter Mordaunt contrived the
                  most cunning revenge, it could not have been more ingenious than the one he took.
                  Clare's spirit was bowed. She took the letter to her room and laid it on her
                  heart—her heart to which its every word seemed a sword-blade—and she paced the
                  floor for hours, her hands pressed tightly over her eyes as if to shut out the
                  sight of earth. What was earth to her? She was alone now. There was nothing left
                  for her but to bear her sorsow as she best could; but she must turn somewhere;
                  some support she must have. She would go to Agnes Conyers, her only real friend;
                  she would pour out her sorely-charged heart, she would lay her burden for awhile
                  down, and rest in Agnes's arms. Yes! she would make her hold her up with her
                  strong soul and ready will.
               She rang the bell, ordered her horse to be saddled, was soon dressed, and rode
                  away. A quarter of an hour's sharp riding brought her to Blythewood; she checked
                  her horse as she neared the place, and felt a sinking at the heart. The truth was,
                  she had seen but little of Agnes since her return, much less than usual, for
                  during the first week Agnes had been
                  away, and since her return Clare had fought shy of any confidences or épanchements. Still she knew the slight estrangement
                  was only temporary—a word would set it all right, and a word was easily spoken.
                  She quickened her pace, turned the corner, and saw in the piazza Agnes and a
                  gentleman; the latter was evidently making his adieux, for a groom held his horse,
                  and he was preparing to mount. Clare pulled up at the horse-block, sprang to the
                  ground before assistance could be offered, and said, "Agnes, I have come to see
                  you, and to stay and dine if you like."
               "Like, my dear! I shall be charmed. Let me introduce Mr. Lorimer to you. Miss
                  Hungerford—Mr. Lorimer."
               Clare bowed slightly, and said, "Don't let me mutilate Mr. Lorimer's last
                  sentence, or make you forget your last message. May I go to your room, Agnes?"
               "Wait a moment, Clare, and we will go together. Mr. Lorimer's horse has less
                  consideration than you for our last words, and is getting too impatient to trifle
                  with."
               "If my horse and myself were well mannered, we would have been out of sight ten
                  seconds ago; as it is, I can only wish you a very pleasant morning."
               He bowed, mounted and galloped off. The two girls looked at him for a moment; then
                  Agnes took Clare's hand, and said, "Mine bonnie love, you look fagged to death.
                  Has Marian been trying dresses on you, or making you stand moral lectures?"
               "Neither; but I am not well, and very blue. I want to talk to you."
               "Come into my room and make yourself comfortable. Take off your hat and
                  gloves."
               "Oh, Agnes! how dear and familiar this room looks! It is not changed at all. Where
                  did you get this china cup?"
               "Aunt Mary gave it to me on Christmas. She bought it at some bric-à-brac shop in Paris. Don't snap your
                  riding-whip, you'll break something on the dressing-table. Where have you been
                  since I saw you?"
               "'Fast bound in misery and iron.' Ah!"
               "Child, child! what ails you?"
               "Agnes, I came to tell you—though, after all, there is nothing to tell. Let me sit
                  on the cushion at your feet—there—like old times; put your hand on my head, and
                  give me the other one to hold. You see, Agnes, there is nothing much to tell, as I
                  said before, but I am very miserable, and want to be taken care of."
               "Yes, darling, and you shall be."
               "Listen now, Agnes, and don't interrupt me. I went to Washington and I met Walter
                  Mordaunt, and I fell in love with him, and he with me. Of course, I had no chance.
                  I had never cared for any one before, and he never so much—he was thirty, and I
                  seventeen, and I was simply in his power. I went on from one thing to another,
                  never conscious of a step, never saying a word that seemed more than the one
                  before it, until we became thoroughly involved. Oh, Agnes! the last six weeks seem
                  a wild, haunting dream. I cannot feel their reality, and yet I feel nothing else.
                  The life I led—the night life—never reminded of other ties and scenes, plunging
                  from one excitement into another, goaded by his jealousies and exactions, it made
                  me desperate. He frightened me sometimes by his wild bursts of feeling, and it
                  took all my self-control to steady him; and then, you know, he was so embittered,
                  so stung by his want of position and money, that I had to be doubly careful of
                  him. It was utterly joyless, and so galling! We had no understood relation, and
                  everything seemed underhand and deceitful. At times I had a gleam of happiness,
                  but only a transient one; and all the while the consciousness that I was
                  wrong—that I was degrading myself by concealment, that my character was losing its
                  truthfulness by daily acted and often spoken falsehoods—the resolutions to stop—to
                  take breathing space—the certain casting of those resolutions to the winds. Oh,
                  you know how wrong a secret engagement is—you cannot tell how humiliating! He told
                  me that he could not marry; he had no
                  prospect in life; at best, years lie between us, and neither my father nor mother
                  would listen to the suggestion of an engagement now. Well, I came home with the
                  print of his lips still on my cheek, the sound of his voice still ringing in my
                  ears. My old self came back to me. I saw things as they were. Agnes, I saw my
                  duty. I wrote to him; he answered me—a cruel, heart-broken note—that is all. It is
                  over, and I come to you, my only friend, for help, for counsel, for strength. It
                  is not over, although I said so. The dreariest, the most desolate
                  portion of the waste is still to be passed."
               "Clare, Clare! if I could but have saved you this! If I could only save what you
                  still must undergo! What can I say or do? Oh, my child! I am so sorry for you—so
                  very sorry for Mr. Mordaunt!"
               "Don't speak of him, I cannot bear it yet; and now that I have told you, do not
                  let us discuss it much. You know my moods, and can tell when I need comfort more
                  readily than I can ask you for it."
               "And I will give you the best I have of heart and mind; but I know of only one
                  consolation. Clare, you will not suffer long; all sorrow passes away. Time will
                  bring comfort better than any I can give. You are not morbid, you are too healthy
                  to indulge sorrow from any false sentimentality about it; nothing here will remind
                  you of him; you will have many diversions to your thoughts; the wound will heal,
                  and heal without a scar. Dear, will you hear what was once written to me by one
                  who knew it to be true, even as I know it?" And she took from a locked drawer a
                  well-worn sheet of paper, and read her words that spoke composure and patience to
                  the throbbing young heart, for they had been learned in the same school.
               "What can I say to you? I can tell you that your life's chances are still many and
                  untried; that the future has its possibilities; that there are other paradises
                  besides the one before whose closed gate you now stand wringing your hands; that
                  you have only plucked the flowers that bloom around youth's first steps; that the
                  amaranth and laurel are still to be wreathed for you, and yet you are not
                  philosophical enough to sit upon the ruins of your first temple and dream of other
                  shrines: your despair is more profound, your regret bitterer than it will ever be
                  again. You have not learned to wear your sackcloth robe as bravely as if it were
                  purple; you do not remember that though one is taken the other is left. Your wings
                  are not broken; trail them not in the dust. Of the broken fragments of life's
                  feast much yet remaineth; and, dear friend, forget not that, should you miss the
                  glory of this world, 'of such is the kingdom of Heaven.'"
               They talked on and on into the day, and Clare stayed to dinner, and still they
                  talked, until the afternoon waned, and they parted, to meet the next day—parted
                  more bound together than ever before. Clare rode home with a lighter heart than
                  she had thought possible; the very putting into words of what she had stifled so
                  long was an intense relief, and Agnes had so identified herself in interest and
                  sympathy with her that she felt as if half her burden had been transferred to
                  other shoulders.
               That night was more restful to both soul and body than any night since her return
                  home, and that night she dreamed light dreams, and Edward Lorimer flitted through
                  them.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  
                     
                        "Of love that never found his earthly close,
                        What sequel? Streaming eyes and breaking hearts,
                        Or all the same, as if he had not been?"
                     
                     
                        "Oh! tell her, swallow, thou that knowest each,
                        That bright and fierce and fickle is the South,
                        And dark and true and tender is the North."
                     
                  
               
               WHEN Clare Hungerford returned from Washington she met a great crisis, and
                  determined it; a crisis upon which depended no less than the future lives of Agnes
                  Conyers and Edward Lorimer. Lorimer had, during the winter, seen a great deal of
                  Miss Conyers, and in a way most calculated to impress him with her fine character
                  and great attractiveness. Young though he was, he yet realized her superiority,
                  and appreciated her uncommon power of companionship and sympathy. She was always
                  responsive to him, for he had great fascination for her; and he had gone on in
                  this intimacy until he found himself asking himself "Why should he not marry her?"
                  A charming picture of a peaceful country home, and a wife ever full of sympathy
                  and appreciation, rose before him with the suggestion. True, there was not much
                  romance or idealism about the feeling he could give her, but the love between them
                  would be so unusual in its trust and depth, in its calm sincerity. The depths of
                  his heart were not stirred, but all his surface tastes and desires combined to
                  make the alliance attractive; his sister loved and admired her, and the Conyerses
                  would be more than pleased at his entrance into their family. He must rejoin his
                  regiment in September—and garrison-life alone! He had been thinking in this strain
                  for some weeks when the Hungerfords came home. If they had remained away the whole
                  thing would probably have been settled; but as it was, that day at Blythewood,
                  when Clare rode up the avenue she changed the course of two lives. That day Edward
                  Lorimer saw Clare Hungerford for the first time, "and ever after he loved
                  her."
               A commonplace accidental encounter between three people, with nothing remarkable,
                  nothing dramatic about it, and yet not one of the three ever forgot it; and one at
                  least might have marked it with a black cross.
               For Agnes Conyers loved Edward Lorimer not as Clare loved Mordaunt, but as Clare
                  could never love at all; she loved him with a strange half consciousness of it
                  rising forever in her heart, a consciousness to be rendered entire by some shock
                  of disappointment or culmination.
               At the critical instant Clare Hungerford crossed Edward Lorimer's path, and in so
                  doing blighted Agnes Conyers's life. It was done almost at once, and Agnes Conyers
                  saw the result before any one even felt it. She saw clearly that this was love
                  that possessed Lorimer, that the delicate attentions, the considerate
                  thoughtfulness he had always shown her, were not the significant tokens she had
                  unconsciously dreamed them; those bits of fairy gold that she had believed so
                  precious, were nothing but leaves. She lifted the cup to her lips and drained it;
                  she folded her hands before her and looked steadily into her future. Into her
                  struggles we need not penetrate, it is with their result that we have to do.
               Honor the woman who keeps a tight hold upon her friendship although her love is
                  swept from under her feet. Agnes Conyers knew at one and the same time that she
                  loved Edward Lorimer, and that he loved Clare Hungerford. She weighed his chances
                  of success. This fancy of Clare's seemed fading and becoming less real every day.
                  Agnes had never assumed it to be her real love, and she could see that Clare
                  turned with pleasure to Edward Lorimer's companionship. There was no reason why
                  she should not love him, many why she should, and Agnes could think of no happier
                  fate for her dearest friend than a union with Edward Lorimer. She determined to cast herself into the
                  balance and help him to his end; so she buried deep, deep in her soul, all her own
                  longings, piled on the grave her friendships and her duties, and sat down to wait
                  patiently.
               The weeks went by. All intercourse begins with the same conventionalities; the
                  Lorimers called on the Hungerfords, and the Hungerfords returned the visit. Marian
                  said Miss Lorimer was charming, and Mr. Lorimer extremely attractive, and they
                  must be asked to dine. Indeed, it was mamma's duty to invite some of their
                  neighbors to meet them—such a lovely girl, with such a romantic story! Sharp
                  Marian! she knew how long the spring would seem without even a glimpse of a
                  flirtation to enliven it; and, she thought that Edward Lorimer would meet the
                  occasion admirably. She was mistaken; not Frederick Cary himself could have
                  repelled her advances more adroitly or more effectually, and Marian gave up the
                  hope, with a yawn and a sigh, when she found that, during three days Clare spent
                  at Blythewood, Lorimer's horse turned his head in that direction, and the gate at
                  Oakhurst was not opened for his coming until Clare was there to greet him.
               As March softened into April, and April lengthened into May, Clare and Lorimer
                  grew very intimate. He paid her an infinity of attentions, not marked, but most
                  remarkable from their propriety and delicacy. He glided into her habits, singular
                  and uncertain as they were, and anticipated her wishes. They had many tastes in
                  common; when Clare quoted her favorite lines, there was an answering smile in
                  Lorimer's eyes; when he spoke of some dear picture, she had known and loved it
                  too. He could tell her of spring days on the Campagna, and long summer nights on
                  the Pyrenees, as well as Cary—nay, better than Cary, who never forgot that though
                  there was a Campagna, yet there was a Frederick Cary too; while Lorimer talked a
                  great deal of one, and not at all of the other. Indeed, Lorimer talked very little
                  of himself, and not much of Clare. They had many other things to occupy them. He
                  taught her to row; and Clare laughed her old happy laugh again, at the mistakes
                  she made; and in return, she read him pages from his pet books—a very dangerously
                  sentimental thing to do with certain poets. Clare was almost happy; her old
                  light-hearted joyousness returned, and she was only at times a prey to that blank
                  despair and intense depression which is the peculiar characteristic of youth's
                  first sorrows. As we grow older, we learn to endure, and cease to feel so deeply;
                  we have not so many chambers to enter, not so many vails to lift; we have gained
                  somewhat from our losses and crosses, patience and will. But this depression soon
                  passed away, as the thought of Mordaunt grew less constant. There was nothing to
                  suggest him; no place where she had been with him; no one to mention his name; his
                  presence had passed out of her daily life. Everything was different; Clare rode on
                  horse back with Lorimer, but her memories were not stirred by the thought of her
                  winter rides, of a hand on her pommel and a voice in her ear; for Lorimer in no
                  way suggested Mordaunt: they spoke of things to which Mordaunt was a stranger.
                  They sauntered on spring days through lanes and glades; before it had been a sharp
                  canter on snowy ice-bound roads. Then, when Clare dismounted, she had no pleasant
                  things to think of, but a good deal of excitement to react from; now, she came up
                  the stairs to her room, with a sunny smile in her blue eyes, singing to herself
                  some words from Tennyson, or murmuring over a line or two from Shelley, which
                  Lorimer had quoted. Her life was a pastoral: "Sleepily wore on the stilly summer
                  day;" and Clare slumbered lightly with it.
               "'Mr. Lorimer's compliments to Miss Clare Hungerford, and will she ride with him
                  to-day?' was the message, Clare," said Marian, coming into Clare's room, about ten
                  o'clock, one morning late in April.
               
               "Where is Mr. Lorimer, Marian?"
               "Talking to mamma, and playing with your riding-whip."
               "I did not say, what is he doing; I said where is he?"
               "Look out of the other window, and you will see him."
               Clare did look out of the window, and saw Mr. Lorimer indeed; but saw something
                  else, that made her gasp out, "Oh, Marian, look here!"
               Lorimer's dog Turco had followed him to the house, and, at the moment when Clare
                  looked out, had plunged into a desperate fight with her particular favorite and
                  property, Folly. The dogs fought as if they meant business, and a few moments
                  would have ended Folly's frivolous existence, had not Lorimer sprung forward,
                  seized Turco by the collar, and tried to separate them. It was impossible. Turco's
                  teeth were firmly set in Folly's throat, and Lorimer saw that nothing was to be
                  done. At that instant he heard Clare's agonized tones, as she exclaimed, "Oh, Mr.
                  Lorimer, save poor Folly!"
               He set his teeth, thought for one second of the years during which Turco had clung
                  to him closer than a brother, drew his breath hard, clubbed his riding-whip, and
                  struck his faithful old friend a sharp blow full between his eyes. The dog let go
                  his hold, rolled slowly over, and fell a dead weight against Lorimer's knee.
                  Edward clasped him convulsively in his arms, but did not stir. The next moment
                  Clare Hungerford stood before him; she screamed with delight, as Folly sprang into
                  her arms safe and untorn. But as she squeezed her pet to her heart, her eyes fell
                  upon Turco's stiffening body and upon Edward Lorimer's bowed head. With a woman's
                  instinct she knew the story; with a woman's quickness she carried Folly to the
                  groom, sent her to the stable, and leaned against the piazza until Lorimer should
                  speak. For the first few moments words would not come to him; his heart was very
                  full. He did not regret his impulse. No, he would have killed the dog a hundred
                  times to save her a pang; but the tenderness of pent-up years had been lavished on
                  the brute; and Turco had returned it by that blind devotion never shown to us save
                  by a faithful dog; and Edward Lorimer's own act had shown him, better than
                  anything else had yet done, how engulfed he was by his feeling for Clare.
               He almost choked; he felt that tightening of the heartstrings best known as
                     serrement de cœur, as he ran over rapidly and
                  involuntarily the years in which he had turned to Turco, from the faithlessness
                  and heartlessness of men. But it would not do to think of it any longer; with a
                  strong effort he restrained his emotion, and, jumping up, said to his groom, who
                  stood at some distance, "Here, John, mount your horse, and take the dog home; lay
                  him in my study on the lounge, and leave him there until I come home." Then,
                  turning to Miss Hungerford, he said, "Did you ever read Boccaccio? I suppose not;
                  but this is only a modern version of one of the prettiest of his tales. I would
                  tell it to you—but I am afraid the new reality would spoil the old fiction, and
                  then, too, you might not like the moral."
               "I am so very sorry that you—"
               "Sorry that I killed the dog? Do not be sorry for that; indeed I am only sorry
                  that you should be, as you naturally are, shocked and distressed."
               "You know just how I feel; and how generous and kind I think you were to sacrifice
                  your pet to mine; yet I cannot say so nicely or satisfactorily."
               "Don't try," he said. "I had better not talk of it, for I don't want to magnify my
                  deed; and yet I loved the dog too much, to speak lightly of his death."
               Clare held out her hand to him, with a gesture of tender sympathy. He took it in
                  both of his, pressed it gently, and let it go.
               "Miss Hungerford, we had better start, had we not? The sun is getting high." He
                  looked into her eyes, and saw that they were filled with tears.
               
               "Thank you," he said simply; "your tears are a gracious reward."
               That day did more for Edward Lorimer, in his mistress's heart, than all the other
                  days had done. His sacrifice, made so readily and dealt with so lightly, sank deep
                  into her sensibilities.
               Agnes Conyers stood in her father's library, looking out of the window, watching
                  for Clare Hungerford. A German book and dictionary lay on the table beside her,
                  ready for the reading, which the girls ostensibly did on certain days. The long
                  French window was open, and the mild April air promised other things to Agnes than
                  those she was telling herself in the silence of her own heart, if that can be
                  called silence which was but a cry for the unattainable. She had not yet learned
                  to listen indifferently to the gossip about Lorimer's attentions to Clare, and the
                  chances that she would accept him, and the suitability of the match; and yet to
                  all these things she had been listening—yes, and answering—for the last hour,
                  until she felt that she could bear no more. Now she stood at the open window,
                  looking out on the long lines of slope and woodland, "clothed in tenderest green,"
                  on the break in the landscape that showed the beautiful river, glittering in the
                  morning sun, and the myriad of white sails borne seaward; and as she gazed on the
                  lovely scene, so bright, so calm, so peaceful, she leaned her head against the
                  glass and wished that she, too, could take unto herself those white wings, and fly
                  away and be at rest.
               There was no sympathy between her and the April day; the green hills and the blue
                  water, so glad of the sunshine, seemed to mock her.
               Surely, on spring days, one should not be alone. Surely, when all else is loved
                  and happy, one should love and be happy too.
               She was not happy; she yearned for what was never to be hers; and, in the
                  intensity of her longing, she wished for some dreadful blow, some horrible crash,
                  to break this dull monotony of endurance. "They that be slain with the sword, are
                  better than they that be slain with hunger;" and she was perishing with hunger,
                  while there were hirelings who had enough, and to spare. She broke into a sob of
                  self-pity—a sob that recalled her to her own strong self—and with a prayer, a cry,
                  wordless, but, in my belief, heard and answered, she said, "This will not do!"
                  turned from the window, and began to translate an almost untranslatable scene in
                  the play she had begun the day before. She was puzzling over an apparently
                  meaningless sentence, when she heard Clare's horse coming up the avenue, and, in a
                  few minutes, Clare herself was on the porch.
               "Oh, Agnes! what a lovely day! How cool you look! How warm I am!"
               "Cloth is warmer than calico, my dear," said Agnes, kissing the cheek that only
                  showed heat by a deeper rosy shade.
               "And you have been reading without me! How very remarkably unfair! However, I have
                  not come to read today, so don't try to make me. I want to tell you a story, and
                  to ask your advice, and to take your advice, if you have any to give."
               "Where will you tell your story?"
               "Down in the woods, where it is sweet and shady."
               "And damp."
               "There spoke the spirit of seventy-five! Come, Agnes, be gay and giddy, and
                  foolish, like me;" and Clare gathered up her riding-habit and bounded down the
                  terrace.
               Agnes snatched up her hat and followed her, more slowly. The woods were as near
                  the house as woods should always be; in less than three minutes, Agnes Conyers was
                  seated on the stump of an old oak, while Clare was lying at her feet, telling the
                  story of Turco and Edward.
               "Now, Agnes, my dear, there can be only one opinion on the subject—his conduct was
                  very fine, and I wish to reward him for
                  it. Fine actions are always rewarded—look at a shipwreck."
               "They generally give the captain a gold chronometer, don't they?"
               "Agnes, that is foolish. I want to show Mr. Lorimer that I appreciate his great
                  kindness, and am duly grateful, and so on. How would you do it?"
               "Why don't you tell him so?"
               "Agnes, that is foolish. I can't tell him so, it is so awkward;
                  besides, I did tell him yesterday. But I want to do something
                  grateful, something permanent. I have an idea; it is this, I will give him a
                  dog."
               "Well, dear, I think that will do very well; what dog will you give him?
                  Folly?"
               "I can't part with Folly—you don't think I need?"
               "Of course not; and I don't think Folly a suitable present. Folly's an idiot."
               "Agnes! Folly is as clever as some people I know."
               "Which proves nothing. Has Folly ever done anything wise or sensible, in the
                  course of her pampered life?"
               "Poor Folly! But I won't part with her; so don't think of it, Agnes. Now, Agnes, I
                  have a plan. I mean to buy a dog."
               "Where?"
               "Oh! anywhere."
               "When?"
               "Oh! some day soon."
               "How?"
               "How provoking you are, when that is precisely what I came over here for, to ask
                  your advice on the subject! Now, Agnes, let us be decided, let us be prompt. I
                  suppose this will cost mints of money?"
               "Yes; if you want to buy a nice dog, it will."
               "Of course I do! I wish to buy the nicest dog in the world. Where do you think I
                  could get one? There are no dog fanciers at Denton, I suppose?"
               "No, none. I don't believe you can buy anything better than a dirty white cur
                  there; and, if you bought a dog at Denton, the whole river-side would know
                  it."
               "I don't want any one to know it."
               "Not your mother?"
               "After the dog is bought, not before; and certainly not Marian, for she will think
                  it outrageous. She never gave any man a dog, and Laura Preston never gave any one
                  a dog; and Marian thinks that what she and Laura Preston have never done, should
                  never be done. Agnes, do you like Laura Preston?"
               "Yes, don't you?"
               "I don't know. Sometimes yes, sometimes no. I have a feeling about her, a feeling
                  that I don't exactly fathom her, and I am not up to her in anything."
               "Up to her in beauty, certainly."
               "I don't think she is ugly. I think sometimes she looks as attractive as any one I
                  ever saw. It isn't that I object to in her. I never know what she thinks or feels.
                  Do you know, she reminds me of that very reserved maid Marian had?"
               "What, that dark-haired, dark-eyed, French-looking woman? I can't imagine two
                  people more unlike."
               "Not in personal appearance; but that woman always was so self-contained, so
                  perfectly impenetrable. She must have done some remarkable thing in the course of
                  her life."
               "My dear! she was the daughter of Mrs. Schuyler's Scotch gardener, and well known
                  to every one here from her babyhood, and never did anything, except dress Marian
                  and marry a conductor on the railroad."
               "Agnes, I cannot be deceived; you will see."
               "Clare, you will break your riding-whip; and now about the dog. Clare, don't punch
                  holes with that delicate handle. I have a plan."
               "Dear Agnes! what is it?"
               "In the first place, have you any money?"
               
               "The mint I mentioned. Papa gave it to me before he went away, and I can take some
                  out of my allowance. Part of papa's money I meant to buy a lovely Shakspeare with;
                  but now I mean to spend it all on this dog."
               "There, Clare! you have broken that whip, you careless girl!"
               "Never mind; it can easily be mended. Don't scold, but tell me about that
                  plan."
               "Clare, I thought you could do this. You won't be able to buy a dog at any place
                  nearer than New York. Now we—you and I—could go down and spend four or five days
                  with my Aunt Eleanor. You know her."
               "What, that jam woman?"
               "Clare!"
               Clare burst into a fit of laughter.
               "I mean the lady who gives us jam between rolls, under the impression we are still
                  children of seven."
               "Clare, she is one of the best and kindest and dearest old ladies in the
                  world."
               "Agnes, I know she is."
               "And if you only knew her touching story!"
               "Dear, I did not mean to be a brute. I only alluded to her in a disrespectful way.
                  Don't be vexed."
               "Clare, I can't be long vexed with you. Now, you see, we could spend several days
                  with her; you did stay there once, you know, and she is always asking you to come,
                  and I mean to go next week, and it would be a splendid chance. You will have much
                  jam to eat."
               "Agnes, I adore jam—especially between rolls. Your plan is an excellent one; I
                  think it does you much credit, my dear. When shall we go? And how are we to get a
                  dog when we are there? Does—does your aunt know many dog fanciers?"
               "No, none; nor yet does she keep dogs herself, which is what you wanted to ask;
                  but I have thousands of cousins, whom we can press into the service. What kind of
                  a dog do you mean to get?"
               "I don't know; what do you think?"
               "Do you remember that wolf-hound of Mrs. Granger's, that was nine feet from the
                  tip of its nose to the tip of its tail?"
               "All the money I ever owned would not buy that dog's tail and one ear."
               "Then, do you remember that very small dog Edward Savage brought from England,
                  that little terrier?"
               "What an antithesis! Yes, I remember that snapping, yapping, ugly thing."
               "A setter is a nice dog."
               "Eminently respectable. What do you think of a bulldog, Agnes?"
               "Horrible!"
               "And as for bull-terriers, the more crooked their legs the greater their value. I
                  would rather have a little dog, I think, yet not too little; it must be a
                  combination of affection and intellect, and follow him about, and do funny, wise
                  things. A paragon of dogs, in short."
               "I see."
               "Now, Agnes, the more quickly we do it the finer it will be. I can't bear
                  delay."
               Truly did Clare speak when she said she could not bear delay. From the moment her
                  plan was settled, she was impatient until it was put into execution; she thought
                  Agnes guilty of unnecessary delays, and rode over to Blythewood every day to
                  expedite her. Mrs. Hungerford was to take the girls to New York, do some shopping,
                  and spend the night. They were to stay four days; the second day of their visit
                  was to be the "dog day," as Clare called it; but, alas! on the morning of the
                  second day Agnes had too bad a headache to stir from the sofa, and lay there,
                  passively quiescent, while her aunt proffered her tea and cologne, and Clare
                  wandered restlessly about the house, reading a little, playing a little, and
                  yawning a good deal, finally winding up by a luncheon of rolls and jam, in which
                  she was interrupted rupted by a
                  boy-cousin of Agnes's, a nice fellow, very devoted to Clare, of whom he had seen a
                  great deal during several summers spent at Blythewood. He was not more than
                  fourteen, and a thorough boy, and Clare and he were, in a certain way, intimate.
                  After their luncheon, he proposed that she should take a walk with his in the
                  square opposite. She threw on her bonnet and shawl, and the two went out together.
                  Suddenly the idea struck Clare of communicating her dilemma to George, and, after
                  having bound him to inviolable secrecy, she told him how anxious she was to buy a
                  dog, a particularly nice dog; how she had come to New York solely for that
                  purpose; that Agnes's headache prevented her from going out. The next day was
                  Sunday, and dogs cannot be bought on Sunday; Monday, something might happen to
                  prevent; and Tuesday they would be obliged to return, ignominiously and
                  doglessly.
               "Why can't we two go and buy a dog?" asked the boy, bluntly.
               "I don't know; I suppose we can."
               "Come round the corner, then, so that Aunt Eleanor shan't see us, and let us go
                  and look for one."
               "Now?"
               "Yes, of course; I know a dog fancier, a real jolly fellow; I go there pretty
                  often sometimes. I've lost seven dogs in thirteen months, Miss Clare. What do you
                  think of that?"
               "I think I would never have another. Where does your friend live?"
               "The dog fancier? Ever so far. I don't believe you can walk so far; I guess we'll
                  have to get in an omnibus. Do you mind getting in one?"
               "Certainly not; but, George, is it a respectable part of the town?"
               "Oh, yes! it isn't fashionable, you know, and it isn't very neat, but is perfectly
                  respectable; and you needn't say you've been there, if you don't like it. There's
                  an omnibus! Hoy!" and he started on a run to catch it at the corner. Clare
                  followed him, was pushed in, he jumped in after her; they looked at each other and
                  laughed.
               "This is a frolic!" George said. What if Aunt Eleanor should see you now?
                  Crikey!"
               "George, don't say crikey. George, what a quantity of straw there is in this
                  omnibus! George, are you sure it is a respectable place?"
               "Look, and see."
               So far there was nothing to be seen but rows of very nice-looking houses; but
                  gradually, as the omnibus lumbered along, the houses grew smaller, and the general
                  air of the place degenerated. Half an hour's jolting brought them to a corner,
                  where they got out and walked a square, George saying, apologetically, "You know I
                  said it was not neat."
               The houses were not squalid, but a great many dirty children were playing in the
                  stagnant gutters, and washing their hands in a stream of blue water that came down
                  an alley from a dyer's; yellow and red calicoes fluttered on clothes lines; women
                  called, in shrill scolding tones, to fighting lads.
               Clare drew her shawl closer around her, and stepped carefully over the uneven
                  pavement. They turned a corner—they went up the steps of a very nice-looking house
                  with a door-plate and number, and hyacinths in the window—a most agreeable change
                  from the squalor of the cross street.
               "Is this the place?"
               "This is the place."
               A nice-looking girl about thirteen came to the door. She said her father was out,
                  but she thought her brother would know. The brother appeared, a small, keen-eyed
                  child of twelve years in age and twenty in sharpness, who carried his hands in his
                  pockets, and smelt of the stables. His father had gone to his regular place of
                  business; this wasn't his place of business, this was the house where he lived
                     at. "He reckoned he had a dog what
                  would suit the young lady. What kind of a dog would she like? Would she like a
                  spaniel? He thought his father had a dog she would like, an English spaniel of a
                  queer-named breed; he had it unless he had sold it;" but "them there dogs were
                  rare and dear," concluded the little lad, who knew more of a bargain than he did
                  of grammar. Much conversation ensued, which resulted in his promising to bring
                  three or four "choice dogs" to the house the next afternoon, "at or about dusk,
                  and then you can take your pick," he added, patronizingly. This was perfectly
                  satisfactory, and George and Clare went merrily homeward, arriving just in time to
                  avert Miss Eleanor's anxiety and to dress hurriedly for dinner.
               Agnes's headache was better, and after dinner Clare went up to sit with her. She
                  was too full of the morning's expedition to keep it to herself, so, after having
                  said "Agnes" a great many times and then diverged to some other subject, she told
                  her story. Agnes was a little shocked, and very much amused; blamed George a great
                  deal, and Clare a little; and finally agreed to take her Aunt Eleanor to church on
                  Sunday afternoon, that the field might be left clear for the "choice dogs."
               Poor Miss Eleanor never missed church on any account, and went off with Agnes very
                  calmly and quietly, while Clare looked on with smiles, and George with suppressed
                  giggles. The door had hardly closed behind them when Clare rushed to the window to
                  watch for the dog fancier. She grew very impatient as the time passed, and was
                  declaring her conviction that he had forgotten, when she saw the small boy coming
                  up the sidewalk accompanied by another boy still smaller, still keener eyed, his
                  hands still more empochêes. Clare flew to open
                  the front door to them, and, in a second, was on her knees in the hall uttering
                  exclamations of delight and affection over the most charming spaniel she had ever
                  seen. George shared her enthusiasm, and they had just decided that nothing could
                  surpass this dog, when the smaller of the small boys produced from his pocket the
                  tiniest terrier in the world—a terrier which he was determined to sell to Clare,
                  and on which he proceeded to expatiate vehemently. He told of its age, and its
                  intelligence, and its wonderful smallness; how it could lie on a breakfast plate;
                  how clever, and affectionate, and obedient it was, and, above all, how cheap. He
                  named the lowest of low prices for so much smallness, and cleverness, and
                  obedience, and Clare was tempted by the bargain, though she preferred the spaniel;
                  but George kept pinching her arm, and whispering, "Don't buy it! Don't buy it!"
                  And the spaniel was purchased and paid for; and then Clare recollected that she
                  had no place to keep it, and that she had better have it brought to the wharf, on
                  Tuesday morning, that she could take it home with her; and then George suggested
                  that the boy should return the money until that date; and then the terrier was
                  returned to the smaller boy's pocket, with one last allusion to the breakfast
                  plate, and then they went away. The great deed was done, and Clare proceeded to
                  dance a dance of joy in the parlor.
               But the terrier turned up again. The next night, while George was reading the
                  morning's Herald he came across a paragraph that made him give a
                  shout of laughter—a paragraph that he showed to Clare with much mystery, when
                  Agnes had left the room—a paragraph which announced that five dollars reward would
                  be given for the return, to No. 16 East Eighteenth Street, of a very small black
                  and tan terrier, answering to the name of Mite. Clare's rejoicing at her escape
                  was great, George's triumph at his sagacity greater.
               The dog was brought to the wharf and taken to Oak-hurst, and put in Edward
                  Lorimer's arms, and taken into his heart immediately. There was much discussion
                  about the name, much conversation about the dog at all times; and truly he proved
                  to be everything a dog should be—handsomer than Turco, and quite as affectionate.
                  He soon learned to follow Edward Lorimer
                  about, and he always had a special fondness for Clare, and slighted Marian's
                  proffers of cake and bones, and everything unnecessary, preferring instead to lie
                  on Clare's dress and look up at her with his beautiful beseeching brown eyes. But
                  he loved his master best, and they were never separated except when Edward Lorimer
                  found it impossible to take his comrade with him.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               
                  
                     
                        "Oh what a fancy ecstatic,
                        Was the poor heart's ere the wanderer went on,
                        Love to be saved for it, proffered to, spent on!"
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "The rose is fairest when 'tis budding new;
                        And hope is brightest when it dawns from fears."
                     
                  
               
               "IT is the first day of May, and here are some rosebuds for you, Miss Hungerford,"
                  said Edward Lorimer, springing from his horse and holding out a basket to Clare.
                  She was standing on the steps of the piazza at Blythewood.
               "Genus May, Species rose; what a combination, and how kind you are! May I ask
                  where they came from?"
               "No, do not; the poetry of the offering ends with the few facts I mentioned; their
                  birthplace and journey are not in keeping with them or you, or the day.—Miss
                  Conyers," he went on, bowing to Agnes who appeared at the moment, "I have come to
                  spend the morning, if you will let me."
               "Yes, but you must fall in with our schemes for the day, and not be either
                     ennuyé or treat us en
                     grand seigneur."
               "I will promise both those things if you will assure me that I will not be in the
                  way."
               "I am sure of that, Mr. Lorimer," said Clare, "for Agnes and I are not the best
                  friends in the world to-day, and will be glad of some other target besides each
                  other's shortcomings."
               "A pleasant prospect for me, to be riddled by two such archeresses; nevertheless,
                  I will take my chances. And now, what is the order of the day?"
               "Simply a morning in the woods. We drive over in the pony-carriage and come back
                  to dinner; take a little lunch, and a book to read aloud."
               "Capital! I will drive the ponies, and I will read aloud, and eat the lunch; and
                  you and Miss Hungerford shall talk."
               "A thoroughly leonine division of spoils! Clare, are you going up stairs for your
                  hat?"
               "Precisely, Agnes."
               "Then, bring mine. What are you going to do with your rosebuds?"
               "Keep them till they wither, and then—"
               "Throw them away," said Lorimer, quickly raising his eyes to hers.
               "If you will finish my sentences, Mr. Lorimer, I cannot be so ill
                  bred as to contradict your conclusions."
               He looked around, Agnes had turned away to give an order to the groom; they were
                  alone for the moment. He stepped forward: "One rosebud at least
                  shall, with your gracious permission, belie my hasty assertion; will you give me
                  one for myself?"
               "You had better let them all stay together, Mr. Lorimer. I will keep them fresh
                  longer than you can; and a dead flower is a dreary thing."
               "Not when it is eloquent with a living sentiment, Miss Hungerford."
               "I do not know; I cannot bear anything of that class. Think, would you care to
                  represent this lovely May morning, so full of joy and sunlight, to yourself, by a
                  scentless, colorless, crumbling rose?"
               "I should, strange as it may seem to you—and more than that, I could look at it,
                  until it bloomed before my eyes, once more a fragrant blossom; until the first of
                  May once more shone around me; until I
                  once more was in your presence."
               "Well, of course, I cannot give you one now, too much has been said; it could not
                  be made a graceful thing now, and I am principled against an awkward one."
               "I will not persist; flowers and favors are delicate creatures and don't bear much
                  handling." He dropped his handkerchief as he spoke, upon a white bud, with which
                  Clare had been toying in a tantalizing way, and which had a moment before fallen
                  to the ground.
               As he let his handkerchief fall, Clare made a step forward; the next would have
                  been upon the concealed flower. Lorimer saw the danger. "Miss Conyers is at the
                  other window, I think, Miss Hungerford."
               She turned quickly; he stooped at the second, pocketed his property—lawful and
                  stolen—and joined her as she stepped upon the piazza.
               They all started for the woods. Agnes sitting beside Lorimer, and Clare playing
                  with her King Charles on the back seat, only joining in the conversation at times
                  and by monysyllables.
               "Where are we going?" said Lorimer.
               "To a glen on your property, of which you probably do not know; we found it years
                  ago in one of our childish scrambles. Take this turn, Mr. Lorimer. Now you see
                  that elm beyond the fence; stop there, and fasten the ponies."
               "What are you thinking of, Miss Hungerford?" said Lorimer in a low tone, as she
                  came up to the ponies' heads; "you said the other day that you gave your opinions
                  to every one and your feelings to few; won't you talk to me about something for
                  which you really care?"
               "I hardly know what I do care for, Mr. Lorimer," said Clare, musingly; "I am very
                  fond of Washington, and of Agnes, and of Folly."
               "Oh, no, Miss Hungerford, I don't mean places, or people ple, or dogs! I mean
                  feelings, sentiments, cherished fancies; talk to me of what interests your heart
                  as well as your head."
               "I feel as if I had no heart, Mr. Lorimer, it has been so hammered and
                  beaten."
               "It is not possible!" he said with a shiver. They had walked after Agnes, who led
                  the way. "It cannot be that you have known sorrow already! Heaven forbid!"
               "I don't know, perhaps, not. But oh, Mr. Lorimer, I feel so old at times, so
                  painfully old; and then, again, I am young, and have much youth left,
                  and—but I ought not to talk so."
               "Why not? will you not always say anything to me you like? I wish you would use me
                  as you do an old chest—just to toss anything into which you were tired of wearing,
                  or anything that you wanted to mend, or anything that you wanted to
                     keep."
               "Shall I? May I? And will you always be interested, and never impatient? And will
                  you give me just as much good advice as I like, and never as much as I want?"
               "I will promise anything, if you will be friends with me, and let me know when you
                  are dull, and why."
               "Suppose you are not by me—and suppose I don't know why?"
               "But you must analyze yourself, and find out. Here we are. I imagine Miss Conyers
                  looks expectantly at me; so I must say something."
               It was a place to extort some exclamation from any one, being a wild glen, strewed
                  with masses of rock, while through its center ran a deep and beautifully clear
                  brook, rippling and purling along, singing gently to itself as it traveled by the
                  grasses and flowers on its edge, always one song: "Going home, going home."
               They threw themselves down under a clump of trees, close upon the bank. "What
                  peace and rest, and yet what ceaseless activity in nature!" said Agnes; "but all
                  the work is done so exquisitely well that
                  no creaking of the wheels shows them to be in motion. "She rested her head on her
                  hand, and thought—thought of her life and its probabilities, of its last recently
                  forsaken hope, of her work yet to be done, of Lorimer and Clare—would they ever
                  know, would he ever know, how she had cared for him? Perhaps on his deathbed she
                  could convey it to him, perhaps the past would show clear before he died—he would
                  recognize her soul.
               She put the dream away—between it and her lay miles of sand and rock. After all,
                  would Clare ever marry him? Was she bound to help him to try for what he might
                  never get? What if Clare did react from her affair with Mr. Mordaunt; she might
                  not love Edward Lorimer! And if she did, would they be happy? Agnes Conyers
                  thought of all these things until her head ached. She turned to her companions;
                  they had strayed to a little distance—Clare was sitting on a projecting rock,
                  dropping pebbles into the stream; Lorimer was leaning against the bank, looking up
                  at her—they were talking earnestly: there was no mistaking his manner. Agnes tried
                  to catch Clare's expression, but it told her nothing. She sighed heavily, took up
                  a book and began to read.
               What were they talking of?
               "Miss Hungerford, let me put my gloves under your feet."
               "Oh, no."
               "But I must; indeed it is quite damp there; you often mount by my hand, why should
                  you not rest your feet upon my gloves?"
               "Oh! mounting is a conventionality; this is an extra 'petit soin,' and should be accepted with acknowledgments."
               "Do you dislike being soignée?"
               "Dislike it! I delight in it—if I were a grande
                     dame, I would never pick up a pin lying at my foot. I hope, if I ever
                  marry, my husband will not mind paying me small attentions; big ones I
                  detest."
               "For instance."
               "Oh, well! diamond necklaces, gray ponies with long tails, and such things."
               "And what comes under the head of small ones?"
               "Well, flowers, and bonbons, and perfumes, and books, and—oh, you know, Mr.
                  Lorimer; it is too troublesome to specify. Oh, dear! there goes my glove."
               "Where?"
               "Down the stream."
               "Oh yes, I see it;" and he stepped deliberately into the brook and fished it
                  out.
               "A soaked gant de suede is very like a bonnet
                  with soiled strings, or a stocking with holes in it; but still, Mr. Lorimer, I am
                  very much indebted, and very sorry, if you got wet."
               "That is of little consequence. I don't think I agree with you about a soaked
                     gant de suede; I have no doubt this one will
                  be very useful to me. I shall have it framed, and underneath write some extracts
                  from Schiller's 'Glove,' and Browning's version."
               "Oh, Mr. Lorimer! you are unkind. I did not say much, but I was grateful; and,
                  besides, never mention Browning to me, I can't bear to mix my associations."
               "With whom is he associated to you?" asked Lorimer, quickly.
               "With Washington," said Clare, blushing. "Oh! I'll tell you all of it some
                  day."
               "Is it a long story?"
               "No; but it has a good deal in it; and, if we are to be intimate, you must know
                  all about me."
               "May I, indeed? and will you really learn to like me?"
               "I do like you."
               "Is that all you have to say?" he said, fixing his brown eyes on her. "Miss
                  Hungerford, excuse the diversion, but how do you think a woman's capacity for
                  loving compares with a man's?"
               
               "A deep question, that involves a long answer; I think the capacity bound to
                  neither sex in extent. I think women always love unlike men, generally more
                  entirely; but I have a vague undefined idea that some men can love as women rarely
                  do—I do not like to say never."
               "It is hard for me to believe," he said, thoughtfully, "that any woman could love
                  me as I could her."
               "Are you so sure of yourself?" said Clare.
               "In that way, yes; I know that I am capable of being excited and moved by a number
                  of women; but, at the same time, my analysis of myself is thorough enough for me
                  to see that I am not in deep water, however the waves may foam and toss; and I am
                  sure, if ever I am shot through the heart, I shall be incurable. If I am
                  unfortunate, then I shall live on, as a bird with a broken wing does—don't laugh
                  at me, Miss Hungerford. 
                     "He jests at scars who never felt a wound.'"
                  
               
               "How do you know that?" said Clare, impulsively.
               She was startled by the sudden pallor of his face, and the quiver of his voice, as
                  he said, "Oh, do not tell me that! do not tell me that all your sex
                  must love more than once before they love forever; you are too young, too fresh;
                  your heart has never been touched."
               "Yes, Mr. Lorimer, it has; it has been cruelly wounded; but the healing process is
                  fast progressing, and I hope time will do for me, what it does for all of us,
                  soften and dissipate, if it cannot obliterate."
               "Will you tell me now what happened to you?" he said. "I can bear it better all at
                  once."
               "In a few words, I can—I will—I—"
               "No, no, no! I will not hear you. Tell me but one thing. Is this fancy, this
                  liking, this—love, if you will—over?"
               "It is," she answered; "it is, I believe before God."
               "Then let us bury it, if it be indeed dead; here on this mossy bank
                  let its sepulchre be. Never let us speak of it again; let it be as little of a
                  reality as possible. Forgive me, Miss Hungerford, I hardly know what I am
                  saying."
               "Indeed I am not displeased, I have nothing to forgive—I am most glad to close the
                  subject forever. Make it a dead letter. And now, if you like, let us go back to
                  Miss Conyers; I cannot talk more about this or anything."
               They rejoined Agnes, and they read and lunched, and read again; "the Day Dream,"
                  from Tennyson, and sandwiches from a basket, furnishing the component parts of the
                  entertainment.
               The conversation was, as always between these three strangely assorted people,
                  slightly constrained, and yet intimate in tone. Edward always regarded Agnes as a
                  confidential friend to himself, and as the almost sister of the woman he loved;
                  his part consequently was easy to sustain, but the two women were both conscious
                  of themselves and of each other.
               They turned their steps homeward, and drove back to Blythewood.
               Edward bade them good day without entering, and rode away.
               The two girls ran up stairs and began to dress for dinner, each wishing to speak
                  to the other about their late companion, both hesitating as to the best method of
                  introducing the subject. At last Agnes began, "Clare, I don't think you fancy
                  Edward Lorimer."
               "Why, Agnes?"
               "Because you never get beyond a certain point—he makes no headway with you."
               "You forget that Mr. Lorimer is not in the same position to me that he is to you.
                  I have not known him nearly so long or so intimately."
               "That is true, but I do not mean that. Oh, Clare! I may as well be frank—you must
                  see how he cares for you."
               Clare flushed with pleasure; it was a long while since she had done so, and yet it was not like her old
                  flushes, no bitterness or drawback—sheer pleasure; it was a very sweet thing to
                  have gained Edward Lorimer's heart, and she wished she could love him—she wondered
                  if she ever could; and then she thought of the stories she had read of a woman's
                  heart, inexorable at first, turning at last and becoming the property of some
                  Jacob who had toiled seven years for it—and then she thought of the wealth of love
                  and tenderness this man could give, of his gentleness and thoughtfulness, of his
                  depth and truth. All this time Agnes had been waiting patiently for Clare's
                  answer. It came at last.
               "He does care for me, I believe—and oh, Agnes! I care for him, not as
                  I ever cared before; but it is such a restful thing, such a haven!"
               "Can you? Oh, darling, is it true? Clare, don't deceive yourself or him. It would
                  be a fearful thing to tamper with his heart."
               "I cannot talk of this. I will deal rightly with him, though, dearest—be sure of
                  that;" and they kissed each other.
               That evening a groom brought the following letter to Clare Hungerford from Edward
                  Lorimer. She answered it before she slept.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              May 1st.
                           
                           May I write to you? Will you read what I dare not ask you to hear? My
                              heart is so full that I must write even if you never get the
                              letter.
                           To-day has shown you—what many other days have shown you—that I love
                              you, that you are to me the sum of all that I desire, the height I
                              aspire to. I have gone on in this matter most unconsciously; I only
                              knew that you were the only realization of my ideal that I had ever
                              known. I wake to find that I love you—ah, Miss Hungerford! I cannot
                              tell you how much or how deeply.
                           I thought I had found in you a heart which, if not mine by any other
                              right, would be mine by right of discovery. I thought that I might
                              make myself acceptable to your freshness, and that I might persuade
                              you to bloom out your days beside me. Another has been before me; has
                              taught you to read the first pages of that book which I fondly hoped
                              to be the first to open. But you have not gone far. I may yet be in
                              time. I will take anything, I will be more than grateful for
                              anything—if you will love me but a little I will be patient and
                              long-serving.
                           I offer you my whole heart; will you not deign to accept it? I lay my
                              life at your feet. Henceforth you are to arbitrate my destiny. This is
                              no light thing to me—will you not let me have one word? May I not
                              ask—not for a pledge—but for some slight sign that I am not wholly
                              indifferent to you?
                           
                              EDWARD LORIMER.
                              
                                 To MISS CLARE HUNGERFORD,
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           I refused you a rosebud this morning; will you take one from me
                              now?
                           
                              C. H.
                              
                                 MR. LORIMER.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               There was a country party at Oakhurst. Miss Preston, an intimate friend of
                  Marian's, had come to pay her a visit, and the party was given in her honor. It
                  was an auspicious time, too, for Frederick Cary—"Frederick the Great," as Marian
                  always called him—happened to be in the neighborhood at the time, and he was quite
                  an important addition in the way of ton and brilliancy to a country party.
               He "happened to be there" simply because he was drawn irresistibly to Clare
                  Hungerford's side. He came to her expecting no solace or encouragement, rather
                  looking for rebuff and repulsion, but still he came. His wings had been scorched,
                  and he hovered about the flame, retained by her most marvelous fascinations.
               Upon the evening in question—it was the evening of Clare's eighteenth birthday,
                  and of a full moon, two more happy
                  coincidences to add to the others—Cary stood at his dressing-table, drawing on his
                  gloves. He was handsome, and his toilet was irreproachable, yet he did not look in
                  the glass. He was dreaming of that last time he had seen Clare Hungerford—of the
                  laughing retort she had given-him. His heart sank, but then he said, "She is of
                  all women the most likely to act Beatrice in real life—the more love gnaws at her
                  heart-strings, the gayer will be her laugh, the more mocking her retort. I may
                  have a chance yet."
               He set his lips firmly and turned away to seek her presence.
               Edward Lorimer dressed for the party as he always dressed, quietly, and with
                  coolness. Under his calm outside, however, floated one all-controlling thought—one
                  idea had possession of him. That night Clare Hungerford would tell him, once for
                  all, what should be his fate. She had promised. There were no misgivings in his
                  heart—nothing but one set purpose, one end staring him in the face. He had to meet
                  his life's destiny that night—before another day dawned he would know, from her
                  own lips, what had grown to be a necessity of his being to know. He had waited for
                  two weeks, he had seen her frequently, he had spread his love on everything and
                  poured it with a free hand into everything that he presented her. She had not
                  rejected him, but she had not accepted him, and on the evening before he had
                  implored an answer. She had promised to give him one on her birthnight, and the
                  time had come.
               It was, as the eve of some great crisis always is, full of the past.
               Edward leaned his head on his hand, and ran over all his life to that time; it
                  came over him suddenly that he felt almost as he had done the night before he
                  fought with Rupert Ferrers—when he had finished his letters and preparations, and
                  sat down in his room, at the hotel, to think. Now he went forth to risk his real
                  life, the life without which he deemed he would be spiritually dead; then it had
                  only been a mortal chance—he was steadier then. But he would not shrink now. He
                  glanced at the table, and there lay a copy of Montrose's Love Song—he had been
                  copying it for Clare; he picked it up and read— 
                     
                        "He either fears his fate too much,
                        Or his deserts are small,
                        Who dares not put it to the touch
                        And win—or lose it all."
                     
                  
               
               "I accept the omen," he said aloud, rising; "the brave old Marquis was in the
                  right, and I, a soldier of the nineteenth century, will not shame one of my
                  greater captains."
               So he left the house, every nerve stretched to its utmost, but resolved to die
                  game, if die he must.
               Agnes Conyers had come over from Blythewood merely for the night, and, of course,
                  she dressed in Clare's room. Agnes had never seen Frederick Cary, and Clare made
                  him her piece de resistance, and fended off side
                  attacks by talking lightly of him and of his successes.
               In vain did Agnes try to penetrate Clare's armor—it was invulnerable, and Cary was
                  her shield and spear.
               "Oh, Agnes, you should see him! He has dragged half the women I know at his
                  chariot wheels, and yet he conquers—not like Cæsar, but like the Black
                  Prince—stands behind his captive's chair and gives her her supper."
               "I do not feel any attraction toward a man who bears on his shield, 'Licensed to
                  kill.'"
               "Pshaw, Agnes! he comes into the lists, like Scott's favorite knights, in plain
                  armor, without even a device on his shield; it is his good right arm that wins his
                  victories for him."
               "There is something so 'stale, flat, and unprofitable' in the discoursings of a
                  man of his type, that I am sure he will bore me."
               
               "No! I am sure he will never do that; dislike him you may, find him tiresome it is
                  impossible."
               "Does he talk better than Mr. Lorimer?"
               "Very differently; as a general rule, I should think, he would be less liked but
                  more talked of; I know of no one so little conspicuous as Mr. Lorimer, with
                  anything like his real importance; I know of no one so very conspicuous as Mr.
                  Cary—who is a gentleman."
               "Which is the pleasanter companion?"
               "That depends upon one's mood. As Magnus Troil used to say of his daughters, 'I
                  prefer one before, the other after dinner.'"
               "Clare, you must have been going through a course of Scott's novels lately, in
                  those long walks you have taken with Edward Lorimer."
               "Oh, no! Mr. Lorimer's romance is all original, and my knights all live in the
                  nineteenth century, wear stove-pipe hats and peg-top pantaloons, and send
                  bouquets."
               At the instant a box was brought to her; she opened it, and found a small bouquet
                  composed entirely of the most delicate rosebuds, from the purest white to the
                  deepest crimson; they were put together, as rosebuds and all flowers with
                  fragrance and sentiment in their petals should be put together, with apparent
                  carelessness, yet perfect security, grouped with exquisite taste, without
                  arbitrary arrangement.
               Clare bent over them, drew out a card, and read— 
                     
                        "Is life a stream? Then from thy hair
                        One rosebud on the current fell,
                        And straight it turned to crystal there
                        Like adamant, immovable.
                        Its steadfast place shall know no more
                        The sense of after and before."
                        
                           E. L.
                           May 15.
                        
                     
                  
               
               She read it twice, looked at Agnes, who stood expectantly before her, and said—
                     "'Gatherye rosebuds while ye may.'
                   Which means, that I am very glad to get these."
               "And the card?"
               "That depends upon what it says."
               "As you have read it twice, you know already what it says, I presume."
               "Not necessarily. Come, Agnes, it is growing late, and I hear carriage
                  wheels."
               They finished their dressing in silence; but before they left the room, Clare took
                  Agnes's hands in hers, and said, "Agnes, do you think I could make Edward Lorimer
                  happy?"
               "Yes, Clare, happier than any one else could; he would be happier wretched with
                  you, than at peace with another."
               "There is a line of Browning which Frederick Cary used to quote, that I cannot get
                  out of my head to-night— 
                     'What maketh heaven, that maketh hell.'
                   And I doubt myself so now; I am afraid of my own capacities."
               "If you can love him, Clare, he will be happy—never wthout it."
               "Well, kiss me, dear; and do have a good time, even if I do introduce Frederick
                  Cary to you."
               "Don't let his name be the last words on your lips."
               "Don't you know, foolish child, that what is on one's lips last is furthest from
                  one's heart?"
               "The Scriptures don't say so: 'Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth
                  speaketh.'"
               "Oh, the Bible was written so long ago—and then my Sir Walter says— 
                     
                        'For 'tis with feelings as with waters,—
                        The shallows murmur, but the depths are dumb.'
                     
                   No more quotations now, Agnes, if you love me, or we shall cap verses instead of bowing to our guests.
                  Am I not clever? Come on."
               And they ran down stairs together.
               Already the parlors were filling, and Marian was doing duty gracefully and well.
                  Mrs. Hungerford used to say, "Marian can be depended on; Clare, poor child, gives
                  out after the first half dozen people."
               The two girls stationed themselves as a species of rear guard behind the real
                  hostesses, and watched the current; neither Lorimer nor Cary was there, but
                  Clare's quick eye caught Laura Preston.
               "Oh, Agnes, I forgot Laura! Mr. Johnston," she said to a young man who came up at
                  the moment, "let me introduce you to a friend of mine. Come this way. Miss
                  Preston—Mr. Johnston."
               Clare glided back to Agnes. At the moment Frederick Cary entered the room, his
                  eyes caught Clare's for a second; he made his greetings to her mother and sister,
                  introduced a Mr. Clymer, whom he had brought with him, to Marian; and then, as
                  Clare dropped her glove, sprang forward, picked it up, and said, bowing very low,
                  "Not a challenge, I hope, Miss Hungerford, in your own house, and to a wearied
                  stranger!"
               "Not a challenge, Mr. Cary; I only stand on my defense. Mr. Cary—my friend, Miss
                  Conyers. Don't you remember, you mailed one of my letters to her once, and said it
                  was the most distinguished name you knew?"
               "Indeed I do. There is no danger of my ever forgetting your name, Miss Conyers;
                  Miss Hungerford was always either writing to, or talking of you, last winter."
               "Very unfortunate for me, I am afraid, Mr. Cary—if I am to make any progress in
                  your good graces."
               "I fancy you can bear up under the weight of a prejudice as well as you can under
                  the glory of a Norman name."
               "Not much glory, I think, is attached to my ancestry. Coigniers is but a small
                  place, and they were soldiers of fortune."
               "Miss Conyers, I am afraid it was your glove that fell, and that I am
                  really defied."
               "No, both my gloves are on my hands!"
               "Then I withdraw my accusation. Miss Hungerford, who will be here to-night? Many
                  people to whom you intend talking?"
               "An odd question, is it not?"
               "Why, no! a very important one to me. May I take you in to supper?"
               "Yes, if you will exert yourself until supper comes."
               "How, and with whom?"
               "By talking and dancing, and with all the girls I introduce you to."
               "Am I to be sent into this arena defenseless?"
               "Mr. Cary, your invincibility is too well known for affectation to save you—your
                  name ought to be Launcelot, instead of Frederick."
               "Do you know," he whispered, "you always remind me of Guinevere. Oh, Miss
                  Hungerford, if I might be your knight!"
               "You would make but a carpet knight, Mr. Cary."
               "Do but try me. Show me a foe. Let me do battle once for your sake."
               Clare hesitated as she met his ardent, pleading look. Surely there are many
                  avenues that lead to the door of a woman's heart—but at the instant, by a singular
                  consciousness, she knew that Edward Lorimer was in the room, and that his eyes
                  were on her, and she said hurriedly, with a shade of embarrassment, "I am not
                  worth fighting for."
               "Let me live for you, then."
               "You could never live for one thing alone—you have not the nature."
               "Again, I say, try me."
               
               "Mr. Cary, you promised to do duty, and you have not begun."
               "Well, I'll work now, then. Where shall I start?"
               "Anywhere—at this end. Miss Price—Mr. Cary. I commit Mr. Cary to your charge, Miss
                  Price, and when you tire of him introduce him to some one else, for me—won't
                  you?"
               "Oh, Miss Hungerford! I really don't like—" But Miss Hungerford was gone, and Cary
                  exerted his spells upon Miss Price with such effect, that she did not dream of
                  introducing him to any one, and would have willingly talked the evening out, had
                  not one of her country-side admirers claimed her promise for a dance.
               Cary looked around for Clare. She was dancing with one of the neighbors, and
                  evidently doing her duty famously.
               Agnes Conyers was standing by a door-way talking to Mr. Lorimer. Cary scrutinized
                  Edward closely. He did not know him, but he saw that he was a gentleman, and one
                  of his own class although differing in type—the feral instinct rose—a combat even
                  to gain a woman for whom he did not care, would be some excitement. He joined
                  them, determined to make no mistake, began cautiously. "Miss Hungerford is doing
                  more work than you, Miss Conyers."
               "Miss Hungerford should do more work than I, Mr. Cary."
               "I thought you were at home here."
               "So I am, in all agreeable senses, not in one disagreeable one."
               "Won't you talk to me, then? We have one thing in common, and that is ample
                  security against your being bored."
               "I did not know that we had anything in common."
               "You forget Miss Hungerford."
               "Indeed I do not; but of all things in the world, she is the least in
                     common between us."
               Edward Lorimer smiled slightly. Cary saw it, and said, "Either I have mistaken my
                  words, or you my meaning; surely I may consider any one a fair subject of common
                  interest to you and myself, with whom we are both intimate, of course, in
                  different ways?"
               "I do not think so; a casual acquaintance would afford more ground for discussion
                  than a common friend."
               "Miss Conyers, I yield; there is a great gulf fixed between us. Won't you take my
                  arm and let me get you an ice?"
               "Miss Conyers," said Lorimer, "I think you said you preferred not going into the
                  supper-room. I will get you whatever you want."
               "If I am shut out on this side too, if Mr. Lorimer's claims forestall all the
                  privileges that Miss Hungerford has not absorbed, may I have a dance later in the
                  evening?"
               "A dance? I have not one left; but I will go to supper with you."
               "This thing has become a fate. Miss Hungerford has promised me one of our old
                  Washington talks at supper. I see she is disengaged now; excuse me, I go to make a
                  charge—'Cary to the rescue!'" and he disappeared in the crowd.
               His parting shot, although a chance one, hit Edward Lorimer full in the heart, and
                  left him a prey to the bitterest jealousy, the most maddening doubts. Was
                     this the man to whom Clare had given the first fancy of her heart?
                  and had he come here now to wrest Edward Lorimer's life and love from him? What
                  evil genius had brought him here this night of all nights, with his handsome face,
                  his soft voice, and his fascinating manner? Edward's brown eyes glittered and
                  darkened in the intensity of the feeling that pierced his heart. He could not
                  talk. Agnes would have given worlds to soothe and sympathize, but she dared not
                  open the subject; still she contrived to convey to him some token of her ready
                  help, and he understood it. Their conversation was broken and distrait. At last Agnes said, "Mr. Lorimer mer, forgive me, but I must say one word.
                  Indeed, I do not think you need despair. Clare could not do without you."
               "Thank you, a thousand times," he said; "I will be a laggard no longer. Give me
                  God speed, Miss Conyers, and I will leave you."
               "God speed you, indeed, and grant you your heart's desire," was all she could
                  say.
               He pressed her hand gratefully, and left her. He turned into another room; it was
                  almost deserted; the window opened upon a piazza; he stepped out. The moon was at
                  her full, her clear radiance illumined every recess, every corner; he looked up to
                  her, and thought of all the feverfits and petty frets of men,—thought how 
                     
                        "God's greatness flows round our incompleteness,
                        Round our restlessness, His rest."
                     
                  
               
               It soothed him, this mild light, it tranquilized his troubled spirit. He gazed
                  long and steadily into the unfathomable heavens above him, and a deep peace filled
                  his soul; his spirit had rest in nature and he was comforted.
               How could he face the noise and senseless clatter he had just left? why could not
                  Clare, if she loved him, seek him here, and tell him his fate here—not in that
                  heartless, brainless whirl, with that gay, good-looking, clever fop standing by?
                  He did not want to speak words instinct with his life and dipped in the essence of
                  his soul, before a hungry, chattering crowd. No! if she would not come to him, he
                  would bring her, and here she should give or take away his life.
               While Edward Lorimer was thinking and feeling with a depth and intensity that only
                  comes at times in a man's life, Clare Hungerford was casting her spells over
                  Frederick Cary. She had not been able to resist the intoxication of the triumph;
                  and now, flushed and reckless with victory, she went on.
               He had developed a new element of earnestness and tenderness derness that night,
                  which he had never before made known to her, and it had taken her unawares. It
                  gave a zest to their intercourse which she had never felt before, and he saw his
                  advantage and pursued it. They were seated on an ottoman in a little room leading
                  off from the supper room. A scarlet geranium which she wore in her hair fell from
                  it; he caught it and said, "Give this to me."
               "You have it already."
               "No, give it to me, a free gift."
               "Why should I give it to you?"
               "Because—I want it."
               "No reason in that; and besides, I doubt whether you do want it."
               "I do not want it, if I can have something better; but as a token, a
                  shadow of better things to come, I will implore you to give it to me."
               "You never implore anything. You belong to the Pococurante school."
               "Only on the surface, Miss Hungerford; and I am very seldom on the surface with
                  you."
               "I thought you always were."
               "You do not think so, to-night."
               "No, you look dreadfully in earnest;" and she laughed lightly.
               He flushed with annoyance. "Do you remember saying last winter that you were
                  thought heartless? I do not wonder; I think so myself."
               "Well, I think you are quite right. So I suppose every one will agree with us,
                  until some unlucky fellow touches the right spring and the door flies open."
               "Is it to be a quest like the San Greal?"
               "Not exactly; but I have no doubt it will be as troublesome in the search and as
                  little remunerative as that holy relic."
               "If you would only say to me what a woman wrote to a friend of mine. She had
                  refused him and gone to Europe; and one
                  morning he received a foreign letter. It contained these three words, "Venez me chercher."
               "And he?"
               "He took passage by the next outward-bound steamer, sought—and found."
               "What a pretty story! Did it really happen, Mr. Cary?"
               "Indeed, it did! I wish we could represent it."
               "It is hardly possible, for I always know my own mind, and I am
                  not going to Europe."
               "There is no time like the present," he said; "may I have a rosebud?" She took
                  hold of one, then looked up; Edward Lorimer stood before
                  them.
               "I am just in time," he said; "I came to ask, Miss Hungerford, if you
                     would—give me a rosebud?" His tone and glance said the rest—they
                  said all. She drew out a tiny white blush bud and laid it in his outstretched
                  hands. He bowed very low, and said with great self-command, "The next dance is
                  mine, I shall come to claim it." He turned and left the room. Clare had too much
                  tact to reopen the conversation with Cary; she played with her bouquet absently,
                  waiting until he should speak. When he did so, at last, his old esprit moqueur had returned, and all the slaves of the
                  ring could not have charmed it away.
               "Do you know, Miss Hungerford," he said—"don't tell any one for the world—but I am
                  afraid we both have been reading too many novels."
               "I have always plead guilty to a weakness for trash; but I don't think its effects
                  have shown much this evening."
               "Well, then, it is I who had taken too large a meal of Shelley and
                  Byron, to digest easily; it makes me 'talk o' nights.' Won't you forgive me, and
                  let me tell you, en revanche, that I never saw a
                  more perfect mise en scene than you and Mr.
                  Lorimer effected just now? Madeleine de Brohan could not have done it better."
               "Mr. Cary," said Clare, "I think you forget that we are not on the boards of a
                  theater, and that you are not stage manager."
               Her tone recalled him to himself, and he said, with much grace, "Once more, and
                  this time sans reservation, forgive me, and let
                  me, if I cannot monopolize your favors, at least share them. May not another
                  rosebud rob Mr. Lorimer's of its thorns?"
               "He must take it, thorns and all," said she, willfully misunderstanding his
                  drift.
               "One more question, and I have done; this time not a request. Do rosebuds ever
                  bloom and blow after they are plucked?"
               "If they are carefully tended and watered, sometimes," she said, as she rose and
                  took Edward Lorimer's offered arm. "Good night, Mr. Cary; if you want to know more
                  about roses, our gardener is infallible."
               "Good night, Miss Hungerford. Did you ever read Coleridge? Do you remember— 
                     
                        'Bloom, oh ye amaranths, for whom ye may,
                        For me ye bloom not.'"
                     
                   Without waiting for a reply, he turned away.
               Edward led Clare out of the supper-room, out on to the piazza, where the moon
                  shone down; there he paused, and said, "Now, will you keep your
                  promise?" His voice trembled as he spoke, and Clare saw that his lips were almost
                  blanched, but his arm was steady, and his words clearly spoken.
               She knew that he loved her as she never could be loved him as much as she could
                  love again; she thought that she loved him as much as she could love again. She
                  said, with a wild, childish impulse, "Oh, Edward! take me and keep me always; I am
                  so weary, and I have no one but you." Before her words were spoken, his arms were
                  around her, and her head on his shoulder, and he was murmuring, in broken
                  whispers, all the great love that he had garnered up for her; his strong frame
                  trembled, and his voice broke, and his tears dropped on her little hands, as he
                  strove to say "how he loved her, how he would cherish and protect her, how no storms should come near his
                  lily, no rude hands touch her tender bloom."
               Ah, Clare Hungerford was but a woman, and what wonder if such love created a
                  response, until she said, and thought she said truly, "I do love you;
                  I am yours!"
               "May I come to-morrow, to see Mrs. Hungerford?" had been his last words, as he
                  bade her good night; and her answer had been an unhesitating "Yes, the sooner the
                  talk is over the better."
               Her first impulse, when she reached her room, and she was left alone with Agnes,
                  was to tell her at once her secret; while they undressed, the idea ran through her
                  head, and at last she said, throwing herself on a lounge, "Agnes, come here."
               "One minute, Clare; wait till I put on my wrapper."
               "Well, as soon, then, as you can."
               In a few moments Agnes seated herself on the side of the lounge, and said, taking
                  hold of Clare's golden locks, which were hanging around her face, "Clare, Clare,
                  why are women, with hair of your color, always men-snarers? you never hear of men
                  being immeshed in black or brown nets, only in golden ones."
               "Indeed, dear, I cannot indulge you in a scientificoromantic inquiry into the
                  nature and properties of goldenhaired girls. I have something to tell you, and I
                  am so tired and sleepy that, if I don't tell it at once, it will be delivered
                     en somnambule."
               Her tone was jesting, but Agnes's quick eye saw the color change in her cheek as
                  she spoke; she caught her hands in hers, and gazed into her eyes earnestly.
               "Agnes, Agnes, you will say I am right, will you not? you love me, don't you,
                  dear? I am—I have promised to marry Edward Lorimer."
               In a moment Agnes sank on her knees beside the lounge, still holding Clare's hands
                  firmly; she rested her head upon them for a few minutes; she gathered her
                  strength, rose, seated herself beside Clare, and, passing her arm fondly about
                  her, said, "My darling, forgive me; but I did not expect it so soon. Is he very
                  happy, Clare?"
               "Oh, Agnes, he seemed so; I think he is, I hope I may make him so. I never knew
                  what rest was until to-night. Agnes, I felt as if, at last, I had reached my home,
                  as if here I might lay down my burden. My past seems such a mere dream, and yet
                  such a frightful one. I shudder to think of it."
               "Have you told him your story, Clare?"
               "No; he would not hear it. I tried twice, and he refused to let me go on. He
                  wished it to be utterly dead to us both."
               "Is it to you, Clare?"
               "I think so; at least, I never could marry Mr. Mordaunt if I had never met Mr.
                  Lorimer. I feel sure of that—and all I have left of my feeling is great tenderness
                  for him, and a yearning desire to be friends with him."
               "He can never be friends with you, Clare; never attempt it."
               "I never shall have an opportunity, I hope; for although I feel in this way, yet
                  do you know, Agnes, at times I wish he would leave the country, that he would get
                  out of my path, that my skirts may never brush him as I pass by? I always called
                  him 'my fate,' and I am positively superstitious about him now—and
                  yet I never could care for him; the spell is broken."
               "Thank God!" said Agnes Conyers solemnly; "and again I think Him that He has given
                  you to Edward Lorimer."
               "'Wait a wee,' old friend; I may not prove such a prize after all!"
               "Don't jest, darling; this is your betrothal and your birth-night. Think of it,
                  Clare. Don't jest, darling."
               "Indeed I will not, Agnes; I only spoke lightly because this thing goes so deep with me. And now, good
                  night! To-morrow he is coming to speak to mamma, and to ask if he may write to
                  papa; and I shall tell Marian, if mamma lets me, and you shall talk to him,
                  Agnes."
               "Clare, you are leaving me to-night; you are to be taken care of by some one else;
                  let me kiss you good-by, darling."
               "I am sure he will take good care of me."
               "I am sure too. Keep tryst with him, Clare, always; and God guard you both."
               "Thank you, for both; good night."
               "Good night."
               They lay down, side by side, and they both slept and dreamed troubled dreams. For
                  Clare dreamed that she wandered with Edward Lorimer, his arm about her waist,
                  through paths green with grass and gay with flowers, and that he picked a rose and
                  gave it her, and that as she took it Frederick Cary snatched it away; then as she
                  turned to Lorimer for help, he was gone, and in his place was Walter Mordaunt on
                  horseback, and his bridlehand was streaming blood, and his face looked pale and
                  stern: he did not seem to know her; then she screamed and turned, and again
                  Lorimer's voice in her ear, and the birds sung, the sun shone, and he was telling
                  her how he loved her. So on till morning.
               But Agnes Conyers dreamed that she stood on a hill, and below was a far-spreading
                  waste; far as eye could see it stretched, and at a distance she saw a woman coming
                  toward her; and the woman seemed bent and tottering, bowed with years; once or
                  twice she stumbled and almost fell, but then she leaned on a staff which she
                  carried, and still she came on and on; and as she neared the base of the hill, a
                  sort of strange recognition crept over Agnes, and she knew the woman to be
                  herself, and that she was not old, but bowed with a heavy burden which she bore on
                  her back, and that she stumbled because her feet were full of briars and cut with
                  sharp stones; but her eyes had a steadfast, far-away look, as if she were pressing
                  on toward some resting-place which Agnes could not see. And she watched her,
                  traveling onward, over the hard flint and barren sand, until she grew vaguer and
                  vaguer; and Agnes awoke in the gray dawn.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  
                     
                        "And is not Clare for love excuse enough?"
                        "One near, one is too far."
                     
                  
               
               THREE weeks went by. Mr. Hungerford returned from his foreign trip, and consented,
                  with all the grace and willingness imaginable, to his daughter's engagement; her
                  mother made some objections on the score of her extreme youth, but they were
                  overruled. Marian shed a few natural tears, asked a great many incoherent
                  questions, monopolized Edward's two first evenings to her own private consumption,
                  took a great deal of interest in the affair, and felt some small satisfaction in
                  the fact that "now she need not look after Clare." Mr. Lorimer fell naturally into
                  his relations with the whole family, and all went "merry as a marriage bell." The
                  marriage was not to take place for a year; "she would be young to marry then,"
                  said her father, and Lorimer acquiesced, too happy in his present security to
                  question the reasonableness of the decision. So time went on, and June came with
                  her roses, and they rode and walked and talked through the long summer days in the
                  wood, and in the evening sang away the twilight, or wandered through the
                  shrubberies adjoining the house; and day by day Edward Lorimer's soul became more
                  completely the possession of Clare Hungerford. Day by day he was more ensnared by
                  her, day by day did he discover new wells of thought, new fields of fancy, new
                  charms, and new graces, in his
                  betrothed. And she, how went it with her? She still dreamed on, she was happy, and
                  felt assured and tranquil. She had planned a life for Edward and herself, not the
                  one idead, concentrated existence she would have led with Mordaunt, but a life
                  full of sweet amenities and gentle charities, a life in which "trifles
                     did make the sum of human things," in which the dramatis personæ were not begun and ended in herself
                  and her husband, but embraced Agnes, her family, and some other friends, many
                  articles of luxury and ease, her horse and dog; Edward should leave the army, and
                  they would live at Rosenshaw, and, if he would, she could become the Lady
                  Bountiful of the country side, and he would always be such a pattern of courtesy
                  and devotion, he would always open his arms so wide and fold her so tightly to his
                  heart. Ah! they were sweet in their very shallowness, these dreams of her
                  eighteenth summer! She never missed anything in Lorimer—indeed she could hardly
                  have missed anything, unless it had been harsh doubts and jealous exactions, for
                  he was gentleness itself to her always; but she did at times feel an uneasy
                  striving in herself, a want of some chord which was silent when his soul was
                  thrilling; and then, too, he was not content; at first his great love had filled
                  his own heart as well as hers, but after the first rush of happiness he had become
                  conscious that he had yet much to do, much to conquer, before he could feel that
                  unmistakable sense of possession without which he cared for nothing, so that he
                  was always striving and yearning toward one end. He knew that she did not love him
                  at first as he did her, and he never lost sight of the fact. That it should not
                  long remain so was the object of his life.
               June and her roses were not yet over, when one bright day Edward and Clare set out
                  for a morning in the woods. Edward had found a charming dell on the short cut
                  between Rosenshaw and Oakhurst. So luncheon-basket in hand and book in pocket, the
                  lovers went to seek and consecrate the spot. The walk, though long, was most
                  beautiful; it opened long vistas of grand trees and mossy carpets checkered into
                  sunlight and shadow, through which Clare's white dress danced and flitted; the
                  little fairies among the oak leaves peeped out to look at her, and the ash moved
                  its boughs at the sight of something more graceful and tender than itself. Edward
                  was in a dream of happiness; the bright day, the green leaves, the sweet air
                  persuaded him that this could go on forever. He thought not of the future nor of
                  the past—he was too happy as he was.
               "Clare, little child, that is not the way," he said, as they came to a broad
                  brook, where there was no way of crossing. "Come here, we must walk up to the
                  stepping stones along this path."
               "Edward, I hate stepping stones and paths," she said impatiently. "It is just as
                  short to cross here, if not shorter. Isn't it shorter? Answer me."
               "Yes, it is shorter, but you cannot cross there without getting wet; there are no
                  stepping stones except in very dry weather."
               "Like this! It has not rained since—Oh!"
               "Since Tuesday, and this is Friday. Come, Clare."
               "Don't you think I could get across there? Don't you see that large flat stone? I
                  could easily jump from that."
               "It would sink with your weight. I advise you not to run the risk."
               "Oh, Edward Lorimer, what would life be without risk?"
               "Happiness!" he answered shortly.
               She looked up at him, astonished at his grave tone, and as she did so the light
                  came into his brown eyes, and he said, "Come, dear, let us go!"
               "This way?"
               "No, this way!"
               "I am going this way, and if I fall in you can pick me out."
               
               She made a movement as if to jump; he put his hand on her sleeve, she shook it
                  off, laughed, and gathered up her skirt.
               "Are you determined?" he asked, quietly.
               She nodded, and smiled defiantly.
               "So am I," he said in the same tone, turned away, and walked slowly up the road.
                  She looked after him, excessively astonished, and rather indignant, said to
                  herself: "Now I will jump, and will probably get wet, and then he will be very
                  sorry." Then looked to see if he had turned. He had not. He was walking on, slowly
                  and unconcernedly. She dropped the folds of her dress, felt rather perplexed,
                  nibbled a bit of grass, threw a bit of wood into the stream, thought that Lorimer
                  was very unreasonable and very unkind, and she would go and say so to him. She
                  went after him. He heard her footstep, turned, and waited for her.
               "Edward," she said, "why didn't you want me to jump that brook? Did you think I
                  would get wet?"
               "I was sure of it."
               "Any other reason?" she asked, mistrustfully.
               "Yes."
               "What?"
               "Because I did not choose it."
               She kicked at the root of a tree which lay at her feet.
               He walked on.
               A hot flush mounted to her cheek. This was really too much; she could not stand
                  this sort of thing. She never had had it, and never would have it. She wondered if
                  he was looking at her. He was not. A flood of indignation welled up in her heart;
                  she thought she would go home. No, she would go and tell him what she thought of
                  him, and then go home, and he need not offer to go home with her. He was almost
                  out of sight. She ran after him, and this time he did not wait for her. She joined
                  him. The words she said were not the words she had meant to say.
               "Edward—please, are you vexed?" and she looked up into his face beseechingly.
               He looked down at her, with a smile in his brown eyes and on his cheek that was as
                  tender and loving as a caress. A smile that Clare would give a life's fee to
                  kindle now. She smiled back at him, and said, less humbly, "May I walk with
                  you?"
               He answered "yes," and she put her hand on his coat-sleeve and pinched it into
                  little knots during the rest of the walk. Neither said anything until they reached
                  their goal, a high rock above the brook that had produced such mischief, and was
                  now laughing sly little laughs to itself at the recollection. Edward spread a
                  shawl upon the ground, Clare sat down, and he threw himself down beside her. She
                  wondered what he would say. He said nothing for some time; then made a remark
                  about the loveliness of the spot, to which she assented rather indifferently. He
                  looked at her, got up, picked up a small bit of broken bough, and said, "Now I am
                  going to carve this into something handsome for you, and I want to say something.
                  Clare, do you think I behaved very badly this morning?"
               She answered promptly, "Yes, very."
               He said no more, but worked away with his knife. Finally she said, suddenly,
                  "Edward, you hate me!"
               He laughed.
               "Edward, I don't think you ought to laugh; I am in earnest."
               He turned round suddenly, caught both her hands in his, and said very earnestly,
                  "You are in earnest?"
               "N—not exactly. But I may be, for anything you know to the contrary. Let go of my
                  wrist—you hurt it."
               He stooped and kissed it, but kept her little hand in his, and said, "Clare, let
                  us be in earnest."
               "No, don't," she said, eagerly.
               "But we must. I want to say something. I know I have not a nice temper."
               
               "Yes, you have," she interrupted, remorsefully.
               "No," he said, "I have not. It is as hard as iron. Oh, Clare! I cannot forgive any
                  one who has done me wrong. Don't look so worried, love; I don't mean little
                  things, I mean great things, great injuries; but I have not a nice temper about
                  little things. I am afraid, therefore, that if I was harsh or unkind to you this
                  morning—but I did not know I was. I did not mean to be."
               "Oh, Edward!" cried Clare, in a little agony of contrition, catching hold of his
                  hand, "you are very good to me, and I am very naughty, and very wicked, and I
                  behaved very badly; but I did not know you would be vexed. I will walk in dry
                  places all my life," she said, drawing his soul out of him, with her lovely blue
                  eyes, "if you will only not say anything more about it."
               "I will not," he said, shutting his fingers tight upon her hand, "I will not."
               "It is all right again," she said, pleadingly.
               "All right! wasn't ever wrong, dearest? Dear little friend, do not let us ever
                  quarrel."
               She sank back again into the old listless attitude, while he picked up his carving
                  and his knife and went on with his work. She said to him, after a little pause,
                  "Edward, is there any one unforgiven in your soul?"
               "No!" he answered. "You know I have had but one great wrong done to me, and
                  that—that is all over. To tell you the truth, Clare, I feel, I am sorry to feel
                  that I am not the one called on to forgive now—that I am the one to be forgiven.
                  And—I don't know—but it seems to me that revenge is not, after all, the best way
                  of remedying a wrong done. It seems to me that if a wrong were done to me now I
                  should not punish, but I should never forgive—never, never!"
               He said these last words so suddenly and passionately that he startled
                  himself.
               "Oh, Clare! what horrid things to talk about on such a day—such a blue sky, such
                  green leaves, such a sweet song being sung to my soul. This sky is as blue as
                  Italy's."
               "I wish it were Italy," said Clare, earnestly.
               "Do you, dear? It will be Italy some day, after a little while."
               "Two years of garrison life, Edward."
               "Yes, only two years, and then Italy, or Ithaca, or any place you choose."
               "He reached his Ithaca by no more yachting over summer seas," said Clare,
                  absently, quoting the words she had read the day before.
               "What an appropriate quotation! My Ithaca is in sight, dearest, and there is no
                  cloud near."
               "Ulysses grew very tired of Ithaca, Edward, and left it as soon as he could."
               "Perhaps he did not care about Penelope. But Ulysses is not my model, Miss
                  Hungerford. There is no Trojan war for me to go to."
               "No Calypso to console herself for your departure."
               "That is the kind of thing Laura Preston says to people, Clare."
               "That is the kind of thing we all say in Washington, Edward, Lorimer."
               "Hang Washington!"
               "Edward, you never swear, do you?"
               "Not even though I am a trooper. Why should I?"
               "Do you like Laura Preston?"
               "What is the connection between the subjects?"
               "None; but you spoke of her a minute ago. Do you like her?"
               "My dear Clare, I know nothing about her. I met her some years ago at Newport,
                  where I saw her about three times, and then I met her again this spring, and I
                  only remember she used to say those jesting things; and I remember," he said, with
                  a little laugh, "the day I went to Oakhurst hurst to speak to your mother; she was sitting in
                  the parlor in a blue dress that was very becoming to her."
               "How odd you should remember that!"
               "Not at all odd! Those are the things a man remembers. You don't suppose that
                  great things at a great crisis make any impression? It is only the little things
                  you see at the time; afterward you realize the great things."
               "Do you remember the first time you saw me?"
               "Perfectly. It was at Blythewood, one day in March. You came as I was going away.
                  Of course, I remember it. I remember exactly how you looked as you rode up the
                  avenue."
               "You were standing on the steps talking to Agnes."
               "Yes," he said, with a happy smile."
               "Edward, suppose I had died that night?"
               "But then, my dear, as Traddles would say, 'You didn't,' you see; so, if you
                  please, we won't suppose anything of the kind."
               "But suppose I had, Edward, what difference would it have made to you?"
               "A great deal, I fancy. Some, I am sure."
               "Edward, I want you to say it would have made a dreadful difference."
               "Dearest, so it would. I should never have forgotten you—I should never have known
                  any one like you; but, after all, Clare, all things are gradual, are they not? You
                  can't hope or wish that I should say that I cared as much for you on that bleak
                  March day as I do now, on this lovely day in June."
               "I wish we were in Italy to-day, Edward."
               "Italy! my Italy!" he quoted. But she interrupted him.
               "If you must quote poetry," she said, "say that other thing, 'Two in the
                  Campagna.'"
               "Which is very melancholy, and not at all my experience of the Campagna. Clare, I
                  used to think, sometimes, when I was with my regiment, that the sum of happiness
                  would be mine if I could have but one ride across the Campagna. And now, love,
                  some day we shall ride there together."
               And so he went on sketching sweet pictures of their future life, bringing all his
                  recollections to throw them at her feet and make her queen of his past as of his
                  present; telling her of the delights of a Roman May, of a June in Sienna, of a
                  summer among the Apennines, of bright days to be scented with Florentine violets,
                  and closed by the sunsets of Italy; and then he read to her bits from the old
                  poets; and then sang to her touching German songs, full of love and tenderness;
                  then after so much poetry came the prose of luncheon. 
                     
                        "On dainty chicken, snow-white bread, they feasted, with no grace but
                           song,
                        In summer, while the days were long."
                     
                  
               
               So passed the summer day, and late in the afternoon they rose to go home,
                  promising themselves that they would often come there again, but they never did;
                  and when Clare next saw the place, she came alone, on a damp, misty, November day,
                  when the whole air of the spot had changed— 
                     
                        "The gay, green leaves were yellow-black
                        Upon the dank autumnal floor."
                     
                   And Clare turned away shivering.
               Alice Lorimer came to spend July with the Hungerfords. Clare found much to
                  interest her in Miss Lorimer—little to attract. She was a woman who, having missed
                  the chance of her life, turned over the failure, and what was left of her
                  shattered powers, to the service of God. She was a devotee—a most sincere one.
                  Although only twenty-six, she had the air and manner of thirty-two or three; not
                  strictly handsome, there was yet an "air noble,"
                  a serenity of outline about her features that made her face a marked one. She had
                  mind and heart, both to a considerable degree—the former was cultivated and
                  liberal in tone, the latter concentrated in her brother, and stifled in all its
                  other outlets. She had been painfully
                  interested in Clare from the first acquaintances, for her quick eye had perceived
                  at once Edward's attraction toward her, and she had waited with scarcely repressed
                  eagerness for the result. When it came she hardly knew whether it pleased her or
                  not. She had for so long a time regarded Edward as exclusively hers—being herself
                  his only interest—that a natural antagonism would make itself felt when another
                  distracted and absorbed his attention; yet her solicitude for his happiness was so
                  great, her devotion to him so instinct with grateful promptings and unselfish
                  motives, that she felt an instant gush of tender thankfulness toward the girl who
                  had given him infinite happiness. Miss Lorimer was not accustomed to expressing
                  her deeper feelings readily or gracefully, so that when she first met Clare as her
                  brother's fiancée, there was a shade of
                  awkwardness between them, which, at times, deepened into coldness. They were not
                  by nature congenial, these two; yet, had Alice Lorimer been presented to Clare
                  under other circumstances, with all the halo that her sad story shed about her, or
                  had Clare come into Alice Lorimer's life under different auspices, they might have
                  been friends, and sympathizing ones. As matters now stood, their terms were of the
                  best, yet they were both conscious of the fact that their relation was founded
                  upon no personal bias, that it derived its nourishment and vitality of feeling
                  from the connection with Edward Lorimer.
               One hot July evening Clare sauntered into Marian's room before going down stairs;
                  she expected Mr. Lorimer from New York, whither he had been called by telegraph
                  the day before, and she had dressed herself to meet him—in perfect keeping with
                  her own beauty and the season. Her dress was altogether white, relieved by a deep
                  blue sash and wrist ribbons, not that toneless shade that can scarcely be called a
                  color, but a blue blue, sufficiently in contrast to embellish her
                  complexion and hair. She looked most charming, with her slight waist, and round,
                  girlish figure, and her little dainty slippers, blue bound to match her sash, just
                  peeping out beneath her long, full skirt. She found Alice Lorimer and Marian just
                  leaving their rooms, and joined them; they all ran down stairs in a medley, and
                  Clare danced out of the hall to the piazza, saying, as she did so, "Alice, come
                  here. I expect Mr. Lorimer every moment."
               "Then I shall not join you."
               "Why not?"
               "Oh, Clare!" said Marian, "what a paradox you are! You know Edward would rather
                  find you alone. Come, Alice, we will go and pick flowers; the vases want
                  filling."
               The two turned off toward the flower-beds, and Clare stood alone on the piazza.
                  The sun was just going down behind the hills; his rays lingered above the horizon,
                  and bathed her in a golden flood of light. She caught a spray of woodbine growing
                  in a trellis next her, and pulled it down around her shoulders, and still stood
                  and listened for the horse's hoofs, which she must soon hear, and felt as if the
                  light about her head permeated and saturated her whole being, so that she was
                  glorified inwardly. Then she fell to dreaming as she nibbled a spray of
                  honeysuckle; and said to herself, in a half chant, odd bits of poetry, half tinged
                  with the light of the dying day, but wholly dictated by the "wild freshness of
                  morning." She could not believe that she was the same girl who had crossed the
                  threshold of Oakhurst only four months before, bowed and bent with a heavy
                  burden—could it be? Her tread was so light now, her head so erect, her tone so
                  joyous, she felt revivified and renewed, and she felt a sense of great gladness
                  and gratitude. In a moment more, the fast striking beat of hoofs caught her ear;
                  she raised her head, every sense awakened; they grew clearer and clearer, until
                  they paused at the gate; then a rush and a crash; he had cleared it, and in a
                  moment Edward Lorimer had flung himself from his excited horse, thrown his reins
                  to the groom, and sprung up the steps.
                  She receded as he advanced, until they were quite within the parlor; there she
                  paused; he drew closer, took her little hand in his, raised it to his lips, looked
                  at her with eyes full of love, passed his arm around her, drew her to the sofa,
                  and they sat down side by side.
               "Oh, Clare," he said, "how dear you are, how good to get back to you! I cannot
                  live without you."
               "Are you very glad to see me?" she said.
               "Glad! I am a thousand times more than glad. I am perfectly happy. I have ridden
                  at top speed for the last ten miles that I might reach you in time! How fresh, and
                  pure, and lovely you look with your white dress and blue ribbons. I must not stay
                  with you until I have changed my clothes, and feel fitter to sit beside you. Ah!
                  there is Mrs. Hungerford! Mrs. Hungerford, may I go to my room?"
               "Yes, indeed, you may. I was afraid you would not get here to-night. Come with me,
                  I will make you quite comfortable."
               He lingered a moment behind Mrs. Hungerford, kissing Clare's hand twice, and said,
                  "Wait for me in the hall, won't you, little love?"
               "Yes," she said; and he ran up stairs after his hostess. His toilet was soon made,
                  and he sprang lightly down the stairs, and into the hall, but—no Clare!
               Alice and Marian were standing together in the open doorway of the library. His
                  sister saw that he was looking for Clare, and said, as she kissed him, "Clare was
                  here a moment ago, but disappeared with you dog."
               "On the piazza?" he said.
               "No, down the walk—the moss walk," said Marian.
               "I will go after her," he said; and in a moment he was out of sight. He had not
                  far to look; there she was, sitting on a bench, the dog in front of her, upon his
                  hind legs. She saw Edward, looked up, and made room beside her. He was going to
                  question and remonstrate, but he forgot question and reproof as he looked. She
                  took his hands in hers, bent her cheek on them, and said, "Did you think I was
                  lost?"
               "No; but that you had forgotten me."
               "I did not want to wait with Alice and Marian."
               "Ah!" he said, "my little love, how many things you will have to learn to do
                  because you must do them."
               He had never spoken so before; he had spoken of guarding her from anything
                  displeasing, and of warding off disappointment from her golden young head, and she
                  looked up, startled at his change of tone.
               "I have something to tell you," he said, "something which has happened."
               "Tell me now," she said.
               "No, wait until we are alone this evening; it will bear being kept, and must be
                  discussed at length. I do not wish to take advantage of you."
               "What do you mean?" she said, and then, with a sigh, "are you tired of being
                  engaged already, and do you want to ride away with me on your horse's croup to the
                  Scottish border?"
               "No, no, only I want you not to run away from me."
               "I am just going to do it, though. Come, you have frightened me with your sad
                  looks. This is too gloomy a place for us."
               She ran toward the house; he did not pursue her, but walked musingly along, his
                  eyes bent on the ground, his arms folded. She waited for him on the piazza step,
                  and they went in together.
               "He did not renew the conversation until after tea, and when they were seated on a
                  lounge, in the back piazza, full in the moonlight; indeed it was the same spot
                  which had witnessed their plighting, and Edward had drawn her there, feeling
                  stronger for the avowal he was about to make.
               "Clare," he said, after a few moments' silence, "Clare, I have had two things come
                  to me to-day, either of which I could
                  have easily supported alone, but which form an almost disastrous combination for
                  me. You alone of all the world can sustain me under their pressure, for it is you
                  alone who make them of the slightest moment. You did not know it, but my leave of
                  absence from my regiment is up in September. I hoped when my engagement took place
                  to obtain its extension until next Spring, so that our marriage might take place
                  before my departure. I have used every effort to effect this end for weeks, but I
                  find it impossible; and yesterday's visit to New York has settled the matter. I
                  must either hold myself in readiness for orders in the fall or resign at once; the
                  latter alternative I could not permit myself to contemplate. I cannot shirk duty,
                  and must take my turn with the rest. So I must leave you. Those three words are so
                  full of bitter significance to me, Clare, that I will not paraphrase them. When I
                  said to myself yesterday that I must leave you, I hoped that I had said
                  all—indeed, I thought so. I did not dream that the struggle could be rendered
                  harder, but it has been. Mr. Hungerford, whom I met yesterday in New York, just as
                  I had concluded my last business interview, told me that he purposed, in fact that
                  he was obliged to return to Washington again the coming winter for a couple of
                  months; that he had retaken his old house, that he should take his family with
                  him. Clare, you will go. You will return to the place where you learned the only
                  bitter lesson that I was too late to save you from. You return to recollections
                  and associations distasteful and painful it may be, but still recollections and
                  associations in which I bear no part; and while I am far away leading garrison
                  life, unable to bring myself nearer to you, except by rarely received letters, you
                  will be once more in that whirl of excitement of which you yourself said you could
                  not think without shuddering. I am miserable, I am wretched at the thought of it.
                  Oh, Clare! can you not give me some comfort? I never would hear your story, but I
                  know that it must have taken place in Washington, and I have a feeling of dreadful
                  presentiment about your return to that accursed place."
               He paused, his voice trembling, his hands cold, with painful and distressing
                  excitement. He fixed his eye on her changing face, and waited for an answer. In a
                  moment more it came.
               "Edward, what can I say or do? Do not leave me! I cannot do without you. You are
                  all the world to me, but if you must, then I will promise what you like. I will
                  make sure that every recollection and association I have there dies a violent
                  death. I cannot answer you when you talk of danger, because I feel so strangely
                  far from the possibility of it. It ties my tongue when you speak as if you
                  doubted, not me, but my love or loyalty. No, I think that if we do
                  go, my dream last winter will be more clearly proved a dream when I can contrast
                  it with my living realities."
               "Clare, my love for you is so pure and single, that the response I want from your
                  heart must be perfect, not cumbered with half-effaced memories, dead flowers and
                  the like. Your heart is mine, let your dreams be mine as well. I will be a very
                  Sir Galahad for your sweet sake, be you a St. Agnes for mine."
               "I will, I will!" she cried, earnestly catching his tone. "Oh, Edward, there is no
                  one like you! I could never give your treasures away; I could never profane your
                  gifts. Believe me, dearest, I will be true to you in Washington as here. If you
                  must leave me, you shall be my knight for whom I pray and weep. I will live as
                  much to you and as apart from the world there as here. Indeed, I think you should
                  be glad that I shall have some temptation and trial, for now when they heap love
                  and admiration at my feet, I will turn away from it all, and give myself to you.
                  My trophies only please me because they lend some lustre to your conquest. Oh,
                  Edward! I am sure you will not doubt me now."
               
               "Doubt you, my darling! not for one instant will I doubt you, my peerless love, my
                  pearl of great price; not for one second's space. But it wrings my heart to leave
                  you, and to leave you there."
               "We will only be there two months, and then we will have spring together, and
                  perhaps you can get a long leave, and perhaps——"
               "And perhaps," he whispered, "perhaps I may not return alone. Oh, Clare beloved,
                  go with me! Do not send me away again alone and comfortless."
               "I will not," she said.
               For a few weeks, Edward Lorimer knew more happiness than he had ever known before,
                  more than he ever knew again. No such light and joy ever came to him again, and he
                  had a vague additional heightening of enjoyment arising from that fact, which yet
                  he knew not; for if it is true, as it most surely is, that our Past
                  affects our Present, so also does our Future, although we know it not. Perhaps it
                  is our good guardian Angel who sees the coming clouds, and guides our hands to
                  grasp the present happiness before it is swept away.
               Clare's impulsive generosity threw her into an extreme and solicitous state of
                  consideration for her lover. He was to leave her. She was to protect his shield,
                  which he left with her, and she was overflowing with an adventurous and chivalric
                  love, that made her almost sigh for the winter that she might test her
                     new weapons. Ah, poor child! they were not new. She
                  was the same Clare Hungerford, with the same tendencies and tastes, only she had
                  beaten her sword into a plowshare and her spear into a pruning-hook. A woman never
                  thoroughly loves a man, without being at the same time, by a necessary connection,
                  entirely in his power. Had Clare tested her love for Lorimer by this question, she
                  would have known it was not true metal. She cared for him; she wanted to please
                  him, and make him happy, and she was proudly confident of her power to do so. But
                  she had no doubt as to him; he loved her. No natural anxieties and fears as to his
                  constancy and truth. She knew well that he was hers. She had none of that
                  self-abnegating, life-sacrificing impulse toward him; she gave him what he
                  received from her: it did not flow out toward him resistlessly. And yet for those
                  few last weeks of companionship, they were both happy; Lorimer from his soul
                  deeply, Clare from her surface shallowly. Unconsciousness has much to do with our
                  enjoyment; if we know not better things, we find much in that we do know; and
                  Clare was like a wanderer on a stormy night, who, harassed by wind and rain, has
                  admittance into a house, where he finds fire, light, and food; he is refreshed and
                  strengthened, but he does not know that had he been content to struggle on a few
                  steps farther, he would have found his home awaiting him; or he would
                  not rest so peacefully on his bed. As yet, however, no serpent had entered their
                  Paradise, and their dreams were filled with one another only. They had much in
                  common, and Lorimer strove that they should have everything. He understood most
                  thoroughly how to please her by attentions, and he paid them with a tact and
                  thoughtfulness rarely found. He was a lover to be proud of, to any one but Clare
                  to be in awe of. His life had left traces on his brow and lines about his mouth,
                  although Agnes Conyers could not see them, and he had moods in which he was not to
                  be lightly dealt with; but Clare had wound herself so about his sensibilities that
                  she seemed to travel within a magic circle, and to be safe, even with her hand
                  upon the lion's mane. His brown eyes never looked anything but softly on her, his
                  head was always bent to her slightest will, his hand always ready to do her
                  service. As the time of their parting drew near, he seemed to redouble the
                  devotion which had before been so great. As Marian expressed it, "He spent his
                  days at Oakhurst, making Clare happy, and his nights concocting schemes to make
                  her happier."
               
               Marian was very kind and considerate; chanted Edward's praises in his absence,
                  and, which was more appreciated, absented herself during his visits. Why should
                  they be called visits? He came over every morning before breakfast, and stayed
                  until all the country side were sound asleep. For after his sister's visit to the
                  Hungerfords was over, she kindly remembered that she must go to see some distant
                  relations, and Edward let her go without much expostulation. Some pangs she had
                  when she recollected that the day had been when nothing would have tempted him to
                  spend his last few hours away from her; but she crushed the rebellious thoughts
                  and answered the daily letters that he still never failed to send her; and, when
                  his sister was at Oakhurst, he saw, of course, a good deal of her, for as the
                  weather grew warmer, they were obliged to spend many mornings in the house, where
                  they all sat in a cool and darkened parlor, and laughed lazily at each other; or
                  sometimes he read aloud to the girls while they all worked. No, not all of them!
                  Clare never worked, but sometimes sat quiet, sometimes played with the dog, or
                  else cut and snipped bits of muslin with a pair of scissors, which Marian had
                  given to her for that purpose, saying, sarcastically, "Well, Clare, if you must
                  spoil some scissors, do always spoil the same pair." So
                  they were always put in one place, and thence Clare always took them. Lorimer read
                  well; his voice was singularly effective and well modulated—deep and sweet,
                  although not very powerful; and he read without any dramatic affectation.
               One morning, about two weeks after the news of his approaching departure had been
                  communicated to the family, Lorimer rode over from Rosenshaw and found the whole
                  party, including Agnes Conyers, waiting for him to read aloud to them.
               "Come, Edward," said Alice, "you must have breakfasted late to-day."
               "I did, Alice, but only an hour later than usual. I was up late last night."
               "Studying, I suppose," said Marian.
               "Oh, no! physical exercise purely."
               "Physical! Why you left here at eleven! You don't mean that you
                  indulged in any more athletic feats than your six miles ride home?"
               "Yes, I do! I had a good little row. There was a moon—it rose late—and I pulled
                  some ten miles in the small hours with that white lady for company. She looked at
                  me very kindly, too."
               "You are a second Endymion, then, for no one but you two could ever boast of a
                  kind glance from that cold thing," said Clare.
               "She will probably make a lunatic of me, then, for you know I owe allegiance
                  elsewhere."
               "All this is mere subterfuge," said Marian; "tell us at once why you
                  went and where you went."
               "Indeed, I will not!"
               "Clare, make him tell!"
               "No, I do not care to extort an unwilling, confession."
               "Confession, Miss Hungerford, is generally made to one person alone.
                  One does not publish one's avowals in the daily journals. Why should one give four
                  young ladies the benefit of them?"
               "You are quite right," said Agnes; "and now to our reading."
               "Very well," he said, throwing himself on a cushion beside Clare, "what is it to
                  be?"
               "The fourth Idyll of Tennyson, Guinevere. We all want it, and we are all ready; so
                  begin where you like."
               He glanced through the pages, and then suddenly jumping up, said, "Wait one
                  moment, Miss Hungerford"—to Clare, "I have something for you." He disappeared and
                  returned with a basket full of pond lilies. "I think you said you liked them, and
                  wanted some; are these what you liked?"
               "Just the very flowers! Oh, how exquisite! how pure! how sweet! Where did you get
                  them?"
               
               "Out of a pond," he said, smiling.
               "Have you a pond at Roshenshaw that produces such visions of loveliness and such
                  cups of fragrance? Are they not beautiful, Agnes? I never thought yellow and white
                  could combine so perfectly—and the scent of them! Oh, I wish I was a tadpole, and
                     lived in a pond!"
               "You could not wear them in your hair, if you were," said Marian.
               "As I mean to do some of these to-night. May I not?"
               "To be sure."
               "But, Edward, where did you find them? I have hunted this part of the
                  country in vain for them."
               "The best place, the only place I know about here," said Agnes, quietly, "is a
                  pond about five miles from Rosenshaw."
               Clare looked at Edward. He colored, smiled, and said quietly, "Let us read
                  now."
               She gave him a look of tenderness and delight that made his heart jump for joy. He
                  reseated himself at Clare's feet, and as he was looking for his place, she stooped
                  and whispered, "You should not take so much trouble for me; I am not worthy of
                  it."
               "I wish there was more to take, more to do. I wish the pond had been twenty miles
                  away instead of five."
               "Foolish fellow!" she said; but her tone had a touch of pleasure in it.
               In a moment he began; and as he went on with the story, in itself always full of a
                  deep, painful interest, and invested by Tennyson with more poetry than it ever was
                  clothed with before—a tragedy which seems to rise naturally out of the imperfect
                  social system of the time, and the actors in which seem more to be pitied than
                  condemned, being as they were the victims of fate and circumstances, of unnatural
                  customs of a barbarous age,—his powers rose to the task, and he read with a deep
                  reality of tone that thrilled through his listeners. The smooth, blank verse,
                  growing dramatic as the tale goes on; he spoke as if he had been there, and was
                  telling the story as he had heard it. Feeling, as every man does, who reads the
                  sorrowful record with the injured king, without a woman's lingering tenderness for
                  Launcelot, he gave so much power and pathos to that grand. speech which Tennyson
                  puts into his hero's mouth, that the women around felt almost as if he were
                  hurling reproach and pardon upon them as Arthur did on Guinevere. Most of all
                  Clare felt this, for the others felt for Guinevere, she
                     with her. They were women of one type in many things; the one
                  unfallen had an infinite yearning over the one who had fallen, and felt identified
                  with her, as Lorimer read on. Nay, more! He became an Arthur then,
                  and she felt his love to be as Arthur's, and his trust as Arthur's, and a great
                  dread came over her as Arthur bids good-by to all he loved so tenderly, and casts
                  her off, polluted, lost forever. And still through all the sad close, the bitter,
                  soft tears of repentance, the conventual life till her death, she followed her;
                  and she felt as if she were Guinevere and he Arthur; and then a great gulf yawned
                  between them. And then his voice ceased, and the tale was done. Lorimer looked up.
                  Agnes Conyers, who sat facing him, seemed lost in thought; her eyes were filled
                  with tears, her face full of holy calmness; no human sympathy except those tears,
                  and they had risen to her eyes for Arthur. Alice broke the pause.
               "It is a perfect thing, that story," she said, "although a fragment; but as a
                  picture I know of nothing better."
               "You speak of it, Alice," said her brother, "as if it were a work of art. It is
                  too human, too full of our frailty and fears, to be dealt with so."
               "I cannot take it otherwise, brother. With the woman I have no common feeling,
                  with Arthur, naturally, not much sympathy, for I am a woman only."
               "But you can have great pity for him," said Agnes.
               "Yes, I have that! But he would not have liked it then, and one must not offer it
                  now."
               
               "With me," said Agnes, simply, "pity is so nearly akin to love in this case, that
                  I can fairly offer it. Of all heroes of romance, he is the one with whom I have
                  most sympathy."
               "Have you?" said Lorimer, quickly; "that is odd! So have I. I absolutely identify
                  myself with him, and when I read this poem, I speak as Arthur for the time."
               "Good Heaven!" exclaimed Clare, "do not say so."
               "Why not?"
               "Because—I do not know—but I cannot bear to hear you say so. He was so
                  passionless, so unnatural, so removed from our human frailties and
                  weaknesses."
               "I cannot see him so!" he said. "To me he is the most perfect pattern of
                  knighthood extant. The very mirror of the chivalry of the age, with so much human
                  love and human sorrow in his life and fate that he is brought very close to
                  us."
               "Do not let us discuss it," said Clare, rising; "we should never agree."
               "Nay!" he said, "let us discuss it, that we may agree."
               The others had left the room. They were alone. He took her hand, and pressed it,
                  and then went on.
               "You must learn to like Arthur, for he is more of a prototype to me than most men.
                  I should like to be called your Arthur. Not as he was Guinevere's, but as she knew
                  him when she saw him what he was—not Launcelot, nor another."
               As he said the words, holding her hands in his, and smiling down upon her, a mist
                  swam before her eyes, and she seemed to see Walter Mordaunt standing between them,
                  with an eager, triumphant look, and the words came from his lips, "No,
                     he is not Launcelot!" She shuddered, and clasped Edward's
                  hands more firmly than before. The mist passed away. She saw his clear brown eyes
                  bent on her, and with an effort she spoke.
               "Perhaps, Edward, I may learn to like your hero. I will try; but that story always
                  affects me painfully. It is such a bitter tragedy. A soul tragedy.
               "Yes," said Lorimer, as they left the room together. "Yes—and oh, my love! how
                  often one sees it acted in this nineteenth century!"
               She clung to him at these words, and he held her close, and whispered assurance
                  that she should never know the wickedness of the world around her. That he would
                  guard her spotless and unknowing through all her life, and that near these
                  dreadful chasms and black abysses, down which most women lost their salvation,
                  should her delicate feet never stray. They went to the music room, and sang
                  through the rest of the morning.
               The weeks went by; still Edward drank deeper and deeper draughts of love, and
                  still Clare sipped at the edge of the full cup he presented, and wetted her rosy
                  lips, no more; and still Agnes Conyers gazed with dry, tearless, desolate eyes
                  upon the waste stretching before her. Her heart knew its own bitterness, and
                     her heart alone knew it. She asked no human help. She
                  wrestled alone, through her night of pain; she kept a brave front. She, of her
                  poverty, yet gave to others, for she cheered Clare under the prospect of six
                  months' separation from her lover, and she comforted Edward when he came to tell
                  her his heart sank at the thought of parting from his betrothed. There is a text
                  which says, "Bear ye one another's burdens," and Agnes Conyers rendered it in its
                  deepest meaning.
               The night before their parting scene. It was the twelfth of September, a
                  deliciously mild, soft evening. The sun set in a golden haze, the air seemed
                  filled with the liquid amber that was shed from its dying rays. It was, of all the
                  beautiful evenings they had seen close and deepen into night that summer, the most
                  beautiful, and it was to be the last. They had sat a long while watching the last
                  tint die out of the sky, without saying much; from time to time Lorimer would
                  murmur some word of tenderness, or by a mute caress recall Clare to himself. She sat motionless,
                  wrapped in thought. For the first time, since her engagement, she realized what a
                  necessity Edward had become to her. It was not so much, she vaguely felt, that she
                  could not be happy without him, but that she could not keep in those ways without
                  him. She desired, above all things, to lead always the life which she now led, and
                  yet she recognized needs and capacities in her nature which would make themselves
                  felt, which would gape upon her with empty mouths, and demand food. Lorimer alone
                  stilled them, she thought subdued them; but it was not subjection, and they were
                  ready, like the Titans against Jove, to break out upon the first chance. This she
                  now dimly felt, but it, as yet, was so dim a feeling, that she only shuddered, and
                  turned to her lover for comfort in her dark hour. Strange that she should have
                  known so little of herself, as to turn for strength to the very quarter from
                  whence came her direst danger!
               At last they arose and entered the house. Clare shivered slightly. He brought a
                  shawl, wrapped it about her, and they sat down together again, in the dark shadows
                  of the deserted library. Lorimer had been terribly depressed this evening, but, as
                  the hours wore away, his spirits rose, and he talked more cheerfully. They had
                  made all their arrangements, and settled all their schemes. How Clare should study
                  some of Edward's books, some works on natural history, of which he was extremely
                  fond; and how he was to puzzle out Goethe by the aid of Clare's well-worn German
                  dictionary. Letters were to be frequent and detailed; he was to be told everything
                  without reservation. She was to think of him at certain times, and never to take
                  off his ring; all the fond foolishness of a lover entered into Lorimer's feelings
                  and requests. He was not wise nor original in these things; he was but like the
                  rest of us. The half hour after ten struck. One more half hour was all that was
                  left. He threw himself on the floor at her feet, clasped his arms about her waist,
                  and rested his head on her lap. She could feel the wild throbbing of his heart as
                  he leaned against her, and she felt more inspired and moved by him than ever
                  before. For a moment the old fervor of the winter came over her spirit. She bowed
                  her head and pressed her lips to his forehead, a long, lingering, warm kiss.
               "Not there!" he said, "not there! Kiss me on my lips. You have never kissed me on
                  my lips, of your own accord."
               She drew him closer, and wound her arms around him. She bowed her head again, and
                  this time her lips met his, in a longer and more lingering and yet more fervid
                  kiss than the first. When she tried to raise her head and draw away from him, he
                  clung to her lips as if he was drawing from them the sap of life, and she yielded
                  to his passionate caress; yielded with a delicious dreaminess and languor in her
                  eyes, and a softer bloom in her cheek, never there before; for it was her first
                  taste of passion. Lorimer had never led her so far before, and this he had only
                  permitted himself, because he could resist her no longer. He was wise; for he thus
                  secured to himself one remembrance that no other man could ever efface or
                  supersede. A woman like Clare Hungerford never forgets the first time that a man
                  makes plain what the meaning is of what his voice and touch have stirred in her.
                  This she had never known before, and for the time he became as a demigod; and
                  never did a fiercer current swell in the veins of any dark-eyed, dark-skinned
                  Southerner, than Clare Hungerford's blood mounted to. She was not a negative,
                  toneless nature, but full of deep shades and strong lights, and for once, by
                  virtue of his priority only, did Lorimer waken this. He never moved her so but
                  once; when next he tried to invoke the spirit, and raise the light of passion in
                  her deep-blue eyes that he knew slumbered there, it had utterly died for him. On
                  this night she was but a woman to him, he but a man to her. His sex gave him his
                  power, his position the opportunity, his own love the advantage; and they all
                  combined in his favor. That half hour passed, and still he could not bear to go; to leave her just when most
                  entranced by her beauty, her weakness made her strength so great that he trembled
                  before her. At last he sprang up suddenly, disengaged himself from her entwining
                  arms by a desperate effort, and said, "I must go! I must leave you! Do not touch
                  me again, Clare! I cannot stand it; I shall never get away if you do. "Oh!" he
                  went on, falling on his knees before her, as she stood clasping the arms of the
                  chair in which she had been seated. "Oh! I never loved you so much! I never
                  dreamed that any woman could be so perfect. My peerless love! My sweet heart! My
                  love—oh, my love, I love you! I worship you! I reverence you! I kiss your feet!"
                  Let me kiss your feet!" and he threw himself forward and put his lips to her
                  slippers. She parted the hair on his handsome forehead, as he looked up to her,
                  and pressed her lips there.
               "Oh, darling!" she said, "I will be so true to you!"
               "And I to you, my sweet, my true, pure heart! my beautiful love! fairest among
                  women you are! And now, my love, good-by! God guard you with his blessed angels,
                  when I am far away, and keep you for me till I come for you. For the last time,
                  God be with you!"
               He threw his arms about her as he had done on her eighteenth birthday; he pressed
                  her heart to his; she felt its wild leaps. One more kiss, into which he threw all
                  his soul and body; he placed her in a chair; she sank back, trembling with
                  excitement; he turned, without a pause, and left the room, as she still lay there.
                  She heard the horse's hoofs clatter down the avenue, and out upon the road. She
                  listened until they died in the far distance, then rose and went to her room.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Ye Roses of November,
                        Ye are no joy to me;
                        The Roses I remember
                        Are other than ye be."
                     
                  
               
               SEPTEMBER went by, slowly and wearily to Clare Hungerford; she spent it at
                  Oakhurst—depending principally upon Agnes for companionship, and making Edward's
                  long and frequent letters her only points of interest and excitement in the day.
                  She did ill enough without him; she felt herself sliding back upon her old girlish
                  occupations, and she felt that they were unsatisfying and zestless to her palate.
                  She did not know that she was discontented, she thought only that she was very
                  dependent upon her lover; she did not know that it was only a question of time,
                  that had he stayed with her the result would have come as it did, only a few
                  months later.
               In after-years she looked back and saw the pitfalls into which she had unwarily
                  fallen, the morasses that had engulfed her.
               But now, she had nothing but a half consciousness that all was not well with her,
                  that she was stirring uneasily as in a dream; and then she studied hard for a few
                  weeks, and then she idled away a few weeks, and then she took to the poets again
                  and tried to sit in the old places and bring back the old mornings.
               But it was in vain. Her letters to Edward were frequent and long—strange letters
                  they were, inconsistent and wild; she threw herself into them with an energy that
                  was the stronger for being suppressed in every other channel. She wrote to him,
                  not as Edward Lorimer her lover, but as to an ideal who could receive all her
                  outpourings and give her relief; and many a letters which he carried next to his
                     heart and warmed with his kisses,
                  was no more personally his, had no more been written to him—than
                  merely the outside direction went; within, the loving words, the sweet fancies,
                  the dreams and hopes, were what Clare Hungerford's heart said, of its fullness and
                  freshness and wildness, said to the air and light and little birds and the
                  brooks.
               Had she been engaged to a Caliban, and had he been away from her, she would have
                  written just such letters.
               They were hers, not his. He did not create them; they
                  were the product of her woman's nature, her woman's untutored heart. His letters
                  to her were widely different. They were instinct with her influence, upon the very
                  surface they were marked with her sign, as if they had been branded. No other
                  woman could have made anything of them. She was interwoven with every sentence,
                  her individual nature had wrought into his and remained intact itself, while his
                  was leavened through and through; they bore one refrain, those letters.
               "I love Clare Hungerford!"
               Not as hers—
               "I love, I love! oh, I love! because I am young and fresh and overflowing, and you
                  ask me!"
               Yet he never knew the difference; he never knew what he missed until many months
                  went by, and then he knew for once and forever.
               
               It was raining as hard as it could rain. The sky was gray and determined
                  looking—determined to rain, that is. It was a bleak November day, and Clare
                  Hungerford was trying to cheat herself into good spirits by saying, "It is going
                  to clear, I think," as often as she looked out of the window. She had just said it
                  for the fourth time to herself, for there was no one to hear her, and she was
                  beginning to think the case hopeless, and blueness was creeping over her, when
                  Marian entered the room, her brow knit into an appearance of occupation, and a
                  skein of silk in her hand.
               "Clare, dear, you are doing nothing I see," and she turned her eyes away from
                  Clare's open writing-desk; "would you mind holding this silk for me?"
               "Marian, I am doing something, and I will mind holding silk; but I will be
                  obliging, and forgive those untruths."
               "Come here, then, that's a good child. Sit down opposite me; don't sit on my
                  scissors. Hold your hands—so—that's right. Now, Clare, be careful and don't knot
                  this silk."
               "Marian, what are you doing this morning?"
               "A great deal. We are looking over your winter clothes, and I am having a silk
                  dress made; I must have something to wear to church, even if it is only at Denton.
                  It doesn't do to be disrespectful to farmers or farmers' wives."
               "Are they the owners of the church at Denton? It says differently in the prayer
                  book. I suppose the silk will be worn in New York from Monday till Saturday of
                  every week, and on Sundays at Denton!"
               "No, indeed! You know I never go to New York. But I must have something to look
                  decent in, and this dress is very cheap and very plain."
               "Very plain! Agnes Conyers told me she had seen a cartload of
                  trimmings dumped at the back door yesterday."
               "Agnes Conyers is ruining you. Sit still, Clare; you are tangling this silk. Did
                  you know papa had written to Washington to take the same house we had last
                  winter?"
               "Oh, Marion, we are not going into that maelstrom again!"
               "Please sit up, Clare. How can I wind when you wriggle so?"
               "Snakes wriggle, Rachèl wriggled, I don't wriggle."
               "Oh, well, I don't think it makes any difference! But why don't you want to go
                  back to Washington?"
               "For many reasons. It is a hateful place."
               "The most delightful place I ever saw; and we will have such a nice winter. Laura Preston is coming to stay
                  with us; you will like that."
               "Marian, you know it makes not a ray of difference to me where Laura
                  Preston spends her winters, whether in Jericho or Jamaica! You know I don't care.
                  But I can tell you one thing, if you have Laura Preston, I will have Agnes."
               "Oh, Clare, I cannot wind this silk if you clap your hands so! And,
                  indeed, Clare, I don't see how you can have Agnes Conyers and Laura Preston too!
                  One should content you."
               "One would content me."
               "Would it?"
               "Why don't you ask me which one? Marian, ask me which one!"
               "Look at this knot, Clare—you made this knot."
               "Did I? Well, I think I could make another if I tried very hard. Marian, if we
                  have either one, we must have Agnes; I can't live without her."
               "Clare, Agnes is making you as unpractical and tête
                     montée as she is herself. I think I shall speak to mamma on the
                  subject."
               "Come, Marian, don't speak to me in that way; I shall not stand it, especially
                  with your horrid skein on my fingers. Agaes Conyers is not unpractical, nor the
                  other French thing that you called her. I suppose it is unpractical to be kind and
                  true, and not calculating. Indeed, Marian, it seems to me that when people are
                  unusually disagreeable, they are called practical! I suppose your friend Bessie
                  Middleton was practical, when she threw over that nice-looking young Fane, and
                  married that old toothless man from Louisiana. I'm sure it was practical in him to
                  take her down to Lafourche and keep her there all winter."
               "He was very kind to her, Clare."
               "Especially in dying. I suppose she would like to marry Mark Fane now; I'm glad
                  she can't!"
               "Clare, why do you marry a rich man?"
               "Marian, why do you ask such questions? I am not marrying nothing but a sack of
                  gold and a plantation in every parish in Louisiana; and, Marian, I hate you—I want
                  to say something to mamma—take your skein, I wash my hands of it." She shook it
                  off on Marian's lap, and shut the door on her remonstrances.
               Marian sighed and groaned, and looked mournfully at the hopeless mass of confusion
                  in her hands; then rose and followed Clare, to show her the wreck she had made.
                  Clare was in her mother's dressing-room, kneeling on a cushion by her mother's
                  side and asking her permission to invite Agnes to spend the winter with them.
               "Mamma, you know you always said you liked her, and thought she was a nice girl,
                  and promised last winter—"
               "Mamma," broke in Marian, "it is very unkind in Clare to treat me as she does.
                  Clare, look at this skein of silk—it is ruined, hopelessly ruined."
               "Marian, you had wound it almost all."
               "And, mamma, you know it will be very forlorn for me to go to parties without any
                  girl, and Agnes Conyers doesn't take the same views of life that I do."
               "No, thank Heaven!" thought Clare, while she said, "Marian, what do you mean by
                  your going to parties alone? What is to become of me?"
               "Why, you won't go, of course; engaged girls never go; they have a horrid stupid
                  time if they do, I can assure you."
               "And why should I not go if I choose?"
               "Certainly, dear Clare, you shall go," said her mother mildly. But Marian, why
                  don't you want Agnes Conyers to go?"
               "Because I do want Laura Preston to go, and it is very inconvenient to have two
                  girls staying with you."
               "Now, Marian, you didn't think so that first winter you went into society; you had
                  Bessie Middleton, and that horrid wretch of an Otis girl staying with you, and you
                  used to laugh so loudly when I was
                  taking my French lessons, that poor old Rollin wished you at the bottom of the
                  sea. And, you know, papa always said Kitty Otis was equal to five girls in the
                  noise she made and the attention she insisted on having; so, if you could have
                  six, I think I might have one—don't you, mamma?"
               "Certainly, love," said her mother, who had a gentle way of saying, "certainly" to
                  every argument on both sides of the question, a habit that sometimes placed her in
                  embarrassing positions.
               "But, my dearest mother, where are they to sleep?"
               "Very true, dear, that must be considered;" agreed Mrs. Hungerford.
               "I have considered it," said Clare. "Agnes can sleep in the third
                  story front, in the room with the picture of the death of Major Ringgold."
               "And Laura?"
               "In your room."
               "And I?"
               "In the sixth story middle room, if you choose, or in your own room."
               "And where are you to be put, pray?"
               "Perhaps in the wine-cellar, perhaps in the clothes-basket, perhaps in the room
                  next to Agnes."
               "Now suppose Mrs. Powell should come to Washington?"
               "She can stay at the hotel, I hope. But now, Marian, don't enter into frantic
                  suppositions about the advent of the Great Khan, or the Emperor of Brazil, or
                  anything of that kind. Nothing is ever going to happen until it has
                  happened—that's my motto."
               "Mamma, I want to speak to you about that blue dress of Clare's. Rachel says that
                  the front breadth is badly scorched, and that the body is stained with ink and
                  oranges. Now, I want to know—"
               "Ink and oranges! Could I have eaten them together? Stop a moment, Marian; I can't
                  listen with fortitude to these horrible disclosures; first tell me, before I leave
                  the room, is the thing settled?"
               It was settled at no greater cost than an afternoon spent in exhibitions of the
                  knots in the skein of silk—"knots which you made, Clare," and which Clare vowed
                  were so exactly alike she only needed to see one of them; but Marian showed her
                  ten, and then relented into much good humor.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               
                  
                     
                        "Flower o' the broom,
                        Take away love, and this earth is a tomb.
                        Flower o' the quince,
                        I let Lisa go, and what good's in life since."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Oh, is that all!
                        What will you give me for that
                        Same handkerchief?"
                     
                  
               
               BACK in Washington! Once more in those well-known streets, and round those
                  familiar corners the carriage whirled. It was night, and the gas-lights flickered
                  unsteadily, but there was light enough to identify by, and Clare Hungerford looked
                  eagerly from the window as they dashed along, and as remembrance after remembrance
                  flitted by, she felt a hunger rising in her for more. She felt herself excited—she
                  had not so felt for months before. They reached the old house. It was open and
                  lighted up to receive them. They were soon settled there. It all seemed so
                  natural. Cards and invitations had already found their way to the door, for the
                  Hungerford advent was of some importance, and they had been expected for a week.
                  As room after room opened itself for their inspection, Clare and Marian strayed
                  through them, reminding each other of old times—of gay dinners here, impromptu
                  suppers there—and as they did so, the life that had for months been a dream to one of them
                  grew real and instinct with life.
               "Oh, Clare," said Marian, "just look at that little table! Do you remember how
                  Henry Willoughby upset it, and my plate of chicken salad, that night after the
                  opera?"
               "Of course I do. It was the most awkward thing I ever saw. But it was your fault,
                  Marian, for you would have the smallest and most rickety of all those
                  little, shambling Chinese things."
               "No, indeed, Clare! Willoughby was so afraid some other man—Walter Mordaunt, I
                  think it was—should join us if we had a bigger table."
               "Pshaw, how absurd!"
               "Well, Clare, I shall have this lounge re-covered, and these pictures changed for
                  the ones in the dining-room."
               "I don't see that there is much choice between the Duke of Wellington and Andrew
                  Jackson."
               "I wonder if those photographs that Frederick Cary gave me last year would do
                  instead. I think I'll write on to Mr. Roberts for them."
               "What! as pendants to the Duke and the President?"
               "No, Clare, of course not! Can't you be reasonable?"
               "Certainly I can—apropos de quoi?"
               "Why, of the house and furniture."
               "Well, then I want the piano moved."
               "The piano moved! Why?"
               "Because it is in the road; because I want it in the other room; because it is not
                  turned the right way."
               "What will you put in its place?"
               "Let me see;" and Clare glanced around the room carelessly until her eyes caught a
                  tête-à-tête pushed into a corner; it brought back old times to her with such
                  fearful reality that she uttered a faint scream.
               "What is the matter?" said Marian, who had mounted on a chair to move a
                  picture.
               "Nothing—my arm hurt me. I don't know what you had better put in the place of the
                  piano. I am tired—I am going to bed. Good night;" and she walked unsteadily to the
                  door.
               "I shall put this tête-à-tête there," Marian called after her.
               "As you like," she answered, and closed the door.
               Two days after the Hungerfords' arrival, and while they were yet invisible to any
                  but old and familiar friends, and before they had shown themselves out of the
                  house, Laura Preston and Agnes Conyers arrived. They came together, having taken
                  advantage of the same escort from New York, and they were welcomed by their two
                  respective friends with great glee and heartiness. Marian was always glad to have
                  a girl in the house, and Clare was more than glad to have Agnes.
               The night but one after their arrival the Hungerfords saw company, that is to say,
                  any one who called. Man after man dropped in, were introduced to the strange
                  girls, and they all chatted together. Clare had not seen Walter Mordaunt since her
                  return; once as she drove up to a shop she fancied she saw his figure standing in
                  a doorway, but she could not be certain; she had thought over their first meeting,
                  and had determined upon what it should be.
               Fully convinced that his power over her was gone forever, she had an
                  unacknowledged lurking desire to test if she had any remnant left of her old
                  fascination for him. She had thought over the matter more than was necessary; she
                  had imagined the meeting with great ingenuity under all possible circumstances.
                  She had written to Edward Lorimer, in her daily letters since her arrival, always
                  something reassuring as to her life in Washington; had reiterated her indifference
                  to old delights, her disgust for past pleasures; had enlarged upon the utter
                  absence of interest she felt in the men about her,—and did it all most
                  sincerely.
               Her awaking was yet to come; she had felt one or two uneasy stirrings, but she had
                  checked them on the instant. On the
                  evening in question she was talking with a good deal of animation to her friend
                  Mr. Clay, when the back parlor door opened and Walter Mordaunt entered the room.
                  He came forward so quietly and the noise was so great that she did not hear him
                  speak to Marian. Some one passed her, and just as she looked up, in the middle of
                  Mr. Clay's sentence, burning to interrupt him, she heard a voice which there was
                  no mistaking, saying, "I am so glad to say, Welcame back to Washington, Mrs.
                  Hungerford; and I should have said it before, but we have been worked harder than
                  usual at the office lately."
               The same perfect repose of manner, the same modulated tone, the same well-bred
                  ease—not a muscle quivering, not a tone vibrating—although he knew she was only a
                  few feet behind him, although he had stepped aside to avoid treading on her dress
                  as he entered, although his senses, strung to their highest pitch as they were,
                  could detect her presence by the slight peculiar perfume she always had about
                  her.
               Clare Hungerford had acquired an unusual degree of self-control of manner, but she
                  could not prevent herself from one moment's pause, from one deep-drawn breath, no
                  one heard or saw save Mordaunt; he would have heard the faintest rustle of her
                  dress at that moment, but she recovered herself. She answered Mr. Clay quickly and
                  brightly, and they went on with their conversation; not long, however, for Walter
                  Mordaunt, after speaking to some older friends of Mrs. Hungerford's, who were
                  sitting beside her, took a turn and approached Clare—he saw her handkerchief
                  tremble a little as she drew it through her fingers, he marked the faint flush,
                  the closed lips. He leaned over Clay, held out his hand with great grace and said,
                  "One moment, Clay, let me shake hands with Miss Hungerford, won't you?" She took
                  his hand—a slight pressure, a few commonplace words of greeting, and he said,
                  "Would it be too much trouble if I asked you to introduce me to Miss Preston—Miss
                  Marian's friend, is she not?"
               "More particularly than mine, yes; but I like her, she is very amusing. Excuse me
                  for a moment, Mr. Clay. This way, Mr. Mordaunt; here she is!"
               They paused before Laura Preston, who was seated in the recess of a window, half
                  concealed by the curtain, talking to a young foreigner, who was enjoying her
                  conversation in spite of the difficulty of her constant reference to Punch's best
                  jokes and political squibs.
               The introduction took place, Mordaunt seated himself beside her on the end of the
                  ottoman that filled the window-seat, and Clare turned back to Clay.
               Well, it was over—that was all. What a simple, undramatic scene it had been! She
                  might have known that he had no feeling left for her. Why should he have? She had
                  made a great fool of herself, she thought, bitterly; she would have nothing to
                  tell Edward, no wild pleadings and passionate prayers that she had resisted; she
                  had no very fine story to tell. In spite of herself she felt disappointed, a sense
                  of emptiness came over her; what had she expected? Excitement of some kind,
                  something to resist, some tangible proofs that the weapons and armor that she
                  boasted herself in were good and strong. She wanted to say, "Edward, he
                     loves me so; he showed such intense feeling, and I turned away; I
                  gave nothing to him; I rejected his love." So she thought on and on beneath the
                  hum of voices and the sounds of laughter.
               Clay went away, other men came; she still kept her position, and they came one by
                  one, and talked and laughed, and went away one by one; and the evening wore away.
                  It was late, but Mordaunt still sat beside Laura Preston, and still they talked on
                  and on; twice he left her—once to get a glass of water, and once Clare thought he
                  was going, but it was only to whisper a question to Marian, who answered it with a
                  hearty "Certainly, Mr. Mordaunt."
               His head was bent forward from time to time, and once or twice Clare caught the tones of his voice, half
                  sentences only, but she listened eagerly for the rest, and did not catch it. Once
                  it was, "No, I don't think beauty necessary to fascinate, but—" then his voice
                  fell. And once, "Indeed, if you are fond of riding, there is nothing more
                  beautiful than—" and again she lost the close.
               At half-past ten every one had gone except Mordaunt and a naval officer, who was
                  begging Marian to pay a visit to the navy yard; and Clare wandered about the room.
                  Agnes was talking to Mrs. Hungerford. At last Clare seated herself in front of the
                  piano, ran over the keys, and began a little French romance. The words ran thus:— 
                     
                        "Felicité passée qui ne peut revenir,
                        Pourquoi en te perdant n'ai je pas perdue le souvenir."
                     
                  
               
               She sang through the first verse, then closed the piano and said, "Come, Agnes,
                  let us be off."
               The gentlemen were now making their adieux, and as Mordaunt shook hands for the
                  third time with Marian, he suddenly turned to Agnes and said, "Miss Conyers, don't
                  you remember me? don't you remember that morning at Georgetown when I taught you
                  how to shoot bows and arrows?"
               "You don't mean to call yourself Mr. Mordaunt?" said Agnes, shaking hands with him
                  cordially in spite of her hesitation.
               "Indeed I do. Have I changed so much?"
               "You had no moustache, I think, then; and now you are equal to a cuirassier."
               "Well, I shall see you again; good night—good night, Miss Hungerford—au revoir,
                  Miss Preston."
               "I shall not forget, Mr. Mordaunt."
               "What does he mean, Laura?" asked Marian.
               "I am to ride with him to-morrow," said Laura, "at one o'clock."
               "An engagement already!" said Marian, sleepily. "Well, he is a nice person to ride
                  with; knows all the prettiest, wildest lanes; rides well, and talks easily."
               "Yes, he is eminently well bred," said Agnes.
               "And such nice feet and hands," said Marian.
               "Come, girls," said Clare, over the banisters, "come, I am going to bed—Agnes,
                  come;" and they all ran off to their rooms. Marian and Laura roomed together, and
                  Clare and Agnes. As soon as the latter entered their room she said, "Clare, why
                  did you not tell me that Walter Mordaunt was here?"
               "Why should I, Agnes?" said Clare, petulantly; "he is not a white elephant to be
                  pointed out and stared at, and I was talking to other men, and so were you."
               "Clare, you are disingenuous."
               "Well, Agnes, perhaps I am; I knew you would see him soon enough, and I did not
                  feel like it—I am dreadfully sleepy, so don't be cross."
               "Indeed, I am not cross, but you are so willful. Did you write to Mr. Lorimer
                  to-day?"
               "No, I could not; but I shall to-morrow—good night." And they went to sleep, at
                  least they closed their eyes.
               Laura Preston was a singularly unsusceptible woman, of bright parts and fair
                  capacities, with very little to make her remarkable, except great power of
                  persistence and perseverance. She always made her points, and gained her ends;
                  singularly deficient in personal attractions, to a casual observer she yet had
                  points of personal grace, and moods of womanly softness about her at
                  intervals—rare intervals indeed. She had, either by nature or education, acquired
                  a quenchless thirst for admiration, that could not have been more greedy, had she
                  been a belle of the first water, in her first season. She had power with men, for
                  she was a skillful and delicate flatterer, and had a good deal of force in her own
                  way. Her colorless eyes could look more intensely at times, and her thin lips
                  mould themselves into tenderer curves than most women's. She came to Washington ton for excitement and pleasure, and
                  her first evening gave her promise of both, for she was attracted by Walter
                  Mordaunt, more than usually so, and she was much flattered by his attention; so
                  she mentally devoted herself to the task of bringing him within her toils, and
                  played the Delilah to his Samson, in her dreams, many a time that night.
               The next day was a cloudless one, and the ride was taken. Other engagements were
                  formed for other days and evenings, and they all—Clare, Agnes, Laura, and
                  Marian—rushed into the society routine, and went everywhere. Clare wrote often to
                  Edward Lorimer, and heard from him often; went into society, and received more
                  attention and admiration than most engaged girls; behaved unexceptionally well as
                  a fiancée, and watched Walter Mordaunt's
                  attentions to Laura Preston with a feverish anxiety which she could not overcome.
                  He hardly ever spoke to her; once or twice asked her to dance, and sometimes put
                  her into her carriage. He could not be said to avoid her, the word was too
                  positive, but he certainly never sought her. She looked at him sometimes, and
                  wondered whether he ever remembered the past. Could it be that he had forgotten?
                  Why should she wonder? She had cast him off, and turned to another. Why should he
                  still care for her? Why should she speculate about what he did or felt? It could
                  be nothing to her; and then she grew restless and fretful, and wrote wild letters
                  to Edward Lorimer; and he saw nothing but the love which she said again and again
                  that she bore him, and did not see the wild beatings of the bird against its cage;
                  did not see the dreadful doubts that she stilled by reiterating what she could not
                  feel sure of without. Agnes Conyers saw that Clare was not herself; but then,
                  again, knew that she was separated from Lorimer, and she knew nothing more. How
                  should she see clearly when Clare herself was deceived? And then, too, Agnes
                  Conyers had too much to do for herself to be absorbed by another person's soul
                  just then. She had gone to Washington for distraction; she found it, but it was
                  only surface deep. She sought to find companionship, attractions in the men about
                  her; and at times she thought she had found it, but, as she drew near, it failed.
                  She went about like the spirits in Vathek, pursuing her ordinary occupations and
                  amusements, but within her heart was a coal of fire; she had miscalculated her
                  powers. Twenty-one is not the age when a woman can most easily crush a passion.
                  Either younger or older she is more capable of it.
               And so they went on, week by week, until a month went by, and the gayeties waxed
                  more intense, and the rush became greater, and Clare grew desperate with a sense
                  of vacancy and emptiness that nothing filled. She asked herself, again and again,
                  What ails me? She took long, solitary walks; she spent hours alone, reading; she
                  laughed at herself, flouted herself, was vexed with herself, did everything but
                  analyze herself; that an unknown fear kept her from doing. And what did Walter
                  Mordaunt? He walked, talked, and rode with Laura Preston, and Laura came home and
                  told where she had been; and the words, the familiar names, brought back old
                  memories to Clare, and she felt a rising and bitter jealousy, and mad, wild
                  passion, and she crushed it, and said to herself, "What is it to me?"
                  She grew cynical, and made sharp remarks, and society rang with Miss Hungerford's
                  "good things." She grew "distraite," and every one said how much Miss Hungerford
                  cared for Mr. Lorimer.
               One afternoon Clare came into the parlor, and, as she entered it, heard Miss
                  Preston say, "I cannot go with you, Marian; I have an engagement with Mr. Mordaunt
                  this afternoon." Clare turned hastily from the door and ran up stairs, threw on
                  her cloak and bonnet and started out alone. She turned into a back street
                  instinctively, and she walked steadily on through the sharp, keen winter's
                  afternoon, unconscious that she passed more than one acquaintance without
                  acknowledging their greetings, unconscious that every step brought her nearer to
                  the house in which Walter Mordaunt had
                  rooms. She passed the window of his parlor without a glance; she was so utterly
                  self-absorbed that she did not see her handkerchief slide from her pocket and fall
                  to the ground. She passed in safety.
               A moment later, Walter Mordaunt chucked the end of his cigar into the grate, and
                  rose lazily from his easy chair. It wanted twenty minutes of the time for which
                  his engagement with Miss Preston was fixed; and he drew on his gloves slowly, and
                  lounged down the steps with a yawn. His eye caught something white, just as he was
                  turning away from the house; he paused—stepped forward, and picked up a
                  handkerchief. He looked at it curiously at first, but, as he turned it over to
                  find the mark, a well-known subtle scent rose from between its delicate folds, and
                  he flushed and trembled. No Venice glass ever answered more truly to a drop of
                  poison, than the heart of Walter Mordaunt to that one breath of fragrance. There
                  is nothing in the world like an odor to carry an association home; and Mordaunt
                  inhaled enough of that perfume to render the atmosphere of his life instinct with
                  the past. No need to glance at the graceful cipher, where he found the initials C.
                  H. in almost undecipherable confusion. Yes, it was indeed her handkerchief; but
                  how came it there? He thrust it into his bosom at the instant, by a sudden, vague
                  impulse, lest it should be taken from him. Just as he did so he raised his eyes,
                  and saw a figure coming rapidly toward him—a figure whose every gesture and
                  movement he knew. She came up, walking fast and impetuously. She had discovered
                  her loss at the distance of a square, and turned back to look for it. He saw that
                  she recognized him at some little distance, and that she quickened her already
                  hurried pace.
               "I will not detain her," he thought, and stepped aside; but as she bowed, in
                  answer to his lifted hat, something—he knew not what—forced him to say, "Are you
                  looking for your handkerchief?"
               "Yes!" she said, and stopped short in her walk, startled and surprised by the
                  question.
               He made a motion to turn back with her, without saying anything.
               "What do you mean, Mr. Mordaunt?" she said; "do you know anything of my
                  handkerchief?"
               "I have it here," he answered. "Will you not continue your walk?"
               "Certainly, as soon as you give me back my property."
               "Let me walk with you, and we will talk it over."
               "Miss Preston is waiting for you, and it is very cold, standing here."
               "It is very comfortable always in Mrs. Hungerford's parlor, and Miss Preston will
                  not suffer from my delay; and I asked you to walk on, not stand still."
               Clare looked at him earnestly for a moment, but his face was inscrutable. She
                  dropped her eyes, and walked on; they both kept silence for some minutes; then she
                  said, "Where did you find it?"
               "Your handkerchief? You dropped it beneath my parlor window; I came out, picked it
                  up, and had just made out your initials as you came down on me."
               "You have moved, have you not? You were in another place last winter, were you
                  not?"
               "Yes. I had been settled in one set of apartments long enough. The rooms were
                  saturated with stale tobacco smoke and dead associations to an unpleasant degree,
                  so I determined to get a fresh set."
               "Of associations, or rooms, or both?"
               "Rooms, I think. Where are you going?"
               "I came out for a walk. I walk alone a good deal."
               "I should think you would never walk alone."
               "I am fond of it, and the streets and squares are company to me, I know them so
                  well."
               It was his turn to look at her now, for he knew whose guidance had so familiarized
                  those streets and squares. But he could
                  not catch the expression of her face; it was set straight forward; her eyes
                  looking steadily into the distance. Still they walked on, talked of indifferent
                  subjects with an undercurrent of strange consciousness beneath it all. Clare
                  forgot that she was to be on her guard, and that her terms with Mr. Mordaunt were
                  merely those of acquaintance. It could not be! and they glided into one of their
                  old intimate talks: he spake of his business, of dull, plodding labor; and she of
                  her weariness of stupid society routine; and they were interested and absorbed,
                  and forgot the time and place. There was not a word spoken of the past, but every
                  sentence betrayed that they had one in common. There was nothing of the lover in
                  Mordaunt's manner, but there was much confidence, intimacy, and sympathy in what
                  he said. In a moment they seemed to have resumed old times with a strange
                  difference. The chain became visible, but some links were broken and disengaged;
                  the streets and squares had done their work; it was all too irresistible. They
                  turned for home, after a long walk over well-known ground. They talked on until
                  they came within a square of the house; by an unspoken impulse they both stopped
                  and looked at each other. Clare's eyes fell. He said, "I will bid you good-by
                  here. I cannot face Miss Preston at once; I will come this evening."
               She looked at him innocently and inquiringly. He half smiled, and added, "You know
                  it requires some ingenuity to tell a woman that you have forgotten her existence,
                  temporarily, and yet do it so as to satisfy her vanity and soothe her pride."
               "Good afternoon, Mr. Mordaunt," said Clare; "and now give me my handkerchief."
               He put his hand into his bosom, and drew slowly from it the handkerchief. She
                  watched him as he did it, and noticed his lingering hesitation, as he shook the
                  last fold free into the air. He gathered it into his hand, fixed his eyes on hers;
                  she held out her hand; he seemed about to place it there, when he suddenly paused,
                  and said, "Can you, will you take it from me?"
               The words were nothing; but the tone, the manner, oh! how much they conveyed! It
                  was not within the scope of Clare's human power to extend her hand and take the
                  handkerchief. She felt entirely, vividly conscious of the deep meaning of his
                  words, and the utter change of position which her hesitation even would involve.
                  It all was clear to her, and yet she never felt the possibility of being able to
                  refuse it him. A second had hardly passed before she said, "I will not take it
                  from you. Good night! I must go!" and she had gone.
               He walked slowly away, his eyes fixed on the handkerchief which he still held
                  crumpled in his hand, looking at it like a man in a dream. He reached his rooms,
                  he hardly knew how. When he did so, he sat for a long time, his face buried in the
                  handkerchief, before the fire.
               Clare reached home in a scarcely less unnatural state. She tried to think over the
                  afternoon, as she dressed for dinner, but she could not arrange her ideas. There
                  were no sequences, no conclusions. Everything seemed confused and intermingled.
                  What had she done or said? At last it seemed to resolve itself into this—that she
                  had found it impossible to be merely conventional in her terms with any one whom
                  she had known so intimately; that there was a middle ground of friendship, and
                  that she had found it. How strange it seemed—almost like a dream! How had she ever
                  resumed her intimacy with him? There had been no strain, no effort. It had all
                  been natural and easy; and how oddly they suited each other! They had strong
                  sympathies naturally. She remembered how they had come together at the first so
                  quickly and surely; how alone and uncared for he seemed. What a delightful thing
                  it had been, this walk—so different from other walks with other men! And he did
                  not love her now, he only turned to her for sympathy and companionship. Surely she
                  owed him that. She had no right to
                  refuse it. And then she thought how strange it all was. How natural it had all
                  been. And then, last of all, she thought of her handkerchief; the consciousness
                  that she had felt so clearly at the time she did not feel now. Only a shiver came
                  over her as she thought of his tone—a shiver half of dread half of pleasure. She
                  put it aside; she could not have refused him such a small thing, the only thing he
                  had asked. Would he talk with her to-night? What would Laura Preston say? After
                  all, what did it matter what she said or thought? She had known Mr. Mordaunt much
                  better and much longer than Laura had, and she finished her toilet and went down
                  stairs.
               That night, as Walter Mordaunt stepped over the threshold of Mrs. Hungerford's
                  front door, Clare Hungerford faced him. She was standing at the foot of the
                  stairs. He glanced at her quickly. In a moment he saw that her handkerchief which
                  she held in her hand was crushed and tumbled; that a slight flush was on her
                  cheek. She had not just come down then; she had had time to become discomposed and
                  fluttered. Had she waited for him? The fancy went through him even as he spoke to
                  her, and he said, not "Good evening, Miss Hungerford," as he had said uniformly
                  since their return to Washington, but, "It is so long since I have seen you with
                  scarlet in your hair; the last time was—"
               He paused, seemed trying to recall some date, when she supplied his hiatus by
                  saying, "It was at a small party given to Miss Beresford, by the Willoughbys. It
                  was the night of the twenty-fifth of February."
               "You are right!" he said. "What a memory you have! I think women have better
                  memories than men. I wonder why it is so."
               "Probably because they remember by heart and not by head," said a voice over his
                  shoulder.
               He turned and saw Miss Preston, who had seen his figure from her sofa corner, and
                  had come up in time to hear his question.
               "Oh, Miss Preston! you must find a better reason than that. I am a living proof
                  to-night of the fallaciousness of your theory. If my memory failed me this
                  afternoon—apropos of my walk—it was not because I taxed my head to hold it instead
                  of my heart."
               "Your heart has probably been riddled so often by well-aimed shots and chance
                  bullets, that it cannot hold anything safely."
               "Well, that is a distinct question. Miss Hungerford," he said, slipping between
                  Clare and the parlor, which she was about to enter, "do you think
                  Miss Preston's theory a sound one?"
               "It certainly has a show of truth, if one judges by most lives and loves."
               "What do you know of such things?" he said, mockingly.
               Clare raised her eyes. What did he mean? A rejoinder arose to her lips; but Laura
                  Preston was standing by, and she would not make it.
               "Not much, to be sure, for my life has been short, and my loves to be spoken in
                  the singular number."
               Mordaunt bowed with an affectation of courtliness, and she swept past him, her
                  woman's heart rising and swelling in her breast, her native pride keeping her
                  steady and composed.
               Laura Preston clapped her hands, and said, "Admirable, Clare! Capitally done, Mr.
                  Mordaunt!"
               "Miss Preston, give me a minute, won't you? Do me so much grace; don't let us have
                  Jedwood justice. Try me, before you condemn me."
               "Justice! I shall never do you justice, I am afraid;" and her voice sank.
               "I should be afraid to ask it on most occasions; but this afternoon I am confident
                  I can prove to have been excusable."
               
               "Do not apologize to me," she said, suddenly changing her light tone to one of
                  considerable depth and meaning, "for having failed to keep an engagement. I do not
                  wish to feel as if our terms necessitated a conventional apology for every
                  accident of the kind. More than that, even if it were not an accident—even if you
                  voluntarily failed to come—surely our agreement to understand each other without
                  explanation, which we made the other night, comes in here."
               "It does," he answered; "and I take you at your word. We are beyond
                  misunderstandings. You will not doubt me?"
               "Never!" she said, laying her hand upon his. They were seated in a small library,
                  the first room at hand, into which she had led the way as Clare left them.
               Mordaunt felt a good deal relieved by this turn to the conversation, as he had no
                  prepared excuse for his negligence, and he threw more earnestness into his tone
                  than he intended when he said "You will not doubt me." They had never been in this
                  vein before, but she was not destitute of attraction for him, and he always fell
                  into it, at one time or another, with every woman to whom he was attentive;
                  therefore he did what he had done hundreds of times before, and what cost him no
                  effort, while yet it gave him no thrill. He stooped and pressed his lips to her
                  hand as it lay upon his own. Laura had had men in love with her; had had her hand
                  kissed; but her experience was one sided. They had cared for her, but she had
                  cared for none of them, and she did care for Mr. Mordaunt enough to give the
                  incident a new meaning. Her old worldly-wise theories fled; she felt as innocent,
                  as trustful, as yielding as ever did any girl of sixteen. Mr. Mordaunt saw it. He
                  was flattered, and a little excited. The day had been a strangely-tossing one, and
                  he felt desperate. He went on with the conversation, and it grew more and more
                  unlike their former ones. Instead of Miss Preston's clear, quick tones, and
                  ringing laugh, Clare, who sat with the party gathered in the next room, only heard
                  the low, deep, tones of Mordaunt's voice, modulated to softness, so as to carry
                  just so far and no farther, with occasionally a murmur of response from Laura. Two
                  or three gentlemen had as usual dropped in, and they were grouped around Clare and
                  Agnes, and Clare's flush deepened, and her eyes glittered, and she was brilliant,
                  fascinating, delightful. The men were struck and Agnes startled; and yet if you
                  had asked Clare that night what her evening had been, she would have replied
                  "Vanity of vanities;" and if you had gone deeper you would have stumbled across
                  the skeleton who had made that banquet ghastly to her—the skeleton of a lost
                  hope—a hope born but that day, and dead in its babyhood.
               The morning after Clare's walk with Mr. Mordaunt, she came to the breakfast table
                  looking haggard and weary. Her golden hair was brushed close to her head, and
                  rolled in one heavy mass low in her neck. She seldom wore it so, only when she had
                  a severe, nervous headache, and arranged it to relieve herself from the feeling of
                  restraint which the usual more elaborate method gave her.
               Agnes Conyers knew this as well as the rest of the party at table, but she said
                  nothing; only she looked with a tender, anxious glance at Clare's contracted brow
                  and pale cheek; and she busied herself unobtrusively in procuring a hot, cup of
                  tea, the only thing she knew which Clare could take. A letter lay upon the table,
                  and Clare took it up languidly and scrutinized it, before breaking the seal; it
                  was the counterpart externally of the letter she had found waiting for her almost
                  every morning since she came to Washington; so she was familiar enough with the
                  writing and seal. She seated herself and opened it. Agnes watched her face as she
                  read, watched it with a gnawing, eager, anxious desire to see rise there some
                  sparkle or bloom. Surely his letters must always stir her depths. Surely she
                  cannot read it through once and again, replace it in its envelope, and yet wear
                  the same spiritless, colorless expression sion which she has worn since she came into the room. If it do but inspire her
                  for an hour, still for an hour she will be renewed in strength! No, there was no
                  change—no illumination! She turned to her untasted breakfast, nibbled a bit of
                  toast, sipped at her tea, bent her head on her hand and sat motionless! Agnes
                  could bear it no longer; she rose, crossed the room to Clare, put her hand
                  caressingly on her shoulder, and said, "My darling, what ails you?"
               "Nothing dear, but a headache."
               "Is that a letter from Mr. Lorimer?"
               "Yes; he asked to be remembered to you."
               "What does he say about his prospects of a leave of absence?"
               "Nothing!" And Clare sighed involuntarily.
               "Clare, you are not well," said Marian authoritatively.
               "No, you have looked wretchedly for two weeks," said Laura.
               "Poor child!" whispered Agnes; "you have enough to pull you down: this weary
                  waiting; this strain of mind and body. But, darling, the winter will be over, and
                  we will go back to Oakhurst and Blythewood, and to Mr. Lorimer."
               Clare covered her eyes with her hand. She tried to put life into Agnes's words, as
                  she said them to herself; but it was not in her power. Oakhurst—the lifetime with
                  Edward Lorimer: it was a short dream; not even a bright one now. Sometimes she
                  felt as if it had never been at all save in her fancies; as if it were a dead
                  theory which had never been essayed, which had been proved impracticable, and had
                  been born and crushed to death within her own breast. Agnes bid her look forward
                  to going back to these places; but when she did so, no relief, no lightening came.
                  She looked up wearily into the sympathizing face bent over her, and said, "I am
                  tired of everything and every one. Most of all, of myself."
               "Not tired of these!" said Agnes, meaningly, laying her hand upon Mr. Lorimer's
                  letter.
               "Yes, tired of letters; for what can they do for me? They give no strength; their
                  freshness goes as you unfold them, and their meaning, when once read."
               "Oh, Clare, that is not fair to yourself or to Mr. Lorimer! You know that there is
                  freshness and strength enough in his love for you, to make any letter full of
                  meaning to you."
               "I cannot argue with you, Agnes. I know you are in the right; but I fear I can
                  never make any one happy, or be made happy myself."
               "It is this life that is making you morbid, Clare. You should not lead it; go home
                  with me on Tuesday."
               "Home! Tuesday! What do you mean?"
               "I must go home on Tuesday. I have had letters summoning me; besides, you know my
                  three weeks will be over then. You can easily persuade Mrs. Hungerford that you
                  and Washington are tired of one another; so come with me."
               Clare shivered and shrank as Agnes took her hand to lead her away from the table.
                  She felt as if she was being forced away from the only spot where she cared to be.
                  The idea of going back to Blythewood filled her with dread. Wretched as she was,
                  she could not, would not leave Washington. Why? she did not ask
                  herself. She only knew that a fierce resolve took possession of her to remain.
                  Anything was better; even this wild, feverish excitement of mind and body was more
                  grateful to her than the quiet and the associations of Blythewood and Oakhurst.
                  Even the prospect of Agnes going gave her an unacknowledged satisfaction; she
                  needed her; she would miss her; but, inasmuch as she formed a part of her last
                  summer and spring, Clare shrank from her, and feared her recollections, her
                  reminders.
               They went together into the parlor, and there Clare escaped from Agnes and ran up
                  stairs. She locked her door and threw herself upon a lounge. She was determined to
                  think herself clear of her perplexities; but the more she thought, the more
                  confused she grew; only one thing
                  shaped itself and became distinctly visible to her; that was that she was leading
                  two lives, that they could not be reconciled, and that they led farther and
                  farther apart at every step; that she had two pasts, two futures, and that a
                  choice must be made; that it was the frightful discrepancy of these two existences
                  that made her so miserable; that whichever one she embraced involved the total
                  abandonment of the other. These things Clare said over and over to herself; and
                  yet no plan of action would suggest itself. The moment she took off the strain she
                  had imposed upon her faculties, one idea possessed her. Walter Mordaunt, what did
                  he mean? What could he say or do? When should she see him? At last, she rose,
                  saying to herself, "It is my fate. I cannot draw back now. I must see the play
                  through. I do love Edward. I do not love Mr. Mordaunt. Let me be
                  content with that."
               And she joined the rest below.
               The following Tuesday afternoon Miss Conyers left Washington. She was escorted to
                  the depot by a number of people; Laura, Marian, and Clare, with several of the
                  gentlemen who had become habitues of the Hungerfords' parlor. Walter Mordaunt was
                  not among them. He had not been at the house since the night of his last
                  conversation with Clare. Agnes was placed in the cars; they all grouped around
                  her. Clare stood beside her, holding her hand, and talking excitedly and fast.
               "Agnes, write often and long letters, and miss me. And, oh, Agnes! look after my
                  flower-beds, and write me how the horses look."
               "Clare, my darling; don't go out at night as much as you have done of late; take
                  walks and rides instead."
               "I will, Agnes, I will; but with whom shall I take them? Oh, you cannot go and
                  leave me!"
               At the instant Agnes felt Clare grip her hand tighter. She looked at her and saw
                  that her lip was trembling; that her gayety and light-heartedness had been but
                  assumed.
               All the slight coldness that had been between them since Clare's refusal to pay
                  her a visit, vanished in a second; and Agnes drew Clare's face down to hers and
                  whispered, "My bonnie love, don't cry. I love you dearly."
               Clare choked back her tears, and raised her head, just as Mr. Mordaunt came into
                  the cars and up to Miss Conyers, saying, "I knew I should get here to see you
                  off."
               "I am very glad you have managed it; but why were you so confident?"
               "For a very illogical reason. I once missed a train at this depot, which I would
                  have scaled the gates of heaven to catch, and ever since I have always been in
                  time, and I think Fortune's gifts only come to the man who is indifferent to the
                  possession of them; by which I don't mean that this is an indifferent
                  pleasure to me, but that the train which I lost was Life
                  or Death."
               "Well, good-by, Mr. Mordaunt. I see the cars are going to move, for the other
                  gentlemen have left the car."
               "Good-by!"
               "Clare, stoop your head a little. Dearest," she whispered, "take care of yourself
                  for Mr. Lorimer's sake."
               Clare started as though she had been stung, and said, hurriedly, "Yes, yes;
                  good-by! Kiss me, Agnes."
               They kissed each other and parted. The car whistle sounded and the train moved
                  slowly out of the grimy, dark depot, past Clare Hungerford as she stood by Walter
                  Mordaunt's side, bearing away from her the only human creature willing and able to
                  help her in sore need. She felt something of this as she watched the receding
                  train of cars, until they disappeared from sight, and she turned to Walter
                  Mordaunt with an involuntary look of pleading helplessness in her eyes. He caught
                  the meaning though he could not see the cause which prompted it, and it was with
                  much of his old tenderness, such as he had always shown her in his better moods, that he said, anxiously, "You
                  look tired and fagged; take my arm, and let us walk back to the carriage."
               She took the arm he offered her, without a word, and they passed through the
                  throng of newspaper boys and hackmen, until they reached the street. The rest of
                  the party were already seated in the carriage, and when Clare approached the door,
                  she saw that all the seats were filled. Marian had invited George Willoughby to
                  drive up with her, and Laura Preston, ignorant of Marian's provision, had supplied
                  herself with a companion on the same terms. Both the gentlemen made a motion to
                  spring out, but before they could extricate themselves from the masses of
                  crinoline by which their feet were tangled, Walter Mordaunt's plan was made.
                  Quickly and gracefully he stepped in front of Clare, and, putting his hand on
                  Willoughby's knee, said, "Don't move, George; or you either, Mr. Lawrence. Miss
                  Hungerford will walk home under my care."
               "Then we are all three in luck," said Mr. Lawrence, with a meaning glance at Miss
                  Preston. Her face was turned away, her eyes fixed on Mordaunt. Would he look at
                  her? He bowed a cold acquiescence to Lawrence's remark, and turned away.
               Marian ordered the carriage to drive home, and they whirled away. Mordaunt turned
                  to Clare, and said, with a faint shade of embarrassment in his manner, "Was I too
                  presumptuous? I did not mean to be; but I thought that I would be a more congenial
                  companion for you now than those men and women."
               He spoke with much of his old intimate tone, and Clare felt herself suddenly
                  replaced upon terms with him which she had once thought could never be renewed.
                  His implied taunt of their last meeting was forgotten; her own resolves;
                  everything that could have proved a check, an obstacle; she felt only that they
                  were once more alone, once more together gether; that he was speaking to her as he
                  had once done, before all this heart-sickness attacked her, and she asked herself
                  no questions. She answered his apology with an impulsive "You are quite right! I
                  am very much obliged to you."
               "Hardly a fit word. I did not mean to oblige you. Now that you have
                  forgiven me, I will confess that this walk we are taking is the result of a
                  deep-laid plot."
               Clare looked at him, half mystified. He went on.
               "For the last three nights I have laid in wait for you. I have prowled by night
                  and lurked by day, that I might catch you on another solitary ramble, and, if you
                  would permit me, join you. I have so much to say to you, so much to talk over with
                  you, and I never see you alone, except by a chance."
               He paused. Clare was silent. Her face was turned away, her eyes cast down. He
                  resumed, with a deeper tone in his voice: "May I tell you, first of all, that in
                  our passage-at-arms on Friday night I struck a blow which I fear touched a painful
                  recollection? I cannot say that it was unintentional; but I am sure if you knew
                  the bitterness of soul that was involved in my remark, if you knew the
                  wretchedness I have known since, you would pardon me. You must have seen then that
                  what I said I said desperately and recklessly, without a thought of wounding
                  you."
               He paused again. This time Clare spoke, slowly, and steadying her voice at every
                  word.
               "It was not a kind nor a generous speech. I am glad you made it without
                  intention."
               "Indeed I did. I did not think I could give you a moment's distress by anything I
                  could say. I thought my wild words would not hurt any one, would pass away, and
                  only give my heart relief."
               "Of what did your heart need relief then? Surely our conversation, or rather your
                  conversation with Miss Preston, had nothing very harassing in it."
               
               "Had it not? If you can say that, I do not wonder that I thought you
                  invulnerable on the side of the past."
               "You played a modern Paris then, and found my tendon Achilles," said Clare, with
                  an affectation of gayety.
               "Miss Hungerford, do you mean that?"
               "Mr. Mordaunt, you must not be judicial in your interrogatories."
               "How can you treat lightly everything I say to you? It is not fair nor kind."
               "I am very sorry. I did not mean to be unkind; but—" and she hesitated.
               He caught the word. "But you were unwilling to discuss your feelings of the other
                  evening, and you took that way to close the subject? If I am right in that
                  surmise, then I can say no more. The recollection is a painful one to me, and only
                  leads me to talk and think of things better forgotten. I have a favor to ask of
                  you."
               "Anything for yourself?"
               "For myself alone. Will you grant it?"
               "Let me hear first?"
               "It is a very simple request, but it embodies a great deal; I need not detail how
                  much. You will understand me when I ask you. Will you be a friend to me? I know it
                  is a great deal to ask, but I risk a good deal in accepting. I do not seek to
                  disguise from you, Miss Hungerford, or from myself, that to be friends with you is
                  a most dangerous position for me to take, and in some respects a most unfair one,
                  but I can trust you. I do not fear that you will refuse me on my own account, for
                  when I admit my danger, I can add that I have counted the cost, and that in this
                  case le jeu vaut bien la chandelle. I wait for
                  your answer."
               His voice had never quivered all through, but as he added the last words it sank
                  very low and grew a little hoarse. He waited. The minutes went by; they walked on
                  and on; still she did not speak. He watched her closely, every nerve tense, every
                  muscle on the strain. He had put all his chances into the balance. Would it rise
                  or fall? A few squares more, and they would strike the avenue. Would she give him
                  his answer, while they were thronged by acquaintances and became part of
                     society again? No, he knew her too well for that. Whatever her
                  decision might be he would know it in a few minutes more. He could see that she
                  was about to speak; twice she opened her mouth, and then closed it again without
                  uttering a sound, not because her mind was not made up, but because her voice was
                  not under her control, and she was determined it should be. He, with his fine
                  perceptions, guessed this. It frightened him. What if she were nerving herself to
                  refuse him? He tried to think that it was only a fall; he had only to dry his
                  eyes, get up, laugh, and try again. But, even as he tried to face the possibility,
                  he felt a blank desperation coming over his soul. No, this was the last of it; he
                  would never try for her again. Just as this passed through his mind she turned to
                  him and fixed her eyes on his.
               "I hardly know what I ought to do. I have been thinking," she said, and her voice
                  and manner were those of a little child, "I am sure you will take care of me; I am
                  sure I can trust you. I am your friend, and I shall be very glad if you will be
                  mine. I know you so well, and you are such a comfort to me. I suppose no one will
                  understand our intimacy but ourselves; but we understand it, do we not?" and she
                  held out her little ungloved hand to him.
               For a moment he was almost tempted to say, "My child, I understand it, but you do
                  not;" she looked so confidingly into his eyes, and in all their intercourse he had
                  never played her false. But he could not dash the cup from his own lips.
               He took her hand. "We do understand each other," he said, as he
                  pressed his lips to it.
               Did God in his infinite mercy forgive him that lie?
               He dropped her hand and walked on in silence. In a few minutes more they turned into the avenue, and
                  nothing further passed between them but casual conversation upon the most ordinary
                  topics, generally apropos of their
                  acquaintances, whom they met at almost every step.
               When they reached their destination Mordaunt said, holding out his hand, "I shall
                  leave you with four lines of poetry; they come in here, I think, and no doubt are
                  familiar to you, for I read them in a book of yours the other night, and the page
                  seemed worn by use. 
                     
                        'Yet I will but say, what mere friends say,
                        Or only a thought stronger,
                        I will hold your hand but as long as all may,
                        Or so very little longer.'"
                     
                  
               
               He held her hand in his while he said these lines, with all the expression of
                  which his very effective voice was capable, and turned from the steps at the close
                  without another word.
               Clare pulled the bell, and stood waiting the opening of the door, her eyes upon
                  the ground, deep in a reverie. That poem was called the "Lost Mistress," and he
                  knew it. No, he had only read the last verse; it was on a page alone; but even
                  that was more than mere friendship could dictate. But theirs could not be an
                  ordinary friendship; it had too many different threads in it; it was a web of many
                  colors. He had kissed her hand. She thought of Edward Lorimer and his refined
                  feelings and delicate fancies, and her heart smote her. She would write and tell
                  him all, tell him what had happened, and ask him to understand and sympathize;
                  would tell him—but no, she could not. He knew no details of her past, nothing of
                  Mordaunt; he would be miserable. She could not write—after all, a woman wants more
                  people than one in her life, friends as well as lovers, and he was a
                  friend. The door opened; she ran up stairs to dress for dinner. So ended her
                  second walk with Mr. Mordaunt.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  
                     "I have tremor cordis in me; my heart
                        dances, but not for joy, not joy."
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Then comes the check, the change, the fall;
                        Pain rises up; old pleasures pall—
                        There is one remedy for all."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "O come again, ye merry times!
                        Sweet, sunny, fresh, and calm,
                        And let me hear those Easter chimes,
                        And wear my Sunday palm.
                        If I could cry away mine eyes,
                        My tears would flow in vain—
                        If I could waste my heart in sighs,
                        They'll never come again!
                        Old times! old times!"
                     
                  
               
               THEY have such lovely April days in Washington! Days when it is good to be
                  eighteen, and to roam idly under the blossoming trees, to look at the blue sky and
                  the flying white clouds, and to dream that life is love and youth eternal. Such
                  warm, bright days! Days to live and be happy; but we live a long time, and we are
                  only happy once. Clare Hungerford has lived a short time, and is signally unhappy.
                  She thinks, though, it is a lovely first of April; the windows are open, a soft
                  breeze moves the curtain, the grass is green, and little children laugh in the
                  neighbor's garden.
               Clare is lying curled up in an easy chair with a book in her hand, which she is
                  pretending to read, and a bundle of candy on the table, which she is eating at
                  intervals. Laura Preston is seated on the other side of the table sewing. She
                  never looks so well as when she sews; perhaps she knows it; her hand is lovely,
                  white, and soft, and she pulls the needle through with so much decision and grace
                  that it is pleasant to look at her. She has stayed in Washington much longer than
                  she intended, but she cannot go away
                  now—she is too much interested in the game she is playing; the luck is against her
                  just now, but she is skillful and patient; the luck may change; she is the victor
                  of too many battle-fields to be baffled without a desperate struggle. She could
                  fight better if she knew who her enemy was, but she does not know. Mordaunt has
                  not been so devoted lately; he comes as often, but is not so anxious to talk only
                  to her. What can be the reason?
               The reason sits on the other side of the table thinking she ought to write to
                  Edward Lorimer, but really she has not energy. How unkind in her it is too, when
                  she has just had a particularly nice letter from him. One of his brother officers
                  is coming in on some business about sabers, and is, of course, envied by the
                  regiment. Even Edward, always so enduring and contented, has given utterance to
                  his longing to come in from the frontier.
               Clare feels triste, discontented, ennuyée; and Marian enters, busy, animated, full of a
                  project: "I really think we ought to do it; it would be so nice, and the trouble
                  would be trifling—nothing, indeed. Laura, you would help me, I know. Clare might
                  dust the piano; more she couldn't do."
               "That she wouldn't do," answered Clare. "Marian, what diabolical plot are you
                  concocting now?"
               "Why, Clare, I was thinking this morning that it would be a good plan to—to ask
                  some people to come here—to give a party, in short."
               "I won't come to it! I never heard of such a thing! A party—a dancing, heated,
                  gabbling, guzzling party, with the thermometer at 2000 degrees! A party in
                  April!"
               "That would be the very thing! We could have Chinese lanterns in the garden, and
                  walk out if we grew very warm."
               "Enchanting!" cried Laura, eagerly, thinking she would entice Mordaunt into the
                  garden, out of the light of a Chinese lantern, and never let him come in
                  again.
               "Chinese lanterns! You might as well have fireworks! And, pray, what time of night
                  do you propose giving this ball? for women won't care to have their daughters
                  catch cold wandering in damp grounds at midnight."
               "They can wear shawls."
               "Marian, did you ever know a girl who put on a shawl for fear of catching cold?"
                  asked Laura.
               "It is to be very early, and very sociable. I mean to tell every one."
               "Yes, Marian, you would ask people that way once before, and Mrs. Mason came in a
                  black silk frock with her work-box, and has never been here since. Why don't you
                  tell people ingenuously, it is a large party, come in full dress; it is a small,
                  squibbly thing, come in your plain clothes?"
               "Clare, since you have been going so often to Mrs. Stoddard's, you do use the most
                  horrid words; mamma noticed it yesterday."
               "Marian, she learned squibbly from me, said Laura, with a laugh. "I said it
                  yesterday, but it means nothing wrong, for I invented the word myself, when—"
               "Marian—I beg your pardon, Laura—but, Marian, I want to know about this party. In
                  the course of two minutes I have been seized with a sudden interest in it. When is
                  it to be?"
               "I thought next Monday. This is Thursday. You see to-morrow will be Good Friday;
                  we might have it on Monday, might we not, Laura?"
               "Yes," answered Clare, "we might, only you will have to ask the people on
                  Saturday, when they will be so weak and dejected from fasting that they will all
                  say no."
               "Then, let us take Saturday to ask those shockingly-vulgar Lynch girls, for I
                  don't want them to come," said Laura, with a laugh; "we shall do vastly better
                  without them."
               "Oh, yes, Marian!" cried Clare, eagerly, "do let us have a Utopian party for once.
                  Let us ask only 'the brave and the fair.'"
               "The pretty girls, and the nice fellows," said Laura.
               
               "Clare, child, your party would be a dream, consisting only of Mr. Lorimer and
                  yourself."
               Clare colored angrily. If she had liked Laura Preston better, she would have
                  retorted; as it was, she said nothing.
               Marian, fearing hot words, and thinking she must say something, said the most
                  inopportune thing in the world: "Come, girls, do be good tempered, and help me
                  make out a list. We must have all the people who have ever asked us, to begin
                  with."
               "Oh, Marian! even the Lynches?"
               "Yes, Clare, even the Lynches," answered Marian, severely. "They have been very
                  polite to us, and they are very nice girls at heart."
               "A little Western," said Laura, who was as "Eastern" as it is possible to be.
               "Well, perhaps they are—a little; but that is the fault of their education; and I
                  am sure you never saw any one ride better than Kitty Lynch does."
               "A good reason for asking her to a circus," said Clare; "but she can't display
                  that accomplishment here. Marian, do you mean to ask all four?"
               "Of course, Clare; you can't ask detachments of families, can you?"
               "Why not? Invite them all, and put in a postscript, 'Two of the young ladies are
                  requested not to come.'"
               "Clare, they would be sure not to like it. Do you know, Clare, I think I will
                  write to Frederick Cary and ask him to come on."
               "To dance with the Lynches?" said Clare, languidly. "Well, Marian, ask whom you
                  like, where you like, when you like—only do not, pray, do not flatter yourself
                  that I will be polite to them. Laura, take this last caramel; do."
               "Clare, I never eat candy."
               "Except what Marie Vivian used to call pralines, and eat from morning till night.
                  Marian, do you remember?"
               "Yes," said Marian, who was deep in an estimate of people, and heard only the
                  name; "they had several plantations, they could afford it. Clare, where are you
                  going?"
               "I am going up stairs to read in peace; about half-past four I am going out to
                  take a walk."
               "Who with?"
               "Seule, my dear; and don't offer to go with me, and don't say 'who with;' for it
                  is not grammatical. Good-by. If you would like me to seal one envelope, I might
                  try to do it."
               Clare was of no use whatever as far as the projected entertainment went; indeed,
                  she forgot all about it, until she came down stairs on Saturday morning and put
                  her foot through a Chinese lantern that lay on the dining-room floor. She raised
                  her eyebrows, looked very despairing, rang the bell, and ordered her horse to be
                  at the door at one o'clock. But Marian meant to have the carriage at half-past
                  twelve to go on a tour of invitations, and if Clare really wished to be obliging
                  and useful, she would go to the green-house. But at the words obliging and useful,
                  Clare had disappeared; and when Marian followed her, she found her lying by an
                  open window, lazily turning over a volume of Keats, and stubbornly declining to go
                  out then; it was not convenient for her to go before four o'clock.
               Laura Preston had a dim glimmering of one high church idea in her composition. She
                  thought it was feminine and graceful to be a little devotè. She therefore called herself a strict church woman, frowned
                  down stupid quotations from the Bible, always went to church on Sunday mornings,
                  and would not go to a party at Lynch's because it was Lent. She said the Lenten
                  services took up a great deal of time, and that she always went an the afternoon,
                  as indeed she did when she was not too tired or too late, had nothing better to
                  do, and happened to be coming up town when the bells were ringing. On this
                  Saturday, being Easter Even, and the last of the forty days' services, she
                  persuaded Marian to drop her at the church door, and listened with a dreamy ear to the musical voice of the
                  clergyman as he went through the prayers. It did not last long, and the
                  congregation came out into the bright light of the setting sun; going down so
                  gorgeously and slowly that Laura was tempted to stroll slowly through the park
                  opposite the church, instead of going immediately homeward.
               It was a delicious afternoon, full of brightness and peace, as if earth had
                  prepared itself for the great resurrection of the coming day.
               The trees were all green with the promise of spring, the grass was soft and tender
                  in its newness; everything told of the May to come.
               Under the lindens, outside the square, so soon to be heavy with overarching shade,
                  strolled two figures, a man and a woman. Lovers, thought Laura, with a semi-sneer,
                  and forgot them. As she turned again they turned also. They passed her again, she
                  on the gravel walk inside the railing, they under the trees outside. They did not
                  see her, but she saw and recognized them. They were Clare Hungerford and Walter
                  Mordaunt. A horrible idea darted through Laura Preston's mind. Her first impulse
                  was to scream with rage, but, being not a Hottentot, but a well brought-up young
                  lady of the present day, she simply turned and walked slowly homeward.
               "So this is why Clare goes out every afternoon about the same time!
                     This is why Mordaunt is not so attentive to me as he was! I wish
                  Mr. Lorimer were here."
               But better thoughts succeeded the first confused promptings of jealousy. It was
                  not likely that Mordaunt and Clare, would resort to clandestine meetings, when he
                  had free access to Mrs. Hungerford's parlor at all hours of the day. Mordaunt
                  never had been in love with Clare, or she, Laura Preston, would have known it;
                  some one would have told her; the same jesting allusions would have been made
                  concerning him that had been made as to Cary, Stanton, and half a dozen other men.
                  Was there anything so remarkable markable in the fact of two persons walking
                  together? It was all nonsense. She wondered what Clare would say.
               And Clare said simply this, when she came into the house five minutes after Laura:
                  "What weakening weather! Laura, Mr. Mordaunt joined me; he wanted to know if you
                  would be at home this evening; he says you promised to show him those
                  caricatures?"
               And Laura's suspicions were appeased, and laughed at herself for her weakness, and
                  redoubled her efforts to ensnare Mordaunt.
               Nevertheless, she did well to wish for Edward Lorimer. For under the sweet name of
                  friendship, Walter Mordaunt was slowly and surely gaining the ground that belonged
                  to another prince. All the dear rights of intimacy, the sweet confidence, the
                  perfect trust, the unreserved intercourse, that should have been Lorimer's and
                  Lorimer's alone, Clare was learning to give to Mordaunt; for "he was her friend."
                  Nay, learning is not the correct expression; she had learned the lesson once,—the
                  lesson it is so hard to forget.
               "She, poor child! did not stop to think where this soft, sliding descent was to
                  end; she did not know or care; but Mordaunt knew and cared. And all this time,
                  Edward Lorimer was far away on his frontier duty, drilling his men, studying his
                  tactics, breaking a little horse that he meant Clare to ride; eschewing the
                  mess-room jests and amusements to read the German books which she had given him,
                  and to write the long, loving letters which she read so unmovedly—"living a very
                  Sir Galahad for her sweet sake."
               And Agnes Conyers was living quietly at Blythewood, doing her duty faithfully in
                  her way, as did Edward Lorimer in his; and finding at last peace, if not
                  happiness; comfort, if not joy.
               Oh, earth! earth! earth!
               Sunday morning rose calm and bright, bringing some rest and relief to Clare's
                  wearied and excited mind. She dressed
                  herself to go to church—not with her mother and Marian, who wore their new bonnets
                  in their accustomed pew—but to the Church of St. Aloysius, where she hoped to hear
                  fine music and have, at least, a sensation.
               She meant to go alone. The walk was long; the day too mild for rapid walking; the
                  avenue so crowded with men of all ranks that she soon sought side streets and back
                  streets, and found herself, as the bells ceased to toll, in front of a church that
                  was not the one she was looking for; but was, she assumed, better than none, and
                  she was too tired and too late to go farther. She went in; the sexton showed her
                  into a pew that might have been more comfortable; the congregation was not large,
                  but very still and attentive; bright flowers crowned the reading-desk and altar.
                  The service began; a few short prayers were said; a sweet old hymn was sung, and
                  the preacher mounted the pulpit. He was a young man, not more than twenty-five,
                  with little beauty but much fascination in his face, and more in his voice. Most
                  surely his life had not been all roses and honey; the expression about his mouth—a
                  "firm, patient, contented mouth"—and the quiet reticence of his brown eyes told
                  part of his story for him. Something in his brown eyes reminded Clare of Edward
                  Lorimer's: they were of the same color; they wore the same truthful expression;
                  there was something like Edward too in the voice—clear, sweet, decided; and, as he
                  went on with his sermon, and his voice deepened with interest, and his worn young
                  face flushed with earnestness, there was a faithfulness and spirituality about the
                  man that brought to Clare's mind Edward's comparison of himself to Sir Galahad;
                  and she thought even like this young Christian might Sir Galahad have looked. The
                  whole sermon seemed to her like an accusing voice from the moment when the
                  preacher gave out his strangely chosen text.
               "My text is taken from the second chapter of the Revelations of St. John the
                  Divine, fourth and fifth verses. 'Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee,
                  because thou hast left thy first love. Remember, therefore, from whence thou art
                  fallen, and repent and do the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly
                  and will remove thy candlestick out of its place, except thou repent.' My
                  brethren, when these words were written, they were written with a local and
                  personal application; with a design to produce a direct and powerful effect upon
                  the church at Ephesus, to which they were addressed by the great Head of all the
                  churches through the instrumentality of his holy Apostle St. John. Consequently
                  there present themselves two ways of dealing with them: either arbitrarily, with
                  reference to their evident and primary object, or freely and largely, as the
                  expression of an eternal and warning love and wisdom. Let us read them as they
                  address themselves to us—to us, not only as Christians, but as beings constituted
                  in a common humanity with common aspirations and common frailties.
               "Who among us has not left his first love? whether it was his first dream, his
                  first theory of life, his first hope, his first aspiration, his first ambition,
                  that stood to him in the place of a first love. Who has not strayed away from his
                  first ideals? who has not trampled under foot his earliest idols? whose future is
                  unshaded by his past? who but remembers, with a sigh, the time when youth was and
                  experience was not?
               
               "For men there are many loves; many shrines at which their knees bow; but there is
                  always among them one most sacred, most pure, most invested with glory—and that
                  one is the lost one. Yes, God has something against every one of us who has left
                  his first love! We may win fame, treasure—happiness in a measure—but,
                  nevertheless, in that we have proved false to the meaning of our lives, the
                  destiny of our souls, in that there is a score against us. We all stumble and
                  fall; we all must do so, men and women; but we need never let go of the clue which
                  will lead us to the mountain summit. We may reach there weary, toilworn worn; our garments besmirched with sins
                  and torn with sorrows; but, while we keep our hold upon the thread which guides us
                  upward, we need not read these solemn words and feel them meant for us.
               "As you sit here before me, I look at your upturned faces, and I wonder, when I
                  think of the innumerable forms and phases which these words take as applied to you
                  severally. Some among you may know the greater, wider sense of them; you may know
                  what it is to lie in sloth and sin, and let the heavenly visions of your youth
                  fade far away; some of you may have left your first love for ambition, some for
                  greed of gain, some for the face of a woman. Some of you may be only now relaxing
                  your hold upon your ideals, only now growing content to live without loyalty and
                  faith. Some of you, who are women, may be straying blindly from the path upon
                  which God set your feet, while others may be casting aside their first love in the
                  wild tumults of passion. Oh, brothers and sisters! I cry to you in the name of our
                  common humanity, in the name of our common Saviour, stop—stay yet awhile—while
                  there is yet time and light left you, stop!
               "If your dreams were at best but of love and laurels, do not discard them for
                  realities that are not even so much as the best of earth's gifts. If your
                  aspirations have never risen to Heaven, do not contract them nearer to the world's
                  atmosphere; never mind what they have been, that is not the point; retain them;
                  never feel that you had a future which rose above the one you now face—it degrades
                  your character, it enervates your soul, it imperils your salvation.
               "Do not think, my brother, that you can sneer down the remembrance of your visions
                  and dreams? I tell you it is in youth and dreamings that we come nearest God.
                  'Heaven lies about us in our infancy,' but we leave it far behind us in our
                  manhood. We may lead good lives, as the world goes, brave lives, honest lives; but
                  if we have left our first love, there will be somewhat against us, a taint upon
                  our white robes at the last. We do not want only to do that which we can do alone,
                  but that which we can do, with God's help. Let us pray that as He has saved us, so
                  will He help us; 'tis the weakness in strength that we cry for.' Oh, there is a
                  sublimity in imperfection that perfection never reaches; always we have left a
                  yearning, a striving; and if we turn our powers into an inferior channel, still
                  there will be a struggle, and a voice crying through the roar of waters, from the
                  shore, 'Return, return, the stream upon which you float is not the
                     "living water."'
               "And you, women, sisters, what can I say to you? You each have a song to sing, a
                  song with one universal key-note—it is love. 'The shepherd in Virgil,' we are
                  told, 'sought love and found him an inhabitant of the rocks.' Some of you know
                  that well; some of you have traveled, with bleeding feet and weeping eyes, over
                  barren rock-strewn plains; and then you have not found love. How
                  should I, a man, know what to say to your delicate senses and finer perceptions?
                  You see quicksands beyond my vision, you know the sea you sail on, better than I;
                  but I conjure you, if you are weak and strengthless, still be true—do
                  not relinquish your old hopes and faiths because men are unsatisfying and women
                  inferior. If any of you have had dreams of a higher life led with some one of us,
                  do not let it fade, do not let the mists of fancy and passion allure you from the
                  ascent; march on bravely. Do not listen to the world's rude cries when it tells
                  you that love is a folly and hope is vain; that Loyalty and Faith are mere
                  words—at best never meant for a woman's dictionary; that you may safely palter
                  with a man's soul; that your sweet eyes and low replies can be turned on and told
                  to all, and yet precious and pure to one. It is not so;
                  you did not always think this; when your girlhood blossomed, you thought, 'If the
                  flower of love, purity, faith, and truth has thorns, I will grasp it firmly, the
                  pain will not endure—and the plant is immortal.' Do not think your hands too
                  tender now; do not gather these buds of
                  vanity and passion, which bloom but for a day, and yet leave seed unto
                  eternity.
               "But if I speak too late, if you have wasted and desecrated your powers, if you
                  have played yourself and your Saviour false, then while you may,
                     'Repent, repent, and do the first works;' go back to the early
                  faith, rekindle the purer flames that burned on your virgin altars, take up the
                  old weapons, renew your old strength, see life once more as it looked from the
                  Delectable mountains of youth, reweave your raveled schemes, once more ride forth
                  as a knight adventurer, and once more try your prowess on the unconquered giants
                  who turned you from the path.
               "Turn again, with weeping, fasting, and prayer; cry for help to our blessed Lord,
                  who is touched with the feeling of all our infirmities, and a better, clearer
                  light will shine about you than even the early dawn gave.
               "Some of you may have gone far out of the way, so that already words that were
                  once the living realities of your lives may seem indistinct murmurs, meaningless
                  to you. Listen! it is no earthly voice that calls, no human trumpet that bids you
                  prepare for the battle. 'Tis the Holy Spirit only 'that anoints and cheers our
                  soiled face.'
               "With the abundance of His grace, He only that gives us strength to fight a good
                  fight; and what if we are beaten down and crushed? what if the battle sweeps over
                  us? We have made our stand. 
                     
                        'By the pain-throb triumphantly winning intensified bliss,
                        And the next world's reward and repose, by the struggle in
                              this.'
                     
                  
               
               "Yes, there is the secret, 'There remaineth a rest for the people of God;' 'there
                  remaineth therefore a rest for the people of God.'"
               He said the words over twice, the second time slowly, and with a look in his eyes
                  that spoke of his hope and joy and comfort, in the promise of that rest. Rest! It
                  was what Clare wished and hoped and prayed for, to be free from these tossing
                  doubts and fever-fits. She thought of the happy summer days with Edward; what a
                  contrast to the half satisfaction of her intercourse with Mordaunt! And at the
                  moment she longed for one tone of Edward's voice, one clasp of his strong hand.
                  She felt as if it would outweigh a life with any other. What should she do? What
                  could she do?
               The quiet steady voice was going on. She heard him say—
               "If you have immeshed yourselves so far in the toils of human blisses that the
                  extrication of yourself from them seems to be a painful, never-ending strife, only
                  to be followed by soul-bitterness and heart-barrenness, still free yourself; in
                  one word, if things have so gone with you that you must this day choose whom you
                  will serve, God or Baal, whether you will live here or hereafter, do
                  not hesitate. My brother, you cannot condense into the longest lifetime enough of
                  fame and pleasure to outweigh one hour of eternal glory. My sister, all the human
                  love that ever beat in the pulses of mortal man is but mean and pitiful, weak and
                  inconstant, compared with that great love wherewith He loves us; and the look
                  which will greet you as you stand before the Lamb will be full of that infinite
                  sympathy, tenderness, and devotion, of which our copies at best are but mutilated
                  and feeble.
               "Let your spirits subdue your bodies; say to the wild will and eager passion,
                  'Down, down!' and, although you may sink back exhausted as the contest closes, you
                  will sink back an immortal victor.
               "Retrace your steps until you reach the summit from which you started, and once
                  more feel the fresh breeze, loaded with odors from Eden, play upon your brows,
                  your brows wet with the primeval curse; recall the time when unselfishness seemed
                  a pleasure, enthusiasm a necessity, when love seemed a great reality, and you
                  lived with God in the world; when, if you were boys, your future lives were
                  consecrated to some great purpose,—when you fancied yourselves modern crusaders saders, and dreamed of vigils,
                  fastings, and combats, for the sake of some glorious abstraction which you would
                  make real; when your thoughts were of not how much you could make the
                  world do for you, but of how much you could do for the world; when your eyesight,
                  yet undimmed by gazing upon pageants and pomps, could distinguish the far-distant
                  glories of the heavenly Jerusalem; when you 'scorned delights and lived laborious
                  days;' when you bore your baptismal sign clear upon your brows, sworn soldiers of
                  the Cross.
               "Again, when, if girls, your dreams were of a St. Agnes's purity, a St. Dorothea's
                  meekness, a St. Cecilia's devotion; when you would have thought your beauty well
                  bestowed, did it make one true heart happy; when you looked forward to leading
                  lives unspotted by the world; when you held 'that love gives itself and is not
                  bought;' when you accepted your gifts as loans to be accounted for hereafter; when
                  you thought, 'Yes, I, in my maidenhood and womanhood, will hold out my hand to
                  some man and guide him, Beatrice-like, onward and upward.' On this resurrection
                  morning that has dawned so brightly upon us, I bid you to rise with your risen
                  Redeemer. The Easter breeze blows upon your fevered brows, it speaks of hope and
                  faith, of the Lord who rose so long ago on this blessed day, of all days the
                  fittest for the task of beginning again our life's work.
               "Ah! have we not all left our first loves? Will they not rise against us at the
                  last and intercept the descending crown of glory?
               "God help us all to struggle to the light; God grant, in his infinite mercy, that
                  as you linger in the darkness you may not see His almighty hand, as in St. John's
                  vision, removing your candlestick out of his place, and that place be left to
                  eternal darkness!
               "And now, unto the ever-blessed and Holy Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, be
                  ascribed, as are most justly due, all might, majesty, dominion, and power, now and
                  forever. Amen."
               The sermon was over. Clare was out in the open air again, walking hurriedly
                  homeward, her thoughts in a whirl of confusion. She did not go home; she walked on
                  to Georgetown, crossed the bridge, and went on with rapid steps up the long hill
                  that leads to the graveyard. At the top she turned weariedly and looked down over
                  the town, on the river shining in the sun, and the blue hills of Virginia in the
                  distance. There was no sound in the air—everything was at its stillest. She turned
                  to go into the graveyard, but was denied admittance. "No Sunday visitors allowed,
                  except stockholders." She tried entreaty, which finally prevailed, and she
                  entered. The stillness of the graveyard seemed very different from the stillness
                  of the world outside. The shadows of the oaks and elms lay across the green
                  terraces as if they would always be there, and the white stones through the trees
                  seemed to mark emphatically the deep peace which we shall all know. It was
                  impossible to be fevered and troubled there. Clare sat down on a bench where she
                  could hear the soothing sound of the rushing waters, and gradually the sweet
                  influence of the place stole over her soul. She sat there for more than an hour.
                  When she came away she had decided. She would tell Walter Mordaunt the next night
                  that she did not care to be so intimate with him; that she thought it unwise,
                  unfaithful, wrong; he might keep her handkerchief if he chose—what was a
                  handkerchief?—but she would, tell him these things, not in so many words, but so
                  that he could not mistake. For she really did care for Edward Lorimer.
               Walter Mordaunt did not come that night to Mrs. Hungerford's. Clare knew he did
                  not mean to come, so she had not expected him.
               The next day, Monday, was a scene of misery and turmoil. Marian moved every chair,
                  in every room in the house, into the middle of the floor, and then moved it back
                  again; all the statuettes, bronzes, and knick-knacks were dusted carefully; then
                  the carpets were taken up, and the ornaments ments had to be re-dusted. The piano made several
                  moves across the room, and finally settled into its accustomed corner. Everything
                  was dust and confusion, and Clare spent the day in solitary retirement. In the
                  evening, as she went into her room to begin dressing, Marian came in, holding in
                  her hand a bunch of scarlet geraniums. "Here, dear," she said, "I ordered you
                  these to match your dress."
               As Marian left the room, Clare bowed her head on her hands and wondered why any
                  one was good to her. As a flood of repentance and tenderness welled up within her,
                  a servant knocked at the door. "Miss Clare?"
               "Well!"
               "Mr. Lorimer is in the parlor, Miss."
               Clare ran to the door and opened it.
               "Mr. Lorimer is in the parlor, Miss."
               Clare looked and felt bewildered—a bewilderment increased by Marian and Laura, who
                  rushed from their room to ask what was the matter. "Marian," she said, "I can't go
                  down!" and, as Marian looked at her sympathetically, she rose, left the room, ran
                  down stairs, lingered a moment at the parlor door, then rushed in hastily, and in
                  another minute Edward Lorimer's arms were round her, her head was on his shoulder,
                  and she was sobbing out tears of exhaustion and excitement—tears for which he
                  thanked and blessed her, fondly deeming them tears of joy.
               
               It was a brilliant party. Every one came to it looking and feeling his or her
                  best. Edward went to the hotel to dress, and came back again. Clare was very late
                  in coming down stairs, but she looked marvelously well in her dress of white and
                  scarlet. Mordaunt watched her from the other side of the room, but did not go near
                  her. He meant to wait until later in the evening. He would go now and talk to Miss
                  Preston. As he made his way through the crowd, he was struck by a slight,
                  soldierly figure, standing next to Marian—she was talking eagerly and animatedly.
                  Mordaunt looked twice at the erect head, the bright eyes, the happy smile, decided
                  the man to be in love with Marian, and wondered who he was.
               At the next turn he met Frederick Cary, who had come down in answer to Marian's
                  note of invitation, the Cary of the year before—a little older, perhaps, more
                  hard-working certainly, with his feet on the first round of the political ladder,
                  but the same society manner, the same gay laugh, the same jesting words. Mordaunt
                  stopped and spoke to him. Indeed, Cary had so many old acquaintances to greet, so
                  many commonplaces to say to them, that there was no chance of his devoting himself
                  to one. Edward Lorimer did not know that. He saw only, and recognized instantly,
                  the man he had always accounted his rival, and made up his mind to do what he had
                  not meant to do, to seek out Clare and ask her to dance with him, and not dance
                  with Cary. Why had that man come there to poison his first evening? He watched his
                  chance—there was no one talking to Clare but his old friend Clay. Lorimer crossed
                  the room, put his hand on Clay's shoulder, received with delight his start of
                  surprise and very cordial greeting, asked Clare to let him write his name on her
                  tablet, and flushed with pleasure when he saw that Cary's name was not there. He
                  laughed and talked with her and Clay for a few moments, then turned away and left
                  them.
               Walter Mordaunt spent the evening in doing his duty faithfully by his numerous
                  acquaintances, but he meant to make up for it before the ball was over. He watched
                  Clare talking, dancing, and laughing first with one man, then with another. There
                  was danger in none of them. He waited until very late. He had just finished a talk
                  with Miss Preston, and left her to bewilder a young foreigner who was
                  unintelligible in French, imbecile in English, desperate in Spanish. Frederick
                  Cary was sitting with a Senator's wife, deep in Wilmot provisos and personal
                  liberty laws. Marian—Marian was at her most sentimental with one of her
                     attachés tachés, drawing him
                  gradually into a frantic offer, and a sudden exile to his plantation. Clare was
                  not to be seen. Mordaunt looked through the thinned out rooms until he came to the
                  last of the suite. He stopped in the doorway, for he saw before him, seated in a
                  quiet corner, Clare Hungerford, listening with eye, and ear, and heart to the
                  stranger, who was most certainly not Marian's lover, or he would not have been so
                  very evidently in love with Clare. This, then, was Edward Lorimer. He felt it in a
                  moment.
               As Mordaunt looked again, Clare looked up. Their eyes met. Mordaunt turned away.
                  He had seen enough. The recollection of that scene came, long afterward, often
                  across his memory—sometimes without a link of association—and there would flash
                  before his eye every detail of the scene, from Lorimer's bent head to the scarlet
                  flowers in Clare's hand. A recollection that stings his soul to-day, even as it
                  stung him then. This was Edward Lorimer, he knew. Still he should like to have his
                  intuitive knowledge corroborated by some outward evidence. Clay would know, and
                  there was Clay to tell him.
               "Clay, did you see your friend Lorimer here to-night?"
               "Certainly I did!" answered Clay; "and very well he looks, too."
               "A nice fellow, isn't he?"
               "The nicest fellow I know. We were together for six months on the Rio Grande. A
                  very good match, I can tell you—lots of money, and all the virtues."
               "Isn't he a fighting man?"
               "Yes—he shot Ferrers—don't you know? I never knew what it was about, though.
                  Ferrers and I were at West Point together. I never liked him; he was such a
                  supercilious fellow."
               "I never knew Ferrers had been in the army."
               "He never was—couldn't stand a year of the West Point discipline. Come, Mordaunt,
                  don't you think it is time to go? It is very late."
               "One minute! I want to say good night. I say, Clay, come home with me and smoke a
                  cigar."
               "Not to-night, thank you, Mordaunt. Good night!"
               "Good night!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XI
               
                  
                     
                        "To-night I shake hands with the past:
                        Familiar years, adieu, adieu!
                        An unknown door is open cast,
                        An empty future, wide and new,
                        Stands waiting. . .
                        
                        "And now 'tis done; my passionate tears,
                        Mad pleadings with an iron fate,
                        And all the sweetness of my years,
                        Are blackened ashes in the grate."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "No crown for the poor fond bride!
                        The song told me so,
                        Long, long ago;
                        How the maid chose the white lily:
                        But the bride she chose
                        The red, red rose,
                        And by its thorns died she."
                     
                  
               
               IT is the night of the twenty-sixth of April; it is the eve of Clare Hungerford's
                  wedding-day; one more maiden dawn—one more virgin splendor—before the bud blooms
                  into a rose—only one. It has rained all day, steadily, not hard; but now the
                  clouds seem breaking away; the stars struggle out one by one and look down upon
                  the stilled earth below them. It is late, after midnight, and Clare has passed
                  through her last evening with her family, alone. By common consent a bride's last
                  evening is consecrated to her family, whether for pleasure or pain, and Clare
                  dared not break the rule; indeed she scarcely wished to; it would only be spent
                  alone, or with them, and she would have enough time alone when she reached her
                  room. They had therefore spent the evening together—not a settled evening or a
                     connected nected one, for every one
                  was full of last preparations, and every one felt restless and disquieted. But
                  Clare had sat by her mother, and poured out her father's tea, and been unusually
                  gentle and subdued in her answers to Marian's questions and remarks, and she had
                  seemed to Agnes Conyers's observant eye to be more quiet, more at rest and peace
                  in mind and body than she had seen her for a long, long while. Indeed she seemed
                  not unlike the Clare of Oakhurst and Blythewood; and Agnes's heart grew lighter as
                  she saw the repose of Clare's manner and marked the serenity of her brow. So the
                  evening passed away; little was said of the morrow, although all thought of it and
                  of little else; and they parted early, upon a suggestion from Mr. Hungerford that
                  Clare would be fagged and that they had all better have a good night's rest. As
                  the girls went up stairs, Clare said, "Agnes, I will bid you good night, now. I
                  must spend the rest of the time alone. If I could have any one, it
                  should be you."
               She said these few words simply, but something made Agnes start. By a strange
                  effect of voice and manner, a perfectly subdued one, Clare's words seemed to mean
                  that she had some great conflict to finish, some protracted agony to endure; and
                  Agnes felt as if she were in a dream and some one was saying to her in a very
                  still, steady voice, "Now I am to be delivered to the tormentors and I must bear
                  it alone; but if I could have any human witness to my agony, I would choose you."
                  She looked at Clare; her brow was placid, her smile, though faint, unruffled.
               "I am dreaming already, I think, dear," said Agnes, forcing a laugh. "I had better
                  bid you good night, now."
               "Good night, then, dearest, and God bless you."
               "Good night, Clare, and God bless to-morrow to you."
               They kissed each other and parted.
               So Clare Hungerford went into her chamber and locked the door, and was alone. She
                  had looked forward to this brief respite for the days before it with a weary
                  longing, a sick, tired feeling, and now that it had come she wished it over. She
                  had said to herself, "I will think then—I will think then, not now."
                  But "then" was "now," and what had she to think? All was settled, all in order,
                  all inevitable and concluded; this was the end of it; to this she had come, along
                  a hard, barren track, and here the road stopped and but one path lay before her.
                  She sat down at the open window and looked out at the stars, long and wearily.
                  "Yes," she said, "so you go on forever in your courses; always the same; you never
                  change for our troubles or sway to our influences. What fools men were who studied
                  and consulted you, who found comfort in your coldness and hope in your
                  heartlessness! No; you are like all the rest, and we look up to your far-off
                  brightness, and babble to you of our agonies and human suffering, and you can't
                  help us." She rose, closed the window, and began to pace the room, and try to
                  collect her thoughts. To-morrow was to be her wedding-day. She was to be married
                  at eight o'clock in the morning at the Church of St. Sebastian the Martyr; that
                  she knew. What did it all mean? Why did the words say nothing? Was it because she
                  had said them too often? That might be it. She had harassed herself and perplexed
                  herself. And then, after she was married, what was she to do? It all seemed misty
                  and uncertain. She was to make Edward Lorimer happy, and go with him wherever he
                  went; that was good; it would be good to get away from Washington, from hateful
                  sights and sounds; she would lead that ideal life with him—not like her living
                  human life, but the life before the flood came. She did not think she would be
                  sorry to leave Marian and her mother and Agnes; she felt a strange indifference;
                  it would all be so changed, they seemed part of another existence that she had led
                  in another world. Yes, she never cared to see any one again; she loved Edward, she
                  loved him; he was her savior and her better self, and she thought of him with rest
                  and peace. At the moment her thoughts wandered back to her wedding, (she seemed to
                  have no control over them,) and she wondered dered who would be there? No one; no one would be
                  asked. Walter Mordaunt? and a current rushed over her heart. Should she never see
                  him again? She did not care for him, but she was so sorry for him, so interested
                  in him, and why should she not be? No one understood her so well, no one depended
                  upon her so much, and a fierce defiant feeling rose in her heart as she felt
                  herself being taken away from him and her old life. "I must be free," she said
                  aloud, "free in my fancies and follies; I am too young to be curbed;" and then she
                  remembered that to-morrow was her marriage morn, and she looked cheerlessly at the
                  embers of her wood fire and felt a dreary helplessness creeping over her. The
                  clock struck two; she must go to bed; what would she not give to go to sleep! She
                  undressed rapidly, put out her light, and opened the window for one last look at
                  the cold stars which yet so fascinated her. As she looked wistfully up at them,
                  she caught the echo of a step on the pavement. She glanced below, no one was
                  there; across the street, no one there; yes, in a moment more a figure emerged
                  from the shadow, and walked steadily but slowly past the window. Who could it be?
                  He turned on his heel, and retraced his steps, pacing in front of the window like
                  a sentinel. His head was bent toward the ground, except at each turn when he
                  raised it and seemed to glance directly at her window. She was screened from
                  observation by the curtain, and she watched his motions narrowly, but she could
                  gain no token of his identity; he was too much muffled for her to recognize even
                  his walk. In one of his turns, Clare saw something white detach itself from the
                  folds of his cloak and fall to the ground; he did not notice it when it fell or
                  afterward, but continued his walk with the same regularity as before. Clare closed
                  the window gently and turned away. She knelt to pray: she repeated her usual form,
                  and then she thought that on this night some additional prayer was needed, but she
                  could not collect her thoughts; a few broken sentences, a few incoherent appeals,
                  and she rose, stifling back the feelings that rose thick and fast in her heart.
                  She went to bed; she closed her eyes; and she listened with every nerve on the
                  strain for the steps below her half-raised window; presently she heard them clear,
                  regular, then they grew fainter, as the distance increased, then more distinct
                  again, and so she lay and listened and wondered with a sort of vague doubt who it
                  could be. She did not answer her own doubts, but played with them, and still
                  listened until she fell asleep from sheer fatigue to the low sound of a man's
                  steps on the flagstones.
               The next morning was one whirl of bustle and excitement. Clare's room was filled
                  with people and things, and she was not left alone a moment from her waking until
                  ten minutes before the carriage came to the door, when she found herself standing
                  dressed in the middle of her dressing-room. She had waited for this minute of
                  freedom all through the hurry and confusion of the morning, and she seized upon it
                  instantly. She stepped to the door, and looked into the entry; it was strewed with
                  packing-boxes and trunks, and upon one of them sat a little negro boy, who ran
                  errands and carried notes. "Dick," she said, "come here." He followed her into the
                  room, his eyes growing larger, and his mouth opening wider at every step. "Dick,"
                  she said, "I want you to do something for me before I am married and go away,
                  won't you?"
               "Yes, indeed, Miss Clare."
               "Then go down stairs, run across the street, and look along the pavement in front
                  of that empty house that faces this window of mine; if you find anything like a
                  handkerchief, bring it to me; and, Dick, you must not say a syllable to any one.
                  Do you understand?"
               "Yes, miss, I'll take care."
               He ran off, and Clare turned to the window to watch him. Just as she did so, Agnes
                  entered the room. Clare turned to her with a half guilty feeling, and blushed
                  involuntarily as she said, "Are you all ready?"
               
               "Quite ready. I came to take one look at you, and say one word to you before we
                  start."
               "What do you want to say?"
               "Nothing very serious, dear. I do not want to unnerve you for the ceremony."
               "I shall not be nervous; I feel perfectly steady."
               "What a color you have! Has she not, Mrs. Hungerford?" said Agnes, turning to that
                  lady, who came into the room at the instant.
               As Mrs. Hungerford smiled acquiescence, a scuffle was heard on the staircase, and
                  Dick burst into the room, panting for breath; after him came one of the maids.
                  "Miss Clare told me to come back here; I have something for her," gasped the
                  boy.
               And Clare said quickly, but not without embarrassment, "Yes, Sarah, let him stay;
                  I sent him to do something for me. Come here, Dick." She turned away from the
                  others, and the boy put a handkerchief, crushed together, into her hand. She said,
                  in a low tone, "Thank you, Dick; you may go." There was no time to lose; she
                  loosened its folds, thrust it into her bosom, and turned to the others.
               "You had rather a mysterious interview with Dick, Clare," said Agnes, smiling
                  unsuspiciously.
               "Oh, Dick and I keep each other's secrets, à
                     merveille; we are great friends."
               "Come, Agnes," called Marian, "we are to start first."
               "One second, Marian;" and Agnes threw her arms lightly about Clare, kissed her,
                  and said "Good-by to you, Clare Hungerford."
               Marian called again, and Agnes ran off. In a few moments more Clare was summoned,
                  and she drove to the church, to the church where her vows were to be paid, with
                  Walter Mordaunt's handkerchief lying next her heart, feeling its every throb and
                  beat.
               Edward Lorimer was waiting for her on the church porch. At that hour in the
                  morning there was no one to see his happy smile as he greeted her; no one except
                  an old servant going home from market, who stopped and gazed in astonished
                  admiration at the bright figure that crossed the pavement and went up the steps.
                  They were in the church; a moment more, and she stood by Edward Lorimer's side at
                  the chancel rail. A lovely sight! The young soldier, so upright, so intent,
                  looking so blessed beyond his brethren, the morning sunbeams striking his fair
                  hair and earnest brow; the fair young face at his side, her eyes darkened, her
                  color deepened by excitement, so exquisitely young and beautiful in the soft,
                  floating clouds of vail and dress that fell around her. For it was her fancy to be
                  married in a wedding dress, and they yielded to it, and were not sorry. It was a
                  very quiet wedding; there was no one present but Clare's family and Agnes Conyers.
                  A quiet wedding, and soon over. The words were quickly said; at the dreadful
                  pause, when the last moment for drawing back comes, no one spoke, and Clare,
                  looking fixedly at the clergyman, saw that his bands were crooked. Edward's voice
                  was sweet and clear as usual; he meant what he said. Clare's, too, was distinct
                  and unshaken, but she had no feeling at all on the subject. She felt only that she
                  must say certain words, and she said them as if they were inevitable and
                  involuntary.
               The service was over. Clare hurried home, changed her dress, and came down in
                  traveling costume. She had but five minutes more, in which to shake hands with the
                  servants, to kiss her mother, to beg Marian not to make her break down, to cling
                  round Agnes's neck, and whisper, "Dear, I am very glad to go with him;" to have
                  her father's last embrace, and be given over to Edward Lorimer's keeping.
               So the two went away together—never to be separated again until death them should
                  part; he was to take care of her, she was to bless his life.
               She looked up in his eyes, and smiled trustfully. He took her little hand in his,
                  and kissed it. And so they went away—together.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               
                  
                     
                        "She left the novel, half uncut,
                        Upon the rosewood shelf;
                        She left the new piano shut,—
                        She could not please herself."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "I have wandered in the mountains, mist-bewildered,
                        And now a breeze comes, and the vail is lifted,
                        And priceless flowers o'er which I trod, unheeding,
                        Gleam ready for my grasp."
                     
                  
               
               "MARRIED six months to day."
               Six months passed with Edward Lorimer in a frontier fort, six months of absence
                  and separation from the associations to which she clung so convulsively; six
                  months in which to realize the present, and forget the past; and Clare Lorimer
                  stood, gazing out upon an expanse of prairie luxuriant with vegetation. Nothing in
                  front or to either side but grass and flowers; a lovely, even, unbroken surface,
                  as far as eye could see. She knew how it all looked well enough, it was not the
                  first time she had stood at her window and gazed upon it thus; and on the morning
                  of the —— of October her eyes fell vacantly upon the scene beneath, and rested
                  there. She roused herself from her reverie, with a sigh, more of weariness than of
                  depression, and turned away. Edward had gone from home for a couple of days, and
                  this was the first of them. She was quite alone. The few officers there were, who
                  were in the fort, hardly constituted a society for her, and were, at best, but
                  apologies for companions. Books were plenty, and she had her piano, but still they
                  were secondary sources of happiness; and gradually Clare found them less and less
                  adapted to supply her lonely hours with occupation; her old songs were wearisome
                  and distasteful, new ones she did not care for; her books seemed to pall upon her
                  taste: she wandered from instrument to book-case, and from book-case to
                  instrument. These six months had changed her strangely—at least so it seemed. They
                  had been spent entirely at the fort, and alone with her husband. For the first
                  three months he had loved her so thoroughly, had so invested the life they led
                  with an atmosphere of devotion and tenderness, had so tended and attended her, had
                  so surrounded and enveloped her by his love, that she was carried completely along
                  with him in his ideal life. The novelty of her situation pleased her, the romantic
                  tone of the life attracted her, and her recent marriage rendered her open to his
                  influences; she had turned to him at the last, in uncalculating desperation, her
                  eyes blinded to consequences; when she opened them tremulously upon her new world,
                  his tenderness and deep love soothed and delighted her; wearied by the storm which
                  she had so scarcely weathered, she was content awhile to rest, her wings folded,
                  in the loving heart which had given her refuge.
               But three months soon pass, and so does the influence founded on position,
                  circumstance, or any other external ground; no sooner did she become used to his
                  raptures, his caresses, his extravagant admiration, his excited and intense
                  expressions of feeling, than they lost their power over her; she became restless,
                  uncertain, and moody—a longing came over her to see old places and faces. She
                  wrote home happy letters, a little strained, but no one noticed that, except,
                  perhaps, Agnes Conyers; she heard from them all regularly, but the mails were
                  rarely events to her; she always looked for their arrival with some tremor and
                  excitement; but as she ran over the contents of her letters, it quickly faded; for
                  no one wrote anything to interest her—Agnes from Blythewood, Alice Lorimer from
                  Rosenshaw, both letters filled with petty details and feminine speculations, such
                  as of old Clare would have delighted in. Marian had spent her summer at watering
                  places, and her letters were a rather clever resume of all the gossip and scandal,
                  literary, social, and political, of the
                  summer; it all fell flat, stale, and unprofitable upon Clare's mind and heart; she
                  turned her eyes inward, but there was no peace there. She thought but little of
                  the past as a reality, a great deal of it as a very vivid dream; she fixed a great
                  gulf between it and herself, and then stood on the edge of the chasm and peered
                  into the mists of the other side. It was not a good nor wise thing to do, and she
                  always broke away from it all, and herself turned to Edward for solace and
                  comfort. Her complete isolation from all old friends and old props drew her
                  perforce to him; and he, whose arms and heart were ever ready and open, asked no
                  questions and made no surmises, too glad to support and cheer her. He had
                  determined that she would feel the separation from her friends very much, and he
                  had prepared himself for much deeper fits of despondency than Clare ever indulged
                  him with. He was too happy to go very deep into their lives yet, and the months of
                  their wedded life had been unmarked to him by any change in his character or
                  feelings.
               When he had bidden Clare good-by the night before, she seemed cold and distraite, and he had charged her with it; she
                  rebutted the accusation, but languidly and almost wearily, and he had ridden from
                  the door with a sting in his heart,—a slight one, but still a sting.
               
               "Poor child!" he said to himself, "perhaps she is not well;" but still the thought
                  would come, "Two days, and she did not even care to kiss me good-by!"
               She had been standing at the window where he left her for some time, and her
                  reverie had assumed a more definite form than ever before. She ran through her
                  short two winters in Washington, and thought how they were gone forever; and then
                  thought, why should that make her feel dreary, she was married and settled now;
                  she did not care for the people she knew then. Where was Walter Mordaunt? she did
                  not care for him, she loved Edward; this was the best she had ever known of love,
                  and she supposed it was the best of it there was to be known; once she had fancied
                  real love a different thing. People must be right when they laugh at poetry and
                  romance, and said that love was all short lived, and that one could love a dozen
                  times and be heart-whole all the while; and then she sighed as she hummed an air
                  to herself—an air which she had sung many times before—and wondered drearily
                  whether her life was finished; whether it would always go on so, and never change;
                  whether anything would ever chance to break its even tenor; or whether she and
                  Edward would glide on, year by year, to old age.
               That was the prospect upon which her eyes had rested so gratefully, and by which
                  her soul had been so refreshed when she had engaged herself to him; it was a
                  little more than a year now, and why did it seem so barren, so uninviting, so
                  dreary to her? She put it out of her mind with a start, and went to her piano; she
                  opened it hastily, and, sitting down, began to play over from memory snatches of
                  old airs. She had been so engaged for some moments, when she remembered that a
                  mail was due that morning; she looked at her watch and saw that it had probably
                  already arrived, and at the moment the servant brought it to the door. There was
                  quite a package—two large letters for Edward, one official; these she put aside;
                  one from Marian, and another, a small letter, the direction in a woman's hand; she
                  looked at it curiously, but could not recall when she had seen it; she opened it
                  slowly and considerately. The letter ran somewhat thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MY DEAR CLARE:
                           
                           In recalling the names of those from whom I may claim an expression of
                              interest and regard, when I tell them of the most important event in
                              my life, yours comes to my mind among the earliest. I feel sure that
                              in announcing my engagement to you, I am only doing what you have a
                              right to expect; and in asking your good wishes, only what you will readily give me. Of course
                              you will have guessed to whom I am engaged before you have read these
                              words; for you know too much of the unmistakable signs not to have
                              seen last winter "that something was going on." I could not speak of
                              my understanding with Mr. Mordaunt, even to Marian and you, until it
                              assumed a more definite form. Circumstances alone are responsible for
                              the concealment of our engagement; now we are in a position to
                              announce it, and I do so to you with a certainty that you will bid us
                              both "God speed" in our journey through life. Forgive this hurried
                              letter; Marian will write you about my plans in detail: I have only
                              given you the foundation of them. Mr. Mordaunt desires to be
                              remembered to you, and
                           
                              I am, dear Clare, as ever,
                              Yours lovingly,
                              LAURA PRESTON.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               She read it through once and again, and only as she came to the words "Mr.
                  Mordaunt desires to be remembered to you" for the second time, did she understand
                  the meaning of the letter; even then its sly stabs, dealt at random, hoping to
                  find an open spot; all its affectation of warm and friendly feeling; all its
                  affectation of a serious tone, was utterly lost upon her: all she knew and felt
                  was this, that Mr. Mordaunt was going to marry some one. Laura Preston lost her
                  identity to her; she only served to fill a place, the woman he intended to marry.
                  What did it all mean? thought Clare. She laid the letter upon the table among the
                  others, and sat down beside it; she covered her eyes with her hands and tried to
                  think. How long had she been married—six months? No, six years more likely; it
                  could not be only six months since she crouched at her chamber window and saw that
                  solitary figure pacing to and fro in the cold moonlight! She remembered all the
                  scenes of the winter; how, after that walk of theirs, he had left Laura Preston,
                  and had sought only her; how he had slighted her by word and action; how clearly
                  he had evidenced his indifference to her; and now, only a few months since, he was
                  going to marry her. It could not be, or else, in their monotonous routine of life
                  in this dismal, dull, Western fort, they had lost count of time, and years had
                  rolled between that day and this. She raised her head quickly, and looked out on
                  the autumn sky. No, there had been but one summer passed here; the roses had blown
                  but once; the grapes reddened but once since her wedding-day. She murmured to
                  herself some long-forgotten lines. 
                     
                        "Where nothing is—but all things seem—
                        And we, the shadows of a dream."
                     
                  
               
               "Yes," she said, aloud, "my life is beginning; the mists are lifting, and I see
                  clearly. I have done, now, with foolish dreams and fancies. This engagement, which
                  is nothing to me, at least does this much for me—it serves as the string by which
                  I raise the curtain that has hung in front of life's drama until now. I have been
                  little better than an idle dreamer; now I rouse myself and find that the world,
                  instead of being what my eighteen years made it, is just what it has always
                  been—people 'marry and are given in marriage, eat and drink as in the days of
                  Noah,' before the flood. I begin to understand what a reality life is, and what
                  shadows most of my beliefs were. Yes, shadows! and as such, I cast them
                  aside."
               She rose with the word, and raising her head proudly, looked about her at the
                  empty room, the lifeless pictures on the wall, with her face full of defiance and
                  mistrust. There was no one there, but her excited fancy peopled the vacancy, and
                  her face hardened strangely, her eye grew strangely cold, her lips compressed as
                  she faced the phantoms of old hopes and faiths that rose at her challenge. They
                  crowded in upon her—they filled that room. She saw rise every scene of her brief
                  love-dream, and every scene of her weary, waking strife. She saw—oh, with what wonderful, agonizing vividness!—every
                  mistake that she had made, every weakness to which she had yielded, every delusion
                  that had been destroyed, every fancy that had failed. She saw herself once more as
                  her first winter opened; and then, again, she saw herself as she paced her chamber
                  floor at Oakhurst, and wrung her hands, and wept her first bitter tears; and she
                  saw, she thought she saw, through it all—that she had been gulled and deceived;
                  that she had been "buying her experience;" that the theories and maxims she had
                  once indignantly scorned or shrunk from in horror, were to what we must all come,
                  and she among the rest; and as she thought this she thought of Edward Lorimer, and
                  her heart smote her sorely. She had forgotten him; he had not formed
                  part of her old corps de ballet; now he was all
                  she had, and she thought of his manly love and truth, of his almost feminine
                  gentleness and trust, and she turned away from her bitter past, and forgot it all
                  in a peaceful future—a future with him—a future in which he would be happy, and
                  she at least would be content. Her capacity for happiness, formerly so abounding,
                  seemed now not to exist—seemed swept away. In any event, he should be happy; she
                  would begin again; she would have no regrets, no restlessness, no discontents; and
                  as she thought of him, a yearning for his return, his presence, his voice and
                  hand, took possession of her; she had never known its like before; she had parted
                  from him in coldness, almost in displeasure. What if he should never return? She
                  shuddered from head to foot. She could not live without him; he must come back.
                  Surely, now, when she, for the first time, fully recognized his value, he would
                  not be taken from her. She would not think of the possibility; besides, he was not
                  expected until the next day; she must wait; she was on fire to meet him, to beg
                  forgiveness for her indifference the day before, to be taken into his arms and to
                  his heart. What should she do with herself? As she asked this question her eye
                  fell upon Miss Preston's letter; it should be answered at once. She drew a chair
                  to her desk and wrote thus, without a moment's hesitation or an instant's
                  tremor:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MY DEAR LAURA:—
                           
                           Your note containing the announcement of your engagement has been in
                              my possession only about an hour, but I cannot defer my thanks for
                              your remembrance, or my congratulations on the event. I, being a wife
                              of six months' standing, can speak as one having authority; and my
                              good wishes are not presumptive merely, but positive. I shall look for
                              Marian's letter with great eagerness, and hope she will give me a full
                              and faithful account of your wedding and its garnishings. I am
                              sincerely glad that any obstacles or impediments which came between
                              you and Mr. Mordaunt have been removed. I made no surmises last
                              winter, for I have a horror of prying or speculating about other
                              people's love affairs, but I, in common with the rest of the world,
                              saw Mr. Mordaunt's attentions, and wondered what would come of
                              them.
                           I will indeed wish you, as you ask me, Lieti
                                 giorni, e felice, and will beg you in conclusion to
                              remember me most kindly to your futur.
                           
                           
                              Believe me to be, very sincerely, yours,
                              CLARE LORIMER.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Clare folded her note, sealed and directed it. As she placed it in the card plate,
                  ready to send with the morning's mail, she heard a step upon the stairs. She rose
                  hastily, and then, saying to herself, "It can't be Edward," she sank into her
                  former position. In a moment more the door opened and Mr. Lorimer entered the
                  room. He came forward slowly, and with a slight hesitation, for he had not
                  forgotten her good-by. He need not have doubted or hesitated. She sprang forward
                  with a cry, and threw herself into his arms. He clasped her very close, with a
                  half sob of deep joy. She drew nearer to his heart and whispered, "Oh, Edward! do
                  you remember my birth-night ball? Is not this like it?"
               
               "Yes," he said, "it is like it because these twice, and only these twice, have you
                  come to my arms for shelter."
               "I accept it as an omen," she said; "an omen of happy days to come."
               "Oh, Clare! oh, my love! have not these past days, these past, golden, summer
                  days, been happy ones?"
               "Yes, Edward, yes! but I have a fancy to begin again. Let our past end with that
                  chilly kiss I gave you yesterday, and our future begin with this embrace I give
                  you now."
               "As you will, my darling," he said, in tones tremulous with loving happiness; "you
                  have made me so happy, so light-hearted to-night. You have charmed away my fears,
                  and chased away my clouds. Ah, beloved, how dearly I love you! how entirely I am
                  yours!"
               He sank on his knees where he stood, and gazed up into her face—her face beautiful
                  and softened by tenderness for him. He seemed to have entered a new world—he was
                  dazzled and bewildered.
               "I have always been sure," he said, half to her, half to himself, "that you would
                  come to me at last, that at last you would be my own, mine, forever; sometimes,
                  since our engagement, it has seemed far away; sometimes I have been very
                  down-hearted, and have almost despaired of ever gaining your heart; and oh, Clare,
                  my love! sometimes, since our marriage, I have thought that, perhaps, you might
                     never be mine here, that I should have to live
                  through this weary life, and put off this wretched, mortal body before I knew you
                  for my own; but I have never altogether believed that you were lost to me—always I
                  have cherished a hope of this great gift, and my patient waiting has brought it to
                  me at last. I thank God, my darling! at last, at last."
               She raised him up and drew him to a chair, and they sat and talked over old plans,
                  made new by the radiance shed upon them. With one arm about Clare's waist, Edward
                  reached to the table with the other, and gathered up his letters.
               "See here, Clare; here is an official communication for me; I wonder what it is?
                  Promotion or court-martial? California or Washington? Guess."
               "None of the four, I fancy; nothing important probably, some order or
                  countermanding order."
               "Well, let us look." And he tore open the envelope and ran his eyes over the
                  contents; his face changed slightly, but not much; and as he read, speedily
                  resumed its former expression. There were but few bits of news in the world that
                  could have caused Edward Lorimer an emotion that night. He was absorbed,
                  concentrated, engrossed by one feeling, one consciousness—the consciousness of
                  possession; of dominion over the domain, for which he had fought, inch by inch,
                  and struggled so hard to win. He smiled slightly as he finished reading, and then
                  said, "Clare, read it, and tell me what you think."
               It was an order transferring him from his present post to Washington, and placing
                  him on duty there.
               Clare looked up joyously, for a moment. "Oh, Edward! think of being with mamma and
                  Marian; but then—" she stopped, and her brow contracted.
               "You do not like Washington, do you, love?"
               "No, dearest! I do not like my associations there."
               "Associations," he said, passionately; what are associations to us? I
                  will wipe them out for you. I have at least one dear remembrance of Washington,
                  that church in which we were married."
               "Yes; we will take that for the groundwork, and build a new superstructure; let us
                  go to Washington."
               "Last night," he said, "this order would have lightened my heart mightily; for I
                  fancied that you were depressed and needed change; but now, all places seem the
                  same to me. I care little where we go, so that we go together."
               "Nor I," she answered, nestling closer to him. He pushed aside the yet unopened
                  letters, and turned eyes full of love-light upon her; she laid her head on his
                  shoulder, and he caressed her and
                  petted her until she was soothed into a still happy state, and was only conscious
                  of his hand passing gently over her hair, and his voice whispering love-words in
                  her ear.
               Ah, Edward Lorimer! you hold your young, fair wife to your strong, true, loving
                  man's heart, and you clasp your arms about her, and you listen to her voice, and
                  look into her eyes, and call her "yours, yours, yours, at
                     last!" No; she is not yours, however surely you, and she, too, may think
                  it. She once parted with her soul, and once parted with, it was forever. You will
                  wait a longer time than you have waited, and know a wearier, more heart-sick
                  longing than you have known, before you wake up and see the truth, and why these
                  things are so. She has stupefied her cravings, she has deadened her desires, she
                  has constrained her will, and she may think she has controlled her heart; but—some
                  day—the truth will rouse you and her; and then it had been better for both of you
                  had you never been born.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "But oh, for the living sorrow,
                        For the living sorrow what hopes remain?
                        For the prisoned, pining, passionate pain,
                        That is doomed forever to languish,
                        And to languish forever in vain;
                        For the want of the words that may bestead
                        The hunger that out of loss is bred.
                        O friends. for the living sorrow,
                        For the living sorrow,
                        For the living sorrow, what shall be said?"
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Ophelia.
                        "What means this, my lord?"
                     
                     
                        Hamlet.
                        "Marry, this is miching malicho; it means mischief."
                     
                  
               
               "I WONDER who the Willoughbys will have to meet us?" said Clare Lorimer to her
                  husband, as their carriage rolled rapidly over the streets of Washington about six
                  o'clock of a winter's afternoon.
               "I must have less accurate ideas of that than you, Clare, for I know no one here,
                  no one who is likely to be here; probably for you a mélange of old friends and interesting strangers."
               "Yes, probably, for the Willoughbys have a good deal of savoir-vivre, and very good judgment about their dinner guests, a
                  very rare gift, I think; a great many people who give dinners, and handsome ones,
                  too, select the people who are to be at them so stupidly. I hope, Edward, you will
                  be amused with your first evening in society here. I shall be disappointed if you
                  are not. For myself, being the unfortunate creature in whose honor this dinner is
                  given, I shall probably be stuck between the two oldest, most distinguished, and
                  consequently the least agreeable men present."
               "Poor little girl, I hope not! Here we are, I suppose. Now, darling, jump
                  out."
               Clare ran into the well-known dressing-room, laid aside her wrappings, gave a
                  glance at a convenient mirror, and joined her husband in the ante-room. He paused
                  a moment before offering her his arm, and took a survey of her as she stood before
                  him. As he ran his eyes, half in scrutiny half in admiration, over her figure and
                  toilet, they caught hers. He smiled and said, "You do not dislike being looked at,
                  do you?"
               "No, not as you look at me."
               "That was my meaning, of course. Shall I tell you what I see when I look at you
                  to-night? I see—a rather slight girlish figure, enveloped in masses of soft, white
                  floating drapery, (I suppose it has some name;) this figure has its arms and neck
                  bare, and its little white hands are clasped before it; then I raise my eyes and I
                  see the most beautiful, the most spiritual face I ever saw or hope to see on
                  earth; I see the sweetest, purest mouth, the fairest, roundest, happiest cheek,
                  the most noble brow and head, the most glorious golden hair—and oh, Clare, the
                  truest, bluest, deepest eyes, with their shade of long, dark lashes; all this I
                  see, and I feel as in a dream, and am
                  bewildered; wonder what it is, whether it is not some Scandinavian divinity, some
                  'daughter of the gods, divinely tall and most divinely fair,' that stands before
                  me; and as I search for some sign of mortal birth, some human token, I see upon
                  one finger of those little white hands that clasp one another, I see a wedding
                  ring, and I know then that all this adorable loveliness, this immortal beauty is
                  mine—that you, Clare, are my wife." He paused for an instant, looked once more at
                  her glistening eyes, smiled again, proudly and fondly, and led her into the
                  drawing-room.
               They made their way through the softened light and subdued hum of voices to the
                  hostess.
               "You see I am more punctual than I used to be, Mrs. Willoughby. This is my
                  husband, Mr. Lorimer—Mrs. Willoughby, one of my oldest Washington friends,
                  Edward."
               "Oh, Mr. Lorimer, I am most truly glad to see you, and to shake hands with you,
                  too, if you will permit me. You have been much of a myth to us Washington people,
                  a sort of invisible but irresistible power, who might make himself known at any
                  time. I feel most kindly disposed toward you for bringing Clare back to us."
               Clare lost her husband's reply, for at this instant some one said, "Won't you take
                  my arm, Mrs. Lorimer, and let me get you a chair?"
               She turned quickly, and at her side stood Frederick Cary.
               "Mr. Cary! how strange to see you here!"
               "Not strange, Mrs. Lorimer; you may remember I was always here when you were here.
                  But will you not come to the other side of the room? you are only in way of the
                  inroad of guests now, and Mrs. Willoughby is not to be conversed with until the
                  ladies have left the table."
               "Yes, I will go with you with pleasure; I shall be glad to have a chair."
               She took his arm; they glided through the crowd and reached two arm-chairs in
                  safety.
               "Mr. Cary," said Clare, "before we begin conversation, who will take me into
                  dinner?"
               "I cannot say positively, possibly I myself."
               "Impossible! you forget the dinner is given to me."
               "Just so, and consequently the most distinguished man present will take you
                  in."
               "How absurd you are!"
               "Miss Hungerford again, by Jove! Well, this is luck. I came expecting to find no
                  shadow or vestige of Miss Clare Hungerford, to find her all engulfed and
                  overtopped by Mrs. Edward Lorimer; and here she is the veritable Miss Hungerford
                  of two winters ago."
               "Mr. Cary, you are—"
               "Not impertinent, I trust, Mrs. Lorimer?"
               "Then you are not; but tell me what do you mean, if you mean anything, by these
                  vague assumptions of dignity and power?"
               "I will tell you what I mean; I have just time before dinner is announced. Do you
                  remember a certain birth-night ball a year ago given at your place on the
                  Hudson?"
               "I remember it."
               "Well, so do I. Let us use it as a date. From that night, or there about, I began
                  to look into my future, or rather re-create it. To rebuild my castles which had
                  suffered dilapidation. I suddenly discovered that my true road to fame lay through
                  the dirty by-lane of politics; so I threw myself into the arms of the —— party,
                  swore allegiance, and began life in good earnest. Two years may be made much of;
                  they tell me I have made more of my two years than most men. My legal experience
                  and legal capacity helped me; my knowledge of books and of the world helped me
                  more. Bref—I am here in Washington representing
                  my constituents in Congress, making speeches which every one comes to the House to
                  hear and stops me in the street to approve; making fees in the Supreme Court in my
                     leisure hours, and occasionally
                  accepting one of the innumerable invitations with which I am honored."
               "So there really is some chance of you taking me to dinner?"
               "What a practical mind you have! I thought I had interested you, had led you away
                  from the starting-point, and here you are back again at the dinner question. I'll
                  answer you, however; not much chance of my taking you to dinner, but a very good
                  one of my sitting on your other side."
               "Then that is settled. So you are really a promising young politician and a rising
                  young lawyer?"
               "I protest against the phrases; you know I am neither. Let us talk about something
                  else; what have you been doing since I saw you last? Part of your work I see in
                  its results, you were never looking better than now." His voice sank a little at
                  the words, for Frederick Cary never learned insensibility to Clare Lorimer's
                  beauty. He could sneer away his tenderness and stamp out his lingering devotion,
                  but the light always shone in his eyes, the color always rose in his cheek, at her
                  presence; when she was in beauty, she was so far irresistible by him.
               "What have I been doing? Nothing, except changing my name and domicile; I think I
                  am pretty much myself."
               "Then you will talk to me sometimes, won't you? You will let me tell you my
                  abstractions, and exchange fancies with me? Do you know we have not had a talk for
                  two years, and I am quite famished for one." He spoke in jest, but with an earnest
                  look into her face.
               "I shall be very glad to see you very often; we will talk over your prospects, and
                  when you are tired of fame, will take up matrimony."
               "Ah, you think I shall tire of glory and settle down again on love? No, no! a man
                  never turns from the successful pursuit of ambition to the uncertain pursuit of
                  happiness; he rather does, as I have done, from the last to the first."
               There was a moment's silence, awkward for Clare, not so for Cary, who had
                  contrived to assume an understanding with her, to refer to an arrière pensée of intercourse with her, which she
                  could not quite ignore. With his consummate coolness and tact, Mr. Cary had at
                  once placed himself on the footing that seemed to him at once most intimate and
                  most independent. By thrusting forward in his premises, that he had loved Clare in
                  his past, he forced her to conclude that his love had died an easy and unregretted
                  death, and that he had no pain even in recalling it. Just as the silence was
                  growing more embarrassing to Clare and more gratifying to Mr. Cary, the dinner was
                  announced.
               Mr. Willoughby approached Clare, followed by a gentleman whom he introduced to her
                  as "Mr. Ferrers, and your escort, Mrs. Lorimer." Clare bowed, took Mr. Ferrers's
                  offered arm, and they led the way to the table. As they were seated, Clare glanced
                  hastily around the table. It was a larger dinner than she had fancied, the light
                  had been so indistinct in the drawing-room that she had distinguished no one; but
                  now, as she glanced rapidly down the table, she caught smile after smile and
                  returned nod after nod from old acquaintances, until she reached the end of the
                  line. Her eyes met those of Walter Mordaunt, fixed full upon her face; she colored
                  crimson, then grew white as death; bowed slightly, and turned to her neighbor.
                  Until that moment she had not observed his appearance; blue eyed and fair haired,
                  he was markedly nothing except a gentleman. As Clare addressed some commonplace to
                  him, she wondered, "Who can he be?" and "what can have made Mr. Willoughby send
                  him to dinner with me?" She scrutinized his face as he replied to her question:
                  the eye was bright and fiery; the brow square and good; the mouth—there lay the
                  key to the face and character; it was cruel, hard, strong, and well cut—a mouth
                  indicative of character and feeling, whether altogether bad it was hard to say.
                  Such was Clare's rapid criticism, as she listened to his reply; his words were
                  ordinary enough, but she thought his voice the sweetest she had ever heard; when he paused, her
                  eyes had a listening look in them, such as one feels sometimes at the close of a
                  piece of music. He smiled and turned to his soup. On her other hand sat Cary, true
                  to his instinct. "Mr. Cary," said Clare, "tell me who my other neighbor is, and
                  what he has done, and all about him."
               "With pleasure, Mrs. Lorimer. His name is Huntley Ferrers; he is an American by
                  birth, a gentleman by position, a diplomat by
                  profession; he did nothing until he was thirty, then he was intrusted with a
                  special and important service abroad, executed it with complete success, won
                  himself reputation, and is now holding a very considerable office under the
                  government here. He has lived in Paris for years, most of which years he devoted
                  to spending his patrimony, frittering away his youth and strength, and acquiring a
                  knowledge of the small-sword exercise and foreign languages."
               "Very neat and very complete, Mr. Cary."
               "One moment, Mrs. Lorimer, if you please. I have gratified your curiosity, show
                  some tenderness for mine."
               "What can I tell Mr. Cary that he does not already know?"
               "Point out the gentleman whom—no, I don't mean that. Show me Mr. Lorimer."
               "What, don't you know him?"
               "Naturally, no; for I have been in his presence but half an hour at the extremest
                  limit; and during that time I have talked to you."
               "He is on our side of the table, the third from Mr. Ferrers's next neighbor, the
                  other side of Mrs.—of Mrs. Mordaunt."
               "Mrs. Mordaunt! What Mrs. Mordaunt?"
               "Née Miss Preston."
               "Oh, yes; I remember, she married our old friend, Walter Mordaunt; she married
                  him, and he married her money."
               "Who told you that, Mr. Cary?"
               "Every one who spoke of the match before me, Mrs. Lorimer."
               "I don't believe it."
               "Don't you? Well, then, neither do I. You know Mordaunt quite well enough to be
                  able to say whether he is capable of a mercenary match; for my own part, I never
                  did credit the story. I always thought I understood Mr. Mordaunt's marriage
                  perfectly; he married her because she loved him, and he could not resist it."
               "Mr. Ferrers," said Clare, suddenly, "how do the voices of American women strike
                  you, since your return to this country?"
               "As having great capacity and no training, Mrs. Lorimer; I have never, either
                  before or since my absence in Europe, heard more than two American women speak
                  whose voices added cultivation and education to great natural sweetness and
                  fullness; I should have said one before to-day, two now."
               "The voice is a favorite subject of interest to me, and yet I seldom discuss it,
                  for no one both understands and agrees with me."
               "I hardly dare venture to ask you to experiment on me with your theories; I can
                  promise, if you will be so good, not to handle them roughly."
               "They can hardly be dignified by the name of theories—more like fancies, and very
                  inconsistent ones. For instance, I judge so much of a person's character and
                  nature by his or her voice and its modulations."
               "Of course you mean by their own unadulterated, uneducated, original voice, as it
                  escapes them and betrays itself; not by it, educated and toned and
                  controlled."
               "Precisely; I am sufficiently of an adept in the study of the voice to distinguish
                  at once what is the effect of education and refinement, and what is innate and
                  natural."
               "I see you are; but I asked you the question because I have found that most people take a voice as it
                  shows itself on a sort of dress-parade, like the present occasion, for instance,
                  and never think or indeed are capable of analyzing its combinations and separating
                  the true metal from the false—by its 'ring.' Now the study of a voice is to me the
                  most subtle, the most delicate, the most exciting, and the most recompensing of
                  all the studies one takes up, as clues to character."
               "You might add, the most infallible."
               "Yes; if a mistake is made, you find that the error is in your perceptions, not in
                  the indices given by the voice, and then you can always rectify and retrace. You
                  can have no idea, Mrs. Lorimer, how easy the task of understanding people is made
                  to me here by the almost universal want of training and artificiality in their
                  voices. Now, in Europe, so many of the men and women in society, in particular the
                  women, have their voices, like everything else about them, perfectly transformed
                  from a natural condition into a highly cultivated one, that the reality is only
                  reached by a most wearisome and circuitous route."
               "What an advantage it gives you, Mr. Ferrers!"
               "Over whom, Mrs. Lorimer?"
               "All of us, American savages."
               "That is not fair; you incited me to express my feelings as well as my opinions,
                  and now you laugh at me"
               "No, it was not fair, Mrs. Lorimer," said Cary from the other side, "and if you
                  will listen to me for a minute, I will tell you of another unfair thing."
               "I am listening."
               "No, you are looking across the table; give me your whole attention. Is it not
                  unfair to talk to Ferrers through three courses without intermission?"
               "Mr. Ferrers took me to dinner, Mr. Cary."
               "I have known you a long while, Mrs. Lorimer."
               "The less reason for my talking to you, and the more reason for my talking to Mr.
                  Ferrers."
               "Oh, I see; he is a stranger—and you must 'take him in.'"
               "No, he took me in."
               "That is not scriptural."
               "No, but it is etiquette."
               "I yield; I am vanquished; I lay down my arms; treat me as a prisoner of war."
               "No, as a prisoner at the bar, who is not to speak until spoken to."
               "If I talk for five minutes to Miss Johnson, will you talk to me for five
                  more?"
               "Yes."
               "Good-by, then;" and he plunged into a discussion as to the comparative merits of
                     biscuit glacè and plombière.
               
               Clare glanced down the table at Mordaunt; his face was toward her, and he was
                  talking quite earnestly to Mrs. Willoughby, who sat upon his right hand; Clare saw
                  that his face was much what it had always been, that he was looking well and
                  happy; that, au reste, his effect was admirable; his dressing as good
                  as ever. Deeper than this, she did not go, for Ferrers's voice addressed her.
                  "Mrs. Lorimer, are you doing what I did for the first half of dinner? Counting the
                  number of champagne-glasses that gentleman with the white hands has emptied, and
                  wondering why he did it?"
               "What gentleman, Mr. Ferrers?"
               "The one your eyes left when they turned to me; I don't know his name."
               "It is Mr. Mordaunt! No, I did not notice the quantity of wine he has seen fit to
                  drink. Has it been very remarkable?"
               "Yes, very! I have done what one always does at a large dinner—speculated
                  curiously about the guests; and he has interested me. I have watched him, and I am
                  sure he does not drink wine to-day from habit or weakness, or fondness for
                  it."
               
               "Then, from what motive does he drink it?"
               "Ah, there you have me; that I have not yet discovered; but that he does it from
                  some principle of action, to produce some special result, to effect some
                  particular end, of that I am quite sure. All this I say without hearing his voice,
                  Mrs. Lorimer."
               "He has a very good voice, Mr. Ferrers."
               "Ah, you know him?"
               "I did know him formerly, quite well, and liked him very much. "Clare steadied her
                  voice admirably.
               "From your knowledge of him, am I not right in my surmises?"
               "Indeed, I cannot tell; I never went deep enough. Mrs. Willoughby looks this way
                  and gives me the signal to rise. Will you give me my flowers and fan?"
               "Let me take charge of them for you; you will not need them in the other room, and
                  I will promise to keep them safely."
               "Thank you, I shall be in your debt. I don't like flowers to die under my
                  hands."
               They re-entered the parlor to find it brilliantly lighted, and Clare was made the
                  immediate center of a circle, formed by ci-devant admirers and acquaintances. She
                  had shaken hands and answered inquiries, and introduced a number of people to her
                  husband, when Walter Mordaunt came forward with his wife on his arm.
               "My dear Clare, it is so pleasant to meet you, and find you looking so well! It
                  quite represents your wedding-dinner to you, does it not?"
               "Yes, except for the absence of one or two faces. You are looking very well
                  yourself, Laura. When did you return from your travels?"
               "Only last week, a few days before you reached here. You cannot imagine, Clare,
                  what a transformation was worked in us both by our trip. We lived such a perfectly
                  rural, unconventional life; he in his shooting-jacket, and I in my Balmoral skirt
                  and boots; all day in the open air, riding, boating, and walking."
               "I see how much good it has done you, Laura; and I have never seen Mr. Mordaunt
                  looking better."
               "Mr. Mordaunt can only say that Mrs. Lorimer has anticipated him in his remarks
                  about herself," said Walter, holding out his hand, and bowing very gracefully.
               "Now, Walter," said Laura, "come here, I want to introduce you to Mr. Lorimer. Mr.
                  Lorimer, first let me shake hands with you myself, and then let me beg the same
                  privilege for my husband; Mr. Mordaunt—Mr. Lorimer."
               "Mr. Mordaunt," said Edward, with an irresistible charm of manner, "we certainly
                  ought to be capital friends; I have known more of you than your name for a long
                  while."
               "Yes, Clare and he were always good friends; were you not, Clare?" said Laura.
               "Perfectly good friends always, Laura; and so were you and Edward."
               "A charming partie carrée we should make," said
                  Mordaunt to Clare in an undertone.
               She looked at him as if in a dream. Did he mean it? did he indeed contemplate
                  acting out the part which Laura assigned him? and did he expect Clare to fall
                  naturally into hers? He should find his mistake; there should be no more
                  deception; they should meet on no unnatural footing—that she was
                  determined on. They were nothing to each other; between them was a great gulf
                  fixed; should she aid him to bridge it over by a compound of conventionality and
                  self-delusion, of worldly wisdom and unreal relations? No; he should understand
                  her as she did him. All this passed through her mind like a flash. He stood, his
                  eyes upon the ground, waiting for her to speak; in a moment she said, "Mr.
                  Mordaunt, the gap is too wide; the entre acte
                  has been too long since the tragedy was played out for the farce to come on the
                  boards—it would fall flat upon the audience. Let us dispense with it."
               
               "What do you mean?" he said, looking at her with a concentrated glitter in his
                  eyes.
               "I mean," she said, "that you, having made a love-match, and being a happy married
                  man, are entirely led aside from my path in life, and I have no wish to cross
                  yours."
               He still kept his eyes fixed on her face, when Mr. Ferrers and Mr. Cary crossed
                  the room together, and both spoke at once, the one to Clare, the other to Walter.
                  "Mrs. Lorimer, I have the honor of restoring to you your fan unbroken, your
                  flowers unfaded."
               "Mordaunt, I want to introduce to you Mr. Ferrers; this is my friend Mordaunt,
                  Ferrers." The gentlemen bowed and shook hands.
               "You and I have a friend in common, if I mistake not, Mr. Ferrers—that is, if your
                  Christian name is Huntley," said Mordaunt, courteously.
               "It is Huntley, and the friend is George Waring."
               "Just so; you left him in Europe?"
               "I did; I doubt his ever returning. We went out together nearly eight years ago;
                  we have been together nearly ever since. And he has stood my friend in perils by
                  land and sea; in 'perils by mine own countrymen;' for the matter of that, he was
                  my second in my first duel."
               "I remember his writing me of it at the time."
               "Yes, the only fire that ever marked me," said Ferrers, lightly. Clare had caught
                  almost every word of their conversation; and as Ferrers said this, she could not
                  resist looking at him. He moved a few steps to one side, and she perceived that he
                  was slightly lame; not much so, but still evidently so.
               "I did not know Mr. Ferrers was lame," said she to Cary, in a low voice.
               "Lame? Oh, yes! very decidedly so; but he manages it admirably. I don't wonder you
                  did not see it before."
               "Clare, said Edward Lorimer, coming up to her, and bowing coldly to Mr. Cary, who
                  stepped back, "could you manage to come home now? I don't feel quite well."
               "Certainly! Let us go at once; you look pale, Edward. Are you ill?"
               "No, no! not ill; but I would rather go at once."
               "Take me to Mrs. Willoughby then, and let us pay our adieux. Good night, Mr.
                  Cary;" and she swept by him on her husband's arm.
               "Good night! et au revoir, Mrs. Lorimer;" and
                  Frederick bowed very low.
               The last words were soon spoken, and the carriage summoned. Mr. Lorimer put his
                  wife into it without further delay; they drove home in silence. Clare put her head
                  on his shoulder; he passed his arm about her, but neither of them spoke until they
                  reached their home, and were locked into their room together. Then Edward said,
                  "Did you have a pleasant dinner, Clare?"
               "Quite so! Mr. Cary is always amusing in himself, if not in what he says; and that
                  stranger, Mr. Ferrers, was positively agreeable; talked very well, was very well
                  bred—and, oh! Edward, with such a charming voice."
               Edward Lorimer sprang to his feet as she closed her sentence. "Yes!" he said, from
                  between his set teeth. "Yes; that voice of his, with its accursed sweetness, I
                  know it well."
               "Good heavens, Edward! what have I said? What ails you?"
               "Do not be frightened," he said, with a desperate effort at calmness; "you have
                  said nothing. I cannot talk much about some things even to you, and yet some
                  things must be told. Clare, did you ever hear my sister's story?"
               "Yes, Edward; Agnes wrote me a sketch of both your lives before I ever saw
                  you."
               "Then my task is easier, Clare; the man whose voice you thought so sweet to-night
                  is the man who blighted my sister's life and hopes; the man who limped away from
                     you as I came up, is the man on whom
                  I took some vengeance; yes, I crippled him; he is not just the man he would have
                  made himself, if I had not planted that ugly ball in his ankle." His voice became
                  indistinct with passion; he paused, white as a sheet, and quivering from head to
                  foot. "I speak of him to you, for the first and last time, Clare: now you know
                  him, avoid him. I do not fear his voice, with its perilous sweetness, wrecking my
                  happiness again; but it is impossible that we should have any intercourse—so avoid
                  him. He will understand well enough. He does not want to quarrel again, he could
                  not better himself by it; but he hates me with the hate of hell. And now go to
                  bed, my darling; I will follow you presently; go to bed, and to sleep—you look
                  weary."
               His tone was decided, although soft; and Clare obeyed without hesitation. She went
                  to bed, and very speedily fell asleep—worn out by a very fatiguing day. Edward
                  spent a long while over the dying fire—striving to subdue and soothe the tempest
                  which his conversation had raised in his breast—when, at last, he came to the
                  bedside; he looked at her fair sleeping face, and sighed a deep sigh of relief, as
                  he felt sensible of his security and rest with her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  
                     
                        "How is it under our control,
                        To love, or not to love?"
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     "A system of ethics, in which the two great commandments were to hate your
                        neighbor, and love your neighbor's wife."
                  
               
               "MR. FERRERS, I am fortunate in meeting you. I was on my way to ask you to dine
                  with us to-day."
               "With pleasure. At what hour?"
               "Six, punctually; a man's dinner, so you need not spend any time on your toilet,
                  or thought on your appearance."
               "I am sorry to say that I do both instinctively, and without reference to whom I
                  am about to meet."
               "A Paris habit, I suppose."
               "No; inborn, and part of my very self."
               "Well, I shall see you at six."
               "You may count on me."
               At six o'clock that evening the dinner-party was assembled, and Ferrers found
                  himself in company with half a dozen other men, all of his acquaintance, and all
                  calculated to make the dinner pleasant in their different ways There was Cary,
                  with his keen sarcasms, and light, bright criticisms, never sparing man nor woman,
                  friend or foe, from loyalty or good feeling; but always handling them with taste,
                  with good breeding, and with cleverness, because he could not help it; brilliant
                  in his rejoinders, biting in his retorts. He sat on Ferrers's right hand; on his
                  left was his host; opposite him sat George Willoughby, a ci-devant admirer of Marian Hungerford, who had, at first, worshiped
                  Clare at a distance, and would have done so more nearly, had not her sister
                  intercepted him on his way; a good fellow, with sufficient manners and looks,
                  neither clever nor interesting, quick witted, and with a very jolly laugh, an
                  immense adjunct to a gay dinner. There were a couple of Frenchmen, an Englishman,
                  a Californian, and a young army officer—rank, lieutenant, name, Powel.
               Mordaunt was never more at home than at a man's dinner; practice and habit had
                  made him perfect, and he always contrived to harmonize the discords and combine
                  the elements, of which his guests were composed, with entire success. His task, on
                  this occasion, was not a difficult one. The dinner was admirably served and
                  superlatively cooked; the wines in perfect order, and of exquisite quality;
                  everything was well conducted; the conversation was general, and sustained with
                  considerable spirit.
               True to his theory, as expressed to Clare, Mr. Ferrers made a study of Mordaunt's voice. The man
                  interested him strangely; and Huntley Ferrers, always habituated to analyzing his
                  own emotions, and dissecting his impulses until they died under the knife,
                  wondered much at himself for this fancy—this freak, as he called it, and still
                  found himself turning at the sound of Mordaunt's voice, studying the changes of
                  his face, and speculating on his doings and sayings. He had concluded within
                  himself that afternoon, while dressing for the dinner, that this stranger, this
                  Mr. Mordaunt, was, in some way yet unknown, to become part of his life; was to
                  affect him and his future in some unaccountble, unforeseen manner. An odd
                  conclusion for a skeptical man of the world to come to, but Ferrers was a
                  practical though unconscious fatalist; and he accounted to himself for his
                  interest in Mordaunt thus, and was satisfied.
               "How few pretty women there are in Washington this winter?" said George Willoughby
                  to Cary, across the table.
               "Yes, I don't think beauty thrives here; the other talents choke it out."
               "I have seen some very marked beauty here already," said Ferrers; "those two
                  Morton girls, they both have beauty, though no blood."
               "And a good deal of bone," added Cary.
               "True; but there is Madame de Brialmont, she is slight enough, and round enough
                  for you."
               "I should think so," said Mordaunt, laughing; "her shoulders are like feather
                  beds, in size and softness."
               "But, my dear fellow, this is being hypercritical. At least you have one woman
                  here beyond criticism—Mrs. Edward Lorimer."
               As Ferrers said this, he looked over at Willoughby; but Mordaunt spoke, and the
                  sound of his voice made Ferrers start; it was changed, it was not the voice he had
                  been studying; deeper, harsher, a little discordant and strained.
               "Yes; Mrs. Lorimer is in great beauty this winter. I do not think we can find much
                  fault with her appearance."
               "Ah, Walter! Mrs. Lorimer should be ruled out; she is too old a friend of yours to
                  be impartially discussed here."
               "You mistake our relations, George; my theory is, has always been, that a woman's
                  beauty is common property, or ought to be."
               "That being the case," said Ferrers, determined to probe the flush on Mordaunt's
                  cheek, "I'll tell you a curious hypothesis I have formed, apropos of Mrs. Lorimer.
                  I have seen something of her, I have made use of my opportunities, and I think, I
                  am sure, that she is not happy; not content, not completed, satisfied by her
                  marriage."
               "It was a love-match beyond question," said Cary.
               "No, it could not have been, Cary; it may have been so called, but it has proved
                  itself otherwise on her face."
               "Do you think so?" said Walter Mordaunt, hoarsely. "It seems to me as if her face
                  was filled with brightness, and as if her heart was very light."
               "Yes, but it looks to me only skin deep, and her voice has an undertone in it that
                  there is no mistaking."
               Mordaunt raised his glass to his lips and emptied it at a gulp, motioned to a
                  servant to refill it, turned to Cary, and said, "Suppose we all fill our glasses
                  and drink a chorus to that little French song you were speaking of."
               "Well, I am ready. Mordaunt, show them how to clink their glasses at the right
                  time."
               The song was sung with spirit, the refrain was quickly caught, and they went from
                  one song to another, and from one glass to another, until the mirth grew fast and
                  furious.
               Huntley Ferrers had waited patiently for a chance to renew, with Mordaunt alone,
                  the subject that Mordaunt evidently cared not to pursue with others. The chance
                  came. George Willoughby and Cary were disputing the wording of a toast about
                  women, which Cary wished to make general, and Willoughby personal.
               "Come, come, George!" said Cary. "You may put in Mrs. Lorimer and a dozen others,
                  but not Clare alone."
               
               Again Ferrers saw the red flush deepen on Mordaunt's cheek, and again he essayed
                  to probe it. "Mrs. Lorimer was a great belle here, was she not?" he said, lowering
                  his tone below the hubbub.
               "Yes—no—I hardly know. She was thought very beautiful; but she was too reserved
                  and haughty to be generally sought."
               "Who were her ci-devant admirers and
                  friends?"
               Mordaunt hesitated only for a second, and then said, "I know of no one more
                  intimate with her than I was myself."
               "Were you, indeed?" said Ferrers, ignoring his slight confusion. "Then you can
                  tell me what you think of my speculations—you who knew her before her marriage can
                  contrast her with her present self."
               "I cannot help you, I am afraid, for I have seen but little of her for more than a
                  year—nothing, since her marriage."
               "Well, I am confident of my own speculations. That woman acts a part, Mordaunt,
                  and it is one of the leading characters in a tragedy. Her life is no mild,
                  domestic, genteel comedy, not even a melodrama, but a most unmingled tragedy."
               "You may be right; she acts her part well, at all events," was Walter's only
                  reply, fixing his eyes on his plate.
               "Yes, she does act her part well," replied Ferrers, and dropped the
                  subject.
               The revel lasted far into the night, and Mordaunt lent his spirit and strength to
                  keep it at its height, and yet from time to time he stole a moment for a
                  reverie—only a moment—yet time enough to think, with a strange leaping of his
                  heart, "She is not happy with him; she acts a part;" then he dashed again into the
                  midst of the fire of jokes and songs, and played his part with the best of them,
                  yet ever returning to this haunting idea, and gloating over it, ere he again
                  turned to his guests. Ferrers's surmises remained surmises; did not deepen into
                  certainties; Walter was too guarded even for him, and the dinner broke up about
                  midnight. Huntley Ferrers walked home with Frederick Cary, who was slightly
                  excited by the wine he had been drinking, and put questions to him concerning
                  Walter Mordaunt's past as connected with Clare Lorimer.
               All Cary said was, "Why, man, every one knew he loved her, and most people thought
                  she loved him. I did, myself, until I saw her with Lorimer the following spring;
                  then her preference for him was too marked to mistake. Then, you see, Miss Preston
                  liked Mordaunt a good deal, and so he married her."
               "Oh, I understand now!" said Ferrers. "Good night, Cary! here are my rooms."
               "Good night, Ferrers!"
               Walter Mordaunt bade the last of his guests a gay farewell, and his voice rang out
                  in a laugh as the door closed on them. Then it was over. The smile faded, and he
                  turned hastily into his little library. He was alone. At last he could throw off
                  the vail of composure he had assumed. He forgot that his wife was waiting in her
                  room for him; he forgot that he had a wife at all; he forgot the whole world and
                  all within it, except that he had been told that Clare Lorimer did not love her
                  husband, that she was not happy, not satisfied or contented. It was of this that
                  he wanted to think; on this that his mind was fixed. He buried his head in his
                  hands and thought it all over, and gradually the mistakes, the misunderstandings,
                  and the terrible falls of the last year unfolded themselves in all their sickening
                  length and breadth. She had loved him then, when they took those strange walks and
                  held that strange intercourse together, last winter. Yes, she had loved him. He
                  knew it all now. He had been blind, she had been cowardly—this was the result. He
                  groaned bitterly, and clenched his hands, as he remembered how often they had
                  trembled on the verge of an explanation; how often they had parted when a moment
                  more would have bound them to one another forever. That ball was the
                  turning-point; the day before he had let her slip from between his fingers, and then Lorimer
                  came, and it was all over. Plain enough now were all those riddles and mysteries.
                  She had felt herself bound, and he had not had the strength to break those bonds.
                  There was his weakness. But who had begun to weave this net of wretchedness for
                  them both? who but she herself? What right had she to engage herself? What right
                  had she to flee like a coward to Edward Lorimer's open arms, that fatal spring
                  when they had first parted? How could he know and believe that she still loved
                  him; when, not two weeks after his first kiss had burned her cheek, she threw away
                  his love and retracted her own vows? Walter Mordaunt did not consider for an
                  instant that any sense of right or duty could have influenced Clare's action when
                  she broke with him. He had cast all higher law aside in this all-absorbing
                  passion; he judged her as she might rightly have judged him in like case.
               "Yes," he said, "I loved her; she loved me! I would have been true to her forever,
                  but she had not the strength to stand by her own deepest feelings. A woman—a mere
                  woman, after all. I should have known it. How blind I have been, and now it is too
                  late; yes, too late! Oh, Clare, Clare! my love, my love! my soul! why did you fail
                  me? I would have been so true to you—What use is all this? She is married—I am
                  married. How idle all this retrospect is! There is nothing to be gained by raking
                  up the past—nothing but pain and bitterness. Oh, my God! have mercy upon me! Why
                  did I not know? Why could I not see? I would have torn her from him; I would have
                  taken her far away, and recalled her to herself and to me. Fool, fool that I was!
                  I choked up my heart with pride and distrust, and turned away, while she mutely
                  pleaded with me. Yes, her looks, her tones, were appeals, and I was worse than
                  insensate not to read them. She was only bound to him by convention and custom; I
                  could have broken the tie down; and now she is bound by honor, and her honor is in
                  Clare Lorimer's keeping. Yes, I may curse myself for my mad pride and stupid
                  folly. She left me, and I thought I had destroyed her image in my heart; to-night
                  I find my mistake. A chance word of a stranger has stirred the depths, and her
                  form rises to the surface. It is all awake again. I love her, and she does not
                  love him! That is the one drop of sweet in it all. She was mine always through it
                  all, is mine now, shall eternally be mine. That takes the bitterness from the
                  knowledge that, do what I will, I am hers—here, to-night, married to another
                  woman, I am hers, oh, how truly! Clare, Clare! do you know it? do you feel it? Why
                  did you not spare me when I was powerless and at your mercy? Why did you not say,
                  'Walter, I was weak, I stumbled, he held out his hand and helped me to rise, but I
                  love you?' If she had said just that—only that—I would have moved
                  heaven and earth but I would have saved her, and now—it is too late!"
               He sprang from his chair and paced the room. He tried to look into the future; he
                  could not see clearly. What had seemed yesterday inevitable, now was
                  insupportable; the fire that had smouldered for nearly a year, now at last blazed
                  high, broke out in uncontrollable fury. He thought, "I am desperate; I have
                  nothing to lose, everything to gain; she did not spare me—no one has ever spared
                  me—why should I her?" Every link which he reforged in the chain which had once
                  bound Clare Hungerford's soul to his own was to him fraught with no remorse, no
                  doubt. All was to be steady, unswerving pursuit, and this was a game he could play
                  at. Hot as his passions were, they were trained, and, like the fiercest
                  bloodhounds, crouched and were dumb at their master's bidding.
               Hours went by; it grew near morning, when, as he still paced the floor, still
                  thought, still recalled, still broke into wild, unavailing reproaches and regrets,
                  the door opened softly, and his wife entered. She came forward so noiselessly that
                  he did not know of her presence until he felt her hand on his arm.
               
               "Walter, what have you been doing with yourself? I heard the last of those men go
                  two hours ago, and I have waited ever since for you."
               "Two hours! Have I been here two hours?" he said. "I must have been dreaming."
               "You don't look much like it. Tell me, what ails you?"
               "Nothing. I was thinking; I have been in a strange mood all the evening."
               "You look haggard, not like a bridegroom, dearest; I don't want people to say that
                  of the two brides, Mrs. Lorimer keeps her husband in better spirits and looks than
                  Mrs. Mordaunt does."
               Mordaunt's cheek grew red, and he said quickly, "Does Lorimer look so very happy,
                  so very well cared for?"
               "Yes, I think he does; and Marian Hungerford says they are ideally happy in one
                  another; she is always writing me anecdotes of a strictly domestic description
                  about Clare and Edward."
               "Why, she has never been with them, Laura."
               "I suppose Clare writes them to her."
               "Well, let us go to bed. I am tired."
               "Dearest, you may be tired, but it is something more than that which makes your
                  eyes so glittering and your cheeks so red. Walter, tell me—tell me about yourself
                  and your fancies."
               Her tone was pleading, and, for Laura Preston, strangely softened and tender. She
                  loved him better than she ever loved any one else; and at that moment he almost
                  turned to her; but the devil was strong within him, and he had fed and pampered it
                  in those solitary two hours.
               "I have nothing to tell you; forgive me, if I seem distrait."
               "As you like," she said coldly. "I have no wish to force your confidence. Let us
                  go up stairs."
               She left the room, and he followed her in silence.
               Walter Mordaunt was not a bad man, not consistently bad, at least, and he did not
                  give way to the evil promptings that bade him forget his own pledge and her vows;
                  forget all that he should most remember, without a struggle; not without
                  misgivings and hesitations did he spring into the vortex before him. But he had
                  nothing to help him in the contest save principle, and of that he had not enough.
                  Had there been in his past one drop of utter sweetness and trust, in his future
                  one gleam of hope and content, perhaps even he might have said to the fearful
                  temptation "Get thee behind me;" but to look back embittered him, to look forward
                  made him desperate. When the voices of his better impulses whispered "Stay, spare,
                  be generous, be pitiful," he answered them by a reference to the fate of his
                  passion a year before and they were stilled, for it was true enough. Why should he
                  alone be disappointed and miserable, he who alone had been constant and strong?
                  His whole life had been marred; he had always failed, always been disappointed,
                  and he could not, would not, cast from him this one prize which he had fairly won.
                  Yes, he said to himself, he had fairly won Clare Hungerford's heart; she had once
                  given it to him and never taken it back. What if she had stood before a priest and
                  spoken a lie? Did those words and forms alter facts, or abrogate the eternal right
                  and claim which he had on her soul? Was it not fair that she should have loved
                  him? He had loved her, loved her now with all his power. She was his.
               In all this, Mordaunt never dreamed of anything more than establishing an
                  understanding with Clare, than making her listen to his love and acknowledge her
                  own; he accepted separation from her and misery without her; he accepted them
                  without a question, but he would once more have the Past present; he would triumph
                  over them all, over Clare herself—and then? Then he would rush away; he would
                  leave her; he would never see her face again. Walter Mordaunt did not ask himself
                  whether he could stop half way down the
                  descent, whether the renunciation he now called and felt impossible would then be
                  any nearer a possibility. With all his faults, with all his weaknesses, he had
                  never wavered in his allegiance to Clare; he had never confounded her with any
                  other woman he had ever known; she rose above them all, not only the fairest
                  flower, but their garden queen, the rose of his life; and he never connected
                  degradation, sin, or shame with her, however remotely. No, to his honor be it
                  spoken, she was ever most pure, peerless, and perfect to him; and, though Walter
                  Mordaunt's antecedents precluded his giving to her an altogether worthy love, yet,
                  inasmuch as in him lay, he kept her shrine immaculate, and laid upon it only his
                  most untainted adoration.
               Surely men are better self-deceivers than women. While Mordaunt almost fancied
                  himself into a belief that he was right and justified in the course he pursued,
                  Clare Lorimer never knew a moment's confidence. The weeks that went over her head
                  found and left her day by day more restless, more discontented, more unhappy. She
                  had thrown herself, after the Willoughby's dinner, with feverish eagerness into
                  all the crowding excitements that surrounded her. Her husband, who was fond of
                  society, and had had little of it for some years, enjoyed it in a measure, and
                  enjoyed above all things the admiration showered upon his beautiful young wife. He
                  had been very happy with her ever since their explanation at the fort, and the
                  rush and whirl of society left him as little time for sober thinking as it did
                  her. He was beginning to rebel, however, for he saw nothing of Clare; a few
                  moments in the morning, before he went to the office—generally spent in her
                  dressing-room while her maid was brushing her hair—they were not much solace to
                  him; then she was always out when he came in; and, at their late dinner, his
                  acquaintances constantly dropped in; an evening alone together was a mere chimera.
                  So it went on, Edward growing dissatisfied—not with his wife, but with
                  circumstances; but he put it aside and thought "Next spring I will get away; we
                  will go to Italy and those isles of Greece; we will read Epyschidion there and
                  then; after all those delicious wanderings we have dreamed of, we will come back
                  to dear old Rosenshaw and live together at peace." And he would meet his wife with
                  a sweet smile on his lips and in his eyes, and she would feel driven wild by his
                  serenity, not knowing it to be that calm which settles only over deep waters; he
                  ruffled her by his quiet, sweet, unmingled happiness, when they were together. She
                  had no sympathy with it now; a dove no longer, rather a stormy petrel, she beat
                  against the cage she had once thought a haven; beat wildly and madly for freedom.
                  She grew moody and bitter, and yet she kept up appearances; she forced her smile
                  and jest to be always ready. So they went on, and the world went on too. Men and
                  women were born, married, and buried; each one followed up his life thread, and
                  some it led to snares and pitfalls, some to happy homes.
               For some weeks after his determination, Walter Mordaunt vainly sought to find
                  Clare Lorimer alone; he dogged her footsteps in the street, he watched his
                  opportunities in ballrooms; but she was always accompanied and surrounded. At last
                  fortune befriended him. He was sauntering past a greenhouse one morning, when he
                  bethought him of a commission of Laura's, and entered to execute it. At the end of
                  the narrow walk, leading between the rows of flowers, stood Clare Lorimer. She was
                  in a reverie; one hand hung idly down, the other held a violet; her eyes were
                  fixed upon it; her attitude was drooping and listless. He stood for a moment, his
                  heart beating quickly, gazing at her; she did not move, she was unconscious of all
                  except the flower in her hand and busy with the memories it had awakened. As he
                  looked at her, he felt the present sliding away from beneath his feet; he felt as
                  if she were once more the girl he had loved and taught to love two winters before,
                  and he the same unfettered Walter Mordaunt. He walked slowly toward ward her; she looked up suddenly and saw him for
                  the first time; her cheek grew pale, the delicate peach-bloom left it, and she
                  bowed hastily and coldly. He came yet nearer, and said, looking into her trustful
                  blue eyes, "I am so glad to meet you."
               It was most unexpected; he staggered her by his manner. He went on—"So glad to
                  meet you anywhere where I can speak to you, but of all places here. Do you
                  remember our old walks to greenhouses and our old talks in them?"
               "Yes," she said, a little bewildered.
               He leaned against the side of the steps and looked at her dreamily, then at the
                  flower she held.
               "Our flower," he said; "do you remember how fond you were of violets, how we used
                  to secure the best, the earliest of them?"
               "Yes," she said again.
               "It is so much to me that you should deign to remember the past," he said; "so
                  much that you should keep in your past what makes my present."
               "What do you mean?" she said.
               "Oh, my God, my God!" he said in sudden passion; "do you not know what I mean? Do
                  you not understand that unless you will let me talk to you, see you, be in your
                  presence and about you, I do not care to live? You may not refuse me this—you have
                  no right, no right!"
               "Stop, stop, Mr. Mordaunt; I cannot let you—I cannot listen to you!" and she broke
                  from him and fled from the greenhouse.
               He did not attempt to follow her, but walked into the room where the flowers were
                  disposed of, selected the freshest and finest violets, had them made into a bunch
                  to suit his fancy, and sent them with a card "To Mrs. Lorimer." The card he put
                  into an envelope and sealed it; upon it was written "Forgive me, I will not offend
                  you again. Do not misunderstand me so cruelly."
               It reached Clare a few hours after her return home from a long and solitary walk.
                  It was a well digested sentence on his part, and did its work. She had determined
                  to be on her guard with Mr. Mordaunt, to be distant and reserved, never to permit
                  an outbreak like that of the morning. Strange inconsistency of woman! His words
                  had literally poured life into her heart, and she could not think of them without
                  a flush, and yet she felt stronger to put him aside from her path than ever
                  before; she could do better without him if he loved her, if she knew that he loved
                  her, than if his passion for her were dead. These few words of his overturned her
                  conclusion; she had misunderstood him, she had been too hasty. How humbly he
                  wrote! Ah! he too knew the future to be settled and inevitable, and only wanted
                  peace. She had been unjust to him. Then she ran over each word he had spoken, his
                  impassioned look, and dwelt upon them, unwilling to let them pass until she had
                  extracted from them all their meaning.
               That evening Clare went to a ball; that evening she again met Walter Mordaunt. She
                  was dancing a quadrille, the room was dreadfully crowded, and she was wondering
                  how she should squeeze through the last figure, when, as she turned her head from
                  bowing to an acquaintance, Mr. Mordaunt stood beside her, stood as he had so often
                  done before, waiting until she should have finished her dance. He said, in an
                  undertone, "Will you give me the next waltz?"
               "With pleasure," she said, trying to assume her ordinary society manner.
               "Let me hold your flowers for this last figure," he said.
               She gave them to him; his violets they were, which she had brought, partly because
                  impelled by some strange impulse, partly because Edward had said, "Clare, you had
                  better take those flowers you got to-day." He clasped her fingers as his hand took
                  the flowers, and muttered, almost inaudibly, "You forgive me?"
               "Yes," she said softly, and left him for the dance. When she came back he offered
                  her his arm and they crossed the room.
                  Laura Mordaunt saw them, and wondered a little how they came together. Edward
                  Lorimer saw them, and thought, with a glow of happy pride, how fair and beautiful
                  his wife looked that night, and never thought who her companion might be.
               He led her away from the dancers into a gallery that ran the length of the house,
                  and opened into it at intervals with glass doors; it was half filled with flowers
                  and greens, and lighted by soft wax-light. No glare or heat or noise there; they
                  could have heard their own hearts beat. Clare threw herself into a chair, Mordaunt
                  drew an ottoman to her side and seated himself there.
               "You have forgiven me—will you listen to me while I tell you a story?"
               Clare bowed an assent.
               "Two years ago, here in Washington, a man whom I knew well was plodding through
                  life, his duties distasteful, his spirit tamed, his life aimless; he had been
                  unfortunate in his career, and had learned some hard lessons, and among them he
                  had been taught never to believe in a man's hand clasp or a woman's face. He said
                  to himself always, that he was at least safe from further storms, that
                  disappointment could now have no terrors left for him, for he had nothing left to
                  risk. While he was living in this way he met here in Washington a woman, a young
                  woman—I do not think she could have been more than seventeen—and, Mrs. Lorimer, he
                  loved her, he loved her!"
               He drew a long breath, and went on.
               "I do not know if you know what that word love may mean to such a man, but I know
                  that no other words can convey the idea. Love with him meant a total surrender of
                  himself to her influences, a giving of body and soul and spirit into her hands. He
                  was hopeless, without fortune or friends. I do not think you will say he wronged
                  her when I tell you that he laid his love at her feet, that, although he strained
                  every nerve to avoid involving her in any relation with him, still he gave way to
                  his love, and so she knew that he loved her, and those lessons which he thought he
                  never would forget faded from his memory like an old song. He never doubted her
                  for one moment, never questioned her truth and strength and fidelity, and when,
                  one happy day, he knew in his heart that she surely loved him, and he felt that he
                  had won her, then, oh! then, he began to live again; once more he took up the
                  raveled dreams of his boyhood, once more he felt strong to conquer fame and
                  wealth, once more his life lay before him, and he felt no weariness nor
                  despondency as he looked upon his future, for she hovered over it as a glorious
                  gilding sun. Do I weary you? I forgot that you—"
               "No, no!" she said, shading her eyes with her hand; "go on."
               He went on hurriedly, and with more passion in his manner and voice.
               "Mrs. Lorimer, he thought she loved him. He let her go away, hoping that he would
                  soon be able to claim her for his own, and she had promised to wait patiently; but
                  a few weeks went by, and she broke with him, suddenly and strangely, and in a few
                  months he knew why she had done so, for in a few months her engagement was
                  announced. The next winter they met again. Think how he loved her; he was willing,
                  he was eager to be taken as a friend where he had been rejected as a lover; he
                  never reproached, never murmured; he said to himself, 'I am worthless and obscure,
                  no wonder she did not love me, it was but a dream to her,' but he said to her, 'I
                  love you still, may I not be friends with you? Mine all the risk, mine all the
                  heartburn,' and this she granted him—could she have done less? So they went on,
                  and he found out that love such as his brooked no disguise, could not be stifled
                  by circumstance or expediency, and, when he found this out, just then she left him
                  and married. Then he said to himself, 'I deceived myself; I was not friends with
                  her, I could not be;' and it was because I had a hope, a faint hope, still lingering, that she might be mine; it
                  has fled now. Fled, did I say? It was strangled. Then he turned and saw a heart
                  ready to comfort him, and a hand to bind up his wounds—and then he, too, married.
                  My story does not end here. Shall I finish it?"
               He bent forward to catch her answer; it came in a mere whisper. "Yes."
               "The end of it is that they met again, and that—I cannot tell you any more; the
                  end is not yet. But he wants to be really friends with her. Will you not be
                  friends with me, Clare?"
               He said the last few words in a very low tone, very tenderly, and gently, and
                  pleadingly; holding out his hands to her as he did so. She put her hands in his.
                  He bent his head and kissed them.
               She started and said, "Oh, Mr. Mordaunt!"
               "Won't you trust me?" he said, with his old winning way. "Ah, you don't trust
                  me!"
               "Yes, yes, I do! Oh, Walter, I do! No one but ourselves would understand these
                  strange talks we have, would they?"
               "I do not think they would," he answered, with a gleam in his eyes. "No need they
                  should. Do you remember what I said to you once before? I say it to you again. You
                  have made me so happy to-night."
               "I am very glad," she said, with something of her old manner; "and now let us go
                  back to the dancing-room; I have some engagements to keep."
               "One thing more," he said, bending over her. "Give me a violet to remember the
                  evening by, a sort of pledge, you know."
               "A pledge? What of?"
               "Of friendship," he said softly, bending lower, and looking down into her eyes.
                  She gave it to him without a word. He put it to his lips, and then to his heart.
                  She rose, took his arm, and they returned to the dancing-room.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               
                  
                     
                        "And sometimes, by still harder fate,
                        The lovers meet, but meet too late.
                        'Thy heart is mine!' 'True, true, ah, true!'
                        'Then, love, thy hand!' 'Ah, no! adieu.'"
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "With her ankles sunken in asphodel,
                        She wept for the roses of earth that fell
                        From her lap while the wild car drove to hell."
                     
                  
               
               "EDWARD, you are surely not going out?" said Clare Lorimer, looking up from her
                  book as her husband came into the parlor with his overcoat on.
               "Why not?" he asked.
               "You forget that you asked the Mordaunts to come here to tea to-night. Don't you
                  remember last night, at Mrs. Harrison's, Laura said I was never at home, which is
                  not true—"
               "And you said you were always at home, which is—what, Clare?" asked Edward,
                  smiling.
               "And then you asked them to come this evening; and they accepted. Come, Edward,
                  you must remember, you can't go out."
               "My dear Clare! I remember it all perfectly; and I am only going round the corner
                  for one moment, to see Charley Thorn's wife, and show her the official report of
                  Charley's behavior in that last Indian brush; and I won't stay long."
               "Oh, yes, you will; for she will be sure to cry, and then you won't be able to
                  tear yourself away."
               "We shall see. Good-by."
               Clare sank into an easy chair, and took up her book, and dreamed over the pages
                  until the Mordaunts arrival,—Laura all smiles and good humor, green silk, and
                  purple ribbon; Mordaunt quiet, unobtrusive, and striking, as usual.
               
               Edward came in immediately after, and Mrs. Mordaunt attacked him vigorously, in
                  her softest voice, for having deserted her. To them entered, first, the deafest
                  and clearest-headed of middle-aged army officers, who always came and sat in
                  Edward Lorimer's parlor, during some hours of his periodical visits to Washington,
                  but never said anything; and, secondly, Mr. Clay, who came very often, said a good
                  deal, and was a welcome visitor to both Edward and Clare. And, finally, the
                  conversation was interrupted by a great deal of giggling in the entry; the door
                  opened, and in came Mrs. Stoddard, in her wake a young fellow, attached to her and
                  the French Legation, who whispered a great deal, and whose ideas were about as
                     limited as his command of English. Mrs. Stoddard liked him,
                  walked with him daily, said he was cultivated, and abused America and
                  democracy.
               Clare looked around the room; the party was incongruous, she could not help it.
                  There was nothing to be done; Mrs. Stoddard and Laura Mordaunt would both talk,
                  there was no fear of their being silent; and, indeed, they were hard at it then.
                  She turned her head to say something to Mr. Clay, who had slipped into a chair by
                  her side, when Mrs. Stoddard called out, "Oh, Clare, my dear! have you heard the
                  last news? Henry Willoughby's engagement?"
               "To whom, pray?"
               "Miss Warburton, that pretty girl; don't you remember her? She came out the winter
                  you did."
               "A pretty Miss Warburton," said Mordaunt, musingly. "Strange I do not remember
                  her!"
               "Why, yes you do, Mordaunt;" interrupted Clay, in his eager way; "you admired her
                  a good deal, I think; used to dance with her, I know. Willoughby was attentive to
                  her then."
               "I remember her perfectly," said Clare; "don't you remember her voice, Mr.
                  Mordaunt, she had a lovely voice; it was her great charm, in my opinion; and used
                  to ensnare the young men in dreadful desperation."
               "She is here now," said Clay. "She was at Mrs. Harrison's last night. Did you not
                  see her, Mrs. Lorimer? She danced next to us. Don't you remember a lady in white,
                  with blue bows all over her?"
               "Was that Miss Warburton? I never should have recognized her."
               "She is very much changed."
               "Oh, sadly broken!" said Mrs. Stoddard.
               "But the voice remains, I hope," said Mordaunt, looking up.
               "And the voice has promised to marry Henry Willoughby," Edward Lorimer said.
               "What are they going to live on?" asked Laura, "for Willoughby has no profession,
                  and very little pay. Miss Warburton is rich, I suppose?"
               "No," said Mrs. Stoddard; "she has not a cent, and never will have; but they have
                  a Quixotic plan in their heads. His father offered him, some years ago, a place in
                  his iron works; now he means to take it, and if, at the end of two years, he shows
                  himself faithful, honest, sober, industrious, and all that kind of thing, he is to
                  be a partner."
               "Why did he not take it before?" asked Lorimer.
               "Take it! what an idea! Why it is a dreadful life, up in the wilds of Maryland; no
                  society, and horribly hard work."
               "Many a man would be glad to have the chance," said Lorimer, quietly.
               "Yes, Edward," said Clare, with sudden energy.
               "Well, it is very fine talking, Mr. Lorimer," said Mrs. Stoddard; "but I think the
                  sacrifice immense, and I am sure Mr. Willoughby is a hard-hearted old wretch. Why
                  doesn't he give poor Henry the money and let him marry at once, and enjoy life
                  here, instead of sending him out there to pine and die?"
               "Perhaps he does not think enjoying life here the end and aim of a man's being,"
                  said Lorimer, laughingly.
               
               "He has no money to give," said Clay.
               "Besides," said Clare, "I don't believe that these iron works are any worse than
                  the frontier."
               "Oh, well, my dear," said Mrs. Stoddard, "that is a different thing; but you and
                  Mr. Lorimer are—"
               Edward looked down her impertinence with his clear brown eyes, and she turned to
                  Mordaunt. "Won't you agree with me, Mr. Mordaunt? It is a sacrifice."
               "Yes," said Mordaunt; "it is a sacrifice."
               "Oh, certainly," said Laura, "it is a sacrifice, and a sacrifice it takes a good
                  deal of love to render easy."
               "I know," pursued Mrs. Stoddard, triumphantly, "that I married my husband for
                  love, and if it had necessitated giving up society, and immuring myself at my age
                  among rusty nails and old gas pipes, I should have thought twice before I
                  consented."
               Perhaps Edward Lorimer thought that Stoddard would have been a lucky fellow if she
                  had thought twice; he only said, "I don't doubt it."
               "I did not know," said Clare Lorimer, "that Henry Willoughby had it in him to do
                  such a thing. I always thought him so weak and—and so selfish."
               "The two years are not yet over," observed Laura.
               At this juncture, the colonel, who had sat abstracted until the screams of Mrs.
                  Stoddard's voice had penetrated his deafness, looked up and said, "It seems to me
                  that the sacrifice of a few balls and parties, made for the sake of a woman one
                  loves, can hardly cost any man a bitter pang, and even were it a great effort, he
                  should be glad to make it; don't you think so, Lorimer?"
               Lorimer bowed. Mrs. Stoddard giggled.
               "Yes," said Clay, "and I can't fancy any man who is good for anything, and any
                  girl who is good for anything, letting poverty stand between them. I should think
                  that girl a very paltry girl indeed, who cared for me and would not marry me
                  because I could not give her a carriage and horses and lots of clothes."
               His face colored as he saw Mrs. Stoddard and her Frenchman look at him and
                  laugh.
               "A very paltry soul indeed," said Lorimer, "to whom money was anything and love
                  was nothing. Besides, a man likes to work for a woman, and I think and hope that a
                  woman likes to be worked for. So all success to Willoughby and Miss Warburton, and
                  I am sure they will only love each other the more for this ten years from now.
                  Colonel, you would like a game of whist, I know. Mrs. Mordaunt, you will play, I
                  hope? Mrs. Stoddard? No? Come, Clay, you and I will make up the table."
               The four went into the next room and settled down to a lively game. Mrs. Stoddard
                  and her escort retired to a corner, fenced themselves off in two chairs, and
                  proceeded to enjoy themselves—the world forgetting, by the world forgot. Clare sat
                  down by the table, in front of the fire, Mordaunt next to her. They could not be
                  seen from the other room, and, even if they had been, there was nothing in
                  Mordaunt's manner to betray his love for the woman "so near and yet so far." No;
                  they are not the first couple who have talked in that same easy, composed,
                  well-bred manner, with just such fiery passions straining in the leash. The
                  mockery of earnest was on the other side of the room, with Mrs. Stoddard's blushes
                  and darted glances, and the dark eyes and cadenced passion of the Frenchman.
               "Did you hear what they asked just now?" said Mordaunt, suddenly looking up from a
                  number of Punch he was holding in his hand.
               "When? What do you mean?"
               "When they were talking of Henry Willoughby. What do they, what do any of them
                  know about poverty and its curses? What do they know of love or sacrifice?"
               "Certainly not Mrs. Stoddard," answered Clare, lightly.
               
               "Nor you either," he said, impatiently, "if I were to judge by your manner
                  sometimes."
               "Mr. Mordaunt," she said coldly, "you are scarcely polite."
               "Polite!" he said bitterly. "You expect us to be polite when we are in agony. The
                  torments of hell are hardly compatible with well-bred ease, Mrs. Lorimer."
               "What is the matter with you to-night?" she said, startled.
               "The matter! Don't you know what is the matter? With me not only to-night, but
                  every night? Here have I been trying to speak to you, trying to see you for
                  days—for days—"
               "You saw me last night, and I think the day before I met you—"
               "Yes, you met me—all women are alike, I think, after all! You met me last night at
                  a ball where there were fifty other men to talk to you; and the day before I saw
                  you at a book shop with Mr. Lorimer."
               "A very good place to be," she said, in a rather embarrassed tone of voice.
               "Let me pick up your handkerchief, Mrs. Lorimer." Then, bending his head to stoop
                  for the handkerchief, he said, "Did you see that woman in the corner look at us
                  then?"
               "No."
               "Well," said Mordaunt, returning to his quiet manner, "I want to see you because I
                  have something to say to you. I could not find you anywhere—"
               "Why did you not come here? I am always at home."
               "At home to Mr. Cary and Mr. Clay, and—"
               "Mr. Mordaunt."
               "But I want to see you when there is no one else here."
               "I am very often alone in the morning."
               "Suppose some one were to come in?" he said, fixing his eyes upon hers. "What
                  would they think?"
               "Think that you were paying a morning visit, I presume."
               "Mrs. Lorimer, I congratulate you. You have at last succeeded in perfecting
                  yourself in—in all those little social tricks by which women say what they don't
                  mean. For once be frank with me. Do you really mean me to be put on the social
                  footing of all the men who come here?" She did not answer at first. "Remember what
                  you promised me the other night," he said; "you said you would be my friend, and I
                  believed you; I may be a fool, but I thought you meant what you said. I am no
                  longer a young man, you know," he went on, putting all the pathos he could into
                  his voice and eyes; "my youth is over, with all its illusions and hopes; I am slow
                  at making friends now, and cannot wear my heart on my sleeve, or give it away to
                  every one I meet; and when I have a friend and she disappoints me, why—I cannot
                  bear disappointment—I cannot bear it. Oh, Mrs. Lorimer, do not disappoint me just
                  this once."
               Clare had not a very clear idea of what Mordaunt wanted, but she knew he looked
                  unhappy and seemed to need friendship, so she simply said, "What do you want?"
               "I want," he said, "to see you alone somewhere, if it is only for an hour. I want
                  to tell you something, I want—here comes Lorimer."
               "Mordaunt, will you take Clay's hand at whist? he has an engagement."
               "Certainly. Mrs. Lorimer, is it yes or no?" he said, hurriedly, as Lorimer went
                  away.
               It was yes.
               
               On the morning of the fifteenth of February Clare Lorimer sat alone in her parlor.
                  She was very restless, very nervous, very ill at ease. The day before she had
                  looked all the morning long for Mordaunt's visit; he had not come. She had cheated
                  herself of half hour after half hour. She had trifled away half the morning in
                  expectation, and then, when she became convinced that he would not be there, she
                     still forbore to go out, still
                  lingered and delayed, fearing lest she might return to find his card upon the
                  hall-table. The two days' waiting had told on her nerves, they were easily
                  unstrung now; and Walter's glance, as he caught her scarcely audible "yes," had
                  started in her a wild fluttering that would not be stilled; she had been sure,
                  confident, without well knowing why, that he would come the next morning; that the
                  meeting for which she so longed and which yet she so dreaded, would take place on
                  the morrow. The excitement of the anticipation gave her no chance for thought; she
                  could not even fairly be said to shrink from the contemplation of it, for she did
                  not pause to contemplate. When she went to her room that night, after his looks
                  and tones had told her so much that she hardly realized, and yet so much that she
                  unconsciously hungered for, she had not analyzed or deliberated, she felt
                  inspirited and strengthened, her listlessness seemed gone, and she had not begun
                  to dread his presence when she sat by her writing-table and waited for his step in
                  the hall.
               But twenty-four hours are mighty to work change, and in the life Clare had led for
                  months twenty-four hours measured by their rapid alternations and their sudden
                  lights and shades might count for years. These past twenty-four hours had brought
                  her time for reflection, such reflection as she was now capable of, and more than
                  that, they had forced her to feed on herself and to prey upon the past for that
                  morbid sustenance which now formed her life. So she sat now not as the day before,
                  but with every sense upon the strain, her hands trembling so that she could
                  scarcely hold her book, her cheek changing from white to red at every sound she
                  heard. She had sat so for an hour, until the clock struck twelve. She sprang to
                  her feet, and paced up and down, up and down on the soft carpet, her hands twining
                  themselves about each other, her fingers ever restless, her eyes wandering. She
                  would not listen, she would not wait any longer, she would sit still and read; she
                  picked up her book and reseated herself; at the moment the bell sounded, in spite
                  of herself she paused and listened; a strange voice in the entry—a tradesman with
                  a bundle probably. She caught the pamphlet novel she held in both hands, and tore
                  it down the middle, then flung it on the floor. As she did so the door opened and
                  Walter Mordaunt entered. He closed the door behind him before he spoke. He looked
                  at Clare; she had risen to meet him in spite of her resolution to be everything
                  that was disengaged, quiet, composed, and indifferent, when they met. He had
                  judged rightly when he had made her wait, he took her off her guard.
               He too had determined on his plan of approach; he could not deal with her without
                  artifice and generalship; with all his passion, he estimated the weight of every
                  blow, the length of every step, the importance of every move.
               "I would have been here sooner, but I had to call on Miss Warburton; although she
                  is a fiancée, I wanted to see if she retained
                  her voice, and when I was there yesterday she made me promise to see her off at
                  the cars to-day."
               And that was why she had been disappointed yesterday and kept waiting to-day! It
                  was too much. Clare was but a child in many things, and her self-control and pride
                  quite broke down under his cool manner. She burst into a flood of indignant tears.
                  "It is too hard, too hard! you do not care; you did not mean that you wanted to
                  see me the other night!" her voice broke in a sob, she threw herself into a chair
                  and covered her face with her hands.
               Walter was confounded; for this he was not prepared. All his petty schemes
                  vanished in a moment; the flood-gates were raised and the torrent rushed forth.
                  Her tears carried him back, irretrievably back to the days when his tone could
                  bring the tears to her eyes, when she had wept on his wounded hand, when—but
                  memory did her work shortly. He lost all restraint, threw himself on the floor
                  beside her chair and implored her forgiveness with all the wild uncompromising
                  passion of his soul. She did not move at first; she lay as in a dream, she forgot her tears and
                  their cause. His words transported her in her turn back into their past, that past
                  which they possessed together, which no one shared with them. He took her hand,
                  and she felt as if she were once more seventeen, and he her lover. She pushed back
                  the hair from her brow and looked into his eyes. "So long," she said, dreamily;
                  "ah! so long since I have done this, Sir Philip."
               She had called him, that first winter when they had been most entirely one
                  another's, at those rare times when they could forget all but themselves, then she
                  had parted the hair on his brow and called him "her Sir Philip." She did it now,
                  for she had forgotten all in the world but him. He could not speak, his heart was
                  very full; for that one moment he, too, forgot the past and the future; it was the
                  one sweet moment of that winter. It was but a moment. He clasped her hand in his
                  and kissed it passionately; he looked again into her eyes: they were troubled
                  now—she was beginning to wake. Now, now, or never! "Clare, Clare! my
                  Clare!" he said, "always and ever mine!" holding her hand between both of his own,
                  tightly and firmly. "Listen, Clare, listen to me! do you know that I love you,
                  that I have loved you always from the moment we met? that you have never ceased to
                  fill my heart and soul from then till now? Do you know it? Tell me—you shall tell
                  me, you dare not lie! You were mine, were you not? You are mine, are you not?
                  Speak, speak!" She could not resist him, she could not resist herself.
               "Yes," she murmured, her eyes fixed on his face, and drawing inspiration from the
                  love she saw there, it was so long since she had seen him thus.
               Here Walter Mordaunt had said to himself, "I will stop." That "yes"
                  should have, he intended it to have, ended their intercourse, but he did not know
                  the meaning of the word until he caught the sound of it from Clare Lorimer's lips.
                  He threw his arms around her with a wild cry of exultation, of triumph, of
                  passion. She sprang to her feet, trembling in every limb.
               "Stop, stop!" she cried, "for God's sake have mercy! Walter, leave me! leave
                  me!"
               He looked at her, his head was reeling with excitement; he made a step toward her;
                  she steadied herself against a table, and said again, "Leave me, I command! leave
                  me, I implore you! oh, Walter! go—I will see you again—no—I will write—only go!
                  only go!"
               He dared not stay; he turned—he paused—she had sunk into a chair; her face was
                  buried in her hands. He stooped, crouched, kissed the hem of her dress, and left
                  her.
               Two hours after, Clare roused herself from the posture in which he had left her,
                  went to the desk and wrote a note. It ran thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Yes, I did love you! I do love you! Now God help me, and fare you well
                              forever!
                           
                              CLARE LORIMER.
                              February 15th.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               
                  
                     "Edmund! the things that are too true pass by us as if they were not true at
                        all, and when they have singled us out, then only do they strike us."
                  
               
               MISS LAWRENCE, a friend of Marian's, was in Washington, spending a few days, and
                  very desirous to see everything—among other things, the Capitol, of course—so the
                  morning of the sixteenth of February was devoted to that purpose. Clare chaperoned
                  her, and Frederick Cary was their escort. Huntley Ferrers, looking into the Senate
                  gallery about three o'clock, heard the end of a very long and very stupid speech,
                  and saw Clare's beautiful face just below him, wearing an anxious and distraite expression, while her two companions were
                  laughing and jesting as though they were on the top wave of fortune. Ferrers came in and sat down on the opposite
                  side of the aisle, where he amused himself by looking at Mrs. Lorimer and
                  speculating on her thoughts. Suddenly her eyes lighted up with a look of
                  recognition. Ferrers involuntarily looked in the same direction—he saw only a door
                  swinging to behind some one. He rose to leave the gallery; as he was opening the
                  door, Mrs. Lorimer came up the step; he held the door open for her, bowed as she
                  passed him, and decided to follow her. But she was too quick for him. She ran,
                  rather than walked, along the corridor and down the stairs. His lameness
                  interfered, and he lost sight of her before she reached the Rotunda. He was going,
                  himself, to the library, where he knew the librarian, and was allowed access to
                  all those tempting alcoves and long lines of books. He asked for some volume; "It
                  is in the first alcove, on the right hand side," he said. "I saw it there the
                  other day. Give me the key. I can find it." He put his hand on the volume
                  instantly; then, before he left the place, turned to look out of the window on the
                  lovely view before him. His eye saw not only the fair city at his feet, glistening
                  in the early spring light, but, on the porch of the library, two figures—Clare
                  Lorimer and Walter Mordaunt. She was saying something to him. She did not wait to
                  hear him answer; she gave him a note.
               Oh! thought Huntley Ferrers. He knew what it all meant. A good many years in Paris
                  had made him master of all the little details; besides, it was rather good fun to
                  study human nature. There was no time to speculate. He turned away that Mrs.
                  Lorimer might not see him. She passed through the room hurriedly and alone. Two
                  minutes after, (long enough to read the note, thought Ferrers,) Mordaunt came in
                  by the door from the porch, as a party of gentlemen came in by the other. They
                  spoke to Ferrers and Mordaunt; then all stood talking for five minutes, then
                  separated, leaving Ferrers alone on the spot, with something white at his
                  feet—something white which he did not see, or seeing, he did not care for—which he
                  was about to leave behind him to be swept up the next morning, when suddenly he
                  stooped and picked it up.
               He looked at it, smiled, put it into his pocket, went out of the room, down the
                  steps, with his hand in his pocket and a smile on his face. His carriage was
                  waiting for him. He said "Home" in his sweet, polite voice, and threw himself back
                  among the cushions. He wondered what was in this note. The first words were
                  enough.
               "I did love you! I do love you—"
               Ferrers was born a gentleman, so he read no more; but he looked at the signature.
                  Clare Lorimer. This—was—Edward Lorimer's—wife, and he hated Edward Lorimer. He
                  wondered if he knew. A glint of revenge came into his blue eyes. He should
                  know.
               "John," he called to the coachman, "stop at the next book shop!"
               So he stopped at the next book shop, where they gave him a pen and ink and a half
                  sheet of paper, on which he wrote these words, in a hand unlike his own:—
               "This note was found to-day in the Capitol. It is presumed that you may have some
                  interest in it."
               He folded it, put it in an envelope, and directed it to Edward Lorimer. Then he
                  carried it to the post-office. Then it was all over.
               
               The next morning Edward Lorimer went home about one o'clock, to tell his wife that
                  he could not ride with her that afternoon. She was out—had gone out for all day,
                  the servant said. There was a letter for Mr. Lorimer—a letter which Mr. Lorimer
                  took and carried into his little study. It looked like a bill, or a begging
                  letter, and there was not a stirred feeling about the heart so soon to be broken,
                  as he cut it open. He cut it open—this little letter that would pierce his life
                  through and through, that would stain his past as well as his future—and no
                  hovering angel led him gently away from
                  the falling blow. He looked at it, read it with one glance, and started from his
                  chair with a groan, like one that is shot through the heart and leaps in the air
                  while dying.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Late at e'en, drinking the wine,
                        Or ere they paid the lawing,
                        They set a combat them between
                        To fight it in the dawing."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Ha! what avails death to erase
                        His offense, my disgrace?
                        I would we were boys as of old
                        In the field, by the fold—
                        His outrage, God's patience, man's scorn
                        Were so easily borne."
                     
                  
               
               BETWEEN eleven and twelve o'clock that night, Edward Lorimer entered the bar-room
                  of the —— Club House. He was weak and faint; food nor drink had passed his lips
                  for many hours, and he almost staggered as he approached the bar and asked for a
                  tumbler of brandy. The room was crowded, and the hubbub of voices was great. No
                  one observed him as he leaned against the counter, his eyes fixed upon the ground,
                  and he was not conscious of the presence of any one; his only idea in coming to
                  the place was to obtain some violent stimulus; his head ached terribly, and his
                  limbs felt nerveless and strengthless. Too self-absorbed to recognize either the
                  faces or tones about him, he drank off a heavy draught of raw brandy; as he
                  replaced the tumbler on the counter, he raised his eyes, for his ear at that
                  moment caught the sound of his own name. He shook off the apathy that hung upon
                  his senses and glanced rapidly and keenly about him. A few paces off stood a group
                  of men, their backs, all but one, were turned to him; but he knew them all in a
                  moment's time; they were Walter Mordaunt, Frederick Cary, and Huntley Ferrers.
                  Only Cary faced him. Edward's listless hand clenched, his blood mounted to his
                  face and head, and he made a step forward. The sudden meeting with the man upon
                  whom all his proofs as all his suspicions centered, completely carried him beyond
                  himself. The brandy he had swallowed had acted upon his usually steady cool head
                  like oil upon a flame, and all self-control, all retrospect, all discretion, were
                  but stubble before the fury of the leaping blaze. His eyes burned into Cary's gay,
                  mocking face like two red-hot points.
               Cary was more in earnest than was his wont, more really excited, for the three men
                  had been dining together, and had fallen into a political discussion; Ferrers and
                  Mordaunt on one side, Cary on the other. They had pressed him hard; party spirit
                  ran high, and the question was one of peculiar interest to him. He had upon his
                  lips a biting retort to a rather weak argument of Mordaunt's, when his eyes met
                  Edward Lorimer's. Frederick paused, the words were stilled upon his lips, and his
                  face changed. It was not strange, for there was but one interpretation to the look
                  which he met on Edward's face; it spoke of but one feeling, a steady,
                  concentrated, eager hate. The two men to whom he was talking both caught his
                  glance, and turned quickly to see its cause. They faced Lorimer at the same
                  moment. He stood in the same position, his right hand thrust into his breast; his
                  left hanging clenched by his side, the nails cutting into the flesh; his figure
                  erect; his eyes fixed on Cary's face. Ferrers read the whole story in one second;
                  his acuteness and knowledge of the circumstances gave him an inspiration, and for
                  once it was infallible. He was the first to speak.
               "Ah! Mr. Lorimer," he said, "good evening! We were—that is, Mr. Cary was just
                  quoting from your remarks in defense of a theory of his; did you not hear your
                  name?"
               "I should be glad to know," said Lorimer, driving his nails deeper into the palm of his hand—his voice
                  was quite steady, but his head swam, and he felt his footing to be infirm—"I
                  should be glad to know what thing of mine it is that Mr. Cary has dishonored me by
                  using?"
               "This is some misunderstanding, Mr. Lorimer," said Mordaunt, hurriedly; "you
                  mistake."
               Cary interrupted him with a half sneer.
               "Oh, no, Mordaunt; don't you see?" and he pointed significantly to the bottle and
                  emptied glass at Lorimer's side.
               Edward uttered a cry like an angry lion, and sprang at Cary. Mordaunt threw
                  himself between them and forced him back.
               "For God's sake, Lorimer," he said, "stop! You are mad—what ails you?"
               "The drink has made him quarrelsome," said Ferrers.
               Lorimer did not hear him; he seized Mordaunt's arm, and said huskily, "Mr.
                  Mordaunt, I don't know you well, but I am without friends at this moment, and I
                  ask you to stand by me for the next few hours. It need not take long to settle
                  this matter; may I speak to you alone?"
               Every generous instinct in Walter Mordaunt's nature prompted an acquiescence. He
                  felt sure that there was some cause for Lorimer's attack, and the way in which
                  Cary had met it disgusted him beyond measure.
               "Yes," he said, "Mr. Lorimer, I will; you may rely upon me. Come this way;" and he
                  turned into a side parlor.
               Lorimer closed the door and said, with much more self-command than Mordaunt would
                  have supposed it possible to assume in those few moments, "Mr. Mordaunt, there is
                  no time or occasion for explanations. I am not drunk, as you may have supposed. I
                  am in very deadly earnest. You will trust my honor as a gentleman when I tell you
                  that I have—"he choked for a moment and then finished his sentence abruptly with
                  "a most sufficient cause of quarrel."
               Mordaunt held out his hand and said, with some show of feeling, "I believe you,
                  Mr. Lorimer. I am at your service. What can I do for you?"
               "Go to Mr. Cary and carry a challenge from me at once, the meeting to take place
                  immediately. Of course he has the choice of weapons; it makes no difference to me.
                  You will arrange all the etiquette, will you not? You know all about these things.
                  The ground of the quarrel is the conversation which took place just now. I will
                  stay here until you come back, and we will remain together until the time comes.
                  That is all. Will you oblige me by going at once?"
               Mordaunt turned to leave the room, hesitated, and said, finally, "Is there no way
                  by which this affair can be arranged? Can you not retract?"
               "No! I cannot; and there is no object in my awaiting his challenge, which would
                  necessarily follow my own retraction, except the choice of weapons, and that I do
                  not wish to have."
               Mordaunt bowed and left the room. In the corridor he met Ferrers waiting for
                  him.
               "Well, do you bring my principal an apology?"
               "Indeed I do not," replied Walter, gravely. "There is no help for it. Ferrers,
                  these men will fight."
               Ferrers smiled slightly, and said, "And why not?"
               Mordaunt looked at him in silence, and then said, "I never was in a duel I liked
                  less."
               "Nor I in one I minded so little; so between us we'll hit the right medium, I
                  fancy. Now, how about this thing?"
               Mordaunt delivered his message, and he and Ferrers soon made their arrangements.
                  Cary was much outraged and very bitter, Ferrers said, and wanted the thing over.
                  The meeting was agreed upon for six o'clock the next morning; to take place, of
                  course, on the confines of the district; the weapons chosen were swords. It was
                  all settled, and Mordaunt returned to the room where he had left Lorimer; he found him perfectly composed, his
                  excited manner quite gone, and in its place his usual calm steadiness. He listened
                  to Mordaunt's explanation of his agreement, and bowed his assent and satisfaction
                  when he concluded.
               "I have ordered a carriage to the door," said Mordaunt; "I thought you would drive
                  home and make your own private arrangements, and that I could call for you in time
                  to reach the field by six."
               "Thank you, you are very thoughtful; but I shall stay here for the few remaining
                  hours. I can write here as well as elsewhere, and I do not wish to go—home until
                  the whole business is over."
               This he said with great calmness; but Mordaunt could not but see how much it cost
                  him.
               "I will order writing materials here, then; would you rather be alone?"
               "No, stay if you can. I shall soon have finished, and I shall have to burden your
                  good nature with my directions," said Edward, with a faint smile.
               "Command me in anything."
               "You will find my cigar-case in my overcoat pocket, Mr. Mordaunt," said Edward, as
                  the servant entered the room with pen, ink, and paper. "It is on that chair; won't
                  you smoke?"
               So Walter Mordaunt sat by the fire and smoked, while Edward Lorimer sat at the
                  table and wrote. He wrote four letters, two of them purely business letters to his
                  lawyers, one to Mr. Hungerford, one to his sister. He wrote them all quickly, and
                  without any lingering. He sealed and directed them, and then turned to Mordaunt,
                  who had never once looked at him during the time so spent, and said, "Mr.
                  Mordaunt, will you, in case I go down, deliver these letters? These two, you see,
                  are to my lawyers, they can be inclosed without any explanation; the other two, if
                  you will add a few lines, and then inclose them—I shall be your debtor."
               Mordaunt took them in silence.
               "I have nothing more to ask, nothing. I think—yes, one thing more, which is almost
                  superfluous; still, will you, if I am not killed, and only severely wounded, will
                  you break the shock to—to my wife, as much as may be?"
               Mordaunt bowed his head mutely.
               "That is all, then," said Lorimer; "and now let us—I cannot talk—let us think of
                  other things."
               He rose and paced slowly up and down the room. Mordaunt threw himself back in his
                  chair and watched him—his erect, slight figure, as it passed to and fro, marked
                  his bent head and his folded arms, and wondered and thought, and watched again. It
                  was a strange night in the lives of those two men, the strangest that fate ever
                  made to darken over them. It was a wild freak of fortune to bring them together at
                  all, and most of all thus. They never spoke to each other but once, when Edward
                  paused in his walk, and said, "Mr. Mordaunt, this has been a strange chance that
                  has forced me upon your good offices, and I hardly know what to say to you; I
                  would thank you, but you could not avoid accepting the position, and it seems
                  almost better to say nothing."
               "Mr. Lorimer," said Mordaunt, rising, "this night I consider as detached from my
                  future and my past. I do not think, therefore, you need regret the necessity that
                  forced you to turn to me. I only see in you to-night a gentleman beset by
                  difficulties, and I offer him my assistance and support most cheerfully, as I
                  would offer it to any of his class. I give you my hand upon it."
               Edward took it, pressed it lightly but firmly, and dropped it to resume his
                  pacing. Mordaunt thought, or tried to think; but his brain was a chaos of
                  contending recollections and passions. He tried to realize that this man, for whom
                  he was so soon to act as second, whose last requests he stood charged with, to
                  whom he was acting the part of closest friendship, was the same man who had robbed
                  him of his hope in life, who had come between him and his love, and with a strong
                  hand taken possession of the heritage he claimed for his own. It could not be true. This man, for whom he felt so much
                  rising tenderness and sympathy, who was leaning on him now, when perhaps about to
                  enter the Valley of the Shadow of Death, could not be Clare Hungerford's husband,
                  the man whose name had been hateful to him, whose presence was insupportable,
                  whose wife he loved, whose wife he considered his own before Heaven, whose wife
                  had told him, not two days before, "I love you, but I am married to another." He
                  looked again at Edward, and at the moment rushed back upon his memory the time
                  when he had entered the Hungerfords' parlor and seen the man before him bending
                  his head to Marian Hungerford. He saw again the dancers, the flowers, and the
                  lights, and there under the chandelier Miss Hungerford and the soldier by her
                  side; he saw his bright smile, and heard his gay laugh. He put his hand to his
                  forehead, he could not think clearly. The last few months seemed blurred to him.
                  What had he been doing? Clare Lorimer's face, hitherto the most prominent one in
                  his mind, grew dim and vague, and he saw her husband's in its place. It was with
                  him he had to do. He was to stand by him to-morrow, in his duel with Frederick
                  Cary. Suppose Cary killed him? He was to tell Clare—She would reproach him. She
                  would say it was his fault. But he had had nothing to do with it, he could not
                  prevent it. And so these thoughts and fancies came and went, and rushed and
                  crowded through his brain.
               And Edward Lorimer paced up and down the room, and thought too.
               The few hours passed over.
               The morning broke cold and dark. Cary's dark hair looked gray with the early rime
                  upon it. His face was anxious; his heart smote him once, and he turned to Ferrers,
                  saying, "Ferrers, there must be some mistake in this. I don't think I like this
                  business."
               Ferrers raised his eyebrows. "He struck you, Cary. There is no mistake about a
                  blow."
               So the fight began and went on for some time, for their skill was very fairly
                  matched. Edward Lorimer was a "beau sabreur,"
                  and fenced off every thrust of Cary's weapon. Mordaunt looked on in agony, hoping
                  the best, thinking that this would go on for some time, and then he could
                  interfere; against the rules of the code of honor as it might be, he could not
                  bear it much longer.
               The fight went on for some minutes longer, neither man hurt, neither man
                  scratched, until—until—as the thirst for blood rose in Cary's nature, a bark was
                  heard—one, two in rapid succession, and a little spaniel dashed across the field.
                  It was Caro, the dog that Clare Hungerford had given to Edward Lorimer not two
                  years before. How it came upon the ground Edward never knew; for, as he recognized
                  the voice and turned his head suddenly, his eyes grew dim, his hand wavered, and
                  the next moment he fell upon the ground with a sword wound very near the
                  heart.
               It was a mortal wound, the surgeon said. The chances were he would not live to be
                  carried home.
               "Cary," said Mordaunt, "you had better go. You have no time to lose."
               But Cary stooped down to Lorimer's side: "Lorimer," he said, in a hurried, low
                  tone of voice, "I swear to you that I never injured you in any way. I never
                  provoked this quarrel—"
               "Come, Mr. Cary," said the surgeon, "you had better catch the early train at
                  Bladensburg. You can just do it if you drive fast."
               Cary turned to leave the field. Ferrers stood apart, his head bent. This was his
                  work—his work. That stream of blood cried out against him. As he raised his head
                  to follow Cary, an extraordinary expression came over his face.
               "Let me speak to him for one moment," he said, quietly.
               He knelt down beside the man whose heart he had killed, whose life he had taken.
                  His sweet voice sank low. "Lorimer
                  mer," he said, "for God's sake, forgive me my share in your death!"
               Edward Lorimer opened his eyes and looked at him steadily.
               Ferrers suddenly bent his head still lower, and whispered some words into the
                  dying ear.
               "Yes," said Lorimer, quietly.
               Ferrers rose and went away. He told his coachman to drive as fast as he could.
                  Cary threw himself into a corner of the carriage. "This is the worst day's work I
                  ever did," he said, gloomily.
               "Cary," said Ferrers, "I knew him when he was a boy."
               Cary groaned.
               So those two men went away, and left behind them the man whom they had murdered.
                  He lay with his face turned to heaven—his face, usually so steady and peaceful,
                  distorted by pain, and his life ebbing slowly away beneath the white bandages.
                  They lifted him up carefully and carried him off the ground. Then Mordaunt took
                  the surgeon's horse and rode on to break the news to his wife, while Edward
                  Lorimer was driven slowly home. And there they raised him tenderly and carried him
                  in—the poor, tortured body that had left his house not twenty-four hours before,
                  borne on such young, strong feet, knowing such life and happiness.
               Cary went to Canada until the excitement died away. Every one pitied him, and said
                  he had been drawn into the quarrel with Lorimer, who was a fighting man. A
                  diplomatic appointment was tendered him to soothe his wounded sensibilities, and
                  he went abroad at once.
               Ferrers is very high on the political ladder just now. He is called a successful
                  man. It may be so. No one knows the true story of Edward Lorimer's duel—but
                  Huntley Ferrers knows, and remembers, and dreads.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               
                  
                     "And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee; and all
                        things. which are dainty and goodly are departed from thee; and thou shalt
                        find them no more at all."
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Never any more,
                        While I live,
                        Need I hope to see his face
                        As before."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Thee nor carketh care nor slander;
                        Nothing but the small, cold worm
                        Fretteth thy enshrouded form.
                        Let them rave.
                        Light and shadow ever wander
                        O'er the green that folds thy grave.
                        Let them rave."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     "In my Father's house are many mansions."
                  
               
               
               WHEN he left her, she went to her own room, closed the door, and sat down to await
                  the sound of those wheels which he had told her were soon to come. She had not
                  long to wait—only about twenty minutes. It did not even seem long to her. She was
                  stupefied and apathetic; it cost her nothing to sit with her hands folded. But
                  when she heard a carriage stop in front of the house she sprang to her feet, she
                  listened, she heard it all—heard the door open; heard the weary tramp of the men
                  who carried him; heard the surgeon's voice cautioning them to move steadily and
                  slowly; heard their steps upon the staircase, until they reached the door of her
                  room; almost before they paused she had opened it and motioned that he should be
                  brought in there. The men obeyed her gesture instinctively, and she guided them to
                  the bedside, where they laid him down. She turned to the surgeon and said, "Will
                  you give me all your directions? Tell me just what is to be done. I am Mrs.
                  Lorimer."
               
               He looked at her white face, and said, "Give me your hand."
               She did so, with a half smile on her proud lip. Did he think that she intended
                  putting herself under his control? she wondered. What mattered it if her cheek
                  were colorless and her hand icy? She would stay here at any risk. There was
                  something of this in her face. He looked earnestly at her and said, "You are in a
                  most unnatural condition of mind and body; do you know it, madam?"
               "I have not thought of it. It makes no difference. It does not bear upon the
                  answer I asked from you."
               "How can I be sure that you will not agitate my patient?" he said, more to sound
                  her than from any real fear of risk.
               "You know," she said, "that I am not likely to excite any one as I am now. A
                  marble statue could do it as well."
               "You are right," he said. "Now listen."
               He ran through the detail of what was necessary to be done; it all centered in the
                  two requisites of rest and quiet. He himself would return in an
                  hour and would spend the night there. "You had better," he said, "be the only a
                  tendant upon your husband; you can do all that is needed; it will involve no
                  fatigue." Then again enjoining upon her his directions, he turned to leave the
                  room.
               "One moment," she said, and for the first time he noticed that her voice was
                  unsteady; "tell me, if you can, where is the wound, and—and what are the chances
                  of life?"
               "I can hardly say with any positiveness. The wound is a sword wound, and a very
                  serious one, passing through the body. I had better tell you the chances in favor
                  of a recovery are very slight. I did not think at first that life could be
                  retained until now."
               "That is all," she said, almost inaudibly. He bowed and left her. She waited until
                  the door closed gently behind him, then she turned to the bedside. When they
                  brought him in and laid him down, she had not glanced at the men and their burden;
                  she had kept her eye averted; she had been dimly conscious that what they carried
                  was much muffled, and seemed a dead weight in their arms; that was all. She now
                  walked to the bedside, stood, and looked down upon him.
               There he lay, still—still as death, it seemed to her: she could not even hear his
                  breathing; all she could see was one arm in his shirt sleeve—his coat was off, and
                  the sleeve was stained with blood—and his face. His eyes were closed, his lips
                  compressed, and a shade of pain on his brow. She stood motionless for a little
                  while; then she raised her hand and put the hair from his brow. He stirred as she
                  did so; stirred, but not uneasily. The doctor had told her to take off the outer
                  wrappings as much as could be done without disturbing him. She began to do this
                  slowly and carefully; there was but little to be done; when she had finished, she
                  brought a small silk quilt, one of her wedding presents, which had been used to
                  lie on the foot of her bed, and laid it tenderly over him. Then she drew a chair
                  to the bedside and sat down. She fixed her eyes on his face, and she felt as if
                  she had never seen it before; it looked to her as if another soul had gone into
                  Edward Lorimer's body, and as if the soul that she had known so well for now
                  nearly two years had left him forever. As her eyes rested on his face, it seemed
                  to melt from under them, and she saw one by one the different looks she had known
                  him to wear; they came and went like dissolving views, but in them all she saw no
                  foreshadowing of this expression now stamped upon his face. It was not strange: he
                  was dying of a sword wound, and the quarrel had been for his wife's heart.
               So Clare sat and watched and waited. Once his lips moved, and he said, faintly,
                  "Water:" she gave him a little, moistened his lips, and he sank again into this
                  seeming stupor. Once she took his hand in hers, and she fancied that his fingers
                  clasped hers for a moment, then suddenly relaxed their hold, but she could not be
                  sure. An hour went by. The surgeon
                  came; there was nothing for him to do, he said; time would show; the patient's
                  recuperative power must be immense, and he hoped everything from it. Clare
                  listened to him quietly. She had never thought that Edward would die, it had never
                  seemed to her possible; she had not been shocked when Dr. Ashurst told her how
                  small the chances of recovery were, for the words said nothing to her. She knew he
                  was badly hurt, but she would wait until he got well; he could not die.
               "I have given directions, Mrs. Lorimer, to your maid, who seems intelligent and
                  trustworthy, to answer all inquiries at the door, to let no one in, and to come to
                  you for nothing."
               "Thank you," she said; "you are very thoughtful and kind."
               "Is there any writing or telegraphing you would like to have done? I believe Mr.
                  Mordaunt did telegraph to your family and Mr. Lorimer's sister; but is there any
                  one else?"
               She shuddered as he said "Mr. Mordaunt," but controlled herself and replied, "No
                  one, thank you;" then, with a sudden rush of recollection, she said, "Oh, yes,
                  telegraph for Miss Conyers to come on; they will all come on, I suppose; let her
                  come too."
               "I will, at once."
               He left the room A half hour went by. Clare was still sitting in the same
                  position, her eyes never leaving Edward's face; her thoughts wandering strangely
                  and uncontrolledly over her whole life, resting nowhere, when he raised his hand
                  to his brow, just for a moment, then it fell again listlessly, and his eyes opened
                  quite wide. The first thing he saw was Clare's face. For an hour and a half he had
                  been striving to bring himself to this point; he could not bear to face her; he
                  had wished never to see her again on earth; now it was inevitable; he knew it, and
                  at last the moment had come. His eyes met hers for a minute, then he closed them
                  quickly and involuntarily. Before he opened them again, she knew the whole story;
                  she knew that there was a great gulf fixed between them; she knew that he knew
                  all.
               It was not long before he opened his eyes again, and this time he did not close
                  them, but gazed steadily into hers. At last he spoke, with an effort, still
                  clearly and distinctly. "Do you know that I have but a short time to live?"
               She did not speak. He hardly paused, but went on. "Not more than an hour or
                  so—long enough though for me. Clare, I never thought to see you again here—and I
                  was content not to see you. Do you know the reason? I will tell you. Yesterday
                  morning the knowledge came to me that—"for a moment he choked—"that you had never
                  loved me, that you loved another. I want to tell you that I never dreamed of
                  revenging myself on any one; the quarrel in which I received this wound was an
                  accident, and I never meant it should take place. I did not attempt to strike a
                  blow. I tell you this because I would like to die feeling that the love I bore you
                  suffered no stain in its last hour on earth. The injury done me was beyond
                  reparation, and I so regarded it. I have little more to say. You see I do not
                  blame you. I did not think much about how it could ever have been; it was all too
                  strange, too dark. I shall soon know the secret of it all; I shall soon know why
                  it has been all so sweet, so short, so bitter. I think I am glad, after all, to
                  bid you farewell. I am glad because now you will not fancy that I died and was not
                  at peace with you, Clare. I am at peace with all the world now. I have—I shall
                  soon have peace myself."
               She had sat, her eyes fixed on his, while he spoke. She had never moved or spoken;
                  and now, when she broke the silence, it was in an almost muttering tone that she
                  said, "You will not die—you will not die. I am sorry for you—but you cannot
                  die."
               His brown eyes were very calm as he said, "Yes, I shall die, and die soon. Once I thought I could not die
                  and leave you alone. I remember so well, when we were skirmishing with the
                  Indians, I always felt quite safe, for I knew I could not leave you alone. It is
                  different now."
               The punishment was greater than she could bear. She gave one great heart-broken
                  sob, and buried her head in her hands. Weak as he was, he half raised himself,
                  laid his hand tenderly on her bowed head, smoothed the golden hair, and said,
                  almost as he had been used to say it, "Don't cry, darling."
               She looked up and said, hastily, "What are you doing? Lie down, lie down—the
                  doctor said—"
               "What difference does it make, little Clare? I would rather do you service while I
                  can."
               His cheek was flushed, and his eyes had light in them; but he was very weak, and
                  sank back on his pillows. Clare bent over him and arranged his clothes, trying to
                  make him easier. There was a very sweet smile on his lips, but the look in his
                  eyes said "Too late, too late!" When she had finished, she took his hand timidly,
                  and said, "May I hold your hand?"
               "If you like," he said faintly, for his strength began to leave him. The candle
                  had given its last flicker.
               His eyes grew dreamy and dim, as she took his hand and stroked it gently; her hot
                  tears dropping fast—fast.
               "You have blue eyes, haven't you, Clare? I always liked blue eyes best. Will you
                  have blue eyes in heaven, I wonder, when you are mine? You will be mine in heaven,
                  won't you Clare? That will be fair. Will it be long to wait, I wonder? Never mind.
                  I can stand it."
               He was wandering now; he was failing fast; she saw it. She bent over him, and
                  caught the words as they fell from his lips, "I am nearly gone, I think; very
                  nearly. Shall I kiss you good-by, or shall I not kiss you any more
                     here? I'll wait, I'll wait. How good God is to take me away, isn't
                  He, Clare? And I am glad I did not die on the field— I wanted to tell you—tell
                  you—how—I loved you first—the only perfect thing in my life has been my love for
                  you—you would not take it—but God will—He accepts it—my one work done on earth.
                  Ah, I am going—I feel it—thank God! Kneel down and pray, Clare—pray—that I may
                  have peace—in the grave—"
               She prayed—she never knew what—until her voice would serve her no longer. He lay
                  quite still for a few moments after she stopped, then he said faintly, "God is
                  very good. God is love. I trust Him—He will make it all clear—all clear—"
               He opened his eyes. Clare saw the glory on his face—the glory of the new life. It
                  was coming fast; they both knew it, and it seemed as if already he saw clearly, as
                  he had prayed to see, for a serene smile broke upon his parted lips, and he
                  suddenly opened his arms to her. She threw herself into them; he clasped her, once
                  more, closer than ever, to his heart. He whispered, "Mine—mine—the peace is here."
                  She felt his arms relax; she clung tighter to him—but he fell back dead.
               Walter Mordaunt wandered away into the country. He walked for several hours,
                  stretching far away by by-roads and lanes; at last he stopped at a farm-house and
                  asked for something to eat. When he had finished it, he looked at his watch; it
                  was eleven o'clock. He would go back; perhaps she would see him now, if only for a
                  moment; he could not go home, he could not rest until she had bidden him farewell;
                  her last words had been such bitter ones—they rang in his ears, he could not rest
                  with them. So he walked rapidly toward Washington, and reached the house about
                  mid-day. His hand was on the bell, when the thought arrested him that, if he asked
                  admittance, it would certainly be denied him. He would try the door; he did so, it
                  was unlatched; he went in, and closed the door softly behind him. The hall was
                  dark; he felt for the parlor door; the
                  shutters were closed, the room cold and cheerless; it had evidently not been
                  opened that day. He hesitated a moment; what was to be done? He must see her. She
                  was in Lorimer's sick-room, no doubt. Well, he had been Lorimer's "friend," he had
                  a right to see his wife. He sprang up the stairs, and gently opened the door of
                  the room. He had found what he wanted. At his entrance Clare Lorimer sprang from
                  her knees by the bedside, and faced him. He would scarcely have known her; at the
                  sight of him her face became transformed. "Go, go!" she said sharply; "this is no
                  place for you." She said it as she might have said it to a dog that had strayed up
                  stairs.
               Mordaunt was staggered. "I came—"he began, but she interrupted him with "I tell
                  you, go."
               "Why must I go?" said Mordaunt, making a step forward.
               She threw herself between him and the bed on which the body lay, as if she feared
                  the profanation of his approach. "I have no time to waste," she said, hoarsely;
                  "go at once. Do you know that he is dead?"
               "Good God, no! How—when—"
               "Go—!" she said with almost a scream. "How often must I say the word before you
                  know its meaning? Go—to your wife, and leave me with my husband."
               He turned to the door at which she pointed. He never looked back, but he heard her
                  turn and throw herself on the bed where the dead man lay. He felt his way down
                  stairs, and out into the broad, garish daylight. A cab was passing; he hailed it,
                  got in: "I am ill," he said, "take me to some quiet hotel and get me a room;" and
                  he put his pocket-book into the man's hand. The cabman stared, grunted, and then
                  drove to an out-of-the-way tavern, where they furnished him with a decent room. In
                  a few hours, he was raving in the delirium of a brain fever. His address was in
                  the pocketbook, and his wife was soon brought to his bedside.
               He was very ill, but he got over it. He never saw Clare Lorimer's face again.
               On the third morning after the duel Edward Lorimer was buried. They all saw him as
                  he lay in his coffin. Clare would have seen him last, but when she came out from
                  the last look, instead of going to her own room, she went to Agnes Conyers.
               "Agnes," she said, "I have a fancy. Will you take—will you go once more to the
                  other room, and look at him? I have a fancy that you should see him last."
               "Clare," said Agnes, "he would have fancied that you should have the last look.
                  Let us go together."
               So they went.
               Agnes stood for a few minutes in silence, looking at the dead face of the only man
                  she had ever loved. Then she signed the sign of the cross on his forehead, for to
                  this she had a right. But Clare stooped and kissed his lips, for to this she had a
                  right.
               He was buried in the churchyard in Georgetown. A plain white stone heads his
                  grave; upon it are these words:— 
                     EDWARD LORIMER, Died February 18th, 18— Aged 27 years. He implores
                        peace.
                     
                        "There scattered oft, the earliest of the year,
                        By hands unseen, are showers of violets found."
                     
                  
               
               The grass is very green that "folds his grave," and the peace in which he lies is
                  very deep. It passeth understanding.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
