
    ----CITATION----
        Buckley, Maria L.. Edith Moreton, or, Temperance Versus Intemperance .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5936
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               EDITH MORETON; 
               OR, TEMPERANCE VERSUS INTEMPERANCE. 
             
            BY MRS. MARIA L. BUCKLEY.
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        "Beware the bowl! though rich and bright 
                        Its rubies flash upon the sight, 
                        An adder coils its depths beneath, 
                        Whose lure is woe, whose sting is death." 
                     
                   
                  Street. 
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR.
             
            1852. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by MARIA L. BUCKLEY in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
            
               STEREOTYPED BY S. DOUGLAS WYETH, AGT., No. 7 Pear Street. 
               PRINTED BY STAVELY & M'CALLA. 
               Philadelphia.
             
          
          
             
            TO THE FRIENDS OF THE TEMPERANCE CAUSE THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES. 
            IN dedicating the following pages to the friends of Temperance, the author feels a diffidence that she may well account for. Many able and talented pens have preceeded her's in portraying the evils of the greatest scourge with which the world was ever infested. That they have done much good is evident; while much yet remains to be done, and in the hope that her simple, true, and unadorned tale may help to push on the reformation, she sends it forth to meet the approval or disapproval of a generous public. 
            The incidents which she here relates came under her immediate notice but a year or two since, and she has faithfully adhered to truth in her narrative. Save in names, which for various reasons she has concealed, except one, the keeper of the "Gambling Hell," who, but a few years since paid a short visit to the penitentiary as an atonement to offended justice. 
            With all its imperfections therefore on its head, EDITH MORETON is launched forth, and should it be received as favorably as a former work on the same subject, the author will consider herself compensated for the trouble she may undergo in circulating it. 
            
               M. L. B. 
               PHILADELPHIA, February 1852.
             
          
       
      
         
            Edith Moreton, or, Temperance versus intemperance 
             
             
            EDITH MORETON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Though boundless snows the withered heath deform, 
                           And the dim sun scarce wanders through the storm. 
                           Yet shall the smile of social love repay 
                           With mental light the melancholy day." 
                        
                      
                     Campbell. 
                   
                
               ONE cold December night, when the streets of the empire city were covered with the white mantle of snow-when along the avenues and through the fashionable streets, the merry jingle of the sleigh-bells chimed in harmony with the hilarity of the numerous occupants of the swift gliding vehicles, as they passed hurriedly and rapidly over the slippery ground.-Two sleighs contained parties who will figure in our "ower true" tale, of whom we will endeavor to give the reader a brief description. 
               Frank Malvern was what was called a "dashing young fellow;" he was about twenty-six or twenty-seven years of age-and, as some ladies said, of a faultless figure; he was above the medium height-hair, black, and moustache of the most captivating curl. He was one of those fashionable young men who sometimes found it difficult to while away the tedious hours of day-at night he was at home among his boon companions, of whom he had many. Not from an innate love of him, but because he was a necessary adjunct to the fashionable, and would-be-aristocratic' young gentlemen who visit the city-and on whose time and purse Frank had often laid heavy contributions. He knew every family of distinction, and always had sufficient brass in him to push himself into any and every place where a lodgement could be made advantageous to his ends. The question was never asked where his means were derived from? or, what his expectations were? Sufficient he was well posted up on every point of the fashionable table talk of the day. This, as a matter of course, made him a great favorite with the mammas who had marriageable daughters-and of course the daughters thought him the "beau ideal" of perfection. Frank felt his importance, and put on a dignity though he had it not-(at least, he had no means of upholding that assumption,) one unlucky turn of dame fortune's wheel would annihilate all his air-built castles. Yet, on the whole he was what we may call one of the B'hoys of fashionable life and society. 
               Sophia Delmaine was the companion of Frank in the sleigh-ride-who we would beg to be excused from attempting to describe legitimately (as the editors of the penny newspapers would say.) Sophia was one who Frank would have considered very interesting-all things agreeing-that is-were her purse as interesting as her person-that, alas for Frank's untoward destiny! was not so,-Sophia though boasting of a rich relative could count nothing,-lands-title, or heritage in her own right-true she had expectations-but they were so faint that Frank dare not risk them. Sophia's form, features, etc., were what many would call above mediocrity-she was now approaching an age which, if passed, might be considered disadvantageous to her future hopes of being entangled in the "matrimonial knot;" she had made up her mind to be Mrs. Malvern, and tried all ways and means to bring Frank into the snare-but he was looking out for number one, and much as he liked Sophia, he knew that she had not the means to enable him to live a life of ease; and as she could not replenish his empty pockets he refused to take the "hint" she so often gave him. 
               Sophia was the poor relative of a certain "merchant prince" that lived in Union Square; who, from pure motives of philanthropy on his part made his castle her home, in consideration that she would attend to certain household duties which others should be paid for doing. She was, on the whole, prepossessing at first sight-and had certain good qualities-did her inordinate pride and love of show allow her to exercise them. The phantom dress completely destroyed all her finer feelings and prevented her from enjoying a happiness she might otherwise revel in. 
               In an accompanying sleigh were two others as different from Frank and Sophia-as difference can be strictly defined.-Emily Wallbridge was a blonde of some sixteen summers. 
                      
                        --"She was all perfection, 
                        All that the blooming earth can send forth fair, 
                        All that the gaudy heavens could drop down glorious." 
                     
                  
                
               Her companion, Charles Sinclair, was about four years the junior of Frank Malvern, and was heartily devoted to Emily, indeed he could scarce be otherwise; there was a congeniality of sentiment between them. Each were children of wealthy parents, by whom on one side, and by the guardian on the other, a strict regard to morality and virtue were instilled into their young hearts-which grew with their growth and strengthened with their strength. 
                
               Charles had lately graduated at one of the first universities with the highest honors, and was now studying the profession of the law in the office of one of our most distinguished jurists-a bright future lay before him, and having during the brief ride of that evening exchanged vows of fidelity and love with his companion in the sleigh-his cup of happiness was full. 
               The sleighs glided on merrily until they arrived at the door of Mrs. Walbridge's splendid mansion, in Waverly Place-where, after leaving his future partner, Charles followed that containing Malvern and Miss Delmaine to her uncle's residence, in Union Square. After putting up their horses the young men sauntered through the crowded streets-the one in search of new novelties-the other so elated with the happiness in store for him that he scarcely knew whither his companion led him, till they stopped in front of a well-known fashionable, and gorgeously fitted-up underground saloon in Broadway; where, despite of the urgent solicitation of Frank, Charles refused to enter-and bidding his companion good night, he directed his steps towards home; where, as was his usual custom before retiring, he spent some hours at his studies, and this evening with increased energy-believing there was another beside himself to whom his immediate advancement and admission to that position that would place him beside the great and learned orators of the day, would not only give satisfaction but delight. His task being done he retired to seek the repose necessary to enable him to resume the pleasing duties the next day. 
               While Charles was thus employing his time Frank Malvern was engaged to a late hour with a cotterie of young bloods discussing the merits of F--'s canvass backs and champagne-("which, as it was after bank hours," Frank could not furnish his share) where we will leave him, in order that we may introduce to our readers other personages connected with our story. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "An honest soul is like a ship at sea, 
                           That sleeps at anchor when the ocean's calm, 
                           But when she rages and the wind blows high 
                           He cuts his way with skill and majesty." 
                        
                      
                     Beaumont and Fletcher. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           --"How quickly nature 
                           Fails to revolt, when gold becomes the object." 
                        
                      
                     Shakspeare. 
                   
                
               MR. WALLBRIDGE, the father of Emily, had long since retired from business. He had been a merchant of the first class, and extensively engaged in the China and India trade, by which he amassed an immense fortune-and which he always distributed with a liberal hand whenever he heard or knew of distress. He married, late in life, a lady of intelligence, not for her riches, for she had little, but she had that, that Mr. Wallbridge prized-a virtuous, kind, and charitable disposition. They lived happily together, but not long, for she died giving birth to Emily, a circumstance that came well-nigh depriving the worthy merchant of reason's powers. Nor was it till the sight of his smiling infant recalled to his mind that he had another being to care for and protect, that he was aroused to his duty as a father. He felt the innocent needed his protection, and he subdued his grief to give that protection. He soon after retired from business, and devoted his whole time, care and attention, to his beloved child-the pledge left him by an attached and loving wife. He himself superintended her education-not in a boarding-school, but in his own mansion. The greatest scrutiny was observed in the selection of her preceptors-none but those of the strictest moral and religious principles being engaged. And well did the lovely girl repay those attentions-she, who never felt the loving embrace or endearing kiss of a mother, placed all her affections on the best of fathers. And as he saw her approach to womanhood, the counter-part of her sainted mother, he felt his happiness would be complete were she settled before he took his final leave of the world. He knew Charles Sinclair-he knew his virtuous-his honorable feelings, believed in his attachment to his daughter and encouraged it-and never was a holier love than that of Charles and Emily. Emily who had no secrets from her father, communicated to him, next morning her pledge of affection and love to Charles, a pledge Mr. Wallbridge warmly approved of-delaying the consummation till the young man was called to the bar. 
               Charles, like Emily, was an only child; but, like her, was not blessed with a living parent. His father was lost at sea on his return from Europe, ere his son had seen the light.-This was a heavy blow for his mother, who survived the death of her husband but a few short years-she bequeathed her son to a surviving partner of her husband's, who himself a widower, and without children, accepted the trust, and faithfully did he perform his duty to the young man, by instilling into his mind those principles of honor, purity, integrity and virtue that afterwards shaped his course through life. With a beating heart, the next morning after the sleigh-ride, did Charles wait on Mr. Wallbridge, to press his suit for the hand of Emily-his astonishment can only be conceived when he found the retired merchant waiting for him in the library, and almost before he had time to state the object of his visit Mr. Wallbridge brought forth his daughter from an adjoining room, and placing her hand in that of her betrothed, gave them his blessing and hastily retired. 
                
               The astonishment of the lovers was great as that of Charles a few moments before-and it was some time before either could speak. When they recovered from their surprise Charles renewed his vows of love which the blushing girl could only answer through her tears, but they were tears of joy. 
                      
                        "The rose is sweetest washed with morning dews, 
                        And love is loveliest when embalmed with tears." 
                     
                  
                
               How long they might have remained in the interchange of love thoughts and sentiments had they not been interrupted-we cannot say-but while they were repeating their "tender tales of love" they were disturbed by the ringing of the doorbell, and soon after, Miss Delmaine and Mr. Malvern were announced-they came, as they said, to invite Emily to accompany them in a ride on the avenue, it was such a lovely day. Emily was like all other young ladies-she had a great dislike to be disturbed in a tete a tete with her lover-and pleaded indisposition as an excuse for not accompanying the party in their ride, but there was a tell-tale in her brilliant eyes that plainly told the true reason for refusing, which did not escape the notice of Frank and Sophia, who exchanged knowing looks with each other, as much as to say "we understand," and immediately took their leave. Charles soon after left, but not before accepting an invitation to meet Emily and her father at dinner. He immediately returned to his studies, nor was it till warned by the chimes of a clock in a neighboring church-steeple did he heed the passing hours-and know it was time to prepare for dinner at Mr. Wallbridge's. Frank and Sophia, meanwhile, were making inside-three-minutes time on the avenue with a dashing pair of bays-hired expressly for the occasion-from some of the up-town "Tatersalls," but whether paid for or not, it does not fall within our province to chronicle -certain, it is, that where it could be avoided, the young gentleman considered it a very unfashionable act to pay a tailor's, a hotel, or a livery-stable's bill. 'Tis true, he sometimes patronized some of those gentry who considered they paid too dear for such patronage-and by special manuvering contrived to get the needful out of him-though not out of his pocket; for, when the pinch came, Frank invariably drew on his unsuspecting friends for the amount-who could not find it in their hearts to refuse so prominent a man in fashionable society. 
               Miss Delmaine had to return early, as company was expected to dinner at her uncle's house; who, though rich, had not a soul above the almighty dollar; and, when company were invited, some speculation was in view; for, on no other consideration, would Mr. Sharpe extend his hospitality. 'Tis true, he had his house furnished in the best style-what might be called elegant-lived well, himself-and drank his bottle of wine every day after dinner-attended a fashionable church, regularly every Sunday; and, to all outward appearance, would pass as a worthy man. His paper was good on'change-he was punctual in his payments because he had the means. But if by some unaccountable accident a creditor had his note to him protested, he would visit the offender with all the rigor and severity of the law. He had no feeling for the young men who, like himself, had commenced business on a small capital, depending on his credit and fair dealing. (Instances are on record, where he always refused, to worthy young men, the same indulgence that he so often received and dishonored.) His heart was steeled to all sympathy for his race-money was his God-and that he would make by the most usurious means. True, he never peddled his money in the market; that would be beneath the proud dignity of the merchant. Though he did not do so in person he had agents who did it for him. He owned large tracts of land in the upper part of the island, and other places in the vicinity of New York, which he divided into lots and sold to mechanics and others, taking a portion of his pay down. And compelling the purchaser to build a certain description of house by a certain time-after the purchaser's all was expended in the structure he would charitably assist them with means to finish-for which he would take a bond and mortgage at a short date-which, when due, not a day-not an hour's grace could be obtained from the avaricious swindler. Thus did his property, that at the purchase was comparatively valueless increase a thousand fold. 
               Such a man was Mr. Sharpe-born in obscurity, by such means as we have narrated did he rise to a position-if the accumulation of ill gotten wealth can make it so. 
               Sophia Delmaine was the orphan daughter of his elder sister who, in early life married an industrious mechanic of French origin-and though related to the "merchant prince," he did not escape his rapacious appetite for gold. His charitable assistance was extended to him in a speculation; but like most others on whom this usurious charity was bestowed, he failed to meet his engagements from causes beyond his control, and fell into the snare set for him by his unfeeling relative. The result of which was the premature death of the wife, who then a beggar, was reckless of a life, her husband did not long survive. Sophia was thus left to her unfeeling uncle, who was compelled, for the sake of appearances to take her under his care. He sent her to a cheap boarding-school in the country, where the only attention he paid her was to pay the bills as they came due quarterly. In this so-called seminary of learning Sophia learned the refinements of fashionable life-(as the preceptress called them) she learned to thrum the piano-to gabble a little French and Italian-but the useful branches of education were as much neglected as though they were completely unnecessary. No thought save that of making her pupils cut a figure when "called out," disturbed the mind of Miss Williams, the preceptress of "Blooming-grove Hall"-no wonder then Sophia Delmaine returned to her uncle's house with no better principles than those ascribed to her in the commencement of our story. After leaving the seminary at "Blooming-grove Hall," she was installed housekeeper in Mr. Sharpe's establishment, in Union Square, a position she was as fit for as that of Secretary of State. However, by the assistance of some servants she managed to get on, but knew as much of her duties at the time we write of, as she did four years before, when she first entered on them. She was, from the force of education, a coquette, and no efforts could prove effectual in reclaiming her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The turnpike road to people's hearts I find 
                           Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind:" 
                        
                      
                     Wolcot's Peter Pindar. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "If men will shun swoln fortune's ruinous blasts, 
                           Let them use temperance; nothing violent lasts. 
                        
                      
                     Strachey. 
                   
                
               WE said, in our last chapter, that Miss Delmaine had to return early to superintend the arrangements of a dinner party at her uncle's house. Mr. Sharpe had engaged three persons to dine with him on that day, at which time they were to settle some important matters of business. He was well aware the "wine softens the heart," but forgot that "drunken men tell tales." 
               Mr Sharpe's guests consisted of a person named Griffin, an "out-door" broker, and who acted as his agent in buying the paper of master mechanics at usurious interests. This worthy can be found any morning, at 11 o'clock, in or about a three-cent groggery at the corner of Broad and Wall streets, ready to accommodate any person who held good paper, at rates varying from three to five per cent, per month, and was, on this occasion, the guest of the retired merchant because he was to bring with him two others, one of whom not having available funds for a present emergency, wished to borrow from the merchant a few thousands on undeniable security. These young men were respectively named Florence and Harvey.-The latter had passed his majority by but two years when he came into possession of a very handsome property with a large amount of money. He had made the tour of Europe, and after his return drove headlong into the vortex of fashionable dissipation. His nights were spent in carousing among such companions as are to be found at S. and W.'s, at D--'s, F--'s and W--'s and at other reserche saloons of the commercial metropolis. It was hinted, also, that he was an occasional visitor at a certain house in Park place; his ready means were almost exhausted, nothing now remained but his real estate and the expectations he had when an old uncle of his would leave the world, and him his wealth. Harvey, through the aid of Florence, got acquainted with Griffin, to whom he gave a commission to raise a loan on his property-satisfied that before the day of redemption his uncle would not stand between him and riches. The agent laid the scheme before Sharpe, and after due deliberation, Harvey and Florence were invited to dine in Union Square. The invitation was accepted, and the party arrived before the return of Miss Delmaine from her sleigh-ride; an accident occurred from a collision on the avenue, which so damaged the vehicle that she and Malvern occupied that they had to "lay by for repairs," and did not arrive till dinner was being served up. She found her uncle not in the pleasantest mood imaginable, which was augmented from the fact that he knew not how to avoid inviting Frank to dinner-an invitation that to his mortification Malvern eagerly accepted-knowing that at scarce any other time he should not have an opportunity to taste the exquisite brands of Sharpe's cellar. 
               The dinner went off dull notwithstanding the efforts of Florence, who, by repeating stale anecdotes and sallies of wit, endeavored to amuse the company. Nor was it till the bottle had circulated several times that any signs of conviviality was observable among them. Frank and Florence, as if by instinct, immediately got into each other's good graces, certain it is that they were the best mated pair at the table. As the bottle passed, Frank volunteered a song, which was received with acclamation by the whole party with the exception of the host-but as he was in the glorious minority of one, he had to submit with the best grace he could, and Frank sung the song. This was the prelude to boisterous mirth with the three young men, in which Griffin joined, though unused to such society. Every bottle of wine that Sharpe saw opened, was to him like taking gold from his already filled coffers, and heartily did he wish the party in regions that shall be nameless-song followed song-toast followed toast and cheer followed cheer, until Harvey, who felt himself in a high state of elevation, accosted Griffin with. 
               "I say old (hic) fel-low wh- (hic) when are we (hic) going to (hic) to ar (hic) arrange that bus- (hic) bus-i-ness?" 
                
               "When you please," was Griffin's reply. Sharpe cast a penetrating look towards his agent, and pointed towards Malvern as much as to say, "not in his presence," Griffin seemed to understand and remained silent. 
               "We are (hic) re-ready now," said Harvey-"My friend, Flo- (hic) Florence has the papers, they only want the bl- (hic) blanks filled up." 
               "Better settle any business matters to-morrow, gentlemen," said Sharpe, "to-night we ought to forget them." Malvern well understood Sharpe's character, and was determined to have a finger in the pie, thought his best way would be to agree with the host, he accordingly cried out "d--n business now-let's be merry and pass the bottle," a suggestion that was immediately put in operation by Florence, and to which, Griffin, better used to three-cent drinks, made no objections, as he began to feel quite comfortable under the influence of Sharpe's champaigne and sherry. Even the host felt a little under the influence of his favorite brands, politeness would not allow him to refuse pledging his guests, though he inwardly cursed the hour that brought Malvern under his roof,-a good dinner and better wines thrown away, and nothing gained by it-not a dollar added to his ill-gotten store; but despite all his wishes and his silent curses, the party kept up their bacchanals till scarce one of them could lift the glass to his lips. 
               Let not any of our readers say this is fiction, it is true-true as that the wine cup intoxicates; we ask, is there a single one of our readers who cannot call to recollection a similar scene? Is there one that does not know, or has not heard, that, under the influence of intoxication, the young man is led first into the gambling hell, and then by degrees deprived of all-his constitution ruined-his credit gone-his friends deserting him-when, at last, he finds himself the inmate of the alms-house, where he is destined to die a pauper's death, and be ignominiously hurled into a pauper's grave? And, let us ask, how much better is this wholesale plunder by this rich usurer-better were it for him and his coadjutors in Park Place, Broadway, and other fashionable resorts, to turn highwaymen and give their victims some chance for their lives? 
               Let us turn from this disgusting sight and look at another party who, earlier in the evening, had sat down to dinner in another part of the city-we allude to our friends in Waverly Place. There sat three with virtuous and uncontaminated hearts, whose minds were stored with knowledge and refinement, the wine-cup was not raised with a "hip! hip! hurrah, and one cheer more." True, Mr. Wallbridge, from ancient custom was in the habit of drinking his pint of claret every evening-he sipped it leisurely, while his daughter sang, played or read to him-many there are who would oppose this indulgence in the old man-but when we consider that it was a custom indulged in for years, and long before temperance societies were established or heard of-an indulgence that in no instance was ever exceeded-when also we consider the second glass was never brought on the table when the guest was such as we find there this day. We say, let him enjoy, in the evening of his days, the luxury which, to deprive him of, would perhaps result in an injury more fatal than the example would be beneficial. 
               Charles retired to his home at an early hour, and again gave himself up to his accustomed studies; but what was his surprise, at a late hour, and just as he was retiring, to have a message brought to his room, informing him that a gentleman wished to see him upon urgent business. He gave orders for his immediate admission. In a short time Florence staggered inside the door and would have fallen had he not caught hold of a chair that happened to be near. He was a perfect stranger to Charles, who was on the point of having him ejected, when he stammered out the names of Harvey and Malvern.-Harvey was an old class mate of Charles's; one for whom he had a high regard; and, fearing he might be in some difficulty, he listened quietly to Florence's rambling and drunken story; from which he learned that, after leaving the house of Mr. Sharpe, they got into some difficulty with the police, who arrested Harvey and Malvern and placed them in the station-house; and, hearing the gentlemen speak of Mr. Sinclair as their friend, he requested his aid towards obtaining their release. Charles, who was generous and kind, even to a fault, proceeded immediately to the alderman of the ward in which he resided and obtained an order for the release of his friend and Malvern. When he arrived at the station-house he was shown the delinquents, whom he could hardly recognize. Their torn garments and disfigured faces sent a horror through his frame that he did not soon forget. His first care was to provide a carriage, and have them carried to their respective residences; where he immediately procured medical, and such other attendance as the nature of their case required; after which he sought his couch, but not to rest. Harvey had been his class-mate. They entered the sophomore class together, and together rose to honor and distinction. Each loved the other as a brother, and each was beloved by all whose love was worth having. And now, that young man who bid fair for a life of usefulness for himself and friends, hurled into a cell-the companion of the most abandoned of the human race; and that from the debasing influence of the fashionable vice of intoxication. If he had before determined to abstain from the cup, his resolve received new vigor and new force from the scenes of that night. After hours of miserable reflections as to the fate of his friend, Harvey, he consigned himself to sleep, from which he did not awake till late next morning. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O friendship! of all things the 
                           Most rare, and therefore most rare, 
                           Because most excellent." 
                        
                      
                     Lilly. 
                   
                
               WHEN Charles arose next morning, his first care was to visit Harvey, whom he found suffering from the effects of the last night's debauch,as well as from the wounds he received from the clubs of the watchmen. He was in a high fever, and the physician in attendance pronounced him in a critial situation, unless that great care and attention were observed. Harvey had, no friend near him but Charles, who directed that no expense should be spared, or nothing left undone that might add to his comforts, and then went to the lodgings of Malvern, who he found suffering more from the effects of his wounds than from the debauch; here he also acted the good Samaritan, and left with a promise to call again towards the evening. When Charles called at Mr. Wallbridge's house, Emily immediately noticed his care-worn countenance, and asked if he were unwell; he answered in the negative, with an attempt at pleasantry; but his kind heart was too much affected with the events of the last twelve hours to change his sad countenance even in the presence of her he loved. 
               Emily used every endeavor but in vain to extort from him the cause of his melancholy; and, after a brief interview, he left for his home, where his studies were not prosecuted with that zeal as on former occasions. The degrading situation in which he found his friend Harvey struck deep into his sympathetic heart; old recollections flitted through his brain; the friendship they once had for each other was never forgotten by Charles Sinclair; his was no fickle friendship-no passing phantom of the imagination; he was slow in forming it, but when once formed it was indelibly fixed. When we consider this honorable trait in his character we wonder not that the events of the preceding night should cast such a gloom over his usually exuberant spirits; some may condemn him for this sympathy towards the friend of his boyhood; none but those whose hearts are steeled to every dictate of humanity will do so, they know not that 
                      
                        "Friendship is the cement of two minds, 
                        As of one man the soul and body is; 
                        Of which we cannot sever, but the other 
                        Suffers a needful separation." 
                     
                  
                
               In vain did Charles endeavor to apply himself to his studies, but to no purpose. While indulging in a reverie, Florence was introduced; as the reader will recollect, they were strangers to each other, never having met until the previous night; and that meeting was anything but in Florence's favor; who, in his would-be-fashionable and dashing style, entered with the "sang froid" of a man lost to all sense of honor, and consequently shame, (for when "Honor leaves the heart, all sense of shame departs.") 
               And without invitation, took a seat, and asked Charles "if he had seen Harvey to day?" 
               Charles answered in the affirmative 
               "I called on him, but the doctor refused me admission." 
               "Perhaps he was right." 
                
               "Right, my dear fellow-what do you mean?" 
               "That Mr. Harvey is in a critical situation, and requires rest." 
               "But his friends should not be denied admission to him." 
               "It must be first ascertained who are his friends." 
               "Have you any doubt of my friendship for him?" 
               "Some." 
               "I should like to understand you." 
               "Your name I believe is Florence." 
               Florence nodded assent. 
               "Mr. Florence," said Charles, "was it the action of a friend, to lead a young gentlemen of family, education, and talent, to degrade himself below the level of a brute? Was it the action of a friend to get that young man into a difficulty with the guardians of the night, and then basely shun the danger consequent thereon? If so, sir, you must be considered a friend." 
               Florence replied that "Mr. Harvey was of an age sufficient to manage his own affairs. He held his paper for a few thousands, and was invited to accompany him on the evening in question, to the house of Mr Sharpe, where the money was to be advanced to Harvey on a bond and mortgage on some real estate; but, from some unforeseen accident, the papers were not signed, and were now in his possession." Charles requested to see the instruments, which Florence handed him; after a glance he saw at once the true position of affairs. He was aware of Sharpe's character, but was not prepared to believe the merchant such a wholesale plunderer as this usurious transaction proved him. That he would deprive Harvey of the last remnant of his property was now apparent, and that Florence was an aider and abettor was as much so. 
               "You say, sir, Mr. Harvey owes you a few thousands." 
                
               "Yes." 
               "What is the indebtedness for?" 
               "A debt of honor." 
               "A debt of honor!" echoed Sinclair. 
               "Why you see," said Lawrence, "we were in the habit of meeting at a certain house in Park Place, and on two occasions I advanced Harvey the amounts for which I hold his acknowledgements." 
               "In Park Place." 
               "Yes, Number 3." 
               "I was not aware that Mr. Harvey frequented such dens." 
               "Be careful sir, how you name the resort of gentlemen of fashion, how"- 
               "Gentlemen of fashion"-said Charles, interrupting, "no person, presuming to the true dignity of a gentleman, would ever visit such a place; a gentleman is not he who idly squanders in dissipation, gambling and riotous living, those means which, if put to proper use would dispense happiness and comfort all round him. Look at the distress to be found in all parts of this populous city, and ask your conscience if it is not already seared; whether, if you have the means, you would not do better to expend part of it in relieving the poor, than by enriching a professed gambler; nay, I might say a public robber. Certainly, the husband of one who has accumulated untold wealth, by one of the most infectious and loathsome avocations known to the world, that of prostitution. 
               Florence, who was at heart an arrant coward, quailed under the scorching rebuke of Charles, and wished himself anywhere but in his presence. Charles noticed his agitation and continued. 
               "You say you hold vouchers for money advanced by you to Harvey; what is the amount of them and how much of that money was refunded to you by Harrison? 
               With trembling lips the gambler replied his claim was four thousand six hundred. 
               "Was it your money? or did you merely borrow it?" 
               "Part was mine, the rest I borrowed to oblige a friend." 
               "Very kind of you-what interest were you to receive?" 
               "None." 
               "What interest was Harvey to pay Sharpe?" 
               "Legal interest-seven per cent." 
               "So the bond says-was there no bonus?" 
               "I believe there was such a thing spoken of." 
               "You believe-did you not just now hand me this instrument, and does it not affirm that Mr. Harvey gives his bond for ten thousand dollars and receives but seven thousand; and further, that he is to pay interest on the larger sum; you call yourself the friend of a man whom you would basely see defrauded of his property. How long have you known Mr. Harvey" 
               "About six months-I first met him after his return from Europe-I was introduced to him by a mutual friend and"- 
               "And you introduced him to another mutual friend, at Number three Park Place, was it not so?" 
               "At his request." 
               Charles, at this answer, rose abruptly; he had heard enough-he ordered Florence to leave the room-and never pollute it with his presence again 
               The gambler too happy to escape, waited for no second bidding, but immediately departed; leaving Charles to his reveries, where we will leave him for the present, to introduce Edith Moreton to our readers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           --"Dost thou deem 
                           It such an easy task, from the fond breast 
                           To root affection out." 
                        
                      
                     Southey. 
                   
                
               EDITH MORETON was one of those angelic creatures, whom to know was to love; she was connected with many of the first families of the Empire State, was a native of the city and had long been sincerely attached to Harvey. Their intimacy was antecedent to his European tour-since which she had seen him but twice-previous to this either would feel unhappy had they been one day without seeing or hearing from each other. The continued absence and seeming estrangement of her lover had a direct effect on the health of Edith, so much so that her friends were under severe apprehensions, though totally ignorant of the cause, while she who loved as woman only loves, kept 
                      
                        --"The sceret from the world 
                        As warily as those who deal in poison 
                        Keep poison from their children." 
                     
                  
                
               Edith knew not whether Harvey had given those affections he so often pledged to her, to another, sufficient was it for her to know that though in the city he had entirely estranged him-self from her-she had heard that he had taken up the vice of fashionable "moderate dissipation." This was to her the greatest source of trouble; and in vain did she endeavor to enhst the services of other male acquaintances to reclaim him. She would have made the effort herself, but it was denied her -had she the opportunity, she might have been spared the pain of reading the following from the local items of a morning newspaper. 
               "Thomas Harvey, Esq., and another gentleman named Malvern were arrested by the Police, on Wednesday night, for disorderly conduct in the street; they were accompanied by another whose name is unknown, and who fled, on the approach of the officers; a scuffle ensued, in which the gentlemen named were severely injured. Mr. H. and his companion were shortly after released from 'durance vile,' by the worthy alderman of the fifth ward. We understand the former gentleman lies in a critical situation in consequence of the injuries he received." 
               This intelligence was a severe blow to Edith, who swooned after reading the sad news of her lover's imprisonment and sufferings; fortunately help was at hand, and by the aid of restoratives she awoke once more to consciousness-but to what an awful state of consciousness we leave those to picture who had ever to pass the same ordeal. Edith had set her heart-her soul-her life on Harvey, she believed herself neglected, forgotten; but forgotten and neglected though she may have been-she still loved with that intensity of feeling that none but women know-that none but woman feels. She was taken to her room, where the aid of a physician was immediately called; on his arrival the poor girl was in a perfect state of delirium-"save him"-"watch-house"-"police"-all were uttered with a frenzy that scarcely knew a bound. It was a delirium-the cause of which was unknown to any save the poor sufferer-nor yet suspected save by the attending physician-he knew that a trouble he could not allay was laying heavy on her heart. 
               The cause of this trouble was meanwhile suffering from his wounds, and the tortures of an awakened conscience. In his carousal he forgot entirely that being who loved him with such holy love-but now while lying on his bed of sickness his conscience smote him with terrible force. Conscience thou powerful monitor, where is the heart that can can withstand its force. Such was its impress on the young man that it brought on a severe attack of fever, from which it was some weeks before the attending physician pronunced him out of danger.-So great was his abstraction of mind during his sickness that he could not recognize Sinclair, his best and truest friend. 
               Edith recovered slowly from the effects produced by reading the police report, and as soon as she could get out, found her way to Harvey's lodgings, who had not yet recovered from his abstraction of mind. On awaking to consciousness he first asked-"Where is Edith?" Edith was by his side ready to administer to his wants; but, alas! not that Edith he had known in happier days, emaciated by long and acute suffering, a cankerworm preying at her heart, and his desertion the cause; worked so forcibly on his mind that it brought on a relapse, which, but for her care and attention would have proved fatal. Did he deserve this attention? How many weary days and more weary nights did that loving girl pine over his desertion-while he was reveling in dissipation and riot. Edith's voice, though feeble, retained all that musical sweetness that so often captivated the young man, and now when those silver notes were spoken to cheer him and compose his mind, they were as daggers to his heart, so powerful was the monitor conscience working within him. 
               It was with great difficulty that Edith's friends persuaded her to leave the chamber of the invalid and to return home and seek that rest and quiet so necessary to her own health.-Their hopes were indeed faint at the prospect of its restoration -a cheerful and sympathetic heart seemed to be broken-a mind destroyed-a prospective happiness blasted-and that through the evil of intemperance. 
               Oh, Intemperance! what hast thou to answer for? were this angelic creature thy only victim, there might have been some extenuation urged in thy behalf-but when thy victims are counted by thousands, nay millions, we would ask when will a period be put to thy unholy and murderous footsteps. Laws have been enacted to stop thee, they have failed-kindness will not prevail-persuasion has been tried in vain. Thou carriest on thy forehead the mark of Cain, and none can approach thee without danger-danger of a drunkard's death-a drunkard's grave-the thought is horrible. 
               Harvey's relapse reduced him to as low a state as may be imagined-but by the aid of a good constitution and proper attentions he slowly recovered-but it was some weeks before he was able to leave his chamber. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Look round, the wrecks of play, behold 
                           Estates dismantled, mortgaged, sold- 
                           Their owners now to jails confined, 
                           Show equal poverty of mind." 
                        
                      
                     Gay's Fables. 
                   
                
               MALVERN after a few weeks' confinement was again able to visit his associates, and again levy on their purses to supply his wants. There is, however, a way of carrying things too far, especially at this season of the year when the influx of strangers to the city bears no comparison to that of the warm months of summer, Frank met, therefore, many refusals-nay, his company was shunned by those who heretofore courted it-not from any other cause than his want of means to help to "foot up" the supper and other bills. Being thus put to his wits, he formed an alliance, "offensive and defensive" with Florence-an alliance by which he expected to hold out a few months, till the Southern "green-horns" arrived. 
               Their first effort was to recover from Harvey the amount for which Florence held vouchers, this was to be done by the aid of a well-known lawyer, who was always to be found in the vicinity of the Tombs, and who was ever ready for a swindling operation of any kind. Williams had often been before the courts charged with malpractice in his profession. But by the aid of rhetoric and money furnished by those for whom his nefarious calling was exercised he eluded conviction-and is now at his old trade of swindling. In a letter to Harvey he informs him that Mr. Florence has placed in his hands certain claims which he is instructed to recover-and hopes Mr. Harvey will "attend to the matter, save cost," &c. Harvey placed the letter in Charles's possession with a carte blanche to act as he saw fit in the premises. Charles' first care was to see the vouchers alleged to have been given by Harvey.-He was satisfied that they were either not genuine, or fraudulently obtained. The bond he received from Florence at the second and last interview he had with him, he still retained.-True, it was no direct evidence of guilt, as the blanks were not filled, or the document signed, but the admission of Florence to him, would be, he considered, a strong presumption of usurious guilt on the part of Florence, Sharpe and Griffin. Williams at first had no idea of taking legal proceedings to recover the amount, he knew he could prove no value given in consideration of the vouchers, his only hope being in threatening Harvey with exposure in case of a failure to meet a "debt of honor." Charles understood this and peremptorily declined, as the friend of Harvey to advance a single dollar to liquidate the claim-and in turn threatened to expose the villainy of the lawyer and client; this, for a while, threw a damper on their prospects, but they shortly renewed their attack, after suborning two of the hangers-on at Harrison's to prove that Florence had in a matter of business advanced to Harvey the sums claimed, and for which Williams now brought suit. While the suit was pending Malvern offered his services as mediator between the parties, a service that Charles indignantly refused, as he began to see into his true character, he had learned the close intimacy that existed between him and the conspirators, and shunned him as an adder. 
               When the day of trial came on, Williams, with his suborned witnesses appeared in Court full of hope and expectations at the result of their perjury-a result they were not disappointed at-the proof was positive, and as there was no rebutting testimony on the part of Harvey, a verdict was given against him for four thousand six hundred dollars, and costs. This was a severe blow for the young man-who, but a few short months before was in possession of wealth and fortune-bitterly did he curse the day that he crossed the gambler's threshold-that he raised the wine cup to his lips-but it was too late, he was now their victim, and had to suffer the consequences. Charles made every effort to set aside the verdict and obtain a new trial, but to no purpose-nothing now remained but to mortgage his real estate, which was done-not without a sacrifice, but much more favorably than he would have previously done at Sharpe's. 
               Florence and his friend Malvern were again in funds. Frank renewed his visits to Sophia, with a different motive, however, from his former ones. He now understood Sharpe's character, and openly proposed to him for the hand of his niece-requiring with it a large amount of cash. The audacity with which this request was made completely electrified the usurer. But Frank knew his man, and insisted in his demand with a nonchalance that almost surprised himself. He told Sharpe that he was acquainted with his business-with the attempt made by him and his agent to get the property of Harvey; and, as a compensation for his silence, he demanded the hand of Sophia with such a fortune as would keep them in easy circumstances. Sharpe, though avaricious and usurious, felt a pride in the title of "merchant," and to have his true character blazoned forth to the world would be worse to him than death-saw no alternative but to accede to Frank's demand-hoping that before the time set for the nuptials he would be able to evade his promise. Nothing could have happened more congenial to the wishes and hopes of Sophia than her uncle's consent to her marriage with Frank, who now installed himself in Union Square. 
               Great were the preparations made by Sophia for the approaching ceremony, large demands were made upon Sharpe's treasury for the necessary funds, which the reader will imagine, were very reluctantly doled out. Invitations were sent to all within the circle of her acquaintance, amongst the rest to Emily Wallbridge-to whom it was news indeed. She had heard from Charles the part that Frank had taken in the conspiracy against Harvey. She never had a very exalted opinion of him, and now she utterly despised him-and could she warn Sophia of the dangerous precipice on which she was standing she would cheerfully do it. Fearing her good intentions might be construed different from what they were, she forbore, and allowed matters to take their own course, and they did-Malvern and Sophia were united-a splendid establishment was provided vided for them, where they launched forth in all the wild and uncontrolable vortex of fashionable dissipation. To tell Sophia she did not love Frank, would be considered as great an insult as if we were to say she was not Mrs. Malvern-yet it would be no less true-she did not-she knew not what love was-she was infatuated at the idea of having an establishment of her own, and being her own, mistress, and she looked to him more as a necessary appendage to that establishment than anything else-and yet the poor deluded woman called this love. 
               Frank, now that he was settled, was received again into the society of those who previously discarded him. He now had means at his disposal, which gave him a passport where honor, virtue, or integrity, would have applied for admission in vain. Nor did he spare them, for the first few weeks after his marriage he was all attention, all politeness to his wife, but the attractions of home often produced satiety. It was so with him, his wife was becoming an every day matter, and he had to seek abroad for pleasures the domestic hearth refused him, and which were more congenial to his feelings. From this time forth Mrs. Malvern saw very little of her husband. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Where'er thou journeyest, or what e'er thy care, 
                           My heart shall follow, and my spirits share." 
                        
                      
                     Mrs. Hemans. 
                   
                
               EDITH MORETON lingered months in a very critical state, and as soon as she was able to travel, a Southern tour was recommended, in hopes the balmy breezes of the tropics would be instrumental in restoring her health. With many tears did she take farewell of Harvey, who would cheerfully have accompanied her, but his late losses left him without the means requisite for such a journey. Of these losses Edith was ignorant; the knowledge of the trial had been carefully concealed from her. Before leaving for her tour she extorted a pledge from her lover that he would abstain, at least till her return, from an indulgence in that degrading vice, which had brought so much misery to both; with this, and a prayer to heaven, asking its assistance to enable him to hold firm in his resolution, she departed accompanied by a fond brother and sister. 
               It was not till after her departure that Harvey's better feelings told him what a heart he had broken, what a mind he had destroyed, and what an intellect he had impaired. He would have given the world to have had a chance to live over again the last year of his life. But such a chance is not allowed to mortals. Would the young man take time to study the end for which he was created-would he ponder well before raising the intoxicating bowl to his lips, and ask himself will this subserve my interests? will it advance me to a position in society? will it make me more respected? or will it debase and degrade me in that society? Let the young man commencing a course of dissipation but ask himself these questions, and in nineteen cases out of twenty the result will be a source of happiness and comfort to himself and friends. The heart is not deceitful and will answer truly. When we see young men rushing headlong to their ruin, the heart is not their dictator-its admonitions are not heeded, and the consequences are seen every day in the blighted hopes, the seared prospects, and the ruined constitutions of many who would be a credit to themselves their families, and society. 
               Intemperance has done more to shorten human life than all the evils with which the world was ever invested. War has slain her millions, but intemperance has slain her hundreds of millions-we might almost say billions. 
               After the departure of Edith Moreton on what was considered her health-giving tour, Harvey's recollections of the past returned with ten-fold force. He felt that he was the destroyer of that fair girl's happiness. And he considered that if the pledge to her was sacredly kept, it might be the means to restore her to her former vivacity. Could he do this he thought that all his former actions would be forgotten-but, alas! he knew not the sensitive flower he had in his heart's keeping.-True, his reformation was her first, her only thought, her own life was nothing, compared to his happiness. On her departure he quoted the lines that head this chapter. His whole being was changed, as he thought. He had conquered his love of dissipation, and was determined henceforth to live a steady and a sober man. How futile were his promises-how false his pledge-a taste once acquired for "the bowl" can rarely be eradicated. True, there are instances on record of the most inveterate drunkards being reclaimed-they remained so as long as temptation was not held out to them; but, when once they became as it were, re-associated with their old companions, that inordinate thirst returned, and with it came destruction. So it was with Harvey-he loved Edith-but he loved his glass and company more-he forgot her in her absence, he forgot her in what is falsely termed the "social hour." Thomas Harvey was scarcely restored to perfect health ere he was again in the company of his old companions. His visits to Park Place were as frequent as before. For a time fortune seemed to favor him, and he was regaining part of his former losses; but the "fickle jade" again deserted him and he had to borrow from Florence and Frank, who were frequent, nay, constant visitors to the gambling saloon. Charles Sinclair plainly saw to what a state of degradation his friend was again hastening, and made every effort to reclaim him once more, but to no purpose. The infatuation of the gaming table was more than he could withstand; and, as a consequence, the sideboard was freely and often visited; here, in the hopes of receiving fresh courage and energy did Harvey indulge often, and oftener in pouring the accursed poison down his throat.-Step by step was he falling from that high position he held but a few months before. 
               Edith Moreton's tour (so letters said) was, on the whole, advantageous to her health-change, and variety of scene had partly the desired effect, but a fatality seemed to press upon her spirits respecting Harvey. She had written several letters, and had received from him but one or two. Often did she ask herself the cause of this neglect-had he again forgotten her? or, had he again returned to his evil habits? The thought to her was agonizing, and did much to neutralize the effects that might otherwise have been the result of her Southern journey. After an absence of six months she returned-to find all her fears were but too well founded-a circumstance that struck a final blow to all her hopes of future happiness. 
                      
                        --"The heavy sigh, 
                        The tear in the half-opening eye, 
                        The pallid cheek and brow, confessed 
                        That grief was busy at her breast." 
                     
                  
                
               And so it was, Edith's days were numbered. Edith, who, but a few short months before, was the gayest and most cheerful in the social circle-now we behold her descending to an early grave-the victim of blighted love-the victim of misplaced affection. 
               Having run through nearly all his property, which he signed away piece by piece, to raise funds to feed his insaitable appetites for gambling and its concomitants-he was going fast to total destruction, when Charles made a last effort to reclaim him-but as well might he undertake to tame the hyena. He was past reformation. Even the story of Edith's misery could not draw him from his haunts of dissipation. Edith, to whom he so solemnly pledged himself to reform-Edith whom in his sober moments he loved, but from whom his intemperate actions estranged him. Melancholy, indeed, was the fate of that young man-once respected for his virtues and accomplishments-now degraded and despised from his vices and debauches-would that we could refrain from drawing this picture, but a strict regard to truth demands it at our hands. Will it warn but a single individual from following in his footsteps, we shall be repaid for our labor. We would wish to warn all from the devastating rock on which so many young and noble spirits have been wrecked. Will they not take our warning? Young men, we cannot too earnestly call your attention to the fate of Thomas Harvey. Consider it and be advised. 
                     "Sleep on't-Dream on't."
                   And may that sleep and that dream bring with them a resolution to abstain forever from the cup of intoxication. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Death's but a path that must be trod 
                           If man would ever pass to God." 
                        
                      
                     Parnell. 
                   
                
               "WHOM the gods love die young," so said the poet, and never did we know the truism more fully carried out than in the case of Edith Moreton-again we read "Whom the gods love they chasteneth." And was not this poor girl chastened? Her early days were buoyant with hope and expectations-loved by a large circle of friends for her amiability, and respected for her virtues, a bright future lay before her till that destroying angel intemperance, crept in and forever blasted all her hopes. Edith was herself proof against the wiles of the seducer; but one whom she loved better than herself became the victim. The result is before us, a pure, a virtuous, a devoted attachment has been blasted almost in the bud, the withered rose is now drooping, she wishes for death, 
                      
                        "Great God! how could thy vengeance light 
                        So bitterly on one so bright?" 
                     
                  
                
               Edith lingered some time but at last 
                      
                        --"The King of Terrors 
                        Laid his cold hands upon her lovely limbs, 
                        And blasted her beauty with his icy breath." 
                     
                  
                
               Harvey was now reduced to the last extremity-his property had all vanished into the possession of Harrison, Malvern, and Florence. A small amount of jewelry was his last resort, and even part, though the gift of the affectionate girl whom he hurried to an untimely grave, did not escape the gripe of the gamblers. 
               Shall we follow him from step to step down the ladder of ruin-rather would we draw a veil over the painful scene-did our duty allow us. He is now the companion of the most abandoned- 
                      
                        "Deserted in his utmost need 
                        By those his 'reckless' bounty fed." 
                     
                  
                
               His haunts are now in those loathesome resorts of the most abandoned creatures of the city. His companions are such as he would have looked down upon in scorn but a short time before; yet, much as he despised them at that time, he seems proud of their association now 
               Malvern lived almost totally isolated from his wife. His drafts on Sharpe were made oftener and for larger amounts; which so alarmed the merchant that he thought it time to dishonor them, and he did so, a circumstance that so exasperated Frank that he determined to put his threats of exposing the old man in practice. This brought about an eclarisement, by which for a certain sum, in hand paid, Malvern renounced all claim or title on the property that might hereafter fall to his wife-and suffered a bill of divorce in his wife's favor to pass by default, the alleged cause being desertion on the part of the husband. Sophia was now as anxious to get rid of Malvern as she was before to catch him. Married life she found, where convenience was the chief bond was not a "bed of roses."-Love, the great alloy to happiness and connubial bliss, was wanting in the union between Frank and Sophia; and now that they were forever separated each felt as though they were relieved of a great load. In addition to the claims on his wife Frank also renounced any claim on Sharpe, then or thereafter, and now that he was again in funds, cut his usual figure among the "bon ton." Sophia, who had learned from Malvern, the secret by which he held her uncle in check, used it to advantage for herself; so that in place of returning to Union Square she compelled him to allow her sufficient to keep up her own establishment. 
               At her house were daily to be seen, a set who figured high in literary and other circles; and Madam Rumor, with her busy tongue ascribed to them such conduct as has lately been the subject of judicial investigation in the Empire City. 
                
               It is not for us to ascribe motives to the actions of other people, but it is too true that the offences against morality and good breeding in the house of the Ex-Mrs. Malvern, was not commendable, it was to say the least, very reprehensible. 
               The frequent demands of Sophia upon her uncle, caused him much trouble, his fortune that he had taken such unworthy means to accumulate had now, through the dissipation of Frank and Sophia decreased nearly one-third. This was the cause of much disquietude to the old miser-and though he he had no other relative than his niece, he was determined what further she got should be before his death; he accordingly made a will debarring her from as much as a single dollar. This will he did not long survive. His death-bed was a scene that would or should have taught a lesson to younger heads than Sophia's. A thought of eternity scarcely crossed his mind-his incoherent ravings were "stocks," "interest," "dividends," etc., till death put an end to them. 
               Sophia put on a show of grief at her uncle's decease, a grief that proved itself real when she learned that all his fortune, lands, houses and stocks were left to enrich the fashionable church where he was in the habit of attending weekly, not for worship but for show. By this means did he look for that indulgence in the next world that he never allowed his neighbor in this. What a commentary does the life and death of the miser furnish? He who never heard the voice of misery but with a deaf ear. Never knew the happiness of relieving distress; whose every thought when reposing on his pillow at night was, "Where can I take another advantage to-morrow?" Yet this man, No! not man, this curse to his race looks for that mercy he never granted, by enriching an already pampered church. 
               Sophia endeavored, by the aid of able counsel, to have the will set aside. She expended all she could command in the prosecution of her suit-her house was mortgaged to raise money-her jewelry was parted with. When all was gone she found she was but as a feeble infant battling against a giant. The church had means inexhaustible-means that had been accumulating for over a century-means that resisted and put at defiance all law. Thus was Sophia deprived of what property and effects she possessed at her uncle's death, by a fruitless attempt to recover the rest of his fortune. She was now indeed in a bad situation-she, who for some time led the fashions in a circle that her reputed wealth and expectations brought around her-now that fortune had deserted her was in turn rejected, nay held up to ridicule by those elite personages, who before felt honored in her acquaintance. She was now thrown on the world without a friend-(where will the moneyless get friends?) without a home-no absolute means of providing a living. She made application to many of those who fattened on her bounty-but received the assurance that it was "out of their power to assist her." She could not earn the scanty pittance of the sewing girl-she knew not how to work. Driven to desperation and despair, in a moment of frenzy she put a period to her existence by a heavy dose of poison. 
               Thus died one, who, if properly educated, might have been an ornament to society. Had she been taught in early life to know herself-to know her duty here, how different might have been her fate. Thrown on the cold charity of an unfeeling relative in infancy, whose only care was to accumulate wealth, she was exposed to all the fashionable follies of the day. That guardian had, however, ere her death, rendered an account of his stewardship to an infinite Judge, whose decisions are always just. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "When all things have their trial, you shall find 
                           Nothing is constant but a virtuous mind." 
                        
                      
                     Shirley. 
                   
                
               CHARLES SINCLAIR was deeply concerned for the fate of his friend Harvey. He was determined, if possible, to make another effort to reclaim him, and spent many days and nights in fruitless efforts to find him. Through the aid of some friends, he at last found him in one of those degraded dens of misery and prostitution in the Sixth Ward. 
               When Harvey saw his friend enter he shrank into the utmost recess of the miserable cellar, in which were congregated some dozen of the most abandoned of both sexes and colors. Charles knew him not. So different was his bloated countenance and ragged habiliments, from that of the once gay and happy Thomas Harvey. Charles' first act was to procure an officer and remove him by force from his miserable companions. By the advice of his friends he had him conveyed to the Penitentiary, on Blackwell's Island, where he procured for him such delicacies and luxuries as were considered necessary.-Harvey's constitution received a shock that he was destined never to get over-and soon after his admission to the hospital of the prison he commenced declining. Nor did he long survive the shock, nature was exhausted, and could endure no more. Death finally put an end to his sufferings. But it was a death of agony; his reasoning powers were perfect for some time before;they brought to his recollection, Edith, the constant, faithful, deserted Edith Moreton. Deserted by him, and by him sent to an untimely grave. The disgrace attending his death had also brought its sting. When spoken to of preparation, he spurned the thought-there was no forgiveness for him. 
                      
                        "He feared not dying-'t is a deeper fear- 
                        The thunder peal cries to his conscience-'Hear,' 
                        The rushing winds from memory lift the veil, 
                        And in each, flash his sins like spectres pale, 
                        Freed from their dark abode, his guilty breast, 
                        Shrieked in his startled ear, 'death' is not here." 
                     
                  
                
               Thus has another victim to intemperance passed from life to render an account of his pilgrimage. What a theme to dwell upon is the death-bed of the inebriate. Cut off from all who loved, who honored him in early life. He dies a pauper and a vagabond; cursing his God, and refusing the consolation and advice of his minister. Such was the death of Thomas Harvey, and such will be the inevitable fate of all who live as he lived. 
               Charles Sinclair deeply regretted the premature death of his friend. He would have given much were it possible to recall him to a life of usefulness and sobriety. But it was out of his power to do so; one thing was only left for him to do-he had Harvey decently interred, and on his grave he had placed a plain slab, with the words 
                     THOMAS HARVEY, 1850.
                   engraved thereon-' T was the last sad office he could perform for him. 
               Shortly before the death of Harvey, Charles was called to the bar, a profession in which he advanced with astonishing rapidity; and as the probation required by Mr. Wallbridge was now passed, he was rewarded with the hand of his devoted and beloved Emily. No idle pomp, or tasteless vanity graced their nuptials; a few select friends assembled, and in their presence did the man of God pronounce his blessing on two devoted and loving hearts. How different were the salutations of their friends to those given at another marriage that we related in an earlier stage of our story. One was a union of love and virtue, the other a union of gain. While selfishness and aggrandisement prompted the latter, the most chaste and upright principles urged the former. 
                      
                        "Oh! married love!-each breast shall own, 
                        Where two congenial souls unite, 
                        Thy golden chains, inlaid with down, 
                        Thy lamp with heaven's own splendor bright." 
                     
                  
                
               After his marriage Charles took up his residence with Mr. Wallbridge, who would not be deprived of his daughter's company. And never were virtuous actions better rewarded than in the persons of Mr. and Mrs. Sinclair. While he was attending daily to his professional business down town, Emily was distributing her charity wherever she heard it was wanted, a work in which she was always assisted by her father's means. While thus engaged the young bride looked even more lovely. She received, wherever she went, the blessings of the "poor and lowly," to whom she had always been a ministering angel. 
               Malvern and Florence continued to visit their old haunts of gambling and other dissipations, but not with their accustomed success; their losses for some time back exceeded by large amounts their resources, and in order to keep their credit they had again to resort to their old system of espoinage; in some instances they were successful; but, with all the cunning of their ally, Williams, they were signally defeated where they expected to reap the largest harvest. One case in particular ticular came near sending the three to the penitentiary-they were prosecuted for a conspiracy to extort money; but, through some flaw in the indictment they escaped their merited punishment for this time. Encouraged at their success, and having unbounded faith in the ability of Williams to screen them from justice, Malvern and Florence concluded to play a higher game. An occasional visitor at the club was in the habit when he lost, of giving his check for the amount; he never played high-doing it as he said for pastime. Mr. Swanton was connected with one of the most respectable mercantile firms in the city. He stood high as a man of the most honorable character-while everybody pronounced him a pattern of morality-it was also said that he was connected with one of the up-town churches; of this we are not advised, but too true it is that he was often seen at No. 3 Park Place, one night in particular when he lost to Florence a trifling sum (so he styled it) of two hundred and fifty dollars-which, as usual, he gave his check for. 
               Malvern obtained the check from Florence, and next morning presented it at the bank altered to twenty-two hundred and fifty. The signatue was genuine, and the money was paid.-Nor was it till some time afterwards, when Mr. Swanton was setting his bank account that the forgery was detected. The guilty parties were immediately arrested, they stoutly denied any criminality in the act, and asseverated that the check was given for the larger sum. The maker of the check now, when he saw that the publication of the affair would give him notoriety as a frequenter of gambling saloons-nay, as a gambler himself, would gladly have paid the full amount and let the matter drop; but it was in other hands; the District Attorney being absent, left his business in the care of Charles Sinclair, who being thoroughly acquainted with the characters of Malvern and Florence, would admit of no compromise, he hurried on the prosecution, despite the strenuous efforts of the prisoner's counsel for a continuance of the case, they produced affidavits to prove the absence of important witnesses; but Charles, with a legal acumen, considered wonderful for so young an advocate, set them at nought, and had the happiness of being the means of ridding New York of two of the greatest scoundrels that ever disgraced it. They are now both at Sing-Sing serving an apprenticeship of ten years to a trade; by which, if they survive their sentence, they will be enabled to earn an honest living in some distant part of the country. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               CONCLUSION. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Temperate in every place-abroad at home, 
                           Thence will applause, and hence will profit come." 
                        
                      
                     Crabbe. 
                   
                
               THE summary manner in which Sinclair disposed of the first criminal case he was ever engaged in, brought, as it deserved, commendations from the bench, the bar, and the public. Williams was afraid to pit himself against him, and other counsel were retained for the defence, but this did not prevent Charles giving him a scorching rebuke, such as made the wretched man crouch and almost beg for mercy. The castigation was as well given as it was justly deserved; and, at its close the officers of the court had much difficulty to prevent an outburst of manifest applause from the large auditory present. Nothing equal to it had been heard in that court for some time. 
               Charles' star as a lawyer was from this time in the ascendant ant. Briefs came to him from all quarters, scarce one who had not heard of "Lawyer Sinclair." When he returned to his home after the conclusion of the trial what a happiness was his-a doating wife received him with endearing embraces-an affectionate parent blessed the hour he became his son.-Now was that old man prepared to die, his child was happy, and he looked for happiness beyond the grave. His trust was not we hope presumptious. He never turned a deaf ear to the appeal of misery-his hand was ever ready to succor the afflicted and unfortunate. Not for the faint praise of the world, but in obedience to the injunction of his divine master. Nor did his daughter, now that her cup of earthly happiness was full, forget those principles of charity and benevolence which were early instilled in her mind. She still continued to seek out new objects of commiseration and relieve their wants. In this happy calling she was encouraged by her husband as she had been formerly by her father. And when in the evening she accounted to him for the amount of his charitable donations, Charles could see new beauties develope themselves in his devoted wife. What a happiness was Sinclair's; none of the volatile and fashionable "fops" of the day, who sneeringly alluded to his domestic habits could appreciate them. They looked for happiness in another quarter-in another sphere-but they found it not. Blind to every passion but that of folly and dissipation; they knew not the pleasures, the joys of domestic bliss. Let parents reflect on this, and how different would they bring up their offspring. It is an undoubted fact that much of the depravity of youth is to be traced to their early education. Some parents wish to see their sons men before they are scarcely boys, and many mothers wish their daughters to be thought young women, almost before they are out of long clothes; let them recollect that 
                  
                      
                        "Youth, like the softened wax, with ease will take 
                        Those images that first impressions make." 
                     
                  
                
               Let parents then make the "first impression" on their children, such as will in after life enable them to shun folly and seek wisdom. We are not so fastidious as to contend for depriving children of rational amusements, etc.; but unhesitatingly demand of every parent to watch over the moral training of their offspring. And in no way can they do it better than by their own good example. 
               Reader, our tale is told, and if we have given you fictitious names, we have given you no fictitious story. Many a citizen of New York will recognize under assumed names, the different characters we have feebly endeavored to portray. And we would ask, has our tale not a moral? we assert it has. The demon intemperance has been, and is passing over our land with rapid strides; wherever he plants his foot destruction and desolation follow in his path. The wife is made a widow-children orphans-the once happy fireside is no longer to be found; where peace and content were wont to reign-bitterness, strife and anger usurp the throne. The family altar is broken down-the service of God is never thought of-not a single Sabbath comes throughout the year-nothing but the means of satisfying the depraved appetite is thought of-children are led by the evil examples of parents to follow in their wake-the prisons and almshouses are crowded with beings who bear the impress of their maker, and all through the demon intemperance. 
               Let us look on the other side of the picture. A happy, cheerful and contented home awaits the coming of the temperate husband and father; and when the business of the day is over he can store his mind with knowledge, enliven by his presence his happy wife and little ones-teach them the wisdom he has learned himself; and, when he kneels at the family altar, his prayers ascend as incense to heaven. 
                
               If our true tale shall happen to be instrumental in reclaiming one, or prevent others from falling into this degraded vice, we shall be amply repaid for our time and trouble. And if on the other hand, there are those who from a false reliance on their own firmness, will not take warning from the sad and untimely fate of Thomas Harvey,-to them we would say; his is but a solitary instance of thousands, who boasting of their own judgment, have like him, foundered on the unseen rock; and, like him, died a pauper, and an outcast from that society he was born to adorn. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
