
    ----CITATION----
        Brierwood, Frank.. Mabel Clifton .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5890
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               MABEL CLIFTON. 
             
          
          
             
             
               MABEL CLIFTON. 
               A NOVEL. 
             
            BY FRANK BRIERWOOD.
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        "So heed, oh, heed well, ere forever united, 
                        That the heart to the heart flow in one, love-delighted; 
                        Illusion is brief, but Repentance is long." 
                     
                   
                  -SCHILLER. 
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER.  
                     Nos. 819 & 821 MARKET STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1869. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
            
               J. FAGAN & SON, STEREOTYPERS, 
               PHILADELPHIA. 
               MOORE BRO'S, PRINTERS.
             
          
          
             
            AFFECTIONATELY AND RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO Mrs. Lieut. Gen. Sherman, BY THE 
            
               AUTHOR.
             
          
          
             
             
            PREFACE. 
            IN the silence and beauty of that enchanted land, where the loveliness and freshness of Nature contrast with all we can imagine of solitude and gloom; that land in which lie entombed magnificent cities with scarce a stone or column to mark the spot where once they stood; and where, firm and immutable as the everlasting hills, rise in melancholy grandeur the mausoleums of "a thousand line of kings,"-sadness and mirth, life and death, still go hand and in hand, as in ages past, when in the gayest revels a skeleton sat veiled and crowned.--The setting sun is shining on palace and tomb, as a young girl emerges from a grove of citron and palm, and steals quietly along under the drooping branches of the acacias which fringe the bank of that river, for a taste of whose waters the exile pines in far-off lands. In the distance gleam the mosques and minarets of Cairo: gold and rose-color blended with a silvery tissue, bright as the lining of a cloud. But she sees not the beauty spread out before her, as she kneels, and with trembling hands places on the smooth water a mimic boat freighted with flowers,-the graceful lily of the Nile, sacred to the moon, and heaps of fragrant roses and floral treasures, that bloom only under an Egyptian sun. 
            Tears fall on the creamy petals, and the crushed fragrance rises like incense, as with a hurried prayer she lights the tiny colored lamp, and the boat glides silently away.-Darkness shrouds the river, and still she kneels on the yellow shore, and watches with straining eyes the flickering, uncertain gleam. That freight is not alone flowers: her heart is in the venture, and if the light goes out, her hopes will set in darkness. -- -- Like that lonely girl, I place, with trembling, timid hand, my humble offering on the dim, mysterious river, where many a nobler bark has been wrecked,-many a true heart has broken, waiting for the waves to carry out on the broad waters the vessel which never left the shore until the eyes watching its glimmering radiance were forever closed.-Many a fairer bark has gone down silently,-yet still my fearful, uncertain feet press the brink of the fatal river. My eyes are dim with fear and expectation, and my fluttering heart goes with the mimic boat as it trembles on the turbid water. -- Will it sink, gentle reader, or will the glancing waves bear it gayly onward toward the Ocean of Eternity? 
          
       
      
         
            Mabel Clifton 
             
            MABEL CLIFTON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               IT was a beautiful morning in October. The forests were gorgeous with brilliant hues, and crimson and yellow leaves were strewn thickly over the brown and withered grass, heaped in glowing piles around the roots of trees, and peeping brightly from green mosses. 
               It was as if Autumn held high carnival, in the hope that Winter, charmed by the splendor and beauty of her coloring, might chain his icy winds, and withhold the desolating touch that would leave the beautiful forests so bleak and desolate no sunshine could renew their loveliness. Two young girls stood at the entrance of the forest, bathed in the sunshine which danced among the brilliant shadows, and lay like molten silver over the pleasant landscape. 
               "Both were young; and one was beautiful," so beautiful, you would never tire of gazing on her radiant face; a face which once seen, would leave a haunting remembrance ever after. 
               It was not alone the charm that lay in her rippling brown hair and exquisitely chiselled features; in the wondrous eyes in which lurked a light Circe might have envied; or in the rich ivory of a complexion no Parian marble could rival. It was that indescribable something that occasionally lurks in a face, and makes it beautiful, even without perfect features. 
               But with Mabel Clifton it was only an added charm. There was not a curve of her exquisite face or figure but was faultless in grace and the perfection of beauty. 
               She held her companion's hand, as if to draw her forward, and pointed eagerly to a little glen, far over the meadow, and nearly reaching the misty, blue hills, whence issued a cloud of smoke, which, rising slowly, and curling into fantastic wreaths, finally lost itself in the hazy atmosphere. 
               "See, Alice!" she said, her eyes sparkling with animation, and her cheeks glowing, "that smoke rises from the Gipsy camp. It is not more than a mile distant. The fates are surely propitious; for, on such a morning, and with such sunshine, no sibyl could predict a gloomy future. Come, Alice; I shall be seriously offended if you turn back now. Come!" 
               But Alice still hesitated, and looked imploringly in her friend's face, now darkening with an angry frown. 
               "Mabel, darling, do not be angry with me," she said timidly. "You are going away so soon; and we may never meet again. Of course, I will go, if you insist; but, Mabel," and her voice sank to an almost whisper, "I am afraid to know the future. These are not ordinary Gipsies, but a regular Italian band; and they are said to be in league with the Evil One. They can tell all your past life, and all the future, and predict the most dreadful things." 
               "Really, Alice," said Mabel, with a scornful laugh, "you would make a poor advocate. Your arguments only determine me to persist in my purpose. Since you have added mystery"-she did not finish her sentence, for there was a rustling of leaves in the forest behind them, and turning, she saw a tall, graceful woman advancing rapidly along the path. Her face was shaded by the hood of her cloak, and her head was bent. Alice uttered an exclamation of surprise, and Mabel said, with a smile, "The very queen of Gipsies; or, perhaps, an emissary of the Evil One. How shall I address her, Alice?" Alice clasped her arm in terror; but she pushed her away, and said haughtily, "You are a miserable coward, Alice! There can be no harm in speaking to her. If she shows any insolence, I will denounce her to the authorities, and have her arrested as a vagrant. 
               The last words were spoken more loudly than she had intended, perhaps, for the stranger was so near that she heard them distinctly, and stopping abruptly, seemed trying to collect her thoughts. 
               Mabel's cheeks turned a shade paler; but she stepped forward, and confronting her, said carelessly, "I should like my fortune told, my good woman, and was on my way to your camp for that purpose. I suppose it matters little as to the time and place, so the hand is crossed with silver." 
               There was a dead silence; and the Gipsy took the hand Mabel extended, her own almost as white and delicate; but she dropped it with a kind of shiver, and the coin rolled at her feet, as she spoke in a hurried voice, without looking up,- 
               "I do not tell fortunes. It is a mystery I would not trifle with; but I see that in your hand which pity would keep me from telling you, harshly and as unkindly as you have spoken of one whose evident misery should have appealed to your compassion. Seek not to know the future, and let me go my way." 
               She looked up suddenly, and grasped Mabel's arm, her face turning to an ashen hue, and the words, "Who are you?" falling from her quivering lips. 
                
               Alice screamed, and even Mabel was startled, and in a half-frightened, half-defiant way, released herself. 
               It was a strange tableau those three made: Alice a little apart, with her white face and frightened blue eyes turned to her friend, and yet seeming as if she could not resist the impulse that urged her to instant flight; the rich autumnal forest for a background, and the superb figure of Mabel and the Gipsy thrown into bold relief,-Mabel, so slight and graceful, with her Cleopatra-like face a little down-cast the white lids shading the scornful eyes, and no color except in her glowing lips; and the Gipsy, a perfect Zenobia, large and splendidly proportioned, a very queen in her bearing. 
               Her scarlet hood was thrown back, and masses of jetty hair shaded her pale, disturbed face, and her eyes flashed with anger and despair. After a minute, as if to control the emotion that almost seemed to overmaster her, she said passionately,- 
               "I need not ask who you are; the Clifton pride is written in every lineament, and much as I hate the whole race, I would wish you no worse doom than that same pride will work for you. Have you still the curiosity to know the future? I will dispense with the sum usual on such occasions, for the pleasure of telling you." 
               Mabel hesitated a moment, and then held out her hand, with a scornful gesture; but the woman pushed it aside. 
               "I have known one of your name, and his career is but a sample of what your own will be-only, being a woman, your errors will meet with the contempt they deserve; you will be scorned for a fault which, in a man, the world would consider a slight indiscretion. 
               "You need not smile with such a conscious air of power, as if you would defy fate, for, beautiful, wealthy, and high-born, as you are-" 
                
               She stopped abruptly, and would have passed on; but Mabel said proudly, and with a bitter laugh; "I am prepared for the worst-let me hear it." 
               There were tears in the Gipsy's bright eyes, but she dashed them away, and said solemnly: "The day will come when you will be so ruined and disgraced, that your only aim in life will be to hide in some spot where your enemies will forget you,-you will have no friends." 
               Alice had been listening with parted lips and beating heart, but she now ran forward, and flung her arms round Mabel, as if she would shield her from the doom that sounded so terrible. She had partially forgotten her fear in anxiety for her friend, and she said bravely, although she was still trembling,- 
               "You are a cruel, bad woman, to say such things; and Mabel has one friend who will never desert her." 
               "You, poor child, will only be one of the victims; she will trample every hope from your life, as she would trample a worm under her feet,-if you trust her, little girl!" and her voice was almost tender, and she would have taken her hand; but Alice shrank back in terror. 
               "So you do not want your fortune told?" Alice uttered a faint "No," and the Gipsy, after a moment's silence, turned on her homeward way, and then came back, as if with an irresistible impulse, and leaned over the trembling form of Alice. 
               "Little girl," she said, in a tone that was softened at first, but rose as she went on, "You have a face I like, and you need not fear the future-to the pure and good, it can bring only peace in the end. 
               "But I must warn you against the friend you love so dearly. She will bring the trial of your life, distrust her most when she is smiling, and better take a serpent to your bosom, than cherish her in your heart. Again I say, beware ware of her-if you would be happy."-A shade of remorse crossed her face, and she wrung her hands and turned to Mabel. 
               "Heaven forgive me, if I read your fortune truly, and if it was wrong to make use of the power; you tempted me in a moment of despair,"-she looked up, and a sudden anger flashed in her face and quivered in her tone. 
               "Like the man I once trusted, you have the face of an angel and the heart of a fiend. But beware! you have nothing to trust in my pity, and everything to fear from my hate; and the hour you denounce me to the authorities, you decide your own doom!" 
               And so saying, she turned from them and disappeared in the forest; and without exchanging a word, the friends retraced their steps,-Alice, timid and frightened, and forgetting to note the beauty that had so delighted her an hour before. Mabel's cheeks were flushed and her teeth firmly set, and Alice, who glanced at her furtively, now and then, did not dare to speak, but walked silently by her side toward the quiet little town. 
               Mabel drew her veil over her face, as they passed along the principal thoroughfare, and seemed to have forgotten the poor, startled Alice, whose tears were flowing silently through sorrow at her coldness. She paused at the gate of her own home, a stately old house, almost hidden by exuberant shrubbery that lined the broad gravel-walk and threw heavy shadows over the pavement. 
               Alice held the gate open for her friend to enter; but Mabel did not notice her by so much as a glance, and walked haughtily on, but Alice caught her arm. 
               "Mabel, are you not coming in. Dear Mabel, I am so sorry that dreadful woman spoke as she did. Come up to my room, darling, and rest until dinner. You shall not be disturbed for luncheon. Come, dear;" and she put her arm through hers, and tried to draw her back, talking sweetly all the while. 
               Mabel had at first resisted, and turned from her friend, as she tried to walk on; but she stopped suddenly, and Alice, emboldened by the slight concession, redoubled her entreaties, and was about to take her hand, as she called her some endearing name, when Mabel threw up her veil, and showed a face white with passion, and so malignant that Alice shrank from her, pale and trembling. 
               "How dare you stop me, and try to impose your flimsy affection, after what has passed?" she almost hissed between her set teeth. "I am not surprised that you should feel elated by the words addressed to yourself; they were complimentary in the extreme, and it is quite in keeping with your angelic role, this pitying friendship; but I can see through your arts, and I despise you!-utterly despise you!-and hope I may never look on your face again." 
               "O Mabel!" sobbed Alice, clinging to her passionately, her childish face, raised to hers, "unsay those cruel words. I am not to blame for what that wicked woman said." Mabel's only answer was to withdraw herself indignantly; and when Alice again begged her to listen, she pushed her so violently, in her insane anger, that Alice staggered against the iron gateway, and with a faint moan, sank to the ground. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE Cliftons were a family who acknowledged few equals, and no superiors; yet their elegance of manner, and the magnificence of their surroundings, atoned in a measure for the haughty exclusiveness that placed a barrier between themselves and the very guests who partook of their hospitality, and who, with sometimes greater claim to superiority, courted their favor, as if it were a great distinction. So true it is, that the world is apt to rate persons according to their own estimate. 
               They lived in a grand stone house, about a mile from the beautiful town. A castle-like edifice, with gray battlements, and an ivied tower, rising above the graceful trees which shaded, without hiding, the imposing Gothic architecture. 
               There were lofty halls, frescoed ceilings, and deep bay windows with cushioned seats; and masses of velvet drapery, and fleecy laces. Mossy carpets, that glowed with color, and in which the footfall sank and gave no echo. 
               Rosewood and marble furniture, and heavy Venetian mirrors which extended from the carved ceiling to the floor, and pictures so exquisite, you never tired of gazing. A noble library lined with books, and decorated with busts of poet and philosopher, and statuary which had been chiselled in sunny Italy, Hebes and Floras and dancing nymphs, in graceful contrast with the solemn grandeur. 
               Without were Grecian porticos, and massive stone pillars, wreathed with clustering vines. Fountains threw their spray amid the evergreens, and glittered, like diamonds, on brilliant exotics which filled the air with fragrance; and there were long, shaded walks, ending in dreamy recesses of shade; and grottos, and miniature temples, and nooks where no sunbeams ever penetrated the dense mass of foliage. 
               Edward Clifton, the present head of the family, had spent the most of his life abroad, and had reluctantly returned when the death of his father made the charge of the estate an imperative necessity. 
               His marriage with his beautiful cousin occurred almost immediately; and it was said a handsomer bridal pair had never knelt for a blessing before the altar of the little church, although the bride still wore mourning for her uncle and guardian, and the bridegroom's face was as white and rigid as the face of a corpse. Many were the predictions of future unhappiness for the youthful pair, for rumor, that busy dame, attributed the marriage to avarice on his part, and avowed it was not her bright eyes, but her fortune, that won him; and that she was as incapable of affection as a piece of senseless marble. 
               Yet rumor for once, at least, was in fault; for if appearance could be trusted, the marriage was a happy one. 
               Mr. Clifton's manner to his wife was faultless-all courtesy and elegance. She was neither brilliant nor entertaining, yet he apparently imagined her both. 
               As to her own demeanor, it was unaltered. Haughty she had been before her marriage, and haughty she was ever after. 
               No son came to bless their hopes, or bear their ancient name; and Mabel, their only child, and beautiful from her cradle, could not recompense them for their disappointment. 
               Had she been the most amiable child that ever blessed a parent's care, they would have felt regret; but each year she grew more wilful and obstinate, until her mother came to tremble at her frown, and think no concession too great, if Mabel was appeased. 
               She bitterly reaped the fruits of the foolish indulgence that had fostered all Mabel's bad qualities, and made her, even in childhood, the terror of the servants and a person to be shunned by her playmates. 
               Alice Melville was the only companion whose friendship she retained, or for whose affection she seemed to care. Alice loved her with a species of worship that failed to see aught but perfection in her idol; and Mabel received her homage with more affection than she had ever shown for any other person. 
               At boarding-school, the injudicious treatment that had ruined Mabel's good impulses was continued. Her wealth and beauty and rare talents excused every fault, and she returned home, a siren in face and form, beautiful as a poet's vision, but tyrannical and selfish, and with a temper so ungovernable, that Mr. Clifton, who alone could restrain her, found his life a perpetual struggle, and home at times a pandemonium. 
               Mabel renewed her friendship with Alice, who was unaltered in her devotion; she was only sixteen, and it was not strange that Mabel should seem to her inexperienced eyes a superior being. 
               Could she have been in doubt as to her own judgment, her brother's admiration and love for Mabel would have silenced every misgiving,-her brother and guardian, (for her parents were dead,) who alone could rival Mabel in her affection. 
               Mabel received his homage as a very natural tribute to her charms, but with a degree of pride in the conquest, for he was not only the handsomest and wealthiest gentleman of her acquaintance, but as a lawyer had won distinction at a bar the most celebrated in the State for talent. 
                
               Mr. Clifton watched the love affair with an interest almost as painfully intense as that with which the gambler watches the stakes, when his fortune trembles in the scale. 
               It was not alone that his affairs were involved, and that Mabel's reckless extravagance made her marriage a necessity, but he felt the slight power to control her, that he possessed, was growing less positive each day. No trial was so revolting to his refined Sybarite temperament, as the disgraceful violence of Mabel's temper and the contest with his own will that was of almost daily occurrence. Added to this was remorse, that he had left her so entirely to the care of her weak, indolent mother, when, by restraining, he might have taught her self-control. 
               Mabel's rage and consternation knew no bounds when Mr. Clifton informed her of her lover's proposal and his own consent. 
               Lucifer could not have rivalled her in ambition; and although Laurence Melville's position was one of which any woman might have been proud-with her extravagant visions of life it was a mesalliance. 
               There was no limit to her aspirations, and no wealth or fame she hoped to gain by marriage, too dazzling. Washington, whither she was to accompany her parents shortly, had seemed too small a field for her triumphal career, and a coronet danced before her vision as a probable reality and a moderate expectation, for during the European tour she was contemplating in the future, princes and dukes were to bow at her feet. 
               She raved like a tragedy-queen, her lips white with passion; but she might as well have attempted to resist the force of an avalanche. 
               Mr. Clifton listened with the most provoking calmness, and when the storm was somewhat spent, very coolly informed her, that she must receive Laurence Melville as her intended husband, or leave forever the shelter of his roof; and with a nonchalance that drove her almost to the verge of insanity, in answer to her ambitious views, which her desperation urged her to bring forward, said, "that when she showed him a more eligible suitor, it would be time to consider the expediency of dismissing Mr. Melville." 
               He added, as he turned to leave the room: "Had you offered one reasonable objection, Mabel,-had you pleaded the want of proper affection for Mr. Melville, I would have overlooked the unreasonableness of your plea; for your manner to him was encouraging, after his sentiments admitted of no doubt. I am only fulfilling my duty in securing a future which will be a happy one for you, and if you disobey me, my responsibility ends." 
               The door closed, and Mabel was alone, and tired of the storm of passion that raged in her undisciplined breast, she decided to yield to her father's commands, for the present at least. There was no trace of the conflict on her beautiful face, when a few hours later she received Mr. Melville; and as he looked on her rare loveliness, and pressed her hand to his lips; he wondered how it could be that such happiness was vouchsafed him. 
                     See
                     She
                   seemed too gloriously beautiful to be loved by an erring mortal. 
               After a few weeks, Mr. Melville, in spite of the enchantment her spells had woven, awakened to the reality that his divinity was not perfection, and that he was, by yielding to her caprices, lowering his own manliness, and encouraging her weakness; he would not yet admit she had a fault. 
               His opinions and wishes were entitled to respect, he decided, and the consequence of this determination was their first serious quarrel, and it occurred the evening before the day on which Mabel and Alice are introduced to the reader. 
                
               Laurence Melville unfortunately expressed his disapprobation of the custom of consulting fortune-tellers, and the wickedness of encouraging persons who were either imposters, or in league with Satan. Mabel, who delighted in showing her disregard for her lover's wishes, immediately declared her intention of visiting the Gipsy camp on the morrow, and Mr. Melville opposed this resolution with all a lover's earnestness, and a little authority savoring of a more advanced period. 
               It was not in the drawing-room that this discussion occurred, or Mabel would have betrayed the anger that raged like a whirlpool in her breast, as she turned indignantly from him. She was unaccustomed to have any one dictate to her, except Mr. Clifton on rare occasions, and her very soul revolted from his authority; but for Mr. Melville to presume so far, was an impertinence. "She would die sooner than forgive," she thought angrily, as she ground her white teeth and clenched her hands the darkness of the piazza shrouded her completely. 
               Little dreamed her lover, as she stood so quietly beside him that starlit evening, of her anger or the determination that grew stronger every moment-to defy her father's wishes, and free herself from her hateful engagement. 
               She withdrew her hand indignantly as he attempted to take it at parting, but she said "good night" so sweetly, a moment after, that he attributed it to caprice, and on his homeward way thought complacently of his manly assertion of his rights as her betrothed husband. 
               Mabel went immediately to the drawing-room, where Mr. and Mrs. Clifton and a few guests were assembled. One glance at her face showed Mr. Clifton the state of her mind, and without noticing her request "to see him in the library as soon as he was at leisure," he proposed some music, in a pleasant tone and with a laughing appeal to his guests, whose unanimous assent made a refusal impossible. 
               Her eyes flashed angrily, and she bit her red lips until the blood started, as she swept to the piano with the proud grace of a queen. 
               Music was her passion, and her father well knew it would be the surest way to restrain her. 
               The touch of the keys restored the self-possession that was fast deserting her, and she poured all her angry soul in the passionate strains. 
               Fiercer and fiercer dashed her fingers, and the music rose in rich volumes of sound, and filled the air with startled echoes. 
               She played as if it were the hapless Laurence Melville she was torturing. 
               The listeners held their breath; even Mr. Clifton, used as he was to her wonderful power, leaned forward in ecstasy. 
               Mrs. Clifton, who disliked music, was fairly roused from her apathetic elegance, and attempted the unparalleled exertion of going in person to persuade Mabel to have some consideration for her nerves. 
               She caught her husband's eye, and walked to the window instead, vaguely wondering "why Mr. Clifton would persist in liking Mabel's engagement, when she grew every day more unmanageable and unendurable." 
               She felt also a little amused curiosity as to how Mabel would end her stormy music, and half expected an outbreak, but she did not allow it to trouble her. 
               It was Mr. Clifton's whim to restrain Mabel, and so long as she was a mere looker-on, she was perfectly satisfied, only it was hard to be obliged to listen to such a flood of music, when it was her particular aversion." 
               At this point, Mabel stopped suddenly, to her lady mother's joy. But it was of short duration, for Mr. Clifton said softly, "Mabel dear, do not think of leaving the piano yet; give us those beautiful variations from Lucretia Borgia." 
               Mabel, after a moment of hesitation, did as she was requested, and played until the weight of her anger was removed, in a measure, from the unconscious Mr. Melville, and she was too worn out with the fierce tide of passion to be capable of any rashness; so Mr. Clifton decided, as the tones grew softer, and he signified his approbation of her efforts for the entertainment of the company,-giving her to understand that her penance was at an end. 
               She rose from the piano, and without noticing the compliments showered on her beautiful playing, except by a haughty inclination of her graceful head, advanced to her father's side. Her face was deadly pale, save two crimson spots which burned on either cheek, and her eyes were dull and heavy, the storm of passion had passed, but she looked quietly determined. Her father trembled inwardly, but he had too much at stake to waver, and he spoke calmly and politely, yet with an air she understood. 
               "Mabel, you are not looking well; perhaps you had better be excused for the remainder of the evening." 
               "Can I see you after a while?" 
               "To-morrow will do as well, and I think a little reflection will convince you it will be unnecessary even then;" and he rose and escorted her to the door, keeping his eyes steadily on her face. She felt an irresistible desire to defy him then and there, but it was only for a moment, and she made her adieux to the company very gracefully instead; Mr. Clifton holding the door open in the most courteous manner as she made her exit. 
               She congratulated herself on her self-control, after reflecting that her father was not to be trifled with, and that it would be worse than folly to risk an elegant home, and luxuries which constant use had rendered indispensable, for the sake of giving full sway to her anger. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               ABOUT an hour before the termination of the walk, which commenced so auspiciously for Mabel and Alice, Mr. Clifton rode slowly past Mr. Melville's residence. 
               Laurence was sitting under the trees, reading, and almost hidden from view by the evergreens. 
               He laid aside his book as he caught a glimpse of Mr. Clifton's figure, and leaning over the gate, held a gay conversation with "his father-in-law elect" as he mentally termed him. 
               His careless air set Mr. Clifton's mind at rest. 
               It was plain, Mabel had not betrayed her anger, and that the danger threatening the success of his favorite scheme was averted, for the present at least. 
               "Suppose you order your horse and join me in my ride," he suggested carelessly. 
               Laurence hesitated, and said with a blushing awkwardness rather common to lovers, "that Miss Clifton and his sister were spending the morning in the woods, and he thought of strolling out and returning with them." 
               "You saw Mabel then this morning?" said Mr. Clifton with a little eagerness. 
               "Only for a moment-she and Alice passed my office." 
               After a short delay, Mr. Clifton said "Good morning," and continued his ride with a lightened heart, bowing with the most gracious air to his acquaintances, and followed by envious, admiring eyes. 
               It was no wonder the laboring man, tired of the battle of life, looked on his lot as supremely blessed. 
                
               He was so handsome and elegant, and his life seemed such a holiday time. 
               He felt himself that living was a very pleasant thing, and had an agreeable consciousness, that his fine person and elegant horse were very much in keeping with the bright sunshine and the glorious October foliage. 
               It was well for him that he enjoyed the present and was buoyant and light-hearted; cares would soon thicken around him, and life be clouded with shadows thrown by unrepented sins, that no sunshine could penetrate the darkness. 
               Well might he look admiringly on the beautiful landscape spread out before him, and glowing with the sunset-hues of summer. It was surpassingly beautiful, and he had loved with all the pride of ownership the broad lands that his ancestors for two generations had called their own. 
               But the lingering delight with which he gazed on meadow and hillside, was an unconscious farewell to old scenes-for never on any future day would he look upon the landscape he loved so well. 
               And Laurence Melville, as he resumed his seat among the evergreens and elms, does not read, but revels in visions of the happy future which Mabel is to brighten with her rare loveliness. 
               It is very seldom this practical man of the world allows himself to dream, and the novelty only adds to the enjoyment. 
               He is not altogether pleased when the opening of the gate disturbs his reverie, and pretty Annie Raymond enters hesitatingly. She is dressed in white, and the scarlet bow at her throat gives such a delicious glow to her cheeks, and she is such a dainty little personage, that his regret is only momentary, and there is anything but chagrin on his face, as he rises courteously to fasten the gate for her. 
               His smiling dark eyes say such flattering things quite unconsciously, that Annie Raymond's heart beats a little faster than is quite well, considering Mr. Melville's engagement; and so she thinks, for she declines going to the house, and explains with some embarrassment that she only came on an errand for mamma, to leave some papers; mamma thought they were the very papers he wanted in the settlement of her affairs, and was not well enough to bring them herself. 
               But Mr. Melville only heard the first part of the speech, and was looking eagerly at the papers he had taken from her hand. "Don't go," he said, as she was about to steal quietly away, and looking at her for a moment. 
               "Take one of those rustic seats," and he pointed to the leafy nook where he had been sitting, "and wait until I glance over these documents-I will not keep you long;" and without further preface he seated himself beside her, and was instantly absorbed in the contents of the package she had given him. They were entirely screened from view of the passers-by, although the gate was almost opposite, and they could see distinctly every one entering. 
               Mr. Melville was soon busy with his papers, and Annie waited with a mixture of embarrassment and fright on her pretty face. 
               She knew of Mr. Melville's engagement, and felt it would be the most dreadful thing imaginable if the haughty Miss Clifton were to come. She would be ready to faint with chagrin and mortification;-there was nothing wrong in sitting with her mother's lawyer, and kindest friend; but there was a secret feelings in her inmost heart-she did not stop to analyze-that made her shrink from meeting that young lady then and there. 
                
               Footsteps on the pavement made her heart throb, and sent all the blood to her cheeks-wave after wave of color swept over her face, and she trembled violently at the sound of a gentle voice; it was Alice speaking; and as the footsteps paused at the gate, her worst fears were confirmed: the dreaded Miss Clifton was her companion. 
               She started so suddenly that Mr. Melville looked up in surprise;-but everything was forgotten during the scene that followed. 
               It passed so quickly, and surprised them so much, that they were bound as by a spell. Annie was the first to recover, and not until Mabel's rapid footsteps had carried her some distance. 
               She ran to Alice, and kneeling, raised her head. Her cry of alarm brought Mr. Melville, whose face was ashy pale, and who, strong man that he was, trembled as if with an ague-fit. 
               Alice had only fainted, and, although the blood was slowly trickling from a wound in her head, Mr. Melville, who had regained his self-possession, saw it was not so serious as Annie supposed, and taking his sister in his arms, carried her to her room, and leaving Annie in charge, hurried away. 
               The physician, who lived near, was fortunately at home, and came immediately. The wound was soon dressed, and Alice restored to consciousness; but so nervous and hysterical, that he gave her a soothing draught, and took his departure, prescribing quiet as the only remedy necessary to her recovery. 
               All this passed so rapidly, that it was scarcely more than a half hour, and Alice had fallen into a slumber-at first broken by starts and frightened exclamations, and gradually becoming more profound. 
               There had been no conclusion or alarm among the servants vants, who were not even aware of the accident. They were told, their young mistress was not well, and was to be kept quiet-and everything was so still, one might have supposed the old house was taking a hundred years' sleep, under the spell of some fairy enchantress. 
               Alas! it was a wicked enchantress who touched Mr. Melville's stately palace, and crumbled it before his eyes; but cruel as was his disappointment, he could but feel it would have been better never to have awakened from his dream, even in the misery and desolation that prostrated him utterly. 
               She was a heartless enchantress, destitute of love or pity-the woman he had loved so blindly; and bitter as was the truth that had come upon him so suddenly, it was better known now than when too late. 
               There was no thought of excusing her in his mind; it was a weakness that was not to be indulged for a moment. 
               He might invest an ideal with all the virtues that should adorn the female character, and love the creature of his imagination; but his eyes being fully opened to the fact that she was wanting in all respects where he thought her most perfect, his love would die, with the fallacy that gave it birth. At least such was the stern verdict given by reason, as he thought over the revelation of the morning. 
               He knew too well the yielding, loving nature of his sister, to imagine her to blame in the affair. If in the past he could have recalled one unkind word or look from her to any one, it would have been a relief,-any provocation, from Alice would have been an excuse for Mabel. There was none, and he groaned in bitterness of spirit as he turned his face from the light; but more bitter than all was, that he felt that she had never loved him. It was plain that the veil of romance was drawn aside, and he could look soberly over the days of happiness lost to him forever. 
               He could have smiled at his blind folly, had there not been such a dull weight at his heart. 
               The hours of the afternoon wore slowly away,-Mr. Melville unconscious of anything save the trouble that had clouded the first love of his life, and Annie Raymond dividing her attention between the sleeping Alice and the silent man sitting so quietly at the foot of the bed. 
               Aunt Clara, the only mother Alice had ever known, a middle-aged, fashionable lady, whose only aim in life was the pursuit of pleasure, was taking her yearly jaunt with a party of friends, and Annie, notwithstanding a doubt as to the propriety, had no alternative but to remain. 
               She would have found it difficult to refuse Laurence Melville's request that she would stay with Alice, for the present at least, and her mother's cheerful consent, in answer to a note she dispatched, silenced her fears. She could think then of the sorrow so plainly written on the face of her friend, and she had a childish longing to comfort him. She could even have pleaded for her haughty enemy, and excused her conduct, to see Mr. Melville happy again. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               MABEL walked on with rapid footsteps, never once turning to look at her poor friend, although she heard the faint moan, and there was in her heart a kind of horror against herself, as if she were a murderess. This feeling held its ground, though the wild tempest of passion was still raging, and she hated herself, her friends, and the whole world, as she hurried on like a beautiful fury-her eyes glaring through the veil, and her face livid with passion and the dull remorse gnawing at her heart. 
               Turn which way she would, the pale, tearful face that Alice raised so reproachfully and lovingly, rose before her, almost the only face she had really loved. 
               She tried to put it aside, and to think of Laurence and his impertinent counsel, and the insolent Gipsy; but it was of no avail; all the incidents that wrought her to such a pitch of fury faded into insignificance before the image her fancy called up of Alice, badly hurt, perhaps dying, by her hand. 
               Her pace grew slower, and she paused irresolutely, then turned and retraced her steps, taking no notice of acquaintances as she passed them in her rapid flight. 
               Her brain reeled with anxiety, and she could think of nothing but Alice, dead or dying, and herself a guilty creature, who would bear through life the mark of Cain on her forehead, who would be stunned by every one. 
               The Gipsy's words rang in her ears, and chilled her blood. "Could she in reality have been gifted with supernatural foresight?" she asked herself. 
                
               She had laughed at her prediction, even while it made her tremble, but now it seemed as if the terrible fate was soon to be realized. 
               "Beautiful, wealthy, and high-born as you are, the day will come when you will be so ruined and disgraced, that your only wish in life will be to hide in some spot where your enemies will forget you. You will have no friends." 
               It had seemed beyond the limits of possibility that those words would ever be true, spoken of her. 
               A day had not yet passed, and the sun of her happiness seemed about to set forever. 
               At last the fine old mansion loomed up through the trees. A minute more, and she had reached the gate. A film covered her eyes; she gasped for breath; but with a mighty effort, regained her composure, and looked before her. Alice was gone; the gate was closed. 
               The shadow of the evergreens fell darkly over the gateway, although it was broad noon, and she stole quietly along under the drooping branches. 
               The hall-door was wide open, but there was no appearance of life, or sound of human voice borne on the breeze. The hall was the common sitting-room of the family, and Mabel's heart sank drearily as she dragged herself forward. It was empty. The parlors were empty, and she felt like a guilty criminal as she ascended the oaken staircase. 
               She was nearly to the room occupied by Alice, and for the first time heard a murmur of suppressed voices; and then all was still as if death had fixed his mournful abode in the once cheerful rooms. 
               She stood motionless on the dimly lighted stairway, and the beating of her heart was the only sound that broke the stillness. 
               At last her anxiety became too great to be longer controlled trolled, and with slow and cautious footsteps she made her way across the hall, to the room next to her unfortunate friend. 
               It was Mr. Laurence Melville's room, but she did not care now. Fortunately for the success of her scheme, the carpet was thick and heavy, and her footsteps gave back no sound. She passed the open doorway without daring to look up, and in a moment more was securely hidden behind the folds of the sweeping curtains that shaded the bay window, and where, unseen herself, she could command a full view of the room, so fraught with the happiness of her whole future life. She could not look at first, and sank into a chair, faint and giddy. 
               "Alice must be dead, or why the silence that fell as heavily, as if it were a shadow left by the grim destroyer." Mabel was not much given to sentiment, but if Alice had died from some natural cause, she would have felt some sorrow, but now her death would be utter ruin. She would be through life a terror to herself and every one. Little children would stop in their play, if she came near, and she would read in every face distrust and aversion. Even if her share in the tragedy was never known, she would have through life the heavy weight on her heart, and the pale, tearful face of Alice would never fade. 
               She began to almost hate the sweet countenance that had never changed in its love for her, as she shivered behind the curtain. At last a musical voice startled her, and the blood rushed into her face with a joyful thrill. The voice would not have been so calm if all hope was over; and the thought gave her strength to look from her hiding-place, and know the worst. 
               The bed was drawn to the centre of the room, and Alice was lying, pale as a lily borne down by some storm; her eyes were closed, and waves of long, fair hair were thrown back over the pillow, but her lips were apart, and a faint pulsation waved the linen that covered her frail form. 
               Mabel's first impulse was to throw herself on her knees and pour forth her thanks to the Great Father, who had mercifully preserved her from bearing through life the penalty of her ungovernable anger. Her proud heart was softened with momentary tenderness, and the tears stole silently down her cheeks. She was almost willing to love Laurence Melville, and give up her ambitious dreams forever. 
               After a while, she looked out again, and her eye fell on the lover for whom she meditated such a sacrifice. He was sitting at the foot of the bed, where he could watch each change in his sister's face, although his own was only raised now and then. It was deadly pale, and his mouth was set sternly, with a determination that seemed to require a severe struggle. While she watched him with wondering attention, a female figure glided noiselessly to the bed. 
               An angry flush rose to Mabel's cheek as she recognized Annie Raymond. 
               "What right had she there? the presumptuous creature!" 
               Mabel had persisted in ignoring her existence with a haughty insolence that could not be mistaken, and that Annie, although too amiable to resent with the scorn it deserved, felt bitterly. Her mother was a widow, living on the sum allowed her as the wife of a deceased officer, and her position in society was as secure as Mabel's own, although she lived in a quiet, unobtrusive way. But Annie was guilty of the enormity of teaching school, and no amount of beauty and elegance could, in Mabel's eyes, atone for that indiscretion. 
               Mabel's indignation at seeing her domesticated so familiarly gradually overmastered her contrition and thankful ful spirit, and she watched her with a scowling brow and an angry interest that made her forget Alice and her half pity for Mr. Melville. 
               Annie, utterly unconscious of the flashing eyes following her every movement, glided softly to and fro; now drawing back a curtain, so that the air would have freer access, moistening the lips of the sleeping Alice, and performing those kind offices so little in themselves, and yet so necessary; and all with a gracefulness and tenderness that made her look angelic. 
               She was very pretty and fairy-like, although she had none of the beauty that made Mabel Clifton distinguished, in spite of her haughtiness and pride. There never were softer brown eyes, or more beautiful waves of rippling brown hair; and her mouth was rosy, and dimpled as an infant's. 
               She was always gay and happy, and had, withal, a shy sweetness of manner that was irresistibly winning. Her usually smiling face now wore an anxious expression, and her eves turned to Laurence Melville with a mournful, pitying look, as if she would fain comfort him. It was not lost on Mabel, and her heart gave an angry throb as Annie rose, and, going softly, laid her hand on his shoulder. 
               He started, and raised his distressed face inquiringly. 
               Annie seemed at loss how to commence speaking, and looked wistfully in his face; but, at last, she leaned and said something in a low voice. 
               Mabel could not hear the words; but Mr. Melville's reply was distinct. 
               "Alice will soon recover; but it will not all be well with Miss Clifton and myself. It has not been all well for some time. My senses have been wrapt in a kind of Elysian dream; but the spell is past, and forever. I know what you would say, in your kindness; but there was a malignant spirit shown in the whole affair that I can never forget. It was not Miss Clifton's fault that my sister just escaped death; and I would consider her equally guilty, if she had not been hurt in the least. The malignant expression of her face haunts me yet." 
               He groaned, and covered his face again. Tears stood in Annie's brown eyes, and she was turning away, when Mr. Melville raised his face suddenly, and, taking her hand, drew her to his side. 
               "How can I thank you for your kindness and sympathy? Tell me, little friend." 
               Such a crimson flooded her cheeks, and she trembled so violently, that he dropped her hand, though he still looked kindly in her face. 
               "I cannot hope that I have been any comfort to you, sir; but the gratitude of my whole life would not repay you for the kindness you have shown my mother." 
               Her voice faltered, and she averted her face; but he caught her hand to his lips before he released her. 
               Mabel, whose indignation almost deprived her of utterance, now lost all control of her temper, and, brushing aside the curtains with the fury of an enraged pythoness, suddenly confronted them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               MABEL'S anger had brought the color to her cheeks, and her eyes sparkled fiercely as she bent them on her lover, not even deigning to glance at Annie, who, in her terror, drew nearer Mr. Melville. 
               He rose to his feet with a quiet majesty that awed Mabel for an instant into silence, as he pointed to the sleeping Alice, his eye never turning from the face of his betrothed-his countenance never changing from its fixed sorrow, as he surveyed her with earnest mournfulness. 
               She had never looked so beautiful; and he felt an almost uncontrollable impulse to throw himself at her feet, and beg her to forgive the words he had just spoken. Everything was forgotten but the love, that at sight of her, returned with tenfold force. He conquered the weakness almost instantly, as he drew near to her with stern gravity, and said in a low tone,- 
               "Any agitation now may prove fatal to Alice." 
               She interrupted him, her haughty lips trembling with the effort to restrain her anger. 
               "It would be more candid, and more to the purpose, sir, if you were to say that my mal a propos appearance disturbed a very interesting love-scene. You probably never understood fully the words of the song,- 
                      
                        'Be sure you are off with the old love, 
                        Before you are on with the new'?" 
                     
                  
                
               She spoke in a tone of cutting irony; and Annie tried to shrink farther into the shadow, her cheeks flushing and paling, and she, poor child, longing to steal away where she would never again meet Mr. Melville's eye. 
               "How he must despise me," she thought, with sudden anguish. 
               But he was not thinking of her at all. Mabel's words fell on his ear-meaningless sounds. He was taking a mournful farewell of the face before him, so dear that to lose its loveliness would be to lose what he most prized in life. 
               A mist covered his eyes, and he leaned against the bed as if for support. 
               "Mabel! Mabel!" he murmured softly, with a lingering accent on the name, "how I have loved you?" 
               There was a pathos in his tone that found its way even to her heart; and she looked at him curiously, and with a half-relenting expression on her haughty face. 
               "Mabel!" he said again, holding out his hand. 
               She advanced a step; her eye fell on Annie, and the softening expression changed to indignation. 
               His love was an insult after what had passed. He had censured her conduct and spoken of her bitterly to a person she scorned to notice. She had forgotten it for a moment; but the remembrance returned with angry force, and her eyes flashed indignantly as she walked proudly from the room. 
               She turned suddenly at the door. He had followed her, and they stood face to face. She was silent for a moment, and her scorn was so intense that he drew back involuntarily, even before she spoke. 
               "How dare you follow me, sir! You seem to have forgotten the comments just now passed on my unworthy self. To what shall I attribute this sudden change of sentiment?" 
               Mr. Melville spoke hesitatingly, and with evident pain,- 
               "Miss Clifton, I can never sufficiently regret that, in the weakness of desperation, I said what should never have passed my lips while our engagement was uncancelled. The love I professed for you once-" 
               She had taken no notice of his words, but was drawing off her glove, and he stopped abruptly as her intention became plain to him. 
               Just then Alice stirred uneasily, and sat up, with a look of affright on her face. 
               "Laurence, what is the matter?" 
               He turned, and, with a cry of joy, she saw Mabel, and stretched out her arms to her. 
               "O Mabel! you were not angry, after all; dear Mabel, come to me!" and her blue eyes looked wildly earnest. 
               Mabel hesitated a moment, and then an expression of tenderness softened her face, as she hurried to the bed and caught Alice in her arms. 
               "Have you forgiven me?" she whispered. Alice drew her face down and kissed her by way of answer, and with her head against Mabel's shoulder, closed her eyes with a pleased, tranquil smile, opening them in a little while to see if her friend were still there, and finally dropped asleep. 
               Mabel laid her softly on the pillow, and stooped and kissed her forehead ere she left her. 
               Laurence Melville was still at the door. He stepped aside to let her pass. She paused an instant, and taking the diamond ring from her finger-the ring he had given her-flung it at his feet, the same malignant expression on her face as when she pushed Alice from her. 
               The look recalled Mr. Melville to his senses. He brushed the ring aside with his foot and followed her. 
               She had reached the first landing, and he stood by her side. 
               "Miss Clifton, you will at least allow me to attend you home." She did not so much as turn her face toward him, but he went on steadily: "If you mean that our engagement should end, for both our sakes, the proprieties of life must be observed. It is plain you never loved me-but there are no wishes of yours that will not have weight with me in the future. As to the world's construction of this separation, I care little, but what explanation shall I give Mr. Clifton?" 
               She had now reached the door, and he walked beside her down the gravel path, waiting for her answer, and looking very stern and determined, and very unlike the despairing lover he had shown himself a short time previous. 
               His words awakened Mabel to a sense of the importance of the step she had taken. She knew how her father's heart was set on that very engagement-and in a moment of anger she had broken it. 
               But was not her provocation sufficient? She had over-heard Mr. Melville censuring her in the strongest terms to a lady with whom she had scarcely a speaking acquaintance. Her heart gave a joyful throb, but as suddenly sank. 
               Mr. Clifton would insist upon hearing the very words used, and that would involve a confession of the unladylike act of which she had been guilty. It was plain that excuse would never answer. 
               She was in despair, and glanced furtively in her companion's face; she read there no sign of relenting or weakness. 
               His lips were firmly set, and he looked as cold and distant as though he had never loved her. 
               The gate was reached, and still she did not speak, and they walked in silence along the quiet street. 
               The afternoon shadows were lengthening, but it was not yet time for the promenaders who thronged the pavement at a later hour. 
                
               They left the town, and the silence had been unbroken as they entered the avenue leading to Miss Clifton's home. 
               The setting sun streamed brightly across their path and lighted the rich coloring of the foliage above them-but they did not notice. 
               Mr. Melville's summer sky had been too suddenly overcast with clouds, he could see no beauty in inanimate things. He had loved Mabel so absorbingly, that he had borne coldness and disdain; and he loved her still, and loving her, could not help thinking he had been too hasty. She was so young-only seventeen-and every fault had been fostered by over-indulgence. 
               In censuring her so bitterly he had wronged her, and with glaring faults himself, expected to find her perfection. 
               If he could only feel she loved him, his duty would be plain. 
               He stopped and laid his hand on her arm. "Miss Clifton-Mabel-answer me one question. I never before had courage to ask you. But first,"-and he lowered his voice,-"I was wrong to speak of you as I did, and I humbly ask your pardon!" She was still silent. "We will forget the unkind words, and the circumstances that led to them. Shall it be so?" 
               Mabel bowed her head in assent. She had never come so near loving him. Besides, in the long, silent walk, she decided that her only course was to win him back. 
               She could not brave her father's anger, and to engage herself to Laurence Melville was very different from marrying him. If she accepted him again, her fate was in her own hands. 
               Her heart gave a joyful throb as he addressed her so kindly. He was not inexorable after all. She glanced at him furtively. His face was pale and agitated, and his eyes downcast. 
                
               She laid her hand imploringly on his arm, and the fear that she might fail, after all, gave an earnestness and timidity to her manner that touched his heart at once. 
               "Laurence, you are so strong and firm, you cannot understand my weakness. If you knew how I struggle to control my temper, and the remorse I feel after every outbreak, you would pity, if you could no longer love me." 
               Her beautiful face was partly shaded by her veil, but tears were in her eyes, and her voice trembled. 
               There was a fierce struggle in his mind, but he looked again in her face, and every doubt was silenced. 
               He took her hand and pressed it passionately to his lips; and she leaned until her hair almost touched his cheek, as she whispered softly,- 
               "Must we say good-bye forever, Laurence?" 
               He threw his arm around her and looked searchingly into her face; her eyes were cast down, but the long lashes were wet with tears. 
               "Mabel, darling, if I could only feel that you loved me, I would not fear for the future, if you would only give me your dear hand again. 
               "Answer me truly. Do you love me? If you do not, we must part forever. It will be better now, than to each of us the misery of a whole life. 
               "As you hope for happiness in your dying hour, do not deceive me!" 
               She had turned her face from him, and there was a wild struggle in her undisciplined heart. 
               Why should she deceive him? What was her father's anger, compared to the sin that would hang like a cloud over the future, now so filled with hope. 
               Her guardian angel pleaded with her in that moment, and all that was good and womanly in her nature. 
                
               She had never sinned so dreadfully as she would sin, if she made Laurence Melville believe she loved him. She had been proud and haughty, selfish and ambitious, but she had never stooped to falsehood and deceit. 
               Heretofore she had made no professions. Laurence Melville was kind and generous enough to be her friend, if she told him all. And her father would not be unreasonable, if he thought she acted in a firm, womanly manner, instead of being guided by caprice. 
               It seemed as if she were deciding her destiny for good or evil. 
               Laurence had released her, and was standing with folded arms, awaiting her decision in an agony of suspense, hope and fear alternating. 
               Again and again she wavered, but evil slowly triumphed. 
               It would not be so bad, after all, to deceive him; the nonsense of her dying hour being affected by it, was too absurd! He deserved some punishment for the flimsy affectation. 
               "There is a tide in the affairs of men, which, taken at the flood, leads on to fame and fortune." 
               And there is a tide in our moral destiny of more fearful import. The hour of our first great temptation, a time of trial, when our guardian angel might take flight forever, and the sin we yield to will color our whole future life. 
               It may be only a slight sin-a mere speck-but it will become darker and darker, until it is as 
                      
                        "Black as the damning drops that fall 
                        From the denouncing angel's pen;" 
                     
                   And, alas! it is not always that 
                     "Mercy weeps them out again."
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               MABEL had now reached the hour of decision between the two fates who should watch over her destiny, and she turned from her guardian angel, and yielded to the spirit of evil. 
               The awe she felt for a brief moment was gone, and there was not a shadow on her face as she turned to her lover. 
               He did not move or raise his eyes from the ground; but looked like one prepared to bear manfully the disappointment that would wreck his life. 
               She put her hand through his arm:- 
               "I will not let pride destroy our happiness. Must I say more?" 
               Her playful tone jarred painfully on his heart, in spite of the joy and sudden hope her words awakened, and he grasped her hands almost fiercely, and looked at her as if he would read her inmost soul. 
               "Then you love me, Mabel?" 
               She could not meet his searching gaze; but she hid her face on his shoulder, and her voice trembled as she answered softly,- 
               "Can you doubt me, Laurence?" 
               He wound his arms round her, in a sudden embrace, calling her endearing names, and pouring forth, in a wild torrent, the love he had never before found courage to speak so plainly. 
               It was her first sacrifice to the tempter; but it was inevitable. Her pride had heretofore protected her pure womanly nature-the "angel gift" that sometimes lingers in a wicked woman's heart, 
                     "Like a holy thing, and blest."
                  
                
               She accepted Laurence Melville at her father's command; but she had professed no love for him. A queen could not have received his homage with more dignified reserve. An occasional pressure of her hand was a most daring act on his part. He would never be her husband!-she did not love him!-and yet his arms encircled her, and her heart gave no answering throb to the heart beating so close to her own. 
               It was a dreadful moment. She loathed herself, and her very soul revolted from the caress and kisses that were horrible in their very truth and fervor. 
               She could not turn her force to the sky: she felt as if angels must blush for her. 
               Laurence Melville did not dream of the struggle in her heart. That she loved him, was a belief that came thrilling with happiness. She was to him an angel of purity and beauty, and he thought with rapture that she was his own, now, in life and through eternity. 
               Mabel's breath came thick and fast, and her cheeks were almost purple-they burned with such intensity. 
               He still held her hands clasped tightly, and was smoothing the hair from her forehead, but he looked alarmed as the color faded from her cheek and left her deadly pale. 
               "You are not well, dear. You needed rest, after all this excitement, and I have kept you so long. It was very selfish," and he looked contrite and distressed. 
               "I am tired and worn out," she said languidly. "I will say good night here," and she tried to release her hand. 
               "Shall I not go with you to the door," he asked imploringly. 
                
               "No," she said shrinking from him with such a strange, frightened expression that his heart sank. 
               Perhaps she did not love him, after all. She had rather endured than returned his caresses; but he immediately reproached himself for the thought, and his face cleared. 
               She had been watching him with a mixture of dread and apprehension, and held out her hand as he came toward her. 
               He took the soft, waxen palm in both his, and looked tenderly in her face. 
               "May Heaven forever bless you, my darling, and make you as happy as you have now made me," and, with another pressure of the hand, he left her. She watched him with a singular mixture of aversion and liking, struggling with her regret at having accepted him again, and horror of herself and the trials each day would bring. 
               She felt, as she watched his retreating figure, that she would either love or hate him to such an extent that she would be tempted to kill him or herself if the struggle were long. She could not tell which she would do, in the end, she flung herself on the grassy turf, under the shadow of some vines, and wept and wrung her hands in anger, remorse, and despair. 
               There was little need of her grief, so far as seeing Laurence Melville was concerned, for they were never destined to meet again until the circling years had borne them each toward the goal where time ends, and where, with one of them, the cares and sorrows of life would soon be merged in the ocean of eternity. 
               Laurence Melville hastened homeward so blithe and happy that he felt like blessing everybody. He would not think of the sadness of the morning, or the malignant spirit Mabel had shown. 
                
               "She loved him, and even her faults should be sacred." He was unsparing to his own, however, and could not sufficiently regret his unmanly censure of her conduct to Annie Raymond. The remembrance was anything but pleasant, and he could never meet Annie without thinking of the want of respect he had shown his promised bride; but a remembrance of Annie's discreet, gentle manner and unvarying friendship dispelled his momentary annoyance, and he blessed her in his heart as he thought of her attempts to excuse Mabel. 
               He ran joyfully up the stairs to his sister's room, but paused on the threshold, with a half dread at his heart and a reproachful pang at having left her so long. 
               The moonbeams streamed softly through the open window and lighted every object distinctly. Alice was still sleeping a soft, natural sleep, and he stooped and kissed her with a blissful feeling of relief, and a tenderness deeper than he had ever before felt, though she had been the pet of his childhood and the treasure left him by his dying parents. 
               She was a little lisping child when his mother gave her into his arms, one pleasant June morning, and bade him "make her happiness his first care." He had promised, with tears in his eyes, and his boyish heart swelling, and when he pressed his lips to her rosy, dimpled cheeks, a bird poured forth its joyous carol from the elm-tree by the window, and the room was filled with its melody. 
               His mother smiled and said faintly, "It is a good omen, my son, a promise of gladness," and with the words her spirit soared to the land beyond the sun. It was to her the omen that heralded her spirit's flight to the golden shores of eternity. 
               His father died when Alice was still a child, and the promise had been renewed then, "You will never bring a wife who Alice does not like, to the old home; he faltered, and Laurence had no thought but to obey the request. 
               Alice loved Mabel devotedly, and although after the scene he thought would never fade from his memory,-now so nearly effaced, at least its bitterness,-he had felt that he must never subject his sister to a temper so unkind as Mabel had shown; yet her tenderness afterward, contrasted as it was with scorn of him, softened his resolution, if it could not entirely silence his doubts. 
               "Where can Annie be?" he asked himself, by way of getting rid of unpleasant thoughts. 
               He saw her at last sitting in the shadow of the window-seat, with the curtain draped around her, and the outline of her figure just visible. 
               Brushing aside the folds, he seated himself beside her, and, from the expression of her wild, startled face, he thought he must have frightened her coming so suddenly, and apologized, adding in the same breath,- 
               "I have something to tell you, little friend,"-she glanced up eagerly,-"and yet I scarcely know how to commence." 
               He looked away from her, and laughing a little, went on to explain his apparent want of consistency, alluding to his promise to his father, and finding it all very awkward, and on the whole unexplainable, when he was startled by a smothered sob, and to his surprise, Annie's face was buried in her hands, and she was weeping bitterly. 
               Mabel's words had opened her eyes to the fact that not as a friend or for his kindness to her mother did she love Mr. Melville, but dearer than all the world beside. 
               The time, to him so short, spent with Mabel, had been the bitterest hours of Annie's life. 
               To meet him with the knowledge of her secret was a trial; but to listen to his kind words and his love for another, was more than she could endure. 
               Mr. Melville had always liked Annie, and her promptness and kindly assistance to Alice endeared her more than ever. He placed his arm round her in a soothing way, as if she were a child, and smoothed her hair caressingly. In a little while she regained her composure, and told him in a low voice,-"That she was, not well; he must not think her usually so nervous."-She assented gratefully when he said "she must not sit up any longer," and felt like a reprieved criminal when he left her to call a servant.-It was her first grief, and she could not control her love or her tears as yet. 
               It was some time before Annie emerged from the friendly shadow of the curtain, and her steps were unsteady, and her face so pale, that Mr. Melville, shocked and startled, hurried to her assistance. 
               She trembled violently, and there was something in the expression of her eyes, as she raised them to his for an instant, that told him all her secret. 
               She seemed to feel that he knew it, for she stopped and leaned heavily on his arm, the color coming and going in her face. Twice she attempted to speak, and her lips moved. He leaned to hear her-but she only said imploringly: "I must go home." 
               He made her sit on the sofa until he called some one to stay with Alice, and he wrapped a shawl around her carefully, and had her drink some wine; and his gentle air of resolution and quiet kindliness were so soothing; that she became more composed than she had thought was possible; when he finally pronounced her well enough to go, he accompanied her himself, and they walked silently along the quiet streets until she reached her mother's cottage. 
               There was a little quaint portico, covered with honeysuckles suckles, and she paused at the entrance and withdrew her hand timidly from his arm. 
               She looked so pretty in the softened moonlight, and her girlish face wore such a look of resigned calm, that his heart ached to comfort her. 
               He thought her feeling for him was but a youthful fancy-short-lived and trivial, but he felt very sorry, nevertheless, and held both her little hands as he said kindly: 
               "Annie, if you ever need a friend, will you promise to come to me? There are but two persons in the world dearer than yourself-will you always trust me?" 
               Annie looked up in his face with a trusting smile, and he stooped and kissed her on the forehead, and left her to all the desolation of a first sorrow, not dreaming how great it was-and thinking, it must be confessed, more of his beautiful Mabel, and the future, now glowing with roseate hues, than aught in the world besides. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MR. CLIFTON rode slowly away, the warm October breezes toying with his clustering hair still soft and glossy. The bridle-reins hung loosely, and the horse cropped the herbage unchecked, for his master, absorbed in a dream of long ago, had forgotten the years that had elapsed, and the changes time had made. 
               They were pleasant visions of life in Rome, before his return to the United States, and when he revelled in the beauties of the Eternal City like a child at a feast, without a thought of care or sorrow in the future. Its flowery ruins were the embodiment of beauty, and to wander at will among the gloomy corridors of the Colosseum the height of his ambition. 
               That beautiful spring-time came back as freshly as if it had been only yesterday; the odor of the violets and the rich bloom of the columbines seemed borne on the autumnal breeze, as he recalled all the places he loved so well. 
               The campagna, with its carpet of flowers and its atmosphere of perfume wafted from hyacinths, and the golden sunshine like an amber cloud around and above him. 
               He was not alone in his wanderings in those happy early days, and his pulse beat quicker as he recalled the face and figure of his companion,-his beautiful Beatrice, with her rich color and flashing eyes, and the waves of purply-black hair that fell to her feet in heavy masses. 
               There was one moonlight evening, the last they had ever spent together. He had scarcely dared to think of it in all the long years, but he would recall it now. 
                
               They were sitting side by side on a fallen column, with the fantastic arches, crowded with heavy foliage rising high above them; the stone work glittering in the silvery light, and the silence so intense, that the beating of their hearts was distinctly audible. 
               She had loosened her hair, and it fell over her like a veil, and the solemn beauty around them, and the softened. light on her upturned face gave her a look of innocence an angel might have worn. 
               Her face, though beautiful, was generally wild and passionate. She was more like a Gipsy queen than the angels we dream of; but love and moonlight work great transformations, and she seemed an angel to him. It was then she told him her little history with a faltering voice. 
               Her mother had been a Gipsy, and a poor artist loved and married her, and they were so happy for two years, that Eden seemed not fairer to our first parents than life to them; but consumption, like a serpent, had stolen into their paradise, and her father sickened and died, and life was over to her poor mother, before the flowers bloomed twice over his grave. 
               Galatina, one of the tribe, who loved her mother so well that he gave up his free, roving life to serve her, had taken the charge she left. "He has been everything to me until you came," she murmured, her eyes glistening with tears, as she raised them to her lover's face; and his heart sank at the thought of the tidings that would fall with such a crushing weight on her young spirit. 
               It had lain heavily on his heart all the day long during his farewell to the scenes he had loved so well. 
               The pictures and treasures of art, before which he had been wont to stand entranced, could not charm him into forgetfulness or lift the shadow from the future. 
               Guido and Raphael's choicest works appealed to him in vain, and the emotions. "The Dying Gladiator were wont to recall, faded before the reality of the trouble that had fallen upon him. 
               The colossal ruins of the baths of Caracalla, or the chariot-worn pavements of the Appian Way, brought no visions of the ancient Romans he had been wont to bring again from the aisles of the past, in his romantic musings. He could only think of the present and all he would lose. 
               He loved the "Eternal City," her palaces, her works of art, and her flowery ruins,-"her majesty and her decay." But above all he loved his beautiful Beatrice, and he must leave her for weary months, perhaps forever. 
               His father was lying ill in the land so far removed from poetic beauty, and the order for his return was as inexorable as if it had been the fiat issued by the grim Destroyer, 
                      
                        "Who cuts with his sickle keen 
                        The giant oak and the bearded grain, 
                        And the flowers that grow between." 
                     
                  
                
               He could not now take with him to his American home the beautiful flower-girl he loved so well, but he would return again to claim her as his own, and their lives would be one long dream of delight, under the enchanted skies of Italy, and they would only awaken to the bliss of loving, in a clime of beauty and romance. 
               That would be "a joy forever." 
               He told her all this, as they sat among the beautiful ruins, the blue dome above them so transparent, they might almost hope to catch a glimpse of the heavens shining through. 
               They sat together all that lovely spring night, her hand clasped in his, and her head resting on his shoulder; and when the moon had set and the morning star glistened in the east, they went together to a monk they knew, and spoke the solemn words that should have bound them together for life. 
               It was not a legal marriage; Mr. Clifton was well aware, there was neither license nor witnesses. But it would comfort Beatrice in his absence. And he fondly hoped that his aristocratic father, finding his objections came too late, would overcome his disappointment, and be reconciled, in time, to a marriage to which his consent could never have been obtained. 
               But his father was even then sleeping his last sleep in the family vault. And Mr. Clifton, on his return, found neither welcome nor reproof awaiting him from the parent whom no penitence or remorse could restore. 
               He was now the owner of broad lands, on which rested a heavy debt,-a debt he was powerless to cancel; but he turned indignantly from his mother, when she informed him that it had been her husband's wish that he should marry his wealthy cousin, destined from her cradle to be his bride. 
               "My hand and heart must go together," he answered sternly; but when he found that his marriage with Miss Clifton was necessary to keep his father's name from disgrace, he yielded to his mother's prayers and entreaties, and made the last few years of her life happy. 
               She never dreamed of the sacrifice he made, or the sin he committed, and died, blessing him, and leaving him, as she thought, the happy possessor of wealth, and all the world could offer to make him blest. 
               Life was to him then a picture from which the coloring was taken; but as years passed, he grew reconciled to his fate, and became a worldly, fashionable man, to whom sentiment was a stranger. 
               When he found his marriage, or disgrace, to the proud name of Clifton inevitable, he arranged with a banker in New York to forward to Beatrice, yearly, a sum of money that would keep her in luxury. He then resolutely determined to forget the past, as he trusted she would do, when she knew their separation was eternal. 
               He vanished as completely from her path as a meteor passes from the sky; and the recollection of her faded as the years rolled on, and he grew to like his prosaic life. 
               The romance of his youth faded with his love, and the dreamer who expected to live, an Arcadian, became a complete man of the world, prizing its hollow mockeries, and the brightest ornament of its most glittering circles. 
               It had been long years since he thought of those early days, except to smile at his folly. But now old recollections came thronging back, and the present glowed with lines borrowed from the past. 
               Suddenly he remembered a little rocky ledge, overlooking a beautiful ravine;-he had loved it in boyhood, and there was a spot in Italy that recalled it. It would be pleasant to sit there once more, since he had allowed himself the folly of dreaming. He dismounted, and leaving his horse to graze at will, walked slowly on, absorbed in early visions that thronged with a delicious freshness that quickened his pulses. 
               He clambered up the rocks, and seated himself in a mossy nook sheltered by laurels, and fragrant with the odor of wintergreen and pink arbutus. The illusion was perfect; the daisies raised their tiny blossoms above the green turf, and the glossy laurels gave a glimpse of the blue sky above, and shut out the brilliant hues of the forest-trees. 
               It was a peep into the Elysium of old, and he rejoiced in it as one who after wandering in the desert, finds an oasis, and quenches his thirst with the sparkling waters. 
                
               There was a rustling of the bushes at the foot of the rocks, and with a sigh for the dream so rudely dispelled, he parted the laurel hedge, an looked down. A mist covered his eyes,-had his senses left him, or was he dreaming?-for there before him was Beatrice, beautiful as when he saw her last,-her long hair sweeping over her superb figure, and the rich crimson flushing her cheeks, as when he sat beside her at Rome, eighteen years before. 
               He covered his face with his hands, and it was long before he could look again. She had thrown herself down against the rugged rock, and her face was shaded by heavy masses of hair. She was talking between her sobs, in the soft Italian tongue, that thrilled his veins like an old and once-loved strain of music;-now murmuring his name softly, and again, with all the wild vehemence of her clime, blaming herself for loving one so false and treacherous. And then she took a little paper from her bosom, a half-worn note, yellow with age. 
               It was the note written by him before his marriage, telling her to forget him, and be happy; that a fate he was powerless to resist separated them, and he was henceforth dead to her. But his love would be hers until they met in the land of shadows. 
               He could recall the words, long ago as they had been written. There are some remembrances time is powerless to crush. 
               The note was blistered by her tears, and she kissed it again and again, and pressed it to her heart,-telling the pathetic story of her wanderings, as if it were a living thing, and could understand and pity her,-telling of hopeless years of waiting, and weary wanderings in crowded cities and dusty plains,-how Galatina at last proposed her joining the band of Gipsies to which her mother once belonged; and how, after her toilsome wanderings, she had found him-alas! wedded to another. 
                
               Her grief and despair at this proof of his falsity were lost in the fear that Galatina would discover her lover's perfidy, and avenge her wrong. 
               Her anger melted at the thought of his danger; she was all a woman then, and only remembered she loved him, and how kind he had been in the olden days. At last she became quite calm, and began humming a little song he had taught her,- 
                      
                        "Like the fawn, who finds the fountain 
                        With an arrow in his breast; 
                        Or like the rain upon the mountain, 
                        Where the snows must ever rest." 
                     
                  
                
               The aptness of the words to her own case seemed to strike her suddenly. Her exquisite voice faltered, and she wept like a tired child, her head resting against the rough rock, and her face partly visible, and pale, and sorrowful. 
               Time has wrought many changes. He is a very conqueror. Cities and palaces tremble at his touch, but mortals seem his surest prey. 
               The maiden in her tender beauty, and manhood in his prime, must bow before him; but although he can change the glossy hair, and palsy the firm, vigorous step, there is one thing he is powerless to do,-he cannot destroy the first pure love that wakens us into new being. 
               He may seemingly obliterate it, and pile high over it the ruins of other's hopes,-"but like truth in the bottom of the well," it shines brightly amid the rubbish. 
               Mr. Clifton's love had lain for years covered with the rubbish of worldly cares and pleasures, but at sight of Beatrice it burst fourth again, overthrowing every barrier, and pervading his whole being. 
               There is a little poem that tells of a minstrel who loved a titled maiden, so far above him that she would have fallen like the lost Pleiad had she wed him, and so he left her. 
                
               She gave him her hand at parting, and long years after, when he was old, and blind with age, she landed on the shore where he was tuning his harp to the melancholy dirge of the waves that parted them half at century before, and he knew her by the touch of her hand. 
               Mr. Clifton could not go to Beatrice, and comfort her as the high-born lad did the poor minstrel, though his love was only equalled by his pity for all she had suffered. His heart ached to shield and comfort her once more, and the love so long suppressed burst forth warm and passionate as in his early youth. 
               He was not a very good man, but he was too honorable to the wife who had so long shared his name, repaired his fortune, and loved him as much as she could any one, to forget the respect due her. 
               Pride was, after all, the strongest impulse of his nature; he had married his cousin, and given up the woman he loved, to keep his father's memory from being dishonored by the knowledge that would have otherwise been public that he had used a portion of the fortune intrusted to his care,-and he now left the woman whose life he had blighted, without one word of kindness, although his presence would have repaid her for weary years. 
               He stole quietly away when she had fallen into a heavy sleep from sheer exhaustion, and like one in a dream mounted his horse and turned on his homeward way. 
               There was but one course to pursue: he must leave his home quietly, and without a clue by which he might be traced. Beatrice was not legally his wife; but the fact that she had the shadow of a claim to his protection, involved as long a train of evils as the most formal marriage contract. 
               There arose before him a revolting picture of a separation from his wife, and the obloquy and disgrace that would attach to a name he had sacrificed all the hopes of his youth to retain unsullied. 
               Of late years he had looked upon his boyish affair as a youthful misdemeanor, and his legal marriage as a step toward reformation; but now he felt the sin in all its horror. The vows he made to Beatrice had been registered in heaven, and love had sanctified them. 
               It was his first wrong step, and involved all the train of misery that followed; and that, slumbering for a time, seemed only to have been accumulating strength to burst with ruin on his head. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE gray shadows of early twilight were closing round Mr. Clifton as he entered the gate leading to his house. The massive pile loomed up dimly through the gathering darkness, and seemed to him an omen of the troubles that, clustering thick and fast, seemed to close around his ill-fated destiny. 
               He might have accepted the light that soon flashed brightly from every window as a pleasant omen; but he was too depressed to imagine anything but trouble for his future lot. 
               It was not alone the disgraceful error of his youth that was about to involve his haughty wife and beautiful daughter in its terrible consequences, but the shock of seeing in all its wickedness the sin he then committed so lightly. 
               Could he alone expiate the error, he would think any punishment but justly merited, for had he not made one life miserable? but the disgrace he tried to avert by a crime, like the sword of Damocles, was now suspended over his head, and would involve all he loved in the ruin. 
               He had no time to indulge in useless repinings; the name he risked so much to save, must not be sacrificed now, and his sudden departure would be the only way to avert the danger if he failed; but no! he would not contemplate the possibility of failure, or think of Beatrice alone in her sorrow,-Beatrice, to whom he could not be true without being false to his most sacred duties. 
               There were but five hours for preparation, as the express-train was due at twelve. 
                
               Supper was waiting, the servant informed him, and to his great relief he found, upon inquiry, there were no guests. 
               He ordered some tea in the library, and paused at the door to tell the servant, "the family would be at home to no visitors that evening." Mrs. Clifton's surprise at this order, of which she was promptly informed, was extreme, and scarcely left room for disappointment, though an evening spent alone was an unheard-of calamity. 
               Society was the one excitement of her life; and even in a city it would have been difficult to find more elegance and aristocracy than were comprised in the exclusive circle-of which she was a shining ornament-for which the picturesque little town was noted. 
               Mrs. Clifton was simply an ornament, for she could never be said to converse, but she could listen agreeably; and her faultless taste in dress, and the exquisite repose of her manner, gave character and interest to her haughty face. 
               She could almost have been called animated for once, as she entered the library eager to know the cause for an order so singular. 
               Her husband was so absorbed with papers strewn on the table before him, that he did not notice her entrance, and she was by his side and had laid her hand on his arm to arrest his attention, before he stirred. He looked up at the sound of her voice, and a shade of remorse crossed his face as he noted her delicate beauty; was it the flush in her usually colorless cheek, or the black velvet and diamonds that made her so radiant? How little he had prized her love, or brightened her existence! He bent and pressed his lips with a remorseful tenderness to the white, jewelled hand resting on his arm, and there was a something in his voice she had never heard before, not even in the early days of marriage, as he said gently, forgetting he had not informed her of the sudden change in his plans,- 
                
               "I am too busy to talk to you, Florence-our time is limited." 
               The unusual caress, and her unfeigned surprise, deepened the flush on her cheek; she scarcely noted the tone, though memory recalled it, after a time, with thrilling exactness. 
               "Surprise" absorbed every other faculty. If insanity had been in the Clifton family, she would have thought him insane; as it was, she could only look at him and wonder. Her amazed face recalled him to his senses, and in as few words as possible, he informed her of his intended departure and the short time allowed her for preparation. 
               She was completely overwhelmed by the intelligence, and ventured a faint remonstrance. 
               "She had issued cards for a dinner-party the last of the week." Mr. Clifton assured her that his business admitted of no delay; but her despairing look, as she pronounced her inability to be ready so soon, and her helpless, dejected air, proved very conclusively the truth of her statement. 
               His impatient exclamation added the finishing stroke to her perplexities, and she burst into a flood of tears. 
               It was impossible to try argument, or even entreaty, at this crisis, and hysterics seemed inevitable. There was no recourse but to act without Mrs. Clifton's assistance or concurrence. So he rang for the housekeeper and gave directions for Mrs. Clifton's wardrobe to be gotten ready immediately for a long journey-and soon all was bustle and confusion. No one dared to ask a question, and Mr. Clifton stood calmly at the library-door, issuing orders, and apparently unmoved by the sobs that occasionally reached his ear from the lounge where his wife had taken refuge. 
               The bustle and hurrying to and fro startled Mabel, who had gone directly to her own room on leaving the grove, and she opened her door and inquired into the cause of the tumult. 
                
               The housekeeper was passing with some dresses on her arm, and could only say: "Mr. and Mrs. Clifton were going abroad, that was all she knew." 
               Mabel hurried down to the library, almost breathless with joy; she would not allow herself to believe she could be left behind. Mr. Clifton was again at his writing-desk. he pushed aside his papers and looked up with a shade of impatience in his manner, as Mabel stood before him, flushed and eager. 
               "Is it true, father, are we really going?" He felt proud of his beautiful daughter, and his heart sank at the thought of her ever knowing of the disgrace threatening the name she bore so regally. 
               He did not answer at once; perhaps it would be best to urge her marriage with Mr. Melville. 
               If Beatrice, insisting upon the legality of the ceremony performed several months before his marriage with Mabel's mother, should follow him, his life would not be a pleasant one for a brilliant young girl to share. He would be obliged to live quietly, and flee from place to place, to elude the search of Beatrice, as if he were a second Cain. 
               Mabel's heart throbbed with apprehension; his silence was death to her hopes, and she sank into a chair, almost fainting with disappointment, her eyes fixed eagerly on her father's pale, wan face. 
               He looked up at last, and said abruptly: "Mabel, we are leaving the United States forever; do you still wish to go with us?" 
               "Forever-" faltered Mabel, and she looked the inquiry his stern face deterred her from making. 
               "There is no time to spend in answering questions-If you wish to fulfil your engagement to Mr. Melville-" 
               "Wish!-I would rather die!" Mabel said eagerly. 
               "Very well, there is nothing more to be said;" and he looked at his watch. "It is now after ten; the carriage will be at the door before twelve. I have no time to answer questions," he said, wearily, as she still hesitated; and feeling that she had little time for preparation, Mabel hurried from the room. 
               Mrs. Clifton had by this time recovered her usual haughty composure, and, relieved from the responsibility of preparation, that had seemed so overwhelming, decided to yield gracefully to the fate that obliged her to undertake a foreign tour without the grand outfit she had always considered indispensable. 
               Besides, the peril threatening her dresses and other treasures; laces, jewels, etc., if packed without her supervision, and the horrible thought that some might be left, restored her to sudden animation, and she followed Mabel from the room with more vivacity than she had shown since her preparations for her own bridal, nearly eighteen years before. 
               Mabel's step was not elastic, although her two greatest desires had been answered as if by magic. 
               She was going to Europe. And she was at liberty to free herself from her engagement. She was not so sure now that freedom was desirable, or that she had not gone too far to recede. Would she ever find any one so kind as Mr. Melville? Would it, after all, be pleasant to win love she could not return? Her afternoon's experience made her doubtful; and her father's manner had been so strange, it filled her mind with dread forebodings. Her tour might not be a triumphal one. The commencement was surely ominous-so sudden and inexplicable. 
               It was a trial to part with Alice; harder than she had dreamed. And if she tried to picture the brilliant future that had once seemed so tempting, Laurence Melville's parting words-"May Heaven bless you, my darling, and make you as happy as you have this day made me,"-chilled her blood with a fear, lest they should prove a curse instead of a blessing. 
               She sat motionless in the midst of the confusion and packing of trunks; good and evil so inexplicably united, ambition and friendship, and fear and remorse, making such a pandemonium in her mind, that decision was impossible. 
               She would see her father, and ask him "why he wished her to marry Laurence Melville?" And his answer should decide her conduct. 
               She hurried to the library; it was empty. She made inquiries of several of the servants; they had supposed Mr. Clifton still writing. While she hesitated what course to pursue, the coachman came with a message for Mrs. Clifton. The message decided her destiny, and yet it was simply "that Mr. Clifton would meet his wife at the depot." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               AN expression of intense relief crossed Mr. Clifton's face as the door closed on his wife's retreating figure, and hastily thrusting the papers into various little compartments of his desk, he locked them securely, and after a little hesitation drew writing-material toward him, and wrote in a clear, legible hand, but with great rapidity; and without stopping to read what he had written, hurried from the room, and through a side entrance to the broad gravel walk leading to the stables. 
               The moon streamed brightly on his path, and lighted each familiar object. But he did not pause to note the beauty around him, or think of how many months would come and go before he could return again. 
               His favorite horse reared and plunged in the hands of the groom, who was leading him up and down the avenue. The spirited animal gave a neigh of recognition at sight of his master, and became suddenly docile. 
               Mr. Clifton stroked his shining arched neck, but his hand trembled slightly. He was wondering if Selim was equal to the emergency; and the ditches and fences in the way rose before him with appalling vividness. 
               They were deep and high enough to startle a person of firmer nerves than his own, strung as they were to the highest tension by the events of the last four hours. 
               With hasty parting directions, he mounted, and turned slowly in the direction of the hills that shone mistily in the distance. 
               His heart was heavy with the shadow of some impending calamity. Could it be death? 
                
               He stopped, and drawing a letter from his pocket and tearing off the blank page, wrote rapidly in Italian, which language Mabel understood perfectly:- 
               "If I do not meet you at the depot, proceed without me; and wait one day at--. I will meet you there if living. My bank-book will show you all my available means, until the rents are collected. May heaven bless you both." 
               He feared he had not been explicit enough; but there was no time for further delay. They would be prepared in case of any accident to himself, otherwise they would never see the note. 
               He beckoned the coachman to him, and said hurriedly: 
               "Deliver my message to Mrs. Clifton as directed. But if I am not at the depot in time for the train, give her this note. In case I am left, I can ride on to the next station. Remember, do not give her the note until the last moment." 
               The man promised compliance; and Mr. Clifton, with a hurried good-bye, rode rapidly away. 
               He had not glanced at his beautiful home, though it rose from amid the emerald shrubbery and misty fountains-like an enchanted palace,-its turrets glittering in the moonlight, and every beauty softened into a new grace. 
               There was a ride before him from which he might never return, and he could not look on a scene that would weaken his arm and dim his sight,-both must be steady. 
               It was a sudden resolution that prompted the hazardous ride. It would not be safe to risk the possibility of Beatrice attempting to follow him, without betraying her claim to his protection. 
               He must see her, if possible, or at least write; and as there was no one he dared trust, to go in person to the Gipsy camp was his only alternative. 
               He remembered a near way to the spot where he had seen Beatrice. The road was wild and dangerous even by daylight; but death was preferable to disgrace, and the shorter road saved half the distance. 
               He stuck spurs into the sides of his horse, and away they dashed, cutting the air in their rapid flight, and leaving the town far behind. The forest was reached, and the darkness closed around them, and still they dashed on over fallen trees, and across deep gullies that looked black and yawning and impassable. 
               But the noble horse never faltered, and Mr. Clifton stopped the panting animal as he reached the wood near the rocky ledge where he had hoped to dream of the past, and found an avenging Nemesis in the pleasant memories. 
               He dismounted, and emerging into the soft moonlight, looked at his watch. The three miles had been traversed in a little over ten minutes. 
               With a sudden feeling of relief, he decided that he had ample time to return by the road. It was as if he had taken a new lease of life, and, more hopefully than he had thought it possible to be, he walked rapidly toward the spot where he had left Beatrice. 
               There was not time for the joy that thrilled his pulses to subside, as he stepped cautiously round the foot of the cliff, and saw before him the object of his wishes, and the woman he had once loved more than wealth or ambition, and only less than pride. 
               She was sleeping tranquilly on a rude couch fantastically constructed of branches. It was cushioned with luxurious skins of the leopard and tiger, and sheltered from the night-air and the glaring moonlight by a canopy of rich shawls. 
               Far away over the meadow rose the smoke of the Gipsy camp, and shouts of merriment, mingled with snatches of rude melody, came softened by the distance. 
                
               Galatina lay out in the broad moonlight, his rugged features showing in bold relief, and changed and wrinkled with age. 
               Mr. Clifton drew the note from his pocket, and with his eyes still fixed on the sleeping figure of Galatina, drew cautiously near the couch. Once there, he was comparatively safe, for the canopy shrouded him from observation. 
               And he forgot the trusty sentinel, whose weapons glittered in the moonlight, and whom it might be death to waken; forgot that each moment was precious; and only remembered that he was beside the woman he once loved, and who still had power to thrill his pulses with all the fervor of youth. 
               He drew aside the heavily fringed drapery, and Beatrice was revealed, her face pallid and sorrowful, and lines of care around her mouth. 
               The rich color he admired so much in the olden days, and which had given her such a startling beauty, was all faded. A faint crimson tinged her lips; but for that, and the gentle breathing, he would have fancied it a pulseless form before him, from whence the spirit had flown. 
               His lost youth came back, and the fresh, pure love that brightened that glorious spring-time, as he gazed with rapture on the dear face before him; and then the weary years flowed between, and the cares and ambitions of manhood 
                     "Brushed from life's flowers the dew"
                   of youth;-yet the love remained, even when the present, with its sombre touch, blotted out the borrowed light, and he wakened to the chilling fact of his lost youth and his lost love, and the weakness and folly to which he had yielded. 
               Beatrice stirred in her sleep, and a sudden smile parted her beautiful lips, and the olden beauty returned for a moment, as she murmured softly,-"Edward." 
                
               The smile faded, and her face was again calmly sorrowful; and pinning the note to her sleeve, he took a long, lingering look, and stooped and pressed his lips to hers with a tenderness as mournful and solemn as when we take our last farewell of a loved friend whom death has parted from us. 
               He paused again in the moonlight, and it only wanted fifteen minutes until the train was due; with a dreary calmness he decided to return by the shorter road. Had it not been for his madness in writing that note, it would not be necessary. 
               What fiend had prompted him to write those lines?-If it were only his wife who would read them, it would be of little consequence; she trusted him too implicitly to question his movements; besides, he intended to tell her everything in the future, that was to atone for all his past indifference. But he owed Mabel no confidence, and could trust neither to her discretion nor filial tenderness. 
               He remounted his horse and dashed again into the forest, as if life and death depended on his speed. 
               Every impediment the darkness made doubly dangerous, had been safely passed, and there was but one more obstacle, and the open country lay before him tranquil and beautiful. 
               "Surely, my good angel must have cared for me," he thought, as he glanced behind him to the forest, black as Erebus. 
               He pressed his horse onward to the precipice that lay between himself and safety-like a narrow line of darkness. There was a wild plunge-a scramble on the opposite bank, and a confused feeling as if heaven and earth were meeting,-and horse and rider were lying among the rocks and tangled weeds that swallowed them, as the ocean does its victims. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE morning dawned bright and cloudless, and the breakfast-bell startled Laurence Melville from happy dreams in which his betrothed stood smilingly by, while an angel with a face singularly like Annie Raymond's crowned him with a wreath of laurels. 
               But his first thought was of Alice, whose recovery was so necessary to all his hopes. 
               She was not in her room; and scarcely daring to hope for a confirmation of his pleasant surmise, he threw open the door of the breakfast-parlor, and she was sitting in her accustomed place. She smiled a welcome, as he bent over her drooping figure, his face flushed and radiant with happiness. 
               She was pale and languid, but so glad to know that Mabel and himself were reconciled, and to listen to his plans for the future, that, deceived by her interest and animation, he failed to notice that her breakfast was untouched, and seeing her happy, was too willing to believe her well. 
               "You will not mind my leaving you, little sister," he said, as the old clock on the stair chimed the hour of ten. He had drawn her easy-chair to the window after breakfast, and talking of his betrothed, the time had flown on golden wings. 
               Alice raised her pretty, childish face from his arm. 
               "Of course not, Laurence; but I had forgotten that stupid office." 
               "But it is not the office this morning, Alice," laughed her brother; "I intend to reverse the old proverb which places business before pleasure." Alice smiled brightly and said, "she would also reverse the proverb, and finish a letter to Clarence," (a ward of Mr. Melville's, who was studying at one of the German universities.) 
               Her brother brought her writing-materials to the cosy window-seat, and as he kissed her good-bye whispered mischievously: 
               "Remember, Alice, that Clarence is not to interfere or enter the lists with Mabel and myself; you belong wholly to us;" and without marking the faint blush that tinged her cheek, he hurried away, whistling as he went,-rather an unusual proceeding, but he had, somehow, never felt so wireless and light-hearted before. 
               Impatience gave wings to his footsteps, and, half smiling at his impetuous eagerness, he entered the avenue leading to Mr. Clifton's residence. 
               The birds warbled their gayest carols as they flitted among the evergreens, and the sunshine mingled with the spray of the fountains and glittered like myriads of diamonds; but the house had, somehow, a chill, deserted look, and the gay flowers that bloomed on the terrace and parterre could not atone for the want of life that oppressed him with a sudden thrill of apprehension as he ascended the marble steps and rang the bell. 
               The housekeeper came after some delay, instead of the usual servant-a maid of Miss Clifton's. She looked tired and a little flurried as, in answer to his request "to see Miss Clifton," she told him "that her young lady, in fact the whole family, left the night before in the express train, and did not expect to return for years." 
               Mr. Melville stared at her in blank dismay, unable, at first, to comprehend the extent of the evil that stunned him with its suddenness. 
               The housekeeper, frightened at his pallor, hurried for a glass of wine; he had not entered the house, but was leaning against the doorway, the changeless pallor still on his face. He drank the wine mechanically, but refused the chair she offered; and not daring to speak the compassion her honest motherly countenance and tearful eyes betrayed, she slipped a note into his rigid hand. He glanced up inquiringly. 
               "Miss Clifton left it for you," she answered, glad of an opportunity to speak, and she could not help adding,- 
               "I think Miss Clifton had no idea of going until last night. She seemed very much put out and in a maze like; it was all Mr. Clifton's doing, I am sure. Mr. Melville received her attempts at consolation with the same stony composure with which he had listened to her first intelligence, and without daring to trust himself to speak, he bowed silently and walked away. He seemed like a person under the influence of a horrible dream, where the faculties are paralyzed. 
               He did not go home, but wandered off among the thick shrubbery, and seated himself where the heavy branches formed an impenetrable screen. 
               It was long before he found courage to read the lines he felt would decide his destiny; and then, with the note open before him, he would not allow himself to glance at the contents, until he had conquered every hope, and was prepared for the worst. 
               Mabel wrote:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "If sincere regret could remedy the past, the task of writing a farewell would not be so painful. 
                           "I accepted you wholly at my father's command, and his sudden departure leaves me no other alternative than to release you from an engagement which, if fulfilled, would not add to your happiness or my own. 
                           "Will you ask Alice not to hate me, and to believe that parting with her causes the only pang that I feel in leaving home, and that no friend in the future can fill her place in the heart of 
                           
                              MABEL CLIFTON."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               And this was all-she had never loved him-and the dream was over. 
               The paper fell from his nerveless fingers, and fluttered at his feet; but the name Mabel Clifton, traced in delicate letters, rivetted his attention,-the beautiful name of the woman who had received his truest affection, and given him in return-not even a kindly thought. He had staked his all, and lost, and there was nothing left but endurance. 
               Hours passed-the angelus from the village spire broke the stillness of the afternoon with its clear mellow peal, and he raised his pale face trustingly to the blue sky. The disappointment might crush, but it could not conquer him. Alone during the long hours he had struggled with his disappointment, and had risen above it. 
               Mabel was dead to him, but the future was all before him. The one star fallen from his summer sky should not blind him to the many blessings of his life, though it left a darkness that no hope would ever brighten. 
               The sweet, bewildering dream was past, and would never thrill him again into unconsciousness of his duty; but there was a calm happiness in his reach, that looked very inviting after the fierce turmoil of bliss and despair that had marked his stormy, lone voyage. 
               It was very like the hope that comes to us at times after some trial, when, weary of the struggle between hope and fear, we look forward yearningly to a quiet nook in the church-yard, and the green grave with the violets smiling from the turf, and the drooping trees moaning above the dreamless sleeper seems a pleasant ending to the cares of life, and comforts us like the mother's low lullaby does her sleeping child. 
               He rose from his seat among the evergreens, and walked slowly toward the avenue leading to the gate, so absorbed in thought that he brushed against a lady who had risen from a rustic seat at his approach. He would not have been aware of her presence even then, had she not uttered an exclamation. 
               She was so beautiful, and appeared so unexpectedly, and altogether it was so strange to meet any one in that quiet spot, that he stopped in mute surprise. 
               Her face was pale, and the sad expression was somehow at variance with her ebon hair and flashing animated features. 
               She looked at him with a haughty, half-startled air, and recovering his self-possession, he uttered a hasty apology, and was about to pass on, when she made a gesture as if she would speak to him. He awaited her commands with surprise and curiosity as her agitation increased. Her voice was quite silvery, and although she hesitated as if to speak was a painful effort, the words were commonplace enough. 
               "Are you acquainted with Mr. Clifton's family?" 
               Nothing she could have said would have so startled Mr. Melville,-a flush rose to his cheeks, and his agitation almost equalled her own, as he stammered in confusion,- 
               "Very intimately-that is, I was. They are not at home now, however." 
               "Yes, I know," she interrupted, and without noticing his embarrassment. "But I have a favor to ask of you. I am a stranger, and to-morrow will leave this place forever. I have a reason I cannot explain for wishing to go over the house. Could you gain me admission?" 
               She approached him in her eagerness, and looked in his face with a frightened anxiety, as if her life depended on his answer. 
               It was so singular a request that he would have smiled at its absurdity, had her manner been less earnest. 
               She seemed to take his silence as a denial, and her mournful tone, and the tears in her beautiful eyes, melted his heart completely. 
               "Oh, you will not refuse me so small a request,-if you knew all, you could not. I have come so far, and in vain,-do not refuse me!" 
               A stoic could not have resisted the pathos in her tone and tearful face, and Laurence Melville, whose chivalric devotion to women was a part of his nature, yielded at once, although he half feared he was dealing with a lunatic. 
               She did not thank him in words, but her look spoke volumes. 
               She refused his proffered arm, and they walked silently toward the house,-both absorbed in thought;-her face was shrouded by her veil, but he noticed with admiration her elegant figure, and the graceful folds of her dark cloth travelling dress and mantle. 
               She was evidently a lady, and he decided that she was probably a relative of the family, and that her singularity was the effect of her foreign habits;-to suppose her an American was impossible. 
               The housekeeper again answered the bell, and her look of surprise was lost in delight at the advent of a visitor, to whom she could do the honors in the absence of the family. 
               She had not listened to Mr. Melville's rather imaginative and not very lucid introduction, and rapidly drew her own conclusions, which were as follows:- 
               "That the foreign lady coming unexpectedly, and Mr. and Mrs. Clifton absent, must be treated with the most distinguished courtesy;" accordingly, she escorted her to the parlor with the most obsequious politeness, with numerous apologies for the disorder, and regrets that the family were not there to welcome her, and only ended her harangue to ring for servants and order a room prepared immediately. 
                
               Our ci-devant Gipsy, whom the reader has probably recognized, now entered a faint protest. Her color came and went, and her voice was almost inaudible from agitation, and she looked imploringly at Mr. Melville, who attempted to explain "that she would, perhaps, prefer returning to the hotel, as she only intended staying over night." 
               But the worthy housekeeper was aghast at the supposition, and protested "she would never dare look Mr. Clifton in the face, after allowing a visitor to stay at the hotel," and with a reproachful glance at Mr. Melville, she left the room on hospitable thoughts intent. 
               Mr. Melville's dilemma was at its height; and he was taking a "penitential survey" of his temerity, in introducing a stranger, whose very request was suspicious, when the unconscious object of his thoughts came close to his side. 
               "I think I will stay over-night here," she said eagerly. "It will do no harm, and will be a great pleasure." She paused, as if to await his answer; and he was again a victim to her dark, imploring eyes, while mentally execrating his weakness. And she again thanked him, not with her eyes only, for she held out her beautiful hand, saying softly,- 
               "I have not known many friends, and I found but one faithful; but when I am tempted to think hardly of the world, I will remember your kindness, and trust to a stranger. I do not know your name, but I will never forget you; and may the blessed Virgin bless you always." 
               She stopped suddenly, and pressed her lips to his hand, and then turned to the window. 
               With hesitating steps he left the house, and looking back, he caught a last glimpse of her beautiful face and elegant figure; and she waved her hand in farewell. 
               He never saw her again in all the future, and the mystery with which he invested her was a mystery to which time gave him no clue. 
               At the gate he met a swarthy elderly man, whose air betrayed him to be a foreigner. 
               A suspicion flashed across Mr. Melville's mind, of which he was directly ashamed, that this man was an accomplice of the siren who had so enchanted him; and that it was a cunningly arranged plan to rob. 
               But the face before him was so honest, that he decided it could be trusted; and the frank voice dispelled all his doubts. 
               "He was looking for his mistress," he explained. "Had his Excellency seen a lady walking in the grounds?" 
               Mr. Melville directed him to the house, and went on to his quiet home, where he struggled to learn the difficult lessons that must come to us all, before we can know contentment and real peace, namely that,- 
                      
                        "Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, 
                        Is our destined end, or way, 
                        But to live, that each to-morrow 
                        Finds us further than to-day." 
                     
                  
                
               Although the knowledge that Annie Raymond loved him, and her kind gentleness, came gratefully as a vision of pleasant shores to the weary mariner, yet it was long before it brought repose to his heart; and when winter had succeeded autumn, and springs awakened the flowers, and brought again the birds, he stood with Annie Raymond under the vine-shaded portico, and asked her to be his wife, there was a shadow on his heart that the frank face raised so trustingly could not dispel. 
               She was dear to him, and she would each day become dearer and more precious; and her presence would bring light and gladness to his quiet home, and cheer Alice, who was sad and drooping; he felt he ought to be happy, and yet he was not. He had turned his face from Annie, and almost forgotten her presence, but he started as she put her little hand shyly into his, and tried to look cheerful. Her rosy lips were smiling, but there were tears in her brown eyes as she raised them suddenly and looked at him with a wistful, loving expression, as if she understood his trouble and longed to comfort him. Her unselfish love added another link to his affection, and there were no shadows in the past that would be so dark to him as the future without her smiles and love. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               BEATRICE almost felt repaid for the long, tiresome years of waiting, as she wandered from room to room, thinking how lately the eyes she loved so well had surveyed the same objects. 
               He was gone; but every picture gave evidence of his taste, and his presence seemed to linger and charm the very air with thrilling memories of the olden time. 
               For eighteen years she had lived but for one object-to see him again. At first, in the peaceful seclusion of her cottage home, she studied and read with a fond ambition to become learned for his sake; knowing as little of the busy world ebbing and flowing around her, as did the innocent, childlike sisters who had petted and fondled her from childhood. But as the years rolled on, there were changes even in her monotonous life. The sisters were, some of them, removed to another convent, and others passed tranquilly to that bourne from whence no traveller returns. The beautiful cypress wood, so sacred to the memory of her recreant lover, was swept away to make room for stately dwellings, whose massive gray walls frowned darkly on her pretty cottage. Then, weary of books, and weary of suspense, she decided to go forth into the wide world, and never return to her home until the suspense that was becoming each day harder to endure was ended. 
               On a beautiful October morning, thousands of miles from her native land, her waiting ended; and she knew that the Edward Clifton, whose smiles had once been the sunshine of her life, to whom she had plighted her vows, was false. 
               But there was no bitterness in her heart now; the storm of sorrow had passed; and though hope was at an end, there was peace and rest at last. 
               She wakened that morning-the first that had dawned on her trouble-from a thrilling dream of the beautiful long ago, when Edward Clifton loved her; and before the remembrance of his desertion could break in upon her happiness, her eye fell on the note pinned to her sleeve; she opened it and read with quickening pulses:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MIA BEATRICE:-I saw you this afternoon, lovely as when we knelt together in Rome eighteen years ago, and I loved you as well. But, my Beatrice, other and more solemn vows have been sanctioned since then. 
                           "My honor-my life-is in your hands. 
                           "If you bring forward our marriage, (which was not legal,) you disgrace the woman who for eighteen years has borne my name-disgrace my child, and ruin me. 
                           "You who so dearly love the father and mother you cannot even remember, will pity me, when I tell you that my mother's broken heart would have followed me like a curse through life, and my dead father's name been a byword and reproach, had I been true to you. 
                           "My destiny is in your hands,-for, hear me swear most solemnly, I will never live to be disgraced! 
                           "You can destroy me for this world, and for eternity. But I cannot believe you would injure me; and for the sake of the love we once felt, let me ask you to return to your home, and be happy. In one year, if my life is spared, I will see you-wait for me there. 
                           
                              EDWARD."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Strange as it may seem, the few hurried, incoherent lines soothed her almost as if it had been his real presence. 
                
               He had been beside her, loved her still, and he had not deserted her wilfully. That was the greatest comfort, and although she wept, her heart was softened. 
               Her love and reverence for her parents was one of the dearest impulses of her nature; and she could pity Edward, who had sacrificed happiness and love to save his father's name from disgrace and his mother from a broken heart. She sorrowed still, but it was a quiet sorrow that gave her new dignity. 
               When Galatina joined her, she told him all the events of the day and night that ended the wanderings of years, and then she said kindly, "We will return to dear Italy, never to leave it again; and you shall have the repose you so much need, my good, faithful friend." 
               Galatina looked inquiringly into her face, and she smiled through her gathering tears, as she answered "that she would be happy, he need not fear." 
               Galatina was not so confident; but he was delighted at the prospect of returning to their quiet cottage. He had soon tired of his roaming life, and it was a daily trial to see his beloved mistress deprived of her usual comforts. 
               The arrangements for their departure were soon made, and they left forever the Gipsy camp. 
               Beatrice wandered through the beautiful rooms that should have been her own, in a kind of dream that was half bliss and half agony; but when she was alone in her room, away from the prying eyes of officious servants, she gave herself up to the passionate love and despair and regret swelling at her heart, as she knelt beside the low window-seat, and looked out on the beautiful grounds shimmering in the soft moonlight, thinking how often Mr. Clifton sat in the self-same spot, and smiled on the beauty she now beheld, and of the time when she should see him again; was there no vision of the tangled ravine, where he was lying with his white face upturned to the cloudless sky, when in a peaceful dream she had forgotten her cares and troubles. 
               Love is powerless to shield beloved ones, and it is seldom that a warning, or even a shiver or shrinking of the frame, tells us of the danger threatening one we would give our life to save. 
               Beatrice kept her vigils through the long night, and the morning dawned clear and beautiful; but she could not hail its coming, or rejoice in its loveliness, for she must leave the only spot on earth filled with memories that could throw some bliss on the darkness of her life. 
               Alice turned her face from the brightness, and wept in utter desolation of spirit for the friend, she had lost; and Mabel rode through the wakening streets of a strange city, with a deadly fear chilling her veins, and her beautiful face sharpened with the shadow of coming trials. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               MRS. CLIFTON and Mabel, who had several days before been at the very pinnacle of worldly prosperity and happiness, were now alone and friendless in a strange city. 
               The day was mild and lovely, and the sunshine lighted up the busy streets, and shone brightly in dusky nooks and cheerless corners; but there was one darkened room to which it brought no comfort. 
               Mrs. Clifton was lying on the bed weeping and moaning in her despair; but Mabel, prouder and colder than ever, sat upright, her cheek bloodless and her hands tightly clasped. 
               At last she turned sternly toward her mother. 
               "Mamma, it is useless to talk of returning home. It will only be to publish our disgrace. We are deserted and penniless. Three thousand dollars, but a mere pittance, is the extent of our means. To remain here is impossible. We will go West at once, and change our names. Do you hear, mamma?" 
               Mrs. Clifton started up nervously. 
               "O Mabel! and if your father-" 
               Mabel rose like a beautiful fiend, and stood before her. 
               "I will not hear that name again. He has cancelled all claim to our affection and respect, in deserting us. I would rather die than see him again. Oh! it is too horrible to think of;" and she covered her face and moaned despairingly. 
               After a while she grew more composed, and taking a chair, sat down by her mother's side. 
                
               "I can understand why my marriage with Laurence Melville was so desirable. It is too late now to think of it!" she said coldly, as a gleam of hope lighted Mrs. Clifton's face. 
               "Nothing would induce me to return home, where our disgrace is the theme of every tongue." 
               "Mabel, I will not believe your father has deserted us. O Mabel! listen to me; let us return and inquire!" 
               Mabel's very lips grew white with passion, and she brought a fragment of a note from her secretaire. 
               It was the note Mr. Clifton left in case he did not reach the depot in time. 
               The coachman thrust it into the window as the train was about to start; and Mrs. Clifton, thinking it was a bill, had thrown it carelessly into the luncheon-basket, and forgotten having received it until in the midst of her distress at Mr. Clifton's inexplicable absence. The note was remembered with a sudden thrill of hope, and search made for it. 
               It was so greased and discolored, that only a few words were legible, and those capable of the most dreadful construction; but Mrs. Clifton, although heart-broken at her husband's absence, and unable to combat Mabel's opinions with any show of reason, persisted in thinking it some cruel mistake that a little time and patience would rectify. 
               Mabel had but one opinion after reading the note; but her mother's prayers and entreaties induced her to remain a few days longer than she first intended. 
               Mrs. Clifton's was a weak nature, and she had few affections. Haughty and indolent, and borne calmly along the current of prosperity, there had been nothing to call into play her finer impulses. But her love for her husband now rose superior to every doubt and trial; she could feel no anger, she only longed to see and forgive him. 
               "He may repent of his desertion," she said with faltering ing lips, when pleading with Mabel to return, or at least wait until they knew positively the truth of their suspicions; but Mabel's passionate anger so frightened her, that she yielded passively to her decision, and answered her most bitter denunciations only with tears. 
               Mabel could not but pity her mother, even when she scorned the weakness that could stoop to forgive such a wrong. She thought bitterly that she would die rather than accept a favor from her father, or descend to the lowest servitude sooner than forgive him; and she said proudly: 
               "I will take the money because it is yours, mamma, but not the rents, if we starve." It was no use to resist her will, and Mrs. Clifton found it impossible to even put into execution a scheme by which Mr. Clifton might find them in case he returned. 
               Mabel never relaxed her jealous watchfulness, and Mrs. Clifton could not in her sorrow rise above the habits of a life-time, and with a despair that might have melted a heart of stone, yielded her last hope of a reunion with her husband, and departed with Mabel for the Far West. 
               Mabel was apparently as unmoved by her grief as she was inflexible in her resolve, and her cold face gave no sign of emotion, though her feelings, if less tender, were not the more enviable. 
               Love she had cast from her, and disgrace and poverty left no room for ambition. Pride was the only principle left; no one should know she suffered, and her father should never again look upon the faces of the wife and daughter he had so injured, or know their fate. 
               She had looked on the map and selected a destination-not with a thought of future comfort; her only aim was to live where there would be no risk of meeting any person whom she had formerly known. 
                
               Amid the chaos of wounded pride and anger and despair, this thought was alone distinct. 
               Their journey was a melancholy one; Mrs. Clifton became apparently resigned to her fate, after the first paroxysm of grief; but her strength failed hourly, and the dreary calmness of her face was more disheartening than the wildest demonstrations of sorrow; and Mabel, sitting listlessly by her side, thought sadly of the dreary present and her blighted future. 
               It was near the close of a dull, cloudy afternoon, when they neared the village where their journey was to end. 
               The wind howled fiercely through the leafless branches of the trees, and Mabel's heart sunk at every mile of their progress. 
               "Such a dreary, uninteresting country." Mrs. Clifton was asleep; it would have been some relief to have talked with her; there was no other passenger, nothing to disturb the monotony, as the coach dragged lazily on. 
               At last the spires of the village became visible through the rain that was now falling mistily, and they soon rattled along the rough street. 
               Mrs. Clifton roused and looked out of the window, as the coach stopped before a dismal little inn. 
               A low porch with stiff posts extended along the front, and the trees bordering the pavement stretched out their naked branches and seemed to shriek a dismal warning. 
               Mrs. Clifton sank back in dismay, and Mabel clasped her hands in utter desolation. 
               Even pride deserted her, and all the probable consequences of her headstrong folly rushed upon her with appalling force for one moment, she felt it would have been better to endure the comments and derision of persons she had scorned to notice, or even the pity of her acquaintances, than to stop in the desolate town where her mother's health would oblige her to remain for months, perhaps. 
                
               With a passionate longing for protection, and an earnest, appealing look on her white, sorrowful face, she leaned forward, as if to say: "Will no one pity or help me?" and she met a firm, respectful gaze that thrilled her with its ready sympathy, and that seemed to recall her waning fortitude. 
               A group of the villagers were sitting on the porch, rough, uncouth-looking men, with one exception-a young man leaning carelessly against a post. He was looking toward the coach, as were all the rest of the group; but he seemed hesitating between a desire to befriend the frightened travellers and a fear of being officious; but as the landlord bustled forward to assist them to alight, he stepped before him and said a few words in an eager tone, to which that worthy assented after some hesitation. 
               Fortunately, Mrs. Clifton and Mabel were too much occupied with their own thoughts and fears, to note particularly what was passing around them, for the landlord laughed loudly, and said with a rough attempt at badinage, "I see how it is-but I don't wonder, she is as pretty a lady as I ever see, if she does look sickly." 
               The young man blushed slightly, and made a warning gesture as he advanced to the side of the coach. 
               Mrs. Clifton looked up eagerly at his approach, and Mabel, with a mixture of relief and hauteur on her face, leaned back on the cushions. 
               He was tall and graceful, and evidently a gentleman, though surrounded by such incongruous companions. 
               If his manner lacked the ease and polish of an accomplished courtier, the cheery tones of his voice, and the kindly expression of his handsome face, inspired confidence, as he said, raising his hat respectfully,- 
               "Ladies, there are no accommodations here that will make you at all comfortable, but if you will accept of my hospitality, I shall feel myself highly honored." 
                
               Mrs. Clifton looked anxiously at Mabel, who colored painfully between natural hesitation and a desire to accept the stranger's kind offer, but he again spoke. 
               "It is a liberty to make such a request of you, but custom has made it common with us;" and he repeated his offer with so much sincerity, that Mrs. Clifton smiled gratefully and said, with her most cordial manner,- 
               "It is a great kindness on your part, and we appreciate it to the fullest extent." She paused and looked at Mabel, and encouraged by her assenting smile, accepted his invitation with graceful courtesy. 
               The stranger gave some hasty directions to the driver, and the coach moved on. Mabel glanced with a shudder at the dreary inn, and covering her face with her veil, thought despairingly: "Oh, what will become of us!" 
               Mrs. Clifton's delight at escaping the doleful accommodations of the hotel, and her fatigue, occupied her fully until they reached their destination. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE coach stopped at last, and they looked out through the mist and the gathering twilight on a sylvan scene, that even the weather could not make dismal. 
               The smooth lawn, and the clean pebbled walks, and graceful arbors, and trellised summer-houses contrasted with the exquisitely grouped evergreens and pretty Gothic house, and a hill, crowned with pine and picturesque rocks, moss-grown and bright with clusters of laurel, made the background of the beautiful picture. 
               It was like a vision of fairy-land, the union of elegance and taste found so unexpectedly, and so contrasted with the dingy, weather-stained village through which they had passed. 
               Mrs. Clifton uttered an exclamation of delight, and a flush of pleasure rose to Mabel's cheek, and when their handsome host came forward to assist them in alighting, she gave him a smile so beaming and thankful, that his heart was completely won. 
               A bright fire burned in the pretty little parlor, and the cheerful glow penetrated every nook and corner. 
               There was a piano, and well-selected engravings, and every article was so perfect in its kind, so new and cheery-looking, and in such exquisite taste, that it seemed to them, charming beyond description. None of the grandeur of their beautiful home had ever been so captivating. Mrs. Clifton had for so many days been deprived of her usual comforts, that in the delight of the restored pleasure, she almost forgot her sorrow, and was roused to unusual animation. 
               Mr. Seldon, their host, was unremitting in his attentions, and his prim, sedate housekeeper received them as cordially as if they were expected guests. Mrs. Clifton thought the supper more delightful than any she had ever eaten, and the fragrant coffee, and delicate waffles and chicken would have tempted an anchorite. 
               Mabel was haughtily surprised at the housekeeper's temerity in taking the head of the table, but there was a modest dignity in her manner, mingled with such an earnest desire for their comfort, and she was so respectful, even while evidently considering herself their equal, that Mabel's coldness thawed rapidly, and she delighted the aged spinster with her smiles, and gained her enthusiastic admiration. 
               Mr. Seldon was apparently unconscious of Mabel's beauty, and his attention to Mrs. Clifton so absorbing, that Mabel decided that, to bring him to a proper sense of her merits, would be a laudable effort. 
               When they returned to the parlor, Mr. Seldon drew the sofa near the fire and arranged the pillows, and Mrs. Clifton, weak and languid, leaned back with a delicious feeling of ease and rest. She was rapturous in her praises of Mr. Seldon's paradise, as she laughingly termed it. 
               He laughed nervously, and glanced at Mabel, who was sitting apart, her haughty face somewhat softened, and a rich color tinging her cheek, and said with some embarrassment: "I could imagine it a paradise to-night, although it has never seemed one before. It has always wanted one blessing-woman's smiles." 
               Mabel raised her eyes slowly to his face with a thrilling glance, and then looked steadily in the fire,-and he turned and walked to the window. 
                
               He had in that instant met his fate! 
               When he returned and seated himself by Mrs. Clifton's side, his face was flushed and eager, and his eyes wandered continually toward Mabel, who preserved a rigid silence, but who was so beautiful in that softened light, that it was no wonder Mr. Seldon was bound as by a spell. 
               He was a passionate admirer of beauty, and Mabel was so rare and striking, that he was prepared to worship her as a divinity. 
               The most of his life had been spent in the West, in the turmoil and strife of a struggle for wealth,-and he had conquered, inasmuch as he was now independent of the world, and had a sufficient income to enable him to enjoy, to a limited extent, the comforts and even luxuries of life. 
               His friends often laughingly told him "he only needed a wife," and he was very much of their opinion. But there was no one in the village who reached his standard of excellence, though he was quite reasonable in his expectations. "He did not care for a brilliant woman, he was not brilliant himself. Too much beauty was not desirable, much as he admired beauty. The lady he married must be domestic and sensible, with taste to appreciate and love her home and the elegancies he could give her, without ambition to long for more." 
               This was the picture he had drawn of the future Mrs. Seldon. He fully realized that such a woman alone could make him happy. But, like many a wiser man, he was lured by a pair of bright eyes, and was willing to risk happiness, even life itself, to win them. 
               Days passed, so dark, rainy, and tempestuous, that it was impossible to stir out-of-doors, but within all was light, warmth, and cheerfulness to him; for Mabel (Miss Camden den she called herself) was the presiding genius, and to sit and watch her, as if she had been a beautiful picture, his sole absorbing occupation. 
               She scarcely spoke to him, and rarely smiled, but he was too deliriously happy in the wild passion that filled his heart, to think beyond the present, that her presence made an Elysium. 
               Hour after hour she would sit, her eyes bent on a book, or looking dreamily into the fire,-she never indulged in those feminine occupations of which most women are so fond,-apparently unconscious of his scrutiny, but secretly delighting in her power and by a glance or tone tightening the links that bound him to her;-it was the only relief from the dreadful monotony of her life,-of the end she would not think,-her whole proud soul was in revolt at the change in her destiny, and in the future she dared not contemplate. Mrs. Clifton grew weaker daily, and scarcely stirred from the sofa. She was not cheerful after the first night of her arrival, but she always listened with pleased attention, as Mr. Seldon read or talked to her; she suffered no pain, and she liked the cosy pleasant room, and Mr. Seldon's cheerful voice, and the days passed not unhappily. 
               It was only at night she realized the sorrow that had fallen upon her hitherto pleasant life. It was seldom she could sleep, and tossing on her restless pillow, she would grieve for the husband she scarcely hoped to see again. 
               One morning, after an unusually good night, she was wakened by the sun streaming brightly in at the window; she felt stronger and better, and more resigned to her fate; if she could forget the past, she would be almost happy. She was thinking thus, when Mabel came in from the adjoining room. 
               "Mamma," she said wearily, "I must go out this morning, and hunt boarding." 
                
               Poor Mrs. Clifton had never thought of this new trouble, and she was too weak and unhappy to see that Mabel's proposition was not only reasonable, but an imperative necessity. 
               She clasped her hands in an agony of entreaty, as she said piteously: 
               "Mabel, you don't certainly think of leaving here-it would kill me!" 
               Her passionate weeping put an end to argument; and Mabel, gloomy and disheartened, returned to her own room, almost wild with uncertainty as to the course she must pursue. 
               There was but one way out of her difficulties, but if she availed herself of it, there was an end to hope in the future; she could never regain the position she had lost until years had been passed in the monotony of the miserable village. She turned with a shudder from the picture. But the other alternative was more terrible. In her mother's present health, a removal was impossible, and she thought despairingly of dreary lodgings and a scanty purse. 
               The breakfast-bell found her still undecided. To remain as guests in Mr. Seldon's house was impossible; but where should they go?-she loathed the thought of contact with the villagers. 
               There was but one course, and though her brow darkened, there was a flutter at her heart which seemed to argue that the alternative was not wholly unpleasant. 
               Spite of her pride and coldness, there was in Mr. Seldon's love a fascination she could scarcely resist. 
               She had scorned Laurence Melville, who was so far his superior in education and talents and elegance of manner, that her heart sank at the contrast, but she did not scorn Mr. Seldon. 
               All her pride of birth must be laid aside; and then she thought with bitterness that she had no right to be proud. Her name was disgraced. She ought to be grateful to any one who would give her a name she need not blush to own. 
               This view of the case was so humiliating, that she did not sigh over the sacrifice she decided to make. 
               Mrs. Clifton was too much overcome at the prospect of leaving this last refuge, to accompany her to breakfast; and she descended the stairs with a feeling of relief to which she had long been a stranger. 
               The breakfast-parlor was a picture of comfort, and the one handsome window radiant with sunshine and the flowers that filled the vases. 
               Mr. Seldon turned at her entrance, and she smiled and extended her hand. 
               She had never been so cordial before, and even her cold heart gave a little thrill of pleasure at the glance he gave her, as he held her hand for an instant, and his very lips grew white with emotion. 
               His was the kind of love she had dreamed of in her visions of conquest, and the home he could offer, in contrast with her changed lot, more than she had a right to expect; and she exerted herself to be entertaining, almost as much because she felt a species of gratitude, as with a view of forwarding her interests. To say Mr. Seldon was charmed, would but feebly express his state of enthralment. There was no rashness he would not have been guilty of. 
               Mabel's heart beat a little quicker as he joined her in the parlor. They were alone for the first time. He seemed nervous and ill at ease, and embarrassed by the silence. Mabel seated herself at the piano and ran her fingers lightly over the keys. 
               The music rose and fell in floods of melody, and Mr. Seldon, who had at first listened with breathless eagerness, covered his face with his hands, as if the beauty and harmony were more than he could bear. 
               She changed to a low, wild melody from Lurley, and the strains grew softer until they ceased altogether. As she turned slowly as if to leave the instrument, Mr. Seldon raised his face with a half sigh, and knelt at her feet, and poured forth his love in a torrent of words that almost terrified her with their earnestness. 
               She had not dreamed of the impulsive nature hidden under that calm exterior, and trembled at the storm she had aroused. 
               Her agitation almost equalled his own, as, forgetting she had schemed for this very result, she objected,-that she was a stranger,-that he knew nothing of her past life,-that their acquaintance was too short, etc. 
               He did not listen to her words. "He cared for nothing if she would only be his wife,-he would die at her feet if she did not listen to his suit." 
               His eyes glowed, and the veins in his temples were swollen like cords, as he grasped her hands in the earnestness of his appeal. 
               She had met her equal, and she could not have refused him, even had she so decided in her morning conflict. She forgot every scruple in the fascination of the moment, and leaning forward, whispered, as if with an uncontrollable impulse, "I love you,-I will be your wife," and wrenching her hands from his grasp, left the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               MABEL'S decision in regard to leaving Mr. Seldon's house roused Mrs. Clifton to the exertion of thinking and acting for herself, something she had not done before in the whole course of her life. She had obeyed implicitly any one to whom it was natural she should owe obedience, and yielded against her inclinations to a will stronger than her own, as in the case of Mabel. 
               She had found herself unable to contend successfully against the journey West, although she had an inward conviction that they were rushing to their destruction. 
               But she felt now the imperative necessity of a decisive step,-there was no telling what Mabel in her headstrong folly would do next, and like a gleam of hope or sudden inspiration came the thought of addressing her husband's lawyer. 
               She wrote in the greatest trepidation, informing him of Mr. Clifton's failure to meet them, and Mabel's change of name, and journey to the out-of-the-way place where they were then stopping, and enclosed the note found in the luncheon-basket. 
               When the letter was finished, sealed, and directed, her satisfaction knew no bounds, and she came very near forgetting, in her delight, that Mabel's return might prevent its reaching its destination. 
               She called the maid who was cleaning Mabel's room, (Mr. Seldon only kept two servants,) and dispatched her to the office,-so frightened at the thought of failure, that she could scarcely give the order. 
                
               Betty's return with the welcome intelligence that "the letter was just in time," relieved her suspense. 
               She forgot the reduced state of their finances, and rewarded her messenger in a style befitting her former state, and ruinous to her present income as she thought with a sigh a little after. 
               The excitement over, she felt worse than usual, and was composing herself to sleep, when Mabel opened the door hastily and laid her hand on her shoulder to awaken her.-"Mamma, we need not leave Mr. Seldon's house." 
               Mrs. Clifton opened her eyes languidly and surveyed with surprise her daughter's flushed cheeks and strange, perturbed manner, but her very heart stood still at the words, 
               "And I have promised to marry him." 
               Mrs. Clifton forgot her fear of Mabel's anger, their altered circumstances, everything, except that Mabel, with her beauty and accomplishments,-the last Clifton,-would marry a plain Western man, uneducated and unknown outside of the little town where he lived; and, more ignominious than all, to rate herself so lightly that she had scarcely waited to be wooed. 
               There was majesty as well as dignity in her manner, as she drew herself up haughtily. "I thought our degradation was complete, but it seems this disgrace is to be added to our other calamities;-you need not frown, for it will be disgraceful. 
               "And why disgraceful?" said Mabel angrily. 
               "Mr. Seldon does not claim any merit from his ancestors, his father may have been a blacksmith, for aught I know to the contrary;" (she winced inwardly at the thought.) 
               "But I do not fear that he will disgrace his name, as my father,"-she said the words with scornful emphasis-"has the name of Clifton, that has been untarnished for nearly three centuries." 
                
               Mrs. Clifton's dignity fell before this home-thrust, and her momentary courage deserted her. She tried to speak in her husband's defence, but her voice was choked with sobs, and she buried her face in the pillows of her couch. 
               Mabel left the room in a towering passion: "She would marry Mr. Seldon now in spite of everything. They were a pretty family to talk of disgrace!" 
               She had felt all her mother urged during the time she had been revolving in her mind this very step, but she was as angry as if the objections had never occurred to her. 
               Her pride was not that firm quality that, even in its failings, leans to virtue's side-that sometimes answer its possessor instead of high moral principles. It was a pride born of her birth and position; and now that she was fallen from her high estate, she denounced it utterly and became democratic in the extreme. 
               She had once scorned Annie Raymond because she taught school; yet, to avoid the evils of poverty, she was about to marry a man whom, a week before, she had not known; and she deliberately led him on to a declaration of the passion she had been skilfully fostering day by day, and excused her conduct with the plea, that she was too proud to return to her home and endure the disgrace of her father's desertion. 
               She was not the first person mistaking ill-temper and obstinacy for pride. 
               In the midst of her anger and passionate determination to marry Mr. Seldon, she heard her mother's voice calling feebly, "Mabel." She did not answer until the name was repeated; and when at last she went, her face was dark and lowering. 
               Her mother was lying motionless, and so pale and changed, that Mabel was touched with remorse, and the angry words died on her lips as she stood by her side, trembling and frightened. 
                
               Mrs. Clifton spoke with difficulty: "I have been quite ill-an attack of palpitation. I thought I was dying, but I am better now."-"Stay," she said, as Mabel would have called for assistance. 
               "This excitement has brought a return of heart-disease; quiet is all that is necessary." She lay quietly for a few moments, and Mabel sat absorbed in remorseful thoughts, watching her mother's irregular breathing and the dark circles under her eyes. She was not asleep, for after a while she looked up and said sadly,- 
               "Mabel, it was wrong to speak as I did of Mr. Seldon. He is a good man, I believe, and will shield and protect you if I should be taken from you; and your father-" 
               There were tears in Mabel's eyes, but she laid her hands gently on her mother's lips. Mrs. Clifton sighed, and then said, still gently and earnestly,- 
               "If you think you love him, I do not blame you; it will be for the best, perhaps." 
               Mabel's cheek flushed, and she turned her face away for an instant. But she was smiling when she bent over her mother, almost tenderly, and whispered,- 
               "I intend to marry him, mamma." 
               Mrs. Clifton closed her eyes again and fell into a light slumber, from which she did not awake until the bell rang for dinner. "She was quite revived," she said, "and well enough to go down stairs;" but Mabel would not consent, and had dinner brought to their room. 
               Mr. Seldon was so concerned at Mrs. Clifton's illness, and sent so many messages and inquiries, that Mabel compassionately decided to go down and speak to him. 
               He was walking up and down the breakfast-parlor with misty strides, and the housekeeper sat before the fire with her sewing. 
               She was a distant relative, and domestic affairs seemed to be her all-absorbing occupation. There was an expression of distrust on her face as she glanced up, and she rose and would have left the room, but Mabel motioned her to be seated. 
               Mr. Seldon did not attempt to restrain his joy at the meeting, but the fascination he had exercised was gone, and Mabel stood before him with downcast eyes, and a deadly terror of the future chilling her veins; and yet there was a mingling of tenderness for the man was so evidently idolized her, that gave her a mien so gentle, that Margaret thought, with a feeling of relief, that she had judged her wrongly-she had a heart, after all. 
               After a short conversation, limited, on Mabel's side, to monosyllables, Mr. Seldon went to Mrs. Clifton's room, and Mabel sat down before the fire to await his return. 
               She was not accustomed to think of any one but herself, and had forgotten Margaret's presence until she spoke. 
               Her voice trembled, though she tried to speak lightly. 
               "I suppose I must make up my mind to go, bag and baggage." 
               "Go where?" said Mabel, with a withering look, as she turned and surveyed her. 
               "Well, any place I please, or can;-Mr. Seldon says you are to be mistress here. Of course two mistresses won't do,-and I have been head-cook too long-" 
               She did not finish her sentence, for Mabel's look of surprise and 
                     hateur
                     hauteur
                   changed to one of mirth, and she laughed gayly as she rose to leave the room, saying,- 
               "I shall not think of interfering with your prerogatives; you can retain your old position and welcome." 
               The old woman seemed hurt at her mirth, but she looked up as Mabel was about to close the door, and said eagerly,- 
               "Stay a minute, if you please. Do you mean to say I can remain after your marriage. Can I keep my old place and have the kitchen to myself?" 
               Mabel was aghast at her impudence, as she termed it, but she restrained her indignation and said haughtily,- 
               "I have no intention of interfering in domestic affairs," and left the room. 
               Margaret raised her hands in holy horror; a more heretical speech was beyond her imagination to conceive, and opposed to all her New-England experience and training, and she muttered unconsciously,- 
               "She thinks of getting married, and does not intend to interfere in domestic affairs!" 
               Mr. Seldon met Mabel at the stairway; her expression was not very inviting, but he detained her to say "that Mrs. Camden had allowed him to assist her to the parlor, and that she was lying in her accustomed place, and seemed better already for the change." 
               Mabel returned no answer, and when he had finished his recital, swept past him with a cold bow. 
               Mrs. Clifton made no comment when Mr. Seldon returned alone to the parlor, for she noticed the disturbed, anxious expression of his face, and was fearful Mabel had been indulging in one of her freaks of temper. 
               Mrs. Clifton was not apt to make intimate acquaintances, or to form sudden attachments, but Mr. Seldon's attentions and kindness to Mabel and herself, when they so much needed a friend, quite won her heart. 
               He drew his chair to the sofa, and commenced talking with his accustomed cheerfulness; but his restless manner showed that he was ill at ease. 
               At last the door opened and Mabel entered, radiant with smiles, and magnificently attired. 
               Her dress was a rich crimson silk with bars of heavy velvet, and a diamond pin fastened the cobweb lace collar at her throat. 
               Her hair was arranged in some antique fashion, in a wonderful labyrinth of braids and ripples, and her beautiful arms flashed snowily from among the folds of lace that half concealed them. 
               But her exquisite face was like a rare gem, so sparkling and glowing. 
               Mr. Seldon might have exclaimed, as did the men of Troy when the beauteous Helen advanced radiant with all the loveliness of youth,- 
                      
                        "What winning graces! what majestic mien! 
                        She moves a goddess, and she looks a queen!" 
                     
                  
                
               He only looked the adoration he did not attempt to conceal, as he stood like one entranced. 
               Even Mrs. Clifton, accustomed as she was to her beauty, could scarcely repress an exclamation. 
               Mabel was proud of her power over Mr. Seldon's heart. She liked to make the blood rush into his cheek at a word or smile, and see his proud eye fall beneath her own. 
               Later in the evening, Mabel sat at the piano, the mellow light from the waxen candles resting softly on her figure, and Mr. Seldon leaned over her as she played, and listened with a bliss that was almost agony. She looked up with a smile, and he pressed his lips to the beautiful hair that shaded her clear white brow, and caught her hands impulsively, and looking in her face, said with a kind of fierce tenderness,- 
               "Do you know, I believe you to be a siren! It is wicked to love you as I do! Have you bewitched me?" 
               Again she was fascinated,-drawn toward him as by a magnetic influence. 
               She laid her cheek against his arm caressingly, and said softly, as her eye fell beneath his,- 
                
               "It is I who am under a spell!" 
               She was no longer a siren, but a gentle, loving woman. 
               His face was ashy pale, and he placed his arm around her tenderly. 
               "You must not play for me again,-not that one piece, if is too exciting." 
               She looked up inquiringly, and her cheek grew white with a nameless terror, as he whispered,- 
               "I will tell you some day." 
               Her infatuation almost equalled his own, for after the first thrill of fear, she forgot his strange words, as she yielded to the fascination of his impetuous, earnest manner. 
               Her blindness was wilful, tampering with fate. She was like a person walking on the extreme verge of a precipice, and refusing to see the danger,-while he, though on the same precipice, was conscious only of the beautiful prospect, and did not dream that danger lurked in such enchanting loveliness. 
               They were each stranger to the other; but love rendered him unmindful of the risk, and marriage seemed the only way out of her difficulties. 
               She did not ask herself if the transient feeling she sometimes experienced for Mr. Seldon could be love. Had it been hatred, it would not have altered her purpose; but she liked him well enough to enjoy the present and forget the future. 
               As Mabel's hand rested in Mr. Seldon's, with a lingering "good-night," she said quietly,- 
               "This is my last evening with you. Mamma and I are going to-morrow." 
               He interrupted her with passionate earnestness. "It will never do to move Mrs. Camden. I will go myself until you give me a right to stay." 
               Mabel was obliged to confess that in her mother's health a removal would be dangerous, and that their marriage being agreed upon, the sooner it would take place the better for all parties. 
               And Mr. Seldon went into lodgings a happy man, for the following Tuesday was fixed upon for the wedding. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE wedding morning dawned, but there was no sunshine, and dark clouds were driven wildly athwart the sky. 
               Mr. Seldon cared little for the weather, and hurried early to the cottage-his heart as buoyant as a bride-groom's has a right to be,-but there was no cheerful greeting for him. Mrs. Clifton was weeping bitterly, and all his efforts to soothe her distress were unavailing. 
               Mabel had breakfasted in her room, and she did not make her appearance on his arrival. Mr. Seldon started at every footstep, expecting to see his beautifully betrothed, and his brow clouded as the hour appointed for the ceremony passed and the minutes lengthened into an hour, and still she did not come. 
               Mrs. Clifton's fears took a new turn when he informed her of the lateness of the hour, and she became suddenly composed, for she thought, in an agony of apprehension, "that it would be like Mabel to change her mind even then." 
               She had disapproved of the marriage, and rendered firm by a fear of her husband's anger, absolutely refused to allow the ceremony to take place in the house. 
               Mabel's indignation and Mr. Seldon's entreaties could not induce her to relent; her invariable answer was,- 
               "Mabel chooses for herself, and she must take all the responsibility of this step." 
               But she was too much attached to Mr. Seldon to wish him to be disappointed now. 
                
               She had watched Mabel and himself closely during the week of courtship, and marked with surprise the influence he exerted and the pleasure Mabel found in his society; although she had been angry for two days at being obliged to be married in the church, yet she was all smiles to him. 
               It wanted five minutes of eleven, and Mr. Seldon was sitting in silence, with rigidly compressed lips, when Mabel entered softly and laid her hand on his arm before he was aware of her presence. His face did not clear at once, and she touched his cheek playfully as she said,- 
               "Have you taken a vow not to speak to me until I am Mrs. Seldon?" 
               He looked up quickly and forgot his anger. She was so superbly beautiful, every feeling of annoyance was lost in admiration. Still he said, with a look that disarmed the words of reproach,- 
               "You have been very cruel; why did you keep me waiting?" 
               She smiled, and placing her white-gloved hand in his, walked toward the door, and he followed her without a word. 
               Mrs. Clifton covered her face on Mabel's entrance. She was determined to be able to tell her husband, who she felt sure would return, that she had not even seen Mabel in her bridal dress. 
               But she could not resist the temptation of looking slyly, during the little scene between the lovers. 
               Mabel wore a heavy moire antique, of a deep purple hue, trimmed with velvet, and an embroidered mantle of the same shade. Her hat was white velvet, perfectly plain with the exception of the lace, and a little cluster of moss rosebuds in front. 
               A hum of admiration rose from the crowded church as she entered. Never had such a beautiful vision graced those walls, and Mr. Seldon's friends who had most blamed him for his rashness could excuse him now. 
               Mabel and Mr. Seldon knelt side by side and spoke the solemn words that united their destinies. 
               Her responses were given in a clear, firm tone, but his voice was low and husky, and his face white and corpse-like. But when they rose from their knees and he looked in the blushing, roseate face of his bride, his own became radiant. 
               The rain was pouring in torrents when they left the church, and it dashed against the carriage-windows as if it would force an entrance and the wind blew so furiously that Mabel was half alarmed and clung to her husband; he lovingly reassured her, and with his arm tenderly encircling the form, nestling near his heart, and the bright face against his shoulder, he experienced the bliss that comes so seldom and is alas! so fleeting. 
               The ride ended, as all pleasures must, sooner or later, and Mr. Seldon looked with dismay on the pouring rain. In that strong wind, umbrellas were out of the question. 
               He stood at the carriage-door, unmindful of the tempest, but in reply to his anxious look, Mabel sprang out gayly and ran toward the house,-looking back, and laughing, and her floating drapery sweeping around her like a purple cloud. 
               He caught her as she reached the door, and playfully dragged her into the parlor, and seating her in a cushioned chair, removed her hat and tenderly smoothed her dishevelled tresses. 
               Her beautiful dress was discolored by the rain, and the moisture was dripping from her velvet mantle, but she was smilingly unconscious. 
               Mrs. Clifton was fully restored to favor, and Margaret made happy by her smiles. But what was their joy compared to Mr. Seldon's. 
               He had often, during the hours of the passion he then thought hopeless, watched Mabel, and recalled Hood's beautiful lines to Inez, the artist's daughter, who was so lovely: 
                      
                        "With crimson blushes on her cheek, 
                        And pearls upon her breast;" 
                     
                   and felt witch the poet: 
                      
                        "Ah, happy must that lover be 
                        Who walks beneath the light, 
                        And breathes the love against thy cheek, 
                        I dare not even write." 
                     
                  
                
               She was all his own now. He was that happy lover, and her starry eyes looked the devotion he had once thought he would stake his life to win. After one delicious hour, so replete with happiness it might have atoned for a life of misery, Margaret came to call them to dinner. 
               Mr. Seldon was holding Mabel's bridal hat, tenderly wiping the moisture from it and saying, while she laughed at his care,- 
               "I want to keep it as a memento of this morning." 
               Anything she had worn or touched was sacred in his eyes, and he surveyed its altered appearance somewhat ruefully. 
               Mrs. Clifton was suggesting a plan by which it might be restored to its pristine splendor, and Mr. Seldon, if the truth must be told, finding the plan somewhat tiresome, fell into a profound reverie, when Margaret took the bat out of his listless fingers, and commenced a minute examination, Mabel's flashing eyes following every movement. 
               Probably her pride took offence at Mr. Seldon's sudden lack of interest; but when Margaret put the finishing touch to her sacrilegious tampering with the treasure devoted to love, by giving it a slight bend, Mabel's anger passed the bounds of endurance, and she sprang forward and tore it from her hands, her lips white with passion. 
               Margaret uttered an exclamation and shrunk back in alarm, and Mr. Seldon, not seeing Mabel's face, or dreaming, she was so enraged, attempted to regain his luckless treasure, saying smilingly,- 
               "This is my property now." 
               She gave him a look for which a fiend might have blushed, and his fingers relaxed their hold. 
               She tore her hat to pieces with angry vehemence, and flung the fragments into the fire. 
               Her velvet mantle shared the same fate and with another scowling look at Mr. Seldon, she turned and left the room. 
               He reeled as if struck by some sudden blow, and sinking into a chair, covered his pallid face with his trembling hands. 
               Margaret burst into a passion of tears and hurried to the kitchen, where she gave full sway to her grief, muttering between her sobs, "My poor, poor boy! he has married a demon." 
               Mrs. Clifton was scarcely less dismayed than the bridegroom, who had been so exultant a few minutes before. 
               She had been expecting an outbreak from the day of the engagement, and trembled inwardly at every word or look of Mr. Seldon's that might be offensive to Mabel, but had at length decided that love was a more powerful master than fear, and Mr. Seldon the one person in the world who could restrain her daughter's malignant temper. 
               Mr. Clifton had only sufficient influence to prevent a public demonstration; but she thought exultingly that Mr. Seldon could keep her from being angry. 
                
               It was a sore disappointment; she could not hope now that her misguided child would ever be aught than a trial to herself and those who loved her. 
               Mrs. Clifton had lived a selfish life hitherto, but there had been nothing to call into exercise her better qualities, but sorrow, and Mr. Seldon's kindness and generosity, in the hour when she so needed a friend, and above all the near approach of death, had wakened all the kinder impulses of her nature. 
               She could neither counsel nor restrain Mabel; but her heart ached for her, and for the unhappy bridegroom who sat before her forgetful of everything but the look of scorn in the beautiful eyes that had been before all softness. 
               Hours passed, and the silence was unbroken. 
               The wedding-dinner, on which Margaret had expended days of care, was untouched, and she at last removed all the gay decorations as solemnly as if there had been a burial in the house. 
               Mrs. Clifton, worn out with excitement and troubled thought, had fallen asleep, and she awakened with a sudden start to find Mr. Seldon still motionless; she spoke to him, and he raised his pale, altered face, and encouraged by her kind, sympathetic look-he knelt and laid his cheek against her hand as fondly as if she had been in reality his mother. 
               "My poor son," she faltered, "you must not be so unhappy-Mabel will not be angry long-I would have warned you of her temper, but you seemed to have so much influence." 
               She smoothed his hair will her wells, trembling fingers. 
               He looked up at last and surveyed her mournfully. 
               "You remind me of my own mother,-I will try and be a good son to you." 
               The knowledge that she would not long need his care thrilled him with regret, though he tried to say cheerfully,- 
                
               "To find a mother, after all my lonely years, will be of itself a sufficient happiness." 
               She smiled sadly. 
               "You will have other happiness-Mabel has an unfortunate temper;"-but she could not truthfully say it was her only fault, and was silent. 
               "You must think me very weak," he said at last; "if this had not been my wedding-day, I could have borne it better!" 
               Mrs. Clifton answered with a compassionate look; she could not trust herself to speak. 
               Margaret appeared at the door to say that tea was ready. 
               Mr. Seldon questioned her pleasantly about some trifling affair, and would not see her tearful eyes and care-worn face. 
               His apparent cheerfulness did not deceive her watchful affection, and the setting sun of Mr. Seldon's wedding-day never shone on a sadder trio than were assembled round the tea-table, in the pleasant parlor. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               TO return to the night of Mr. Clifton's disastrous ride, and the gloomy ravine where he lay beside his mangled horse during the long hours, watching the pale moon-beams as they struggled through the heavy brushwood. He had just enough of consciousness to wonder vaguely, "why he was in that quiet place," and to feel an occasional twinge, of pain. There was no remembrance of the past, or dread of the future, but a strange, delicious feeling, of rest and peace, only broken by an odd sensation that could scarcely be called pain. 
               At last he fell asleep, or it may have been a relapse into unconsciousness, for he wakened with a sudden start to find it broad daylight and the sun high in the heavens. He attempted to rise, but a spasm of pain compelled him to be quiet, and with a groan he fell back on his bed of moss and leaves, that was damp and earthy as a grave. 
               The sunbeams could not penetrate the dense mass of foliage that shrouded him like a pall, but it looked mockingly bright far above him. 
               Gradually the occurrences of the preceding afternoon and evening came back to him,-his moonlight ride and the fall from the dreadful height. He must have retained sufficient presence of mind to withdraw his feet from the stirrups, otherwise he would have shared the fate of his horse, who was lying near him, perfectly dead. He could stretch out one hand and reach the poor animal; the other was crushed, and his arm powerless. His first thought was one of thankfulness for his miraculous escape, and then his heart stood still with a sudden terror. He had only been preserved from one death, to suffer another more terrible. Bruised and mangled as he was, it would be utterly impossible for him to leave the living tomb that yawned around him. There was no hope of rescue from the passing of a chance traveller, owing to a dangerous stream to be forded. The new road over the thoroughfare to the bridge was the one now in constant use. Still, he hoped against hope, and listened to every sound. But, alas! a squirrel hopping from bough to bough, or the occasional twitter of a bird, alone broke the stillness. 
               He scarcely heeded the pain in his arm, or the fever that was creeping in his veins and so insidiously feeding his strength. 
               There was a new hope dawning. "Mabel would receive his note and return and search for him; if his strength would only last until then!" And still he listened for a step or voice, and his fever rose higher, and his mind wandered for a little while, only to show with renewed horror his hopeless situation. 
               He imagined himself in the pine forest, on the summit of the beautiful Fiesole Mount, at Florence. Beatrice was in the convent, he thought, but he would persuade her to leave the dismal, almost unapproachable retreat, and wander with him where the sunshine was dancing among the vineyards and orange-groves. But the way was long, and the woods chill and dreary, and the convent ever receded as he advanced. 
               The angelus that fell soothingly and sweetly on his ear ceased, and the silence was so intense, that the sound of wheels came like a rude crash in some melody. 
               Mr. Clifton, still among the pine forest that shrouded the old convent, listened with surprise. 
               "What could it mean? how was a carriage to penetrate that recess?" Just then a woman's voice sounded clear and hearty, and with a call for help that burst the silence like the shriek of a lost spirits, he came back to the present. It was only for a moment. He wondered vaguely if his voice, was heard, and was sinking again into an unconsciousness that he was powerless to resist, when a tall, burly figure bent over him, and he felt himself lifted by strong arms, and then all was a blank. When he opened his eyes, he was in the light and sunshine, and a woman's kind face smiled a welcome. 
               He drank the cordial she held to his lips, and sank back on the pillow that had been spread on the grass, with a delicious feeling of safety. 
               The strangers busied themselves examining the extent of his injuries. The first words of their conversation were lost, but he gathered enough to judge that his injuries were not mortal or dangerous, although he was dreadfully bruised and his arm broken. 
               The pain of setting his limb, now much swollen, roused him completely to all the trials before him. 
               He would not return to his home; Beatrice might be already there. If he could only reach the next station and telegraph to Mrs. Clifton and Mabel to proceed without him, the present at least would be secure. His eagerness gave him new strength, and he implored the travellers to allow him to ride in their wagon to the station, distant forty miles. 
               "I will pay you well for your trouble," he added feebly, as he noticed their surprise and hesitation. 
               "It isn't the pay we are thinking about," said the stranger bluntly; "my wife would like nothing better than to take care of you; but you don't look like a person accustomed to rough it, and our covered wagon is not like a bed in a comfortable hotel; you had better let us persuade you to go to the town not more than a mile distant." 
               But Mr. Clifton became so excited at the bare mention, that the woman interfered, and begged her husband to allow him to have his own way. 
                
               "We can take better care of him than they will at a crowded hotel, and he seems so anxious to stay with us;" and she lowered her voice and glanced toward the rude couch where Mr. Clifton was lying, with his eyes fixed anxiously on their faces. 
               Her husband shrugged his shoulders. 
               "His anxiety is what looks odd to me; but I have long since given up disputing your will, especially as you are always in the right-eh, Sally?" and he chucked her under the chin, and then hurried away to arrange the light, covered wagon for the reception of the stranger, thinking with exultation of the addition to his store of money by this fancy of his wife and the half-crazed gentleman. 
               Not that he was unkindly disposed or uncharitable. He would have taken the trouble if Mr. Clifton had been too poor to remunerate him. His life had been a hard battle with the world and now that he was gaining in the struggle, he determined to persevere until he was completely the victor. 
               He had studied medicine in the commencement of his career, but concluded waiting for patients too slow a way to fortune; and fancying a buxom, rosy-cheeked country girl, married her, and settled down to farming and speculation. 
               He had now at nice little competency, and was travelling West to purchase land and renew the practice of his profession; but he still thought it necessary to economize, and his wife agreeing that it would be delightful to go in their own conveyance, they were making quite a comfortable tour of it, stopping at noon in some shady spot, and cooking their dinner in true backwoodsman style. They had lost their way, or rather the main road, in trying to avoid the town, when Mr. Clifton's call for help startled them. 
               Any one less determined than our hardy farmer, would have found it difficult to reach the bottom of the ravine where Mr. Clifton was lying, and still more difficulty in undertaking to carry him up without assistance; but he did both after infinite trouble, and without a thought of reward. 
               And quite delighted was he to find himself still skilled in his abandoned profession. 
               As soon as Mr. Clifton's bruises were dressed, and he was placed in the roomy old-fashioned wagon, our rustic hero made his way again to the bottom of the ravine, and brought back in triumph the saddle, and other accoutrements of the noble animal who had found a grave and burial among the weeds and mosses, and in a little while the cavalcade moved forward, en route for the town Mr. Clifton designated. 
               But ere one fourth of the journey had been travelled, he was raving in delirium, and requiring such constant care and attention, that they were obliged to stop, and devote all their time to the charge they had undertaken. 
               Mrs. Belt was very much afraid her husband would blame her for interfering in behalf of the stranger and therefore delaying their progress, but he answered her, "that he was glad to have such a critical case in his own hands." 
               "O dear!" she said quite alarmed, and turning deadly pale-"do you think he will die?" 
               "Die? well, it looks like it now! but if there is anything in skill, I will save him." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               TEA was over. It had been a dreary meal, taken in almost utter silence. Mr. Seldon was the only person who made an attempt to be cheerful. 
               Mrs. Clifton looked pale and weary, and Margaret saw through the flimsy pretence of ease on the part of her friend and master, and the rigid lines about her mouth quivered, and the tears stole down her wrinkled face, as she busied herself with the tea-service. 
               Mrs. Clifton did not return to the parlor, and Mr. Seldon saw her to her room, and returned to his desolate fireside. 
               Such it seemed to him now, although it was little more than a week since he sat before the same grate, and the cheerful room was full of light and warmth. 
               But he had in that short time known all that life could give of joy and misery. 
               He would never be so happy again. 
               The cloud that shrouded his sunshine might pass away, but its shadows would darken the whole future. 
               The sense of security was gone, and he sat with bowed head thinking sadly and hopelessly, as the hours passed unheeded. 
               A light step made his heart beat, and the blood rushed to his face in a hot torrent; but he did not move. 
               There was a flutter of garments, and Mabel's dress touched him as she leaned to stir the fire, and light the waxen candles on the mantel. Her hand, so faultless in beauty, flashed in the fire-light, and a slender circlet of gold-her wedding-ring-had taken the place of the rich jewels she usually wore. 
               His heart thrilled with a sudden joy; he remembered the weary hours of sorrow; but he remembered, also, that the woman before him was his wife,-it needed not the soft touch of the hand that crept warmly into his, to insure her forgiveness; he clasped it passionately, but he could not yet bear to meet the siren-like gaze of the woman he idolized; there was still a bitterness in his heart that struggled with tenderness, as he sat, his face averted, and sternly sorrowful. 
               She leaned until her curls brushed his cheek. 
               The crimson drapery of her dressing wrapper only added to the exquisite whiteness of her beautiful arm, from which the sleeve had partly fallen back. 
               No sculptor could have imagined anything so perfect. 
               Mr. Seldon tried to look away as he wondered "if the face he loved was sad and repentant;" if he could only believe it such, contrition would forever erase the recollection of the malignant look that came unbidden, like the memory of a crime. 
               Mabel suddenly knelt before him, and raised her face to his. 
               It was sparkling and animated; there was not a shadow of care on her smooth white forehead; her cheeks were glowing, and her lips crimson and dewy as a rose, when the early sunshine trembles on its glittering petals. It was a face so bright and happy, and so surpassingly lovely, that as he looked the shadow passed from his heart, and he drank in her rare beauty with a breathless ecstasy. 
               He was like one bound by a spell, and he did not move until she rose from her knees and tried to withdraw her hand. 
               With a half sigh he came back to consciousness, and clasped her to his heart, with a devotion that revived the charm he sometimes exercised, and made her for the time a loving woman, with a heart almost as wild as his own. 
               He did not utter a reproach, he only knew he loved her, and revelled in the present without a thought of the past or the future. 
               Nor did she offer an excuse for her conduct, although her eye met his with a fondness that betokened the most tender affection. 
               The fire burned low in the burnished grate, and the waxen candles sputtered and glared as the wind, that had risen higher and higher, burst against the casement, as if it would break the frail barrier that opposed its progress. 
               Mr. Seldon raised his face from Mabel's perfumed hair and the words trembling on his lips were stayed, as the house suddenly quivered, like a vessel among the breakers, and the blast roared and shrieked as if a thousand fiends were battling. 
               Mabel clung to him in terror, and with his arm clasped tightly round her, he waited in mute anxiety the fury of the tempest. 
               There was a crash so heavy and terrible, that Mabel gave a shriek of despair, and her white, agonized face gleamed for an instant as she started to her feet, and tried to free herself from his grasp. But he held her tightly. "Let us die together," he said faintly, as he clasped her passionately in his arms and drew her head on his shoulder. 
               After minutes, the suspense lengthened into hours; seemingly there was a lull in the storm. 
               The wind still howled furiously, and the cold air and rain came in through the broken windows. 
               The lights were out, and the darkness was so intense, that it seemed thick with blackness. 
                
               Mabel clung to Mr. Seldon with such agony, that he could think of nothing but soothing and reassuring her, and could not leave her to investigate the injuries done by the storm, or find a place where she would be secure from the elements. 
               The day slowly broke on a scene of desolation that was frightfully dismal. 
               The floor was covered with pieces of glass and broken fragments; the curtains and carpets were discolored by the rain; pictures were blown down, and the confusion was appalling. 
               Mabel gave one look, and then covered her face with her hands. Mr. Seldon tried to reassure her, but his pale face sadly belied his cheerful words. 
               Although not superstitious, he could not help feeling that his marriage had brought a curse. Mabel's manner was not calculated to inspire him with hope or confidence,-but he loved her so well, that the most terrible future was not so appalling as it would have been had he lost her. 
               The door opened slowly and Margaret came in. Her look of joy at seeing Mr. Seldon unharmed, changed to a kind of fear as she looked at Mabel, and she burst into tears and lamentations. 
               "The storm was so dreadful; the whole town was in ruins. The roof and chimneys of their house were blown away; it was certainly a judgment!" &c. &c. 
               Mr. Seldon was too much occupied with Mabel to notice Margaret's incoherent complainings, and almost forgot her presence as he bent fondly over his pallid bride. 
               Her hands were cold as ice, and she shivered continually, but no endearments or persuasions would induce her to answer or even look at her husband. Margaret, seeing that she was entirely unnoticed, directed her attention to Mr. Seldon and his bride, and commiseration for him roused all her affection; her heart swelled to bursting with grief and anger, and finally unable longer to endure his distress, she turned to leave the room. 
               She had reached the door and laid her hand on the latch, when a scream disturbed the stillness-another, and another followed in quick succession, and Margaret sank on her knees, completely overwhelmed with the fear of a new calamity. Mabel rose to her feet, and pushing Mr. Seldon from her, said passionately, as she wrung her hands in frenzied terror,- 
               "I will not stay in this dreadful house another hour!-What shall I do?" 
               Mr. Seldon stood irresolute, and the maid rushed in, her hair all disordered, and her cheeks bloodless. 
               "Oh, in heaven's name, come to Mrs. Camden's room,-she is dead!" 
               Mr. Seldon sprang past her, and was hurrying up the stairs, before he realized the full import of the words; the deadly chill at his heart almost deprived him of strength to cross the threshold; he could not sufficiently deplore what he termed his selfishness, in leaving a delicate woman to meet alone the terrors of a storm so violent that he, a strong man unused to fear, had quailed before it. This passed through his mind as he bent over the bed, on which lay a rigid, inanimate form, with closed eyes and parted lips, and dark circles on the pallid cheeks. He turned shudderingly away, grief and remorse struggling with his feeling of pity for Mabel. "How could he prepare her for the dreadful news!" But she needed no preparation-she had followed slowly, her trembling limbs almost refusing to support her. Her eyes were fixed on the bed, and her face almost transformed with terror. Mr. Seldon put his arm around her tenderly. 
               "My poor darling, come away," he said compassionately. She suffered him to draw her from the room and to close the door, though her eyes seemed riveted with a terrible fascination toward the silent figure. 
               She gave a sigh of relief when the closing door shut it from her vision. But she withdrew herself from her husband's encircling arms, a minute after, with a look of dislike. 
               "You will not cast me from you, now that you are in trouble?" he said appealingly; but she answered coldly,- 
               "You have brought me nothing but trouble and misery, and I hate the sight of you!" 
               She scarcely meant to be so cruel, although she unreasonably blamed him, as if he had been the cause of her terror and of the misery she scarcely yet realized; she did not wish to be alone, or to cast him from her, and yet, trouble chafed her into a kind of anger. 
               Her words destroyed the last remnant of endurance. He had borne all in silence hitherto, and without a murmur, but he turned away now with a wild, despairing sob that touched even her heart. 
               He was gone before she could recall him, and Margaret's wrathful face glared at her for an instant, as she brushed past her and entered Mrs. Clifton's room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE door closed on Margaret's retreating figure, and Mabel crouched against the low window-seat, fearing to be alone, and dreading to pass the room in which lay the silent figure she thought of with a terror that overmastered her grief. 
               "If only Mr. Seldon would come to her now." She was half tempted to call him, but as she rose, frightened and irresolute, a hasty ring of the bell from her mother's room startled her, and Margaret's face appeared at the door. Her quick eye caught sight of Mabel, and she said peremptorily,- 
               "Call Mr. Seldon. Your mother is not dead, but her life depends on our care," and she disappeared almost instantly, and before Mabel could stir to obey her, Mr. Seldon ran up the stairs. 
               She heard his voice quick and distinct in consultation with Margaret, and then he hurried past her, without a glance. A minute after, the hall-door shut with a clang, and Mabel covered her face with her hands and crept again to the darkened corner. 
               All was bustle and confusion in the room before so silent. Betty rushed to and fro at Margaret's bidding, and in a short time Mr. Seldon returned with the physician. 
               The door was now left open, and Mabel could hear each sound distinctly; at last there was a low, faint murmur of a familiar voice, and she started forward with a joyful exclamation; but Margaret met her before she reached the threshold, and with her finger on her lips, to enforce silence, motioned her to follow, and led the way across the hall. Mabel was too excited and nervous to dispute her authority, and when Margaret had closed the door, she turned to her with a strange mixture of aversion and pity on her face, as she explained that "Mrs. Camden was now restored to consciousness, but the doctor would not allow any one to speak to her, except Mr. Seldon."-"Indeed," interrupted Mabel, with a curl of her lip, and a return of her haughty manner, now that she was relieved from the haunting fear of death, "I should think the doctor might have at least consulted my wishes, and it strikes me that, as her daughter, my right to enter her sick-room would be paramount to a stranger's." Margaret looked at her with a disdain she did not attempt to conceal, and commenced indignantly,- 
               "And who has shown the most attention and care-" when a tap at the door startled them, and at the first glimpse of Mr. Seldon, who entered as Margaret said "come in," Mabel turned, with a gleam of pleasure that changed her face like magic, and stretched out her arms with very much the air of a petted child willing to be restored to favor. 
               A flush rose to Mr. Seldon's pale, haggard cheek, and he looked at her doubtfully, as if he scarcely could hope he had rightly interpreted her meaning. 
               She did not change her position, but she murmured his name softly, and spite of her night of terror, her face was roseate and sparkling. 
               Margaret, watching them both with an angry, jealous eye, did not wonder that Mr. Seldon's face brightened. She was forced to admit that the beautiful, creature tempting him to her side was irresistible; and, much as she hated and feared her, she could not have turned from that face, had she known it was leading her to destruction. But she could not have felt more bitter anguish, had she been in reality a sorceress, when Mr. Seldon, his countenance radiant with happiness, hurried to her side. The faithful old woman left the room and resumed her duties at Mrs. Clifton's bedside with a more aching heart than she had ever known during her whole life. 
               Mrs. Clifton was now restored to consciousness, but life fluttered so feebly in her veins, that each breath seemed her last. She had become very much attached to Mr. Seldon; his kindness had been unceasing, and it had been her only pleasure. 
               Mabel's coldness the week preceding her marriage had been a sore trial, but it made her turn to Mr. Seldon as her only refuge. The excitement of the wedding-day brought a return of her heart-disease. 
               It was so sudden and violent, she could not call for assistance, and before the storm burst in its fury was perfectly insensible. 
               Her room being less exposed, and the shutters securely fastened, it had escaped unharmed. 
               Margaret entered the room with noiseless steps, and as she leaned to give the iced cordial the doctor ordered, such a shade of disappointment crossed her patient's face, that she said kindly as she smoothed her pillow, "Do you want Mr. Seldon?" 
               Mrs. Clifton murmured something about his being overcome with watching, and Margaret seated herself quietly by the bed; but noticing that Mrs. Clifton's eyes turned continually toward the door, she decided to go in search of Mr. Seldon, motioning Betty to take her place at the bedside. She stole quietly across the hall, to the room in which she had left Mabel and Mr. Seldon. She entered without rapping, not dreaming herself guilty of rudeness; but she was not long in doubt as to her error, for before she could mention her errand, Mabel ordered her to leave the room and never enter her presence again, unless she was requested. 
               Mabel was lying on a couch, and Mr. Seldon, who was covering her carefully with a shawl, paused in dismay and whispered something in her ear; but she answered coldly and haughtily, and without attempting to lower her voice, "I am not accustomed to receive instructions in regard to my treatment of servants." 
               Margaret was at first too angry to speak, and stood looking from one to the other, as if stupefied; but the last insult recalled her confused faculties, and she advanced toward them, trembling with anger and injured feeling. 
               "That she should have lived to be called a servant!" It was an unthought-of term in the quiet little town where she had been reared. 
               Besides, she had loved and cared for Mr. Seldon from his childhood, as if he had been her own son, and to be insulted by his wife was more than she could bear. 
               Her age alone might have appealed to Mabel's pity, as she stood before her, with such a pallor on her wrinkled, weather-beaten face, and such a shaking of her usually upright figure. 
               Mr. Seldon had been kneeling by Mabel's side, and his arm was thrown around her still; but his eyes were turned to Margaret with an expression so appealing and heart-broken, that her anger changed to compassion; and when Mabel said, "Will you order that insolent woman to leave the room, or did you only marry me to expose me to insult?" Margaret did not attempt to reply, but with a mingled groan and sob hurried away as fast as her tottering limbs would carry her, stopping not till she reached her own room, when she flung herself on the bed and moaned as if in extreme physical pain. 
                
               But it was not of herself or the indignity she had suffered, of which she thought; it was only of Mr. Seldon and the life in store for him. 
               Mr. Seldon watched her retreating figure with a wild, haggard look and a restless gleam in his eye. Mabel was a little frightened, and feared she had gone too far; but after a minute's silence she wound her arms around his neck and drew his face toward hers. 
               It was like the gleam of a light-house to the troubled mariner, the face looking into his own; and again he yielded to the fascination that left him no power of resistance, and blotted out every trial while he basked in its sunshine. 
               Mabel even deigned to explain her conduct, and drew such a picture of Margaret's insolent manner to her, when she was unhappy and thought her mother dead, that he freed his beautiful darling from all blame; although he pitied Margaret and asked Mabel, "for his sake to be kind to her." Mabel gave a scowl he happily did not observe, as he had turned to leave the room, thinking, as he went, that Mabel's happiness should ever be his first consideration, whatever it involved. He returned in a few minutes and kindled a fire in the grate; but before his task was completed, Mabel was fast asleep. He felt a shade of disappointment; he wanted a kind glance from those wondrous eyes, before he left her. But it was only momentary, and with a fond, lingering look at her beautiful face, now as placid and innocent as an infant's, he resumed his watching at Mrs. Clifton's bedside, and the welcoming smile and feeble pressure of her hand repaid him for the sacrifice of his inclination. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               ALMOST a week had passed since Mr. Clifton's rescue. He awakened from a heavy sleep and looked around him. It was all strange; the ceiling low, and the walls bare and whitewashed. He attempted to rise, but fell back on the pillow, faint and breathless. But his movement brought Mrs. Belt to his bedside. Her face looked familiar, but he could not remember where he had met her before, until she smilingly explained his accident, and that he had grown so very sick, they were obliged to stop with him at the farm-house where they now were. 
               He would have spoken; but she said with a gentle air of authority, "You must not talk any now, or all my good nursing will be lost;" he was too weary to contest the point, and after taking a little nourishment, dropped into a gentle natural sleep, and all through the day and night slumbered and awakened alternately, thinking that the face of his kind watcher was very pleasant and motherly, and feeling too easy and comfortable to think of anything more. 
               But as he recovered strength, all the incidents of the day on which he decided to leave his home came thronging back, and his desire to be well was so strong as to seriously retard his recovery. 
               Mr. Belt rode to the nearest telegraph station and despatched to Mr. Clifton's wife first, and then to his lawyer, and finally to the mayor of the city. 
               But nothing was known of Mrs. and Miss Clifton, and the lawyer was out of the city. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Belt managed to keep him in ignorance of the time he had been sick, and he was spared that anxiety. But it was almost three weeks from the time of his accident, when he took his seat in the cars to commence his journey. 
               Mrs. Belt shed tears at parting with him; but her husband's joy at the very liberal sum with which his services were remunerated overmastered any other emotion. In short, they all separated with mutual expressions of good will, and took their opposite paths in life as contentedly as if they had never met. 
               Mr. Clifton reached his destination without accident, and with less fatigue than might have been expected from his weak state. His first act was to dispatch a messenger for his lawyer, whose prompt arrival, and, above all, whose welcome intelligence in regard to his wife and daughter, relieved him of a load of apprehension. 
               The lawyer, after allowing Mr. Clifton time to recover a little from his joy, reluctantly gave him the letter he had received from Mrs. Clifton. Mr. Clifton looked very ill and was unable to bear anxiety; he was completely overcome for a time, and sat with bent head and averted face. 
               When he recovered his composure, he commenced a discussion as to the route and the time required to reach the town designated in Mrs. Clifton's letter, but made no allusion to Mabel's conduct. 
               The lawyer talked in a light strain, and treated the whole affair as rather an amusing adventure; but Mr. Clifton's cold face showed he did not look upon it so leniently. 
               The lawyer with a compassionate desire to arrange the difficulty as satisfactorily as possible, then suggested that Miss Clifton's inference, in regard to the note, was not only natural but unavoidable, and in confirmation of his words, produced the ill-fated note. The only words legible were, "My bank-book will show you all of my available means," and they were so discolored and indistinct as to be almost illegible. 
               Mr. Clifton made no comment, and threw himself wearily on the sofa, his thin, emaciated hands shading his eyes. He did not seem angry, and once the lawyer thought he saw a tear. Man of the world as he was, and unused to sentiment, he could not help being painfully affected by the change in a person, who had been so strong and so seemingly far removed from all the trials of life. 
               The hard-working man of business had often thought Mr. Clifton's fate an enviable one,-and now he was broken in health and energy, and feeble as a child. But his indomitable will still remained, for it was not long before he announced his intention of taking a fresh train and joining his wife. No persuasions or arguments were sufficient to induce him to relinquish his purpose, although the effort of making the necessary arrangements seemed more than he could bear. 
               The lawyer, with a sad heart, saw him aboard the train and even offered to accompany him. Mr. Clifton refused his offer gratefully and firmly, although he held his hand, eagerly, and seemed loth to part with him as he said: 
               "If you should write to me, give me the name my daughter saw fit to assume. I will not expose her"-he could not finish the sentence. After a while he said hurriedly,-"You will think me very weak and unmanly, but it is hard to meet with disrespect and insult from a child,- so hard, I hope you will never realize it." 
               The lawyer wrung his hand in silence, and they parted. 
               Mr. Clifton sat with bent head, thinking intently,-one minute of his wife's trust and devotion, and then of Mabel's insulting inference in regard to himself. There was no excuse for her; she had no reason to think him capable of so base an act. It was dreadful! And then, like oil on the troubled waters, would come the remembrance of his wife's trust, and his heart would be completely softened. 
               He longed to see her so earnestly, that it gave him strength. He had never known how dear she was until now. All her little faults and inconsistencies were effaced from his recollection. He remembered only that she had loved him with a devotion he had never returned, and, alas! never before appreciated. Beatrice was forgotten, even the disgrace threatening his name if she claimed to be his wife, as he thought of Mrs. Clifton, in a miserable Western town, deprived of the luxuries to which she had been accustomed, and with no protector except Mabel, whose pride and hauteur might expose them to insult. Fortunately, he found refuge from his anxiety in sleep, when he exchanged the cars for the lumbering stage-coach. He only wakened at intervals, and when he entered the town, at the end of his journey, he was much stronger than when he started. 
               It was quite dark, and be had no means of judging of the town. The hotel was dismal, but the friendly shadows hid its defects, and all Mr. Clifton noticed was the portly landlord, as he bustled forward, lantern in hand, and opened the coach-door. 
               "Is Mrs. Camden stopping here?" asked Mr. Clifton eagerly. The landlord, whose curiosity overmastered his disappointment at the probable loss of a guest, said that she was at Mr. Seldon's, and was about to indulge in a lengthy harangue; when Mr. Clifton interrupted him by inquiring of the coachman, "if he could drive there?" and before the astonished landlord recovered his speech, the coach had rattled off and disappeared in the darkness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               MRS. CLIFTON rallied, not withstanding her physician's prediction that she would not live through the day. She seemed cheerful and contented, and each member of the household vied with the other in attention and kindness. 
               Mabel was gracious to every one but Margaret, who was not yet restored to favor, and who, by wisely keeping in the background, managed to preserve a truce. Mr. Seldon was fully occupied between the sick-room, where his beautiful wife spent the most of the time, and in superintending the refitting of the parlor. 
               The work progressed rapidly, although it seemed slow to him. Mabel would scarcely venture down stairs at all, and protested she would never have courage to again enter the room where she had been so frightened. 
               She sat most of the time before the fire, her hands listlessly folded, and her eyes downcast; and her mother watched her fondly, hour after hour, and noted with joy the magical effect of Mr. Seldon's entrance. 
               "She loves him," would be her inward comment, as she saw her deepening color and animated look. His devotion was almost painfully intense, but it met with no unkind return. It was all sunshine now, when he visited the invalid's cheerful room. 
               Mrs. Clifton sometimes thought she had never been so happy before. 
               Adversity had taught her to think of others; self had once been her first object and care, and now her children were all. Mabel was very tender with her, and seemed to wish to atone for her past neglect. 
                
               It was late in the afternoon, several days after the storm. Mrs. Clifton was so much better, that she decided to dress and sit up a while, and Margaret, willing to humor all her whims, assisted her. Mabel's toilet was very elaborate, although rather unappropriate to the occasion. It was a full dinner-dress of rose-colored brocade, elaborately trimmed with lace, and her ornaments were opals and diamonds. 
               Mrs. Clifton could scarcely look away from her, and when her own toilet was completed, called her softly.- Margaret retreated to a corner at Mabel's approach. 
               "What is it, mamma?" said Mabel, sweetly looking with pride at her still beautiful mother. 
               One would have supposed her an elder sister of the young girl bending over her so gracefully. Since Mrs. Clifton's illness, her face had, somehow, an infantine look: it was so very white, and her beautifully pencilled eyebrows and ebon hair contrasted finely with its marble-like purity. There was not a shadow of 
                     hateur
                     hauteur
                   or pride, but a calm that was almost touching. Her snowy cashmere wrapper fell in graceful folds, although she had not studied the arrangement; dress had been her passion once, but that weakness was over now. 
               She was nearing the shore of that icy river where the pomps and vanities of life are laid aside. 
               Religion had not occupied much of her time or thoughts, but in her own feeble way she was looking forward to the golden shores. 
               She drew Mabel's face close to her own, and smoothed her rippling hair. Mabel was not a person who usually endured caresses, but she was gentle now. 
               Her mother looked long and lovingly in her face, as if it was a farewell she was taking, and there was something solemn in her earnest gaze; at last she murmured, in a soft, sad tone, "You are so lovely, Mabel, so lovely;" she looked at her wistfully as if she would fain say more, and a faint flush rose to her cheek, but she could not gain the courage to counsel or advise, and after a little hesitation only said, "Kiss me, dear, like you used to when a little girl;"-and Mabel, completely softened, threw her arms round her neck and kissed her with a fondness she had perhaps never shown before. 
               She seemed half ashamed as Mr. Seldon came toward them and commenced a laughing apology, but Mr. Seldon did not allow her to finish. "I have come to show you the parlor, my darling, and if you like it as much as I hope, I will come back for dear Mrs. Camden;" and he glanced fondly toward her. She smiled an assent he did not see, for Mabel, with her rare beauty and her most witching mood, was near him. 
               The parlor met with her entire approbation; and after a while he went back for Mrs. Clifton, and without heeding her laughing remonstrance, took her in his strong arms and carried her down to the sofa. 
               They had a very happy time. Mabel was in the gayest spirits, and laughed and talked incessantly. 
               There was only one cloud in their sunshine, but it passed so quickly that Mrs. Clifton, who had fallen asleep, was not aware of it. 
               Mr. Seldon and Mabel were standing at the window, when she called his attention to some persons walking up the gravel path. "What queer specimens of humanity," she said, laughingly,-"friends of your incomparable Margaret, I suppose." 
               She touched his cheek lightly with the tips of her rosy fingers. 
               His cheeks were flushed, and after a little hesitation be said,- 
               "They are friends of mine,"-she raised her eyebrows with a kind of insolent surprise,-"and they are coming to see you." 
               He saw the storm gathering in her face, and said hurriedly, "Shall I excuse you?" 
               "You can do as you please," she said, carelessly; "but I will never, upon any pretence, consent to speak or visit any of these people." 
               "But how can you live here without visiting them?" She turned angrily away, and he walked to the door, his heart beating painfully. 
               They were plain, old-fashioned people, but they had been his parents' friends, and he revered and loved them. He could not tell them his wife would not see them, and he could not admit them without subjecting them to insult, and going through a scene with Mabel that might cause her mother's death. Margaret was in the hall. 
               "Wait a minute," he said,-but he could not for a while bring himself to tell her, and she knew from his face something painful had occurred. 
               "Margaret," he said at last in a husky voice, "we cannot see any one to day," with an emphasis on "any one." 
               Margaret looked at him in surprise, and he repeated the words sadly, adding, "Mrs. Camden is not well enough to see any strangers." 
               Mabel hurried to meet him. "It was so good of you to rid me of those tiresome persons. I will play for you as a reward."-But he drew her away from the piano, and said firmly, although the shadow was gone from his face,- 
               "I cannot have them insulted; you must not play now. I descended to a miserable subterfuge for your sake." 
               She was half tempted to be angry, but he drew her to him suddenly with a fierce kind of impulsiveness that always mastered her and said passionately: "I sometimes think I have sold myself to a beautiful sorceress, who will charm me to destruction; is it so?" 
                
               Mabel laughed merrily, and laid her head on his shoulder with a look that made him forget all but herself; and he was again her willing slave. The hours passed slowly, and the night came in clear and starry. 
               The firelight danced on the wall and shone fitfully on the sofa where Mrs. Clifton was lying. 
               Mabel and Mr. Seldon were in shadow, and she grew tired of the fitful glare, and Mr. Seldon rose to light the wax candles. 
               He laughingly told her she was so beautiful in that softened light, that she was beyond comparison; and she was protesting against such flattery, when there was a sharp ring at the door. 
               Mabel's brow clouded, but Mr. Seldon said eagerly, "I told Margaret we would not see any one. "Mabel smiled bewitchingly and put her hand through his arm, when a strange voice was heard in the hall. Mrs. Clifton rose to her feet, and her cheeks gleamed with the beauty of girlhood. 
               Mabel turned deadly pale, and Mr. Seldon looked from one to the other in surprise. 
               "What is it, Mabel; are you frightened?" but she did not answer, and clung to his arm; her eyes turned to the door with an anxious expression, and yet she was shrinking as if in fear. 
               Margaret's voice was raised in expostulation, and after a minute of suspense, she opened the door and motioned to Mr. Seldon. 
               But before he could release himself from Mabel's grasp, Mr. Clifton entered, so pale and corpse-like that Mabel repressed the scream that rose to her lips, and looked at him in speechless terror. 
               He did not see her at first, and commenced hurriedly,- "Sir, you will pardon my intrusion, when"-His eye rested on Mabel, and surprise at her strange position was succeeded by anger. 
               He advanced toward her, and she shrank back, trembling in every limb, and clinging closer to Mr. Seldon. 
               There was a rustle, a light footstep, and Mrs. Clifton threw her arms round her husband, and falling on her knees, raised her beautiful face imploringly, and gasped, 
               "Edward, Edward! forgive her, forgive us!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               MR. CLIFTON stooped and raised his wife in his arms and laid her on the sofa. 
               Everything was forgotten in his alarm, as the hectic faded from her cheek and left her white as marble, except the dark circles under her eyes. She held his hands clasped tightly, and her fingers were icy cold. He looked at Mr. Seldon as if imploring his help. Mabel had disappeared as soon as her father's stern face was taken from her. 
               Mr. Seldon was overcome with astonishment at the strange scene just enacted. He had supposed Mrs. Camden a widow, and Mabel's extreme fear was incomprehensible to him. 
               But Mr. Clifton's appeal was understood, although his trembling lips could not utter a sound, and, calling Margaret, he kindly hurried for a doctor. When they returned, the paroxysm was over, and Mrs. Clifton sitting in a chair, supported by pillows. Her eyes were bright, and her breath came in short, quick spasms. 
               Her husband was sitting beside her, so pale and haggard, that an inexperienced person would have supposed him the nearest death. The doctor shook his head with a grave expression, and made out a prescription for him. "You need it to give you strength," he said, as Mr. Clifton demurred and insisted that his wife should be attended to first. 
               Mrs. Clifton smiled sadly and glanced toward the doctor; his grave, pitying face told her all; and after a minute's silence she said, in a firm, clear tone, so sweet and distinct, that none of her hearers ever forgot the sound: 
                
               "I would like to see my husband alone a little while; I will not have long, doctor?" He bowed assent to her inquiring look, and they all left the room but Mr. Clifton, who felt like one whose last hope was sinking in darkness. 
               He took the chair beside her and drew her head tenderly on his shoulder. She saw that it was not necessary to prepare him, for the despair on his face was legibly written, and she had much to tell him of Mr. Seldon's kindness, and, finally, of Mabel's marriage. It scarcely seemed of importance, now that the death-angel was drawing nearer and nearer. Mr. Clifton even promised to forgive Mabel, although it was very hard, and he hesitated at first; but Mrs. Clifton grew so ghastly white that, in an agony of terror, he threw his arms around her as if he would keep her from the grasp of death, and said huskily: "I will do anything for your sake." 
               She smiled faintly, and lay with closed eyes for a little time, and then said feebly, "Call Mabel and Mr. Seldon." 
               He arose and crossed the room he scarcely knew how. Margaret was waiting outside the door, "Shall I tell them to come?" He bowed his head in silence. 
               The one instant he had been away had done the work of hours. There was no hectic now on Mrs. Clifton's cheek, and a grayish tinge shaded the transparent whiteness of her marble cheek; but there was an indescribable change that comes but once and can never be forgotten. 
               She was still conscious, and stretched out her arms to her husband; but death stepped between them, and before he could reach her side, her spirit had left its earthly tenement. 
               He could not believe it at first, as he bent over her in speechless agony and held her cold, nerveless fingers. 
               The door opened quietly, and Mr. Seldon led in the trembling, shrinking Mabel. Her terror of any one dead almost amounted to insanity, and he could scarcely persuade her that her mother was still living, after Margaret brought them the message; but the sight of her father, bending over the familiar figure, gave her courage, and she stood beside him before he knew of her presence. 
               He raised his grief-stricken face and held out his hand to his daughter. "I forgive you, Mabel," he said, in a low, suppressed tone. She withdrew herself from her husband's arms and advanced a step forward, when she caught sight of her mother's face, and with a shriek of terror, fell senseless to the floor. 
               They left Margaret alone with the dead, in their anxiety for the living. 
               Mr. Seldon was almost wild with grief and alarm, as Mabel only recovered from one fainting fit to relapse into another. All through the long night Margaret, with the assistance of a few neighbors,-one of them the kind old lady who had been refused admittance to the house in the afternoon,-prepared Mrs. Clifton for her long, dreamless sleep. 
               The hands that robed her so solemnly were hardened with toil, but their touch was gentle, and there was no lack of tears as they smoothed the snow linen around her pulseless form. 
               She was far more lovely in death than when living. The slight shade of discontent that usually curled her lips was gone, and a smile, placidly and beautiful, lighted up the snowy purity of her delicately chiselled features. They were loth to turn away, and watched her until morning. Mr. Clifton then came in, and they stole noiselessly from the room. 
               Mabel had fallen into a natural sleep, and there was no more cause, for anxiety on her account. All Mr. Clifton's love for her had revived, as he watched her through the night, and it required all his gratitude for Mr. Seldon's kindness, and the remembrance of his wife's pleadings, to restrain the jealous indignation he felt at her marriage. 
               But when he entered the silent room, where death had set his dreary sentinels, and the very air was thick with the shadow of the dark angel, every bitter feeling was forgotten. 
               His very breath was hushed, as he stood beside his wife's pulseless form, not daring to lift the drapery that shrouded the mortal remains of the once gay and beautiful Mrs. Clifton. All the incidents of his married life came crowding back. 
               He remembered her haughty, graceful beauty on their wedding-day; but he felt with a pang that his heart was then full of love for another. Affection and kindness he had given the woman who had passed through life unconscious that her dearest right was withheld, but never love, until the closing hours of her existence. 
               It was no relief to think that she would not perhaps have appreciated a warmer feeling. 
               The trial through which she had passed had awakened all the fine, womanly instincts that had lain dormant. 
               Had he been all he should, would not love have awakened what indifference kept slumbering? In his meditations by the beautiful form once so full of health, he could only remember her devotion to him; the faults once so glaring were all forgotten. There was no sophistry that could lighten his own conscience. 
               By the silent, pulseless figure did he mourn over "Every past benefit unrequited-every past endearment unregarded-of the departed being, who could never, never, never return." 
               Margaret came to him after a time, and tried to persuade him to rest a while, and let her take his place; poor old Margaret, whose peaceful life had been broken into suddenly-and whose upright figure was bent already. 
               Mr. Clifton's heart warmed toward her. She had cared for his wife tenderly, and she looked grief-worn. "You need rest yourself, my good woman," he said, so kindly that the tears came to her eyes. Finding it useless to urge him, she left him to his lonely vigils. 
               He drew a large chair by the side of the shrouded form, and resumed his sorrowful reflections; but as the day advanced, the silence and fatigue overpowered him, and he fell asleep, his mind wandering dreamily through beautiful scenes. 
               He half awakened once, and like a jar in some melody came the thought of his wife and his sorrow; and then he slumbered again, and saw her a radiant angel, in pure and shining white, with wondrous flowers about her, and her mouth so calm and smiling, he gazed in ecstasy until, as he stretched out his arms toward her, she disappeared, and in his disappointment he awoke. 
               The sheet was thrown back, and his dream was realized. There was no color, or life, but the smile, and the calm, exquisite beauty and repose were there. He felt that she was happy, even while he bent over her with tears that did not shame his manhood, and he knelt and kissed her icy lip. 
               As he attempted to rise from his knees, a sudden darkness enveloped him. 
               Some one handed him a glass of water, and when the mist cleared away from his eyes, he saw it was Mr. Seldon. His face was troubled and anxious, and he explained that he had been arranging some flowers; his voice trembled and he looked away. Mr. Clifton held out his hand, and said, falteringly, "She liked you very much-will you stay a while?" 
                
               He was too utterly exhausted to say more, and fell back in his chair, faint and giddy. 
               Mr. Seldon called the doctor, who had not left the house, and they assisted him to the room his wife had quitted a few hours before. 
               He seemed perfectly unconscious-but the doctor assured Mr. Seldon that it was only fatigue. 
               Margaret took her place by the bed-side, with a sinking heart, muttering, as the door closed on Mr. Seldon's retreating figure,- 
               "She brought a curse-Heaven help us all!" 
               But Mr. Seldon did not think so, as he stole quietly in his wife's darkened room, to see if she was still sleeping, and tenderly kissed her. There had been sorrow and desolation, almost from the hour she crossed the threshold as his bride; but there had been happiness, too, that far exceeded his wildest dreams and even the shadow of death could not chill all the warm bright visions that clustered round his heart, and solaced his lonely vigils through the night. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               MORNING dawned, but Mr. Seldon's difficulties increased as the hours passed in their slow tedious course. Mr. Clifton was raving in delirium, and Mabel so nervous and excitable that the doctor thought it best to keep her under the influence of opiates. 
               Margaret scarcely left Mr. Clifton's bed-side, and no persuasions from Mr. Seldon could induce her to visit Mabel's sick-room. 
               "If she needed attention, I would go," she persisted. "But she ought to be helping you, instead of going off with hysterics;" and he was obliged to leave his darling to the care of Betty, and return to his watching in the darkened parlor. 
               The day and night passed slowly, only varied by the arrangements for the funeral, and a hasty visit to Mabel's room, from which he returned with a darker shadow on his face. Mabel was better physically, but whether it was the effect of the opiates, or that she had come to dislike him, he could not tell, but she shrank from him with such aversion, that it almost broke his heart. 
               Still he pitied, and made excuses for her, and loved her with undiminished affection. 
               The third morning after Mrs. Clifton's death was ushered in by clouds and rain, that would have made a house gloomy under the most favorable auspices; but now the presence of death and illness so added to the dreariness, that even the doctor was glad to get away, and Betty was afraid to stir from Mr. Seldon's room, and started at every sound. 
                
               Margaret opened the parlor-door and motioned to Mr. Seldon. He came toward her slowly, and looked so pale and changed, that she burst into tears, and it was some time before she could speak. 
               He was usually so kind-hearted and yet he took no notice of her tears, but stood patiently waiting her pleasure. 
               "Mr. Camden is worse," she said at last, wiping her eyes. He started a little, and she drew nearer with a kind of awe on her face, as she said in almost a whisper,-"He will never get well, while there is a corpse in the house." 
               "Heaven help us all!" she went off muttering, as he did not answer. 
               He was not superstitious, but he was reluctantly obliged to confess that the funeral must take place as soon as possible. 
               He decided to make another effort to persuade Mabel to give him at least an idea of her wishes in regard to the funeral, and if she still refused to speak to him, act on his own responsibility. 
               Mabel was sitting before the fire, enveloped in a large shawl, and yet shivering as if with cold. 
               She stopped crying at his entrance, and showed a slight degree of interest that made his heart throb with a sensation of pleasure. "I have been to see father," she began in a piteous tone, "but he will die; oh, I know he will die!" she sobbed. 
               Mr. Seldon tried to soothe her; but her next exclamation almost deprived him of power of speech. 
               "I hate this dreadful place, and the hour that brought me here. Oh, if I had only not come," and she again relapsed into passionate grief. 
               For the first time, there was a little bitterness in his heart; but he reproached himself for what he termed unkindness, and was unaltered in his tenderness. 
                
               When Mabel was a little composed, he asked her wishes in regard to the funeral arrangements; but she started from him in horror, and lost all command over her feelings, and before he left her, was in violent hysterics. 
               The doctor was summoned, and opiates again administered. 
               Mabel was bitterly reaping the fruits of her head-strong folly. Affliction found her utterly unprepared. 
               The first sorrow is always the hardest to bear, and there is no fortitude that can enable even those accustomed to a life of self-denial to meet with calmness the death of a dear friend; but Mabel's life had been one of luxury and happiness, and to all her natural grief was added remorse; the share for her wilfulness had in her mother's death did not lessen the calamity that overwhelmed her with horror. 
               At four in the afternoon, all that was mortal of Mrs. Clifton was borne to the church-yard. 
               Mr. Seldon was the only mourner, and so changed had he become during the few days that had elapsed since the wedding, that the villagers gathered around the open grave could scarcely repress an exclamation as he alighted from the carriage. 
               "Earth to earth, dust to dust," repeated the minister, and the clods were heaped on the coffin-lid with a dull, heavy sound. 
               The sun emerged from the clouds and shone brightly on the new-made grave, and a bird's gay carol rang clear and mellow as the voice of a freed spirit. 
               But the heavy weight on Mr. Seldon's heart rested so darkly, that no sunshine or music could lighten or clear it away. 
               It seemed as if Margaret was right, and that the shadow of an unburied corpse wrought a dreary spell, for the gloom was dissipated. Mr. Seldon could breathe freer, and Mabel was almost cheerful, and did not shrink from him in such terror. She was not affectionate, but seemed glad to have him with her,-and when Margaret, whose fear lest he should be ill, overcame her aversion and dislike of entering Mabel's presence, insisted that he must have some supper, and then try to sleep, Mabel added her own entreaties. 
               "But you will be lonesome," he urged; and she answered so kindly, "that he must think of himself sometimes," that he was emboldened to kiss her; she did not return the caress, and he sighed wearily, as he followed Margaret to the dining-room. 
               It seemed so like old times, as they sat at the little round table, before the blazing fire, that Margaret could not help saying,- 
               "Oh, if we had only been dreaming, and they had never come!" She was frightened at her temerity and looked hurriedly at Mr. Seldon. He was not angry; but there was a weary, thoughtful expression on his face; he was thinking that it would have been better if the last few weeks had been a dream, from which they could awaken, and that the rosy draught he then welcomed so eagerly was drained to the very dregs. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               DREARY weeks had elapsed since the funeral. Without, it was cold and rainy, and the level, uninteresting country looked bleak as a desert. The once pretty lawn, in front of the house, was shorn of its principal beauties. 
               The fine old trees had been uprooted during the storm, and the summer-house and arbor laid in ruins. 
               Winter had set in earlier than usual, and walks or rides were out of the question. But the desolation without was not to be compared to the gloom that held high carnival in the once cheerful house. 
               Mabel had never smiled since her mother's death, and rarely spoke. 
               There was a hard, cold expression about her compressed lips, and a startled look in her beautiful eyes. 
               Mr. Clifton, who had slowly recovered his strength, would watch her for hours; but no scrutiny enabled him to read the thoughts hidden under the passionless calm of her marble-like face. 
               Her marriage was a mystery, and the conduct of the newly wedded pair still more strange and inexplicable. 
               His wife had spoken of Mabel's love for Mr. Seldon, but he looked in vain for any indication of even interest. Mr. Seldon's sad, white face and listlessness told of some secret unhappiness, and although he evidently loved Mabel with a kind of idolatry, he never spoke to her, except when it was unavoidable. There was reserve in their manner, but no unkindness, and it was evident they were mutually miserable. 
                
               In his weakness and sorrow, Mr. Clifton turned to Mabel as his only comfort, and the desolate village was more inviting than to wander over the world, without interests or ties. 
               It was a trial to leave his beautiful daughter to bury her accomplishments in a place so unsuited to her talents and elegance. But although his pride and ambition prevented his ever feeling reconciled to a marriage that brought to Mabel so obscure a destiny, he did not for an instant think of proposing to take her with him. Her place was with the husband she had chosen, whether her choice brought joy or misery. 
               It was only the middle of the afternoon, but the day had already seemed interminably long. Mabel had been standing by the window for more than an hour-motionless as a statue-and Mr. Clifton was watching her from the fireside, where he had been vainly trying to read. 
               She turned suddenly, and came forward with a look of determination on her face, as she said abruptly,- 
               "You spoke this morning about going away; are you decided when to start?" 
               Her father paused before he answered, and then spoke in a nervous, hesitating way. He was much altered from the firm, unyielding man he had once been. 
               "I am sufficiently recovered to undertake the journey. I suppose there is no use to delay. It was only on your account I hesitated." 
               "Will you go to-morrow?" Mabel said eagerly, and a flush of pleasure lighted up her face as he assented. 
               Surprised and hurt that she should wish him gone, and too proud to make any comment, he resumed his book, never once glancing toward her, as she stood before him in silence. 
               At last she turned and left the room, and he felt with bitterness that there was no longer any tie to bind him to life. Of Beatrice he would not think. 
               Mabel walked slowly and reluctantly toward the parlor. She had not entered it since the night her mother died, and her courage almost deserted her as she crossed the threshold. 
               Margaret was seated, with her knitting lying idly in her lap, and her eyes fixed mournfully on Mr. Seldon. He did not observe her scrutiny, or notice Mabel as she stood beside him. 
               His head was bent dejectedly, and there were threads of silver among his glossy hair. A few weeks had worked the change of years. Mabel may have felt some compunction as she stood watching him in silence; but if so, it did not alter her purpose. 
               Margaret rose and left the room. Mabel had not spoken to him, except in her father's presence, since the evening of his return from the funeral. 
               He must have known of her presence, although he did not look at her until she laid her hand lightly on his arm. There was nothing of hope in his face as he turned toward her, and she said, abruptly,- 
               "I am going with my father." 
               A blush of shame flushed her cheek as he rose suddenly, and pushing her hand from his arm, confronted her; and her voice faltered as she continued, "We will be happier separated; and I loathe and detest this place so much, that death would be preferable to living here. 
               "We are not suited, in any respect. To love me, you would be obliged to give up all that association has made dear, and I am not worth the sacrifice." The sadness in her tone, as she pronounced the last words, changed to a kind of anger, and she said passionately,- 
               "I don't know where my pride is that I tell you, but though I despise myself for my decision, nothing will induce me to change it. I will leave you to-morrow, and never return!" 
               Still he did not answer, and she drew near him suddenly and threw her arms around him with a look of mournful fondness. 
               "It is not that I do not like you-do not love you-" 
               He looked in her face, love struggling with disdain, and said, half scornfully,- 
               "Your love must be very strong, indeed!" 
               "Oh, if I could only be good," she murmured, clinging to him passionately. "I love you, and yet, if I should stay, I would make you miserable!- 
               "Love is a very small item in our lives," she went on after a little pause. "You will soon forget me, and be as happy as if we had never met." 
               "And you?" he said, speaking like one in a dream. A gleam of anger and indecision crossed her face as she thought bitterly, that her tampering with destiny was not to be so easily forgiven. 
               Though she left her husband, the tie could not be severed until death broke the band. In her anxiety to be free, she had not realized that it would only be in appearance. 
               Her ambitious dreams could never be realized. She hesitated, but only for an instant. Love could not make her happy; if there were no triumphs left for her in the great world she so longed to enter, there would be at least change. 
               The bare thought of resuming her old life, made her giddy with an exultation she could scarcely repress; and every trace of irritation vanished. 
               Mr. Seldon was not surprised: he had been expecting each day that she would come and tell him what she now told. 
                
               There was more affection in her manner than he expected, but he was not deceived by it. Suspense was ended. He could not be more miserable than he had been during the last few weeks, and he looked up wearily,- 
               "Have you anything more to say to me?" 
               "You consent, then, to a separation," she said, eagerly, and with a joy she did not attempt to conceal. 
               "Of course, if you wish it," he answered in the same weary manner as if it was all a tiresome dream. 
               "And may I tell father it is our mutual decision?" she said, following him to the sofa. He turned fiercely, like a lion at bay,- 
               "Say what you please, only leave me! I am only mortal, and I can bear no more now." His eyes flashed, and there was a wildness in his face that struck her with a sudden terror, and she left the room without another word. 
               Margaret came in softly after a while; Mr. Seldon turned to her piteously. 
               "O Margaret! my dear old friend, the dream is almost over; they are going soon." She turned very pale, but sat down beside him in silence, and smoothed his hair as she used when was a little boy and came to her with his childish griefs. He then laid his head on her lap with the old childish abandon. At last he said, with a strange calmness-"Do you believe in broken hearts, Margaret?-because, if mine is not broken, I must be going mad!" 
               Margaret trembled violently, but she still smoothed his hair and talked to him soothingly, and he grew more composed, although the least sound made him tremble as if in an ague-fit. 
               He had lain so quietly, that she thought he had found forgetfulness in sleep; but at the sound of the tea-bell he raised his face, and although it was so dark she could not see the expression, yet his tone reassured her. It was calm and decided. 
               "Margaret, I would rather not meet any one just now. You may bring me some strong coffee. If Mr. Camden wishes to see me, I will go to his room, where he can see me alone." 
               Margaret thought, with a gush of happy tears, "He will bear it now,-the danger is past." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               MABEL ran lightly up the stairs leading to her father's room, too happy at the success of her scheme to give a thought to Mr. Seldon in his sorrow, or to tremble at the deliberate sin she would commit in leaving her husband. Under the most cheerful auspices she would have repented of a marriage that could gratify neither her ambition nor love of admiration. 
               The fascination Mr. Seldon exerted was a transient feeling, never strong enough to enable her to make any sacrifice, however necessary to his happiness. 
               She would have tired of her monotonous life, even had there not been sufficient trouble to give her a distaste and loathing for her new home. 
               Her father's return, by recalling the wealth and pomp that once surrounded her, made her marriage seem such a dreadful mesalliance, that she considered any plan excusable by which she might be free. 
               Her real name was still unknown to Mr. Seldon, and her marriage could easily be kept a secret. It was only known to her father, whose pride revolted from it. If any person she had ever known should read the marriage notice of Mabel Camden and Willard Seldon, what clue would it give them?-none, she was convinced. 
               It was almost impossible the world should by any chance stumble upon that knowledge. 
               Day after day, during her father's convalescence, did she think over and mature her plan. Mr. Seldon's consent was alone necessary, and his refusal her only fear; she knew that his will was stronger than her own, if once roused, and she had sometimes trembled for her power, even when she managed him most skilfully. 
               Flushed with the triumph of success, and wild with delight, she flung open the door of her father's room, and stood before him, radiant and beautiful, so unlike the pale, spiritless automaton she had been for weeks; but he was too astonished to speak, and looked at her inquiringly. She was too eager to tell him the joyful news at first, and after a minute's hesitation she stood beside him and drew his face down to hers. 
               It was a caress she had not offered her stately father since she was a child; but her words left him no room for amazement at her singular behavior. 
               "Papa, I am going with you to-morrow, and we will forget this dreadful place, and be so happy." 
               "And your husband?" he faltered, scarcely knowing whether to be pleased at the prospect, and yet glad that Mabel was not destitute of filial affection. 
               "Mr. Seldon," she answered coldly, "remains here; we have separated." There was a joyous cadence in the tone with which she pronounced the words. But the smile faded as her father rose sternly and pushed her from him. 
               Even in his anger he noticed the door was ajar; he closed and locked it. 
               Mabel still knelt; she would have caught his hands imploringly, but his face restrained her. 
               "Miserable girl! have you so little heart that you can desert the man who offered you an asylum when you were destitute; who married you under circumstances so suspicious, that, had he been less honorable-" He did not finish the sentence, but went on in a softer tone, "Have you no gratitude for his kindness to your mother? He soothed her last hours; watched over her, night after night, when all was over; while her husband and daughter were too miserably weak to pay the last rites or to see her buried. 
               "All this he did, and his kindness to me has been unceasing. What right have we to such kindness?-mere strangers, our very names unknown,-what return have you made him, answer me, wretched girl!-and now you desert him." 
               "Oh, father! have mercy," she gasped, imploringly clinging to him, while he tried in vain to release himself from her grasp. 
               "Do not cast me off for my mother's sake; hear me." 
               He looked at her then, and her pale face smote him. He thought with a sudden revulsion of feeling of her mother, as she pleaded with him for her only child, when the death-chill was in the trembling hand that tried to clasp his tenderly. 
               He could not be angry with her now,-she knelt before him-his proud, beautiful daughter, who had so wrecked her life and happiness. He sank into a chair and held out his hands to her. He could not speak the forgiveness that softened his heart; built still she knelt and raised her white, imploring face. 
               "Father, I never knelt before to mortal man, scarcely to my God; but I will never rise until you promise to take me with you,-I will die at your feet!" 
               Mr. Clifton groaned. 
               "Are you then so miserable, my poor child?" 
               "You cannot imagine, all I have endured in this dreadful place," she said; "I never want to think of it again. Even insult I have received-not from Mr. Seldon," she added with a twinge of remorse, as her father's brow darkened,-"but from his dependent-that Margaret. To think of a Clifton making a companion of such a person," she said proudly, and then went on with flashing eyes, "Is this a position for your daughter? just think of it!" 
                
               He leaned and took her in his arms; "My poor, unhappy child, what could have induced you to take such a step? Oh, it maddens me to think of it!" and he released her and walked the room with hasty strides. 
               She felt the day was almost won, and her heart beat as exultingly as if there was no agony on her father's face. She did not heed that in the silent room below the almost broken heart of her victim was quivering as if with death-struggle, or reflect that her sin and its consequences were being recorded by the inexorable angel, whose pen notes with fearful exactness the sins we can commit lightly and, alas! so easily forget. 
               Mr. Clifton came to her at last; his face was very solemn, so solemn she felt a thrill of apprehension; but his words reassured her. 
               "My dear child, this is a dreadful decision you have made! I cannot resist your pleadings, or cast you from me; but I must warn you of the consequences of this step. 
               "It may seem ended after the present struggle is past, and you have left this place forever; but if you are to blame, and I cannot but feel you are, in a measure, you will some day repent of it with a bitterness and agony this parting can give you no conception of. 
               "We can never sin without enduring the penalty. O Mabel, let me advise you! your marriage was indiscreet, it disappointed all my ambitious hopes for you; but still, it should not be cancelled. Mr. Seldon is a good man; you cannot but respect him, and this life is but dreary and unsatisfactory, at the best; we never realize the future that is so glowing with hope, as we look forward; but, my dear child, it is better to suffer everything of bitterness this world can give, than for one day or hour to feel remorse." He covered his face and was silent. Mabel could not but feel impressed with his earnestness, but her heart was as imperious rious as if it had been adamant. "As I said before, I would die sooner than remain with Mr. Seldon; besides," she added bitterly, "it is his wish that we should separate, he bade me tell you so; shall I go to him and humbly beg him to receive a poor unfortunate, whose father casts her from him?" 
               Mr. Clifton's brow flushed proudly. "Has he dared to so insult you? he will find you are not alone or unprotected;" but she caught his arm; "Dear papa, he offered me no insult: it was I who proposed leaving him; we are entirely unsuited to each other; we are mutually weary." 
               Her father stooped and kissed her fondly, "I am only too glad to have you back, my dear daughter, for you are all I have to love or care for. I never dreamed that Mr. Seldon could have given you up willingly. 
               "That circumstance alters the whole affair; you should have told me sooner. 
               "You must try to sleep now. I will make all necessary arrangements with Mr. Seldon; you need not even see him again. 
               "What is it, Mabel?" he said, as she still lingered. 
               "Perhaps you had better not see Mr. Seldon," she faltered. But her father, with his old decided manner, opened the door of her room and said "Good night," and she had no alternative but to obey, although her heart sank at the prospect of a meeting between those two. 
               Although she told her father the truth when she assured him that Mr. Seldon had consented to the separation, yet she knew in her inmost heart that he was not willing-that he would die for her sake without a murmur; and she was also conscious that her father, knowing the true state of affairs, would be inflexible in what he thought right. 
               She knew she was committing a deadly sin, and shuddered with a kind of secret terror, but she would not relent. If she only could see Mr. Seldon alone before his interview with her father. She was afraid to meet him, but her old power must be regained, and he must keep up the impression she had given her father, that it was the wish of both to separate forever. 
               The tea-bell rang at last; she listened with beating heart for her father to leave the room. His steps paused at the door. "Mabel, will you have some supper sent up?" 
               "No, father," she answered in great agitation and fear, lest he might suspect something from her tone. 
               Her only hope of seeing Mr. Seldon was while her father was down stairs. Margaret would take her place at the table, and Mr. Seldon, she felt sure, would remain in the parlor. 
               After minutes of expectation that seemed hours, her father left the room, and she stole noiselessly and peeped over the balusters. Margaret opened the parlor-door, and after pausing a moment, followed Mr. Clifton to the dining-room. 
               Nothing could have happened more to her liking, and yet she trembled so, she could scarcely descend the staircase, and her very heart stood still as she laid her hand on the door-handle. She had wronged Mr. Seldon, and dreaded to meet him. She was wicked and selfish, but not wholly depraved, for she felt a sense of humiliation at entering his presence. The sudden pushing back of a chair in the dining-room startled her with a new terror, but no one came, and with a resolution that it had seemed impossible to attain but a moment before, she entered the room. 
               A deadly faintness crept over her frame as she closed the door. 
               She was alone with the man she had so injured-in the pretty room so bright and cheerful the night she first entered it, now darkened with memories that would rest forever ever like heavy shadows. Death had been there since that evening. Visible through the gloom, only broken by the firelight as it flashed with an occasional lurid gleam, was the velvet-cushioned chair in which she had seen her mother last. The solemn beauty of that face would haunt her through life. There too, was the sofa on which she had lain during silent days and nights, with the changeless calm of her look unaltered. 
               
                  
                     Mable
                     Mabel
                   saw the dark outline of a figure, and she could not but think of the sorrow that had changed Mr. Seldon, so strong and vigorous when she first knew him, to the listless person he now was. She remembered that he had watched with ceaseless tenderness during the hours when the death-angel hovered there; alone he had kept his dreary vigils, alone he had followed her mother to the grave; and now, with his life blighted, and no hope that could cheer the future, she would leave him alone-alone through life. There was but one way in which the shadow could be lifted from his destiny-her death. The thought came to her like a palsy stroke, and she would have shrieked in terror, had not her white lips refused to utter a sound. In her agony she staggered forward and caught at something to save herself from falling. The fire flashed mockingly,-it was the chair in which her mother died. 
               She pushed it from her with a frantic gesture, and at the same instant the door opened and Margaret entered, and Mr. Seldon, roused from the apathy that had in mercy preserved him from the full realization of his despair, started from the sofa. 
               His eyes were fixed on Mabel with a wild, startled expression, and he shrank back as if she were a spectre. Well might he have deemed her such, for the white wrapper that enveloped her form was not more colorless than her face and lips, and her dishevelled hair and eager eyes gave her an unearthly wildness. 
                
               Margaret looked from one to the other with trembling eagerness, and then with a wild cry, that rang through the stillness like a dismal wail, clasped Mr. Seldon's hands and tried to drag him away. 
               He did not seem to see her, but gazed fixedly at Mabel, who, clinging to the mantel for support, turned her face toward him as if with a fascination. The silence that followed was broken by an exclamation from Mr. Clifton, whose entrance had been unnoticed. 
               His face was pale with anger, and he caught Mabel by the hand, and dragging her forward, confronted Mr. Seldon. 
               His lips were compressed with a decision that made Mabel tremble, and she turned to Mr. Seldon the appealing, trustful look she gave him the night they first met. It stilled the wild tumult that had drawn him to the verge of madness,-he only felt now, that he would follow the bidding of those mournfully beautiful eyes unflinchingly. 
               Mr. Clifton's voice was firm and clear, and Margaret raised her face to listen. 
               "It is too late now to inquire into the unhappy difficulty between you two, who have sworn most solemnly to love each other through life, and after so short a period of time wish to cancel your vows. I have only to ask, Mr. Seldon, if it is your wish that the separation should take place?" 
               Mr. Seldon, with his eyes fixed on Mabel's face, after a minute of irresolution answered steadily,- 
               "It is my wish!" 
               Mabel's heart gave a sudden throb, and a rich color flooded her cheeks, but her beautiful eyes never wavered in their steadfast hold of her victim. 
               Mr. Clifton gave a sigh of relief, and resumed in the same solemn manner,-"There is no need of a divorce, as your wish for separation is mutual. I should much prefer there should be none at present-it is a terrible ordeal" and he shuddered-"a needless exposure, and in this case I fear it would be impossible to obtain one. After three years you will be able to take any measures you see proper." 
               Mr. Seldon stirred uneasily, as if each word was a poisoned dart, and Mr. Clifton, with a look of pain on his face, attempted to lead Mabel from the room. 
               Mr. Seldon sprang forward and placed himself between them. 
               "I must see her alone once more,-I will give her up forever, but you surely will not grudge me one little moment of joy-one last farewell." His manner was calm and gentlemanly, though his words were eager and vehement, and Mr. Clifton, after a moment's hesitation, left the room, motioning Margaret to follow him. She shook her head and retained her seat. 
               Mr. Seldon stood motionless, with his eager, mournful eyes fixed on Mabel's face,-he did not speak or stir. It was not love in his face-it was not anger,-Mabel could not tell what it meant. Had she been a piece of marble formed by some sculptor's hand, he could not have looked at her more curiously or wonderingly. At last he commenced in a broken voice: 
               "So Phidias looked his last at the beautiful statue fashioned by his own hands. Day after day had he knelt, with a love that would have softened anything less hard; but the lips never smiled on him, the fingers never clasped his tenderly. Was it any marvel his heart broke? Even the statue must have felt pity,-senseless marble that it was,-but you feel none, Mabel, though I should die at your feet, as the poor artist died." He flung himself before her, and clasping her hands, raised his face with a look of love and devotion that thrilled her very soul. 
               His graceful head, with its wealth of dark hair, was thrown back, and his beautifully chiselled features were clearly defined, as the softened light fell on them. His tone never altered from its calm, mournful cadence.-"I can even kneel to you, Mabel, I love you so-I gave you up when there was not a pulse that did not beat for you. I could die for you gladly, Mabel, but if you will come back to me, dearest, I will live for you, and love you as you can never be loved again,-only tell me that at some future day, when I have gained wealth and fame, I may claim you, and I will work so proudly, with your face to inspire me. I can dare everything, Mabel; do not turn from me," and he clasped her hands more tightly, as she tried to release herself. She felt her decision faltering; she could not trust herself to remain longer. Those strong fingers, that could have crushed her delicate roseate palm, were strangely weak, for she tore her own away, and with a shriek of agony, freed herself from the trembling arms that would still have held her, and hurried from the room. "Mabel, my life, come back!" was called falteringly;-she did not heed; she did not even turn for one last look. 
               Alas! hers was a dearly bought victory, and when she threw herself on the bed, after reaching her room, she was almost as exhausted and senseless as the rigid form over which Margaret bent so fondly, and tried so despairingly to restore to consciousness. 
               Hours passed; the moon rose and flooded Mabel's chamber with its silvery light, but she shivered and turned away. 
               "Oh, if it were only morning!" she moaned. Her heart was touched at last. She could not shut out the tender eyes that looked into hers so fondly, could not deafen her ear to the pleading tones. 
               Over and over again, as if it were some panorama passing before her aching vision, was enacted that last scene with her husband,-not a glance omitted, or a tone forgotten. 
               She did not feel grief at the parting; she did long to see him yet once again. Could Lethe's cup have been offered her, how gladly would she have welcomed the draught! 
               Her heart was not less hard, but still Memory the avenger painted the scene, and she could not turn away. 
               The dreadful hours, how slowly they passed-one-two-three-four-only four!-and now, thank Heaven! day is dawning at last. 
               She heard her father's step, in the next room, with a transport of relief. But his words were the knell of hope. 
               "We do not start till eight." Four more weary hours to be gotten over. It was unendurable. She saw on the mantel a little vial of a sleeping potion. She drained it to the dregs, scarcely caring even for death, in her desire to rid herself of the haunting memories that seemed goading her to distraction. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               MABEL was sitting in her room, equipped for the journey. The trunks were already gone, and in fifteen minutes, at the latest, she would leave forever a place so hateful to her that it seemed she could not breathe freely, until she was away. The very atmosphere was stifling. Her father had not returned from a farewell visit to his wife's grave. Mabel did not offer to accompany him. The gloom of Mr. Seldon's house she thought preferable to a sight of the desolate churchyard, until after her father's departure, and then the silence, and the memories, and the morbid musings, that even the daylight could not banish, were so bitter, that she repented her decision. 
               Added to the gloom and silence, and the bitter memories, was the fear of another interview with Mr. Seldon. The opening of a door, or the sound of a footstep, made her start in terror. There was a half-smothered feeling that rose continually in her heart-a tenderness for the man whose life she had blighted. Cold as she was, and indifferent to the feelings of others, his sorrow and love were not altogether lost. She had triumphed over her own weakness, but it was so hard a struggle, that she shuddered to think how nearly she had yielded. Nothing would induce her to go through another such a scene. 
               The minutes passed slowly; her trial was almost at an end, when a step at the door thrilled her with agony. There was no hope of escape; she must meet him; but anger now mingled with the pitying tenderness that struggled for mastery. 
                
               "What right had he to torment her with his pertinacity?" she thought, resentfully, and with more firmness than she had hoped to attain. She rose haughtily and opened the door, before which the footsteps had paused, irresolutely. It was not Mr. Seldon who confronted her, but Margaret; not the hale, vigorous Margaret who had welcomed her the night of her arrival, but a pale, haggard woman, bent as if with age, and trembling with excitement. 
               Mabel staggered back with surprise, and a kind of vague terror that left no room for 
                     hateur
                     hauteur
                  . She could not ask what she wanted, or why she came now, when she had avoided her so long. Margaret spoke at last, in a tone of heart-broken entreaty. 
               "I never thought to speak to you again, much less to ask anything of you, but I would kneel, and ask you to stay with us; to comfort Mr. Seldon; to go to him now. He begs to see you so piteously." The old woman caught her dress in her earnestness, and Mabel did not stir or answer. She heard the words, but all she was conscious of, was listening for the sound of wheels. 
               Fatima, with the horror of a dreadful death threatening her, could not have waited more eagerly for the rescue, than did Mabel for the wheels that would bear her away. 
               Margaret thought her relenting, and redoubled her entreaties. 
               "More than life depends on your return-I will tell you," and her voice lowered, and she almost whispered, "He was thrown from a horse when a little boy,"-she looked around, as if fearful there might be listeners,-"any excitement may make him raving mad; just think of it! You will not bring such a doom to him? 
               "He loves you so well,"-she would have taken her hand, but Mabel shrank from her. Her face was ghastly, but unrelenting and cold in its expression. Just then wheels were distinctly heard, and she started eagerly forward. Margaret threw herself before her and clutched at her dress. Fright gave Mabel strength, and she tore herself from her grasp, and fled down the stairs. 
               Margaret fell to the floor, and sobbed aloud, but Mabel never paused. 
               The hall-door was thrown open, and she could see her father at the gate. She hurried along breathlessly. "If she could only pass the parlor-door!" She reached it, but her dress became entangled in a hat-rack that she came in contact with, in her desire to avoid the parlor. Involuntarily she uttered an exclamation, and frantically stooped to extricate herself. There was the sound of a rapid step crossing the floor; with a wrench that brought away part of the oak carvings, she was free; but Mr. Seldon was standing beside her, pale and haggard, his eyes blood-shot, and his hair dishevelled. For a minute she was powerless; had her life been the sacrifice, she could not have moved, and her eyes turned to him with a kind of fascination. 
               His face grew calm, and he stretched out his arms to her with a smile. "Mabel, my darling, I knew you would come back to me; months and years I have waited, but I see you at last, my sweet love!" 
               "You have not been happy either; your cheek is pale, and your beautiful eyes have a sad, wearied expression." 
               "What ails you, my darling?" he said, with an anxious shadow flitting across the loving serenity of his face, as he advanced toward her, smiling and holding out his arms. 
               What was she to do-how escape; he was so near her now, that she could touch him; farther she shrunk as he advanced, his brow growing darker, and an angry flush rising to his cheek. Step by step she retreated till she reached the hall-door, and turning suddenly, she sprang out and ran down the path to the carriage,-she did not stop to see if she was being pursued. 
               "You are late, Mabel," said her father, holding the carriage-door open. He had scarcely noticed her singular behavior, he was so absorbed in sad thoughts, but he started at the sight of her ghastly face. 
               "Oh, for the love of Heaven, let us start!" she said, frantically-"don't stop to ask me!"-and she wrung her hands convulsively; her white, scared face was turned toward the house she had quitted, and there was such terror in the expression, that her father hesitated not an instant in obeying, and with a hasty word to the driver, seated himself beside her, and they dashed on so rapidly, that Mabel only caught a glimpse of Mr. Seldon hurrying down the path; but a scream from Margaret rung out wildly, and was heard above the crash of the wheels. Mabel crouched down in the bottom of the carriage and buried her face in the cushions. Her father was alarmed at her extreme agitation, and talked to her soothingly. 
               She seemed almost afraid of him, and would only speak to beg him to have the driver go faster. After some time she grew more composed, and her father prevailed upon her to sit beside him and lay her head on his shoulder; she was still nervous, and would start at every sound, and cling to him convulsively. 
               "We are nearly to the station, Mabel," he said, as they stopped to change horses. "It is only ten miles from here. Let me get you a cup of tea, it will strengthen you;" but she almost shrieked, as she tried to draw him back. 
               He spoke almost sternly. "Mabel, what is the meaning of this strange behavior? a child would show more courage and decision than you have exhibited. I have borne with you in silence, because I could not help pitying your sorrow, but this is a wicked indulgence." 
                
               She raised her face to his. There was no anger in it, only terror, and her eyes wandered fearfully, as if in search of some frightful object. 
               "Father," she said, in so low a tone that he bent his head to listen, "Mr. Seldon is perfectly insane. Oh, we must not lose a moment; let us start now, dearest father." Mr. Clifton's horror was inexpressible, and he shuddered to think of his daughter's danger. 
               His anxiety to reach the station was now as great as her own, although his manner was quiet and composed. 
               Mabel lost a portion of the deadly terror that had almost maddened her, during the journey, and trusted implicitly to his judgment. 
               "You need not fear, Mabel," he said kindly; "there is no clue by which he can trace us-if he could even follow us, which is highly improbable. 
               "Our very name unknown, and our destination, we could elude him if his life was spent in search." After a long interval of silence, he said, tenderly,-"You have passed through a terrible ordeal, but it is ended and you must forget it. 
               "Let his name and all the incidents of the last month rest, as if it were some fearful dream, never to be spoken of again by either of us. Shall it be so, my child?" She pressed his hand in assent, and they sat in utter silence until the driver reined in his steaming horses beside the snorting, screaming engine, that was to bear them away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               MR. SELDON stood like one petrified, watching Mabel's fight. What could she mean,-after coming back to him, to desert him so cruelly?-it was impossible that she was really going,-and yet it must be. She entered the carriage, and then his mind was all chaos. There was a terrible doubt as to whether she had really returned, and yet had she not been with him a minute before? 
               He groaned and covered his eyes; but the sound of wheels roused him to the reality that she was leaving him; whatever was the truth in the confused past, this was not a dream. She was going forever. Quick as lightning this passed through his troubled mind, and springing forward, he started in pursuit. 
               "He would drag her from the carriage; she was his bride, and no earthly power should wrest her from him." He waved his arms wildly, but he could not call, and a kind of palsy seized his trembling frame. 
               Had the carriage gone, or was it suddenly night? Everything faded from his vision, and with an agony that was like a death-stroke he fell heavily to the ground. Margaret's shrieks, as she bent over him, soon brought a score of the villagers, who proffered their assistance and kindest sympathy. 
               They were attached to Margaret, but Mr. Seldon had long been their pride and delight,-the rich man of the village and the benefactor of all. 
               He lay before them cold and senseless, and to all appearances ances dead, but the doctor, who soon arrived, said life was not yet extinct, and they bore him tenderly to the house. They waited with a natural curiosity for his beautiful wife, but the day passed and there was no sign of her presence. She was gone forever from the silent room, which gave no token of the gloom she brought. She had passed away like a fearfully beautiful vision, and the wonder as to "who she could have been and why she had gone," was speculated upon for months, and then a sudden flood of prosperity changed the village into a busy, growing town, and other wonders and interests so usurped the place of the mystery of Mr. Seldon and his bride, that the strange occurrences were forgotten; and when, years after, Mrs. Camden's remains were removed from the church-yard to the family vault in her native town, it excited no interest and scarcely elicited a remark. 
               But, at the time, their love for Mr. Seldon was not sufficient to restrain their curiosity, and Margaret was tortured with questions, put in every variety of ingenious skill, but to no purpose; all she would say was, that "Mrs. Seldon went with her father." 
               As to whither they had gone, or when they would return, her only answer was, "she did not know." 
               Betty was more communicative, and retailed her store of gossip with such gusto, that she was quite a popular character. 
               Mr. Seldon lay week after week, Margaret watching him unweariedly. He recovered, after a time, but he was so listless and uninterested, that he was more like a pale phantom than a living man. He did not even seem to think, for his face was calm and placid. 
               The doctor and a few of his friends tried for a long time to amuse and interest him, but the faint smile with which he sometimes essayed to repay their efforts was so forced, that it was more disheartening than even his weary air of listlessness. One by one they gradually dropped away, tired of an acquaintance that brought no pleasure to themselves and no comfort to their friend; and Margaret was his sole companion. 
               He did not seem to miss them. It was the old life again. The presence that had invaded the quiet of their life was gone. Her name was never mentioned; no article she had worn was preserved. 
               The strangers were gone, as Margaret had once hoped. The very grave in the church-yard was heaped high with snow, as if there was no trace to be left. 
               But, alas! she could not think it a dream,-the events of those few weeks lingered like heavy shadows that would forever obscure the sunlight. 
               The dreary winter passed,-the monotonous calm unbroken,-and spring came, with its sunshine and flowers. 
               Mr. Seldon scarcely noted the change. Margaret once lured him to the rocks crowned with laurel, now in blossom, but he turned away with a sigh: "There is no resurrection for the heart, Margaret; spring only makes the contrast more severe. I like winter better." 
               It was his first allusion to his grief, and sad as his words were, they gave poor Margaret comfort. 
               The first visit he made was to Mrs. Camden's grave, which he decorated with flowers. It was his first interest, and Margaret became more hopeful each day. 
               One afternoon he was about to start for his usual walk. Upon opening the gate, he was accosted by a portly, smiling gentleman, who, finding his name was Seldon, introduced himself with an air of easy assurance. His name was Bennett. 
               Mr. Seldon had never heard the name before, and he felt the slightest possible degree of wonder as to his business ness. Mr. Bennett commenced in a pleasant strain of conversation, but gave no clue to his object until, upon finding Mr. Seldon's name was Willard, his good-natured face wore such an expression of delight, that an expectant flush rose to Mr. Seldon's cheek, and he trembled with the eagerness of undefined hope. 
               Margaret's surprise, at seeing him return with a stranger, was unbounded, and, to judge from her pallid face, not pleasurable. Strangers had caused all their misery, and she dreaded lest Mabel might return, or summon Mr. Seldon. 
               She opened the parlor-shutters, not very quickly or easily. Mr. Bennett, offering to assist her, noticed with surprise her agitated manner. As soon as she left the room, he plied Mr. Seldon with a series of questions, and with a most business-like air. 
               Mr. Seldon's heart sank, and the transient hope was extinguished. He felt that researches into the past history of his parents and grandparents could portend no tidings from the only person who had power to interest him. 
               Mr. Bennett, on the contrary, grew each moment more animated, and rubbed his hands delightedly, until at last, upon Mr. Seldon's producing a genealogical tree, his elation reached such a pitch, that he caught his hand and congratulated him in the most excited manner. 
               Mr. Seldon was fairly roused from his apathy, and surveyed him with astonishment. After a while the stranger, recalled to his senses, seated himself close to Mr. Seldon's side, and pointed to a conspicuous name on the family tree, "Sir Willard Seldon, Earl of Richland." 
               "Well," said Mr. Seldon, "he was my grandfather's brother." 
               "Your grandfather's brother!" echoed Mr. Bennett, rubbing his hands. 
                
               "Is there anything so surprising in that circumstance," said Mr. Seldon, with some hauteur. 
               "Not very surprising," retorted the stranger, "but it is not every one who can claim so near a connection to one of the English nobility. However, it is time that I explain my errand, and if you then insist upon an apology for my numerous questions, I shall endeavor to satisfy you." Mr. Seldon bowed stiffly, and, with a sober business air, he resumed: "Your grandfather was the youngest brother of Lord Richland, and emigrated to the United States in consequence of some very unpleasant circumstances. He married, and your father was the only son?" 
               "He visited England?" 
               "Yes," interrupted Mr. Seldon, "in order to gratify my grandfather's desire for a reconciliation; but he was treated with such disdain by his haughty relatives, that he returned completely disgusted with the English nobility. My name was a sore trial, I fancy, but my grandfather would hear of no other." 
               "Your father's cousin," pursued Mr. Bennett, as if there had been no interruption, "succeeded to the title, but never married." 
               Mr. Seldon looked up with surprise, and it flashed across his mind that he might, some day, be heir to the earldom; but, before he could speak, the stranger rose and stood before him. 
               "Lord Richland is dead, and I have the honor of informing you that you are Earl of Richland, and heir to twelve thousand pounds a year." 
               "But there were two brothers, my father's seniors," objected Mr. Seldon. 
               "I know," said the stranger; "but one died in India a year ago, unmarried, and the other, who has been dead for years, left only daughters. 
                
               "I have been in search of you for the last six months, and have blighted the hopes of so many Seldons, that, although from your resemblance to the late Earl I felt you must be the real heir, I concluded it best not to raise any expectations until I was positive. 
               "You will have no difficulty in proving your claim, and really," said Mr. Bennett, with a good-humored laugh, "you must allow me to congratulate you, for I am so delighted at my success that I can scarcely resist wishing myself joy." 
               Mr. Seldon's face had grown brighter, until it seemed fairly transformed, and even the lawyer was surprised as he grasped his hand, and said, with a joy and animation that lightened every feature,- 
               "You have made me the happiest man living." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               MR. BENNETT, accustomed as he was to all phases of character, and appreciating to its fullest extent the valuable information he brought, was surprised at Mr. Seldon's manner of receiving the news of his accession to a title and fortune. 
               He was pale and worn when he met him, and seemed a person to whom the world could offer nothing of sufficient interest to stir the calm of his sluggish existence. 
               He was now drunk with joy, and scarcely made an effort to control his emotion. 
               An hour before he had seemed a spiritless, half-bent automaton, and now he stood proudly erect, with flushed cheeks and flashing eyes. 
               "I will leave you to digest your good fortune," said the smiling lawyer; and again Mr. Seldon wrung his hand warmly, and said with emotion,- 
               "You have changed the whole course of my life!" 
               "It is more than money and rank he is thinking of," was the shrewd decision of Mr. Bennett, as he walked slowly down the gravel path. And he was right; for Mr. Seldon, alone with his new hopes, thought only of Mabel the bright star that had illumined his destiny for a few brief hours, and then vanished, taking all the brightness with her. 
               During all the dreary winter the future was so dark that the present was more supportable than to look forward; but now it was radiant with hope. 
                
               Mabel had loved him, even when she deserted him, and now that he had sufficient rank and wealth to gratify her highest ambition, she would not turn from him. 
               He loved her so well he could pity her faults, and excuse them. 
               It might be years before they met; but his search would be rewarded, and in the meantime he had hope and love to cheer him. 
               He thought not of the misery she brought,-of the scorn that had darkened her face,-he only remembered that she had thrown her arms about his neck, and said she loved him. 
               Margaret was proud and happy when he told her of his good-fortune; but she rejoiced more that it wrought such a magical change in him than because she appreciated the importance and dignity of his new position. 
               She did not think it a very great affair except the money. Mr. Seldon was as good as an Earl any day,-besides, to leave the United States and live with the horrid British was of itself a great sacrifice. 
               Her great ambition for Mr. Seldon was that he should be a Congressman; but there was no hope of it now, she thought with a sigh. 
               It was evident she fancied the evil of his departure quite remote, but after a few days he explained that he would be obliged to visit England, and secure his title and fortune. 
               He proposed that she should invite some of her friends to remain with her until his return. 
               But she would not listen to staying after he was gone.- The house seemed strange and altered, and she often thought longingly of her childhood's home in Connecticut, and the brothers and sisters with whom she played, and she decided to make her home with them. 
               She looked dejected, and to cheer her he spoke of his speedy return, and the pleasant life she would have in England. 
               She shook her head sadly. 
               "You will not need me in that country, and I am too old to change my way of life." 
               His heart smote him as he looked on her gray hair and bent figure. 
               She was strangely altered, and he had been too absorbed with his own grief to notice the change. 
               "Poor old Margaret," he thought, pityingly, and then the scene he witnessed between Mabel and herself came back to him. It had never struck him so cruelly before. He groaned inwardly as he rose and left the room. It was of Margaret, and the duty and affection he owed her, that he thought. 
               She had loved and cared for him from childhood,-he was all the world to her. It would be wrong to leave her now, when she was weak and broken in health, and needed his care. 
               Before the long array of affection and duty he owed the poor old woman, who had loved him with a mother's devotion, would rise the beautiful face and form of Mabel, his heart's darling. It was a terrible struggle he passed through that night; but though he might waver, he did not relent-duty triumphed. 
               His face was cheerful as he joined Margaret at the breakfast table. 
               "You are not looking well," he said, kindly; "we must change places; you shall be the invalid in future, and I will take care of you." 
               She looked up eagerly, and he added smilingly: 
               "I will not leave you now; I will defer my journey to England until you are well." 
               Tears of joy dimmed her eyes, and her delight repaid him for the sacrifice of time. 
                
               She rallied for a few days, and then she was obliged to confess herself too ill to sit up. She never took her accustomed seat at the little round table again, and in less than a fortnight there was another shrouded form in the pleasant little parlor, and Mr. Seldon watched beside it during the long hours. There were tears of softened grief on his face and sorrow at his heart for his humble but true friend. 
               The sacrifice of time has not been long, he thought with a pang, as he looked on her placid, sunken features; and he blamed himself that he hesitated that night. 
               He would not now have grudged her months or years, could he only have recalled her. It was too late for regret, and it would be selfish to wish her again in a world of struggle and pain. 
               She had lived her life, and though sorrow had darkened the closing months of her earthly sojourn, yet the hope of a blessed eternity gladdened her dying hours, and carried her happily through the valley of the shadow of death. 
               He thought of her favorite hymn as he looked for the last time on her aged, tranquil face, made beautiful by the smile that lingered as if in token that all was well with her. He could recall her expression as she used to sing falteringly,- 
                      
                        "There, anchored safe, my weary soul 
                        Shall find eternal rest; 
                        No storms shall rise, nor billows roll, 
                        Across my peaceful breast." 
                     
                  
                
               She was at peace, and the storms of life could never reach her secure retreat. 
               Again Mr. Seldon stood beside an open grave and listened to the burial-service. The clods were heaped on the coffin-lid-and he was alone in the world. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               THE fragile daisies and anemones of spring gave place to the roses of summer, and the gorgeous flowers of autumn and winter shrouded the earth in a snowy mantle, as if shielding the graves of the beautiful flowers from the chill blasts that had frightened away their bloom. 
               As if it were the resurrection of nature, the snow silently melted, and the flowers sprung forth fresh and blooming. 
               It was spring again. 
               The little church-yard where Mrs. Clifton and Margaret were sleeping the long, dreamless sleep that knows no waking, was glowing in the sunshine, and the emerald grass and tender flowers grew in wild luxuriance. 
               No one paused to drop a tear of affection over the little mound, or to place fresh flowers among the green turf. 
               The birds sang the live-long day above them unstartled, and hopped and fluttered in undisturbed possession, for those who loved the quiet sleepers were far away. 
               Mr. Seldon was hopefully wandering in far-away lands, with but one aim in life-to find his lost bride-his peerless Mabel. 
               And she, more beautiful than ever, lived the triumphs she had imagined and revelled in so often; haughty and graceful as ever, without a shade on her brow or a shadow on her heart, except when a thought of the past and her husband chilled her with terror. 
               It was impossible to quite forget, but each day she became more heartless, to be admired and worshipped, her highest aim. Mr. Clifton, to whom she clung with endearing ing tenderness in her sorrow, was neglected as soon as she recovered from the shock of the events that filled the few weeks of her wedded life with a bitterness that could never pass away. 
               Society was her all-absorbing occupation. 
               Even her sable dress and her mother's memory would not induce her to live retired. 
               The winter had been spent in Venice, and the beautiful American lady was the theme of all tongues. She was surrounded by a train of admirers, and she smiled on all indiscriminately. 
               Mr. Clifton expostulated at first, but her answer silenced him. 
               "I must have excitement. Whenever I am alone, it all comes back to me. You would not be so cruel as to deny me the only consolation left-to forget for a while!" He could not resist her pleading look and pallid cheek, and the false life once commenced, there was no restraining her. 
               She seemed now to have succeeded in forgetting, and the old plea was not brought forward. 
               She listened now to his rebukes with flashing eyes and insolent defiance, and he could not find it in his heart to silence her by a reference to the past. 
               He had once attempted a gentle remonstrance, and said kindly, "My daughter, the attentions you receive under the circumstances are disgraceful. You are not Miss Clifton." 
               He was interrupted by grief so violent, that he never again ventured to refer to the past, and he felt that from that hour her affection for him was lost. She could not forgive him for recalling what she tried to forget. Her coldly polite manner never varied, and each day he felt how little his presence added to her happiness. But for his wife's sake, he still watched over her and endeavored to gratify every wish. 
                
               He had not visited Beatrice, but he wrote her before the expiration of the time appointed. 
               "I cannot be with you as I promised, but I am free to love you now, dear as you are, and always have been. I write these lines with tears in my eyes and grief at my heart for the friend I have lost. When I can be with you again, it will not be for a short time, but forever." 
               His wife had been dead more than a year, but for the sake of Mabel be would not see Beatrice yet, he decided, and the weary months rolled on, and it was spring, and each day, as the shadow was lifted from Mabel's life, his influence grew less. 
               He could not but admit now, with a pang that the hope of soon meeting Beatrice did not soften, that his presence was not necessary to her happiness. 
               She scarcely treated him with respect, and scorned his authority. Stern, unyielding discipline he could not use toward her, with the memory of her mother's pleading tones softening his heart; and kindness and tenderness she was too selfish to understand, and too ungrateful to return. 
               Mabel's admirers were not such as he would have liked to see his beautiful daughter receive graciously under any circumstances,-dissolute noblemen and adventurers, whose rank and position were as doubtful as were their morals; and he decided to leave Venice at once, without the slightest reference to Mabel's wish. 
               She received the announcement of his intention with a scornful protest. "It would be impossible for her to leave Venice for a month, and she was then to join a party of excursionists. I have promised both for you and myself, so your plan comes too late," she said carelessly, as she left the room without listening to her father's answer. 
               The subject was not referred to again, and she had dismissed it without a thought. Several days later she returned turned home in the glow of early morning, after a night of gayety on the beautiful Adriatic, with music, and all that could beguile the senses during the enchanted voyage over the smooth waves. As they neared the steps of the palace, a dark figure, draped in a heavy cloak, descended the steps, and she recognized her father. He assisted her to alight, notwithstanding her disdainful surprise at his appearance. She stood silently watching the colored lights and the sparkling gleam left by the boat's keel, little dreaming that she would never look upon the like again, and that this had been her last night in "beautiful Venice." 
               Her father laid his hand on her arm to arrest her attention. "Have you forgotten that we leave Venice this morning?" 
               His tone was so decided, that she knew it was vain to remonstrate, and in haughty silence entered the palace, and flinging herself on a couch, burst into a passion of angry weeping. She did not even change her dress, or remove the flowers from her hair, when her father came to announce that the hour for their departure had arrived. 
               Her maid adjusted her mantle, and sullenly tying on her travelling-hat Mabel descended to the gondola. Her father had not attempted a remonstrance, but followed her, glad to be obeyed on any terms. 
               She maintained an obstinate silence during the time they remained on the water. The morning was beautiful, and the air laden with perfume, but she never raised her head from the couch, or looked out on the glancing waves. 
               When they landed at Padua, she condescended to inquire as to their destination; and being informed it was Florence, again relapsed into silence, but her face relaxed somewhat, and it was evident she was secretly pleased. 
               The remainder of the journey was pleasant, notwithstanding the inauspicious commencement, and Mabel kinder than she had been for months. The country through which they passed was beautiful, and Mr. Clifton in after-years often looked back to those hours as some of the happiest he had known. The memory of his wife had been robbed of all its bitterness by time, and the future was glowing with hope. Not only was he free to love Beatrice, but to give Mabel a protectress was a duty he was bound to fulfil. 
               Beatrice, it was true, was not accustomed to society, but she had dignity and grace and beauty; and no youthful lover ever looked forward so eagerly, or dreamed so fondly, as did Mr. Clifton during that pleasant journey. 
               He purchased a beautiful villa on the Fiesole Mount, and through the English Minister, Sir Charles Remington, he received every attention, and the entre of the most fashionable and aristocratic circles. 
               Mabel was, as usual, very much admired, and entered with zest into every pleasure. She was as careless as ever in her demeanor to her father, and expressed no regret when he told her that he was going to Rome. 
               He had never left her before since her mother's death, and was a little hurt that she could receive the news of his absence so calmly; but she saw him depart without any emotion, and a gay married lady, who had undertaken to chaperon her during his absence, was not more carelessly indifferent in her adieux. 
               His heart was not altogether light as he started on that sunny morning. 
               Beatrice might not have returned to Italy;-she might be dead; he had trusted so implicitly to her truth, that not a doubt of her constancy had before obtruded, but now his mind was filled with fear and anxiety. "How could she trust him so long?" and if still faithful, had truth and beauty any power to turn aside the darts of that archer whose aim no love could avert? 
                
               Hour after hour his impatience and anxiety increased, until it became almost unendurable. But all suspense must be ended some time, and the journey that seemed interminably long, drew at last to a close, and the driver, reining in his horses at the top of a long hill, informed him that from the summit of a bank rising above them he could see Rome. 
               Springing out of the carriage, he ran lightly up the ascent, and the whole familiar scene lay before him,-the dome of St. Peter's glittering in the sunlight like an immense globe of fire, and the picturesque ruins crowning the hills, and peeping through the foliage,-memories that had been slumbering for years came crowding back. He was but a boy when he last stood on that summit, and he was now at the meridian of life. 
               He felt like an exile who after weary years returns to his native land and sees it smiling before him, unchanged and beautiful as when he left it. He gazed until the blinding tears blotted it from his view, and then hurriedly reentered the carriage, anxious to hide the emotion he could not restrain. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               THERE is nothing which so touches the heart as to return, after an absence of years, to the spot we once loved and find it unaltered. 
               Change after change passes over our lives, often so gradually they are almost unnoticed. 
               The friends we love, leave us, or, like ourselves, alter;-"we make idols and find them clay," and fashion others in their stead; and our hearts grow harder and become so incrusted with worldly cares, that we do not love or grieve as we did in those early days. 
               The wheels of time bear us unconsciously forward. We forget that we have ever been other than we now seem. But to look again from the starting-point of life, all the weary years are blotted out, and the impulses that guided us then, and the fresh youthful feelings, contrast with our present seared and callous hearts, and we realize all we have lost. 
               "What once hath been, can never be again." Mr. Clifton felt this truth sadly, as the carriage dashed along toward the city he had left in the glow of early manhood. 
               His dream was realized. He was returning to claim as his bride the still beautiful Beatrice; he loved her more devotedly perhaps than in the olden time-but all was changed. 
               Sorrow and years had touched the beautiful coloring of youth with sombre shades. 
               The boy was a weary man, but he looked back tearfully to the lost youth which smiled before him in all the glowing ing hues of spring-time and love. But, alas! between rolled the gulf of years-a gulf he could never cross. 
               "Yonder is the Tiber!" said the driver, stopping again and pointing to the sheet of yellow water that glittered in the sunshine, narrowing into a line of light until it was lost among the cypress-trees that skirted the distant hills. It was teeming with memories of hours and pleasures forever gone. How often he sat with Beatrice at the foot of the pine-crowned heights of Monte Mario and watched the gleaming waters, tossing bunches of laurel on the surface, or weaving garlands of a beautiful blue flower, whose odor was so dreamy and delicious that it lulled the senses like a strain of music. 
               He could bear no more, and waving his hand to the driver, he leaned back in the carriage and let down the blinds. He did not look out again on the familiar objects, although he could see in imagination each step of their progress. 
               They neared the gate, said to be the work of Michael Angelo, passed the Egyptian Obelisk, and rattled along the Corso.-He was at last in Rome. 
               With a powerful effort he mastered his emotions, and when he alighted from the carriage, at the door of the hotel, was as stately and composed in his demeanor, as if he had never sighed over a broken love-dream. 
               The afternoon shadows were lengthening when he started in quest of Beatrice. 
               His heart beat high with expectation as he dismissed the carriage and ascended the side of the Monte Caho. Above was the little town, embowered in trees, but he did not stop to note its beauty, as he hurried along in search of the little stone cottage where Beatrice once lived. 
               Handsome villas were now where trees had once cast their shadows, and his heart sank with a sudden fear as he reached the rocky eminence, where Beatrice used always to await his coming, and from whence he could see the cottage, its gray sides just visible, peeping from the grove that embowered it and the vines that twined in luxuriant profusion. 
               A convent reared its stately walls, and a huge cross glittered in the setting sun, while the musical voices of the Sisters chanting their vesper-hymn broke the stillness of the afternoon with a rich volume of sound. 
               For a minute he was overcome with disappointment, and gazed despairingly at the lofty pile that had usurped the place of the beautiful grove. 
               "Of course, the cottage had been swept away to make room for it-it was romantic folly to think otherwise." But he went on, notwithstanding he felt it vain. 
               The convent was passed, and, with hope and fear alternating, he looked forward. There was the cottage, not a stone's throw from the spot where he stood. 
               He did not stop to think that it might have passed into the hands of strangers-that it was improbable Beatrice should still be there, but with all his old impetuosity hurried forward, and, pushing aside the vines that drooped low over the arched doorway, entered, flushed and eager with expectation. 
               There was a startled exclamation, a hurried footstep, and he clasped to his heart his long-lost Beatrice. 
               She clung to him in silence, her face hidden on his shoulder, and her fingers trembling in his thrilling clasp. 
               What were all the years of separation-his lost youth, to him now? 
               His happiness in that one moment atoned for all the past. 
               All the barriers of pride were swept away. He was no longer the stately, dignified man of whom even his wife stood in some awe when she loved him most, but tender and loving as a woman. 
               He kissed the forehead, and lips, and purply hair of Beatrice, calling her endearing names, as he begged her "to speak to him once more, to say she forgave him." 
               She could not answer: she could only smile tremulously, and look at him, her mournful, beautiful eyes glistening with tears. 
               The joy and surprise burst upon her so suddenly, it was like a full gleam of sunshine to a prisoner whose dungeon has been for years unillumined by a ray of light. Hour after hour passed so rapidly, that Mr. Clifton could scarcely believe it so late as twelve, but the golden hands of the pretty ormula clock pointed unflinchingly to that hour, and he rose to go. 
               Beatrice accompanied him past the latticed enclosure, and the moonlight gleamed full upon them as they emerged from the shrubbery into the open space. 
               She was magnificently beautiful. There was a softened grace and dignity in her mien that more than atoned for the buoyancy of youth. 
               Mr. Clifton surveyed her with rapturous admiration, though he said half sadly,- 
               "You are still beautiful, Beatrice-more beautiful than ever. Are you sure you do not repent having waited so long? I am not the person you once loved,-I am old and changed." 
               He smiled at her look of devotion; and as he drew her fondly toward him, he noticed for the first time that she was in deep mourning. 
               "You never liked black; why do you wear it now?" he said abruptly. 
               Tears dimmed her eyes, and she murmured almost inaudibly,- 
                
               "I wore it first for Galatina, and since your letter I have worn it for your wife;" and she leaned her head upon his shoulder. 
               Completely overcome at this new proof of devotion, he stood for a while in silence, his tears falling on her glossy hair. 
               "Tell me, carrisima, of Galatina," he at last said, speaking very gently; and he seated himself on the trunk of a cypress-tree and drew her to his side. 
               She hesitated, as if it were a painful subject, and with downcast eyes commenced her recital. 
               "He died the first month of our return. He was weak and languid for some time, but I never suspected he was so ill until the day he died; but he knew it long before." She was silent a moment, and then said passionately,- 
               "I cannot talk of him even to you,-he who was my only friend for so long." 
               Mr. Clifton's heart ached at the thought of her desolate misery. 
               He stroked her hair, and said sorrowfully,- 
               "There is one thing, Beatrice, to which I can never become reconciled,-your living alone so long." 
               "I was not alone: the good Sisters were very kind to me. I stayed at the convent for a long time, and one of the lay sisters is with me now. But I was very desolate;" and she clung to him fondly. "It seems like a fearful dream, now, our long separation. But you will not leave me again. Did you not promise me?" she said, with a kind of terror in her face, as he hesitated with an expression of indecision. 
               He had intended to prepare Mabel for his marriage, before he took a bride to Florence; but he could not resist the appeal of Beatrice, or leave her longer without a protector, and the momentary cloud left his face when he decided that his immediate marriage was clearly a duty. 
               He reassured Beatrice, and with many repeated good-nights and caresses they separated. He retraced his steps, full of tranquil happiness, without a wish or regret to mar the beauty of the soft Italian night. 
               The air was laden with the refreshing odor of the pine-trees, mingled with many a subtiler fragrance from the flowers nestling in the turf at his feet. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               SEVERAL mornings before Mr. Clifton departed for Rome, a weary, travel-stained man arrived at Florence, and mingled with the motley crowd that thronged the hotel. 
               His fellow-travellers had felt some curiosity as to his rank and object in journeying. It was plain he cared nothing for the scenery. The most beautiful views never elicited a remark, and the conversation of a gay tourist was listened to with an unmoved countenance. 
               He was not aware that his pale, handsome face was an interesting study to his companions, for his mind was busy with the past, and the hope that, spite of all discouragements, urged him from place to place. 
               He was forgotten in the hurry and bustle of arrival, and quietly made his way to the registry. With an anxious look he scanned the names, and at last turned away disappointed and listless. 
               "You expected friends to meet you," said the smiling tourist who jostled against him. 
               He started at being addressed, and stammered an inaudible answer; and the tourist, examining the registry, saw written in a firm, bold hand, "Earl of Richland and servant." 
               He gave a prolonged whistle in his astonishment. "That unpretending man an earl!" He had thought him, at best, a poor artist. 
               Many a poor artist whose best lodging was an attic, and who labored hard for the crust that sustained life, would not have envied the Earl of Richland, with all his wealth, had he witnessed his utter despondency as he sat alone in his room. In all the world there was no welcome for him- no face that would brighten at his approach. 
               In the far-off village of his Western home the springs flowers were blooming on the graves of all who had loved him-his parents and the kind old nurse. Two years had wrought many changes; the village was a thriving, populous town, and there were none, perhaps of even acquaintances, to recognize him, should he return. But of all places in the world would he most shun the home that had sheltered his childhood. 
               His happiest days had no memories bright enough to soften the sorrow that had there blighted his life; and when he knelt for the last time in the little church-yard, it was his farewell to the old life and the old scenes. 
               He had no difficulty in establishing his claim to the earldom, and, after a rapid tour of the United States, revisited England and took possession of his estates. 
               The new life was at first so fascinating that he was for a time contented, if not happy; but as the novelty wore off, he became each day more sad and taciturn, and the gay friends whom his wealth and rank attracted gradually left him. Ladies he never noticed after the first weary glance; and although his handsome person and melancholy air disposed them to lionize him, they soon grew tired of dispensing their smiles when they were so little appreciated. 
               If he found his grand house dreary and the new life uninteresting when society filled up the hours, it was insupportable when he no longer received visits, or lightened some of the tiresome intervals with dinners and parties. 
               His very soul longed for Mabel; how she would grace the brilliant scenes in which his lot was cast. She had almost loved him as plain Mr. Seldon; would she despise him now, when he could offer her the coronet of a countess? Why should he despair? she might yet be found, perhaps no farther away than London; and he decided to seek wherever there was any possibility of his search being rewarded. 
               But he returned after several months, hopeless and discouraged. He made a last desperate attempt to be happy and contented, renewed his acquaintance with the country-gentry and nobility, and filled the house with gay fashionables during the Christmas season. 
               Billiards and rides occupied the day, and at night charades and dancing filled the halls with merriment and music. But he was a mere spectator; there was no answering echo in his spirit, and the mirth around him was like some dreary pageant. 
               His heart grew sadder each day, and the cloud on his face deepened. 
               Restless and unhappy, he was forced to mingle in the gay throng, one of them, and yet apart and separated in his sorrow. 
               He was alone in the world and could form no new ties. With everything the smiling goddess Fortune could offer, wealth, rank, and a high position, he was miserable. 
               Like Midas in the fable, imprisoned in a golden house, with the moulded likeness of choicest viands loading the heavy table, or like the ancient mariner, 
                     "Alone on the wide, wide sea,"
                   "with water around him everywhere," and his lips and throat parched and baking with thirst. 
               He was standing one evening apart from his guests, moodily surveying them, and thinking over his ruined hopes, when a merry little sprite stopped before him, and touching his arm with her jewelled fan to attract his attention, said with mock humility,- 
                
               "My lord, we are playing forfeits, and I am sent to ask you to marry me; please, don't refuse, for the ceremony is not binding, and I have so much at stake." 
               She paused with a little shriek of dismay as his very lips grew white. There was a look of speechless misery in his large eyes as he surveyed her for an instant; and then he turned abruptly and hurried from the room. 
               "What can it mean?" she exclaimed, dolefully; "I shall never forgive myself, or forget his look." 
               Many were the surmises of the guests as they crowded round the young girl whose playful daring had been so unexpectedly received; but they saw their host no more that night. 
               Their surprise was not diminished when at breakfast the next morning the butler gave them a note from the Earl, and said that his lordship had left the castle, on the early train. The note gave no clue to his singular behavior, as it simply stated, "that he found himself totally unfitted for society, and hoped they would do him the honor of remaining as long as they wished, etc., without reference to his departure. 
               For more than a year Lord Richland had been travelling constantly. Change of scene brought with it no pleasure, but it soothed his restlessness, though hope ever charmed him onward, to leave him more desolate. Mabel was still the object of his thoughts. Among the glaciers of Switzerland, in the romantic valley of Chamouni, and amid the beautiful scenery of the Rhone. 
               Every spot of England, France, or Germany, celebrated and the resort of travellers, was visited in vain. And he now turned to Italy with freshened hope. Blaming himself that he had wasted so much time when it, of all other lands, would be the most likely to offer attractions to an invalid. 
                
               He had travelled before without a servant, and as simply Mr. Seldon; but he decided now to assume his name and rank, and make public inquiries. It was not likely that a brilliant beauty like Mabel would live retired, and he brought with him letters of introduction to the English Minister, and several distinguished Florentine noblemen. 
               Florence had, of all other places, seemed the more likely to reward his search; and he could scarcely endure the disappointment, when his most accurate examination of the registry failed to show him the name of Camden. He was too disheartened to present his letters of introduction for several days, and wandered listlessly about the beautiful city, more intent in his scrutiny of the faces that passed him, than of the loveliness for which Florence is so celebrated. 
               Sir Charles Remington received him with distinguished courtesy, and was all sympathy and attention, as the Earl, quite won by his manners, told him his object in visiting Florence. He only spoke of Mr. Camden and his daughter as friends. But Sir Charles gathered by his agitation and melancholy air that it was more than ordinary interest he felt for them, and that their recovery was of vital importance to his happiness. 
               "If your friends are in Florence, you will probably meet them in society, perhaps, at my reception to-morrow evening. I will do all in my power to assist you, by inquiries here, and through my agents elsewhere, and without any publicity, if you prefer your search to be secret." 
               Lord Richland thanked him earnestly; his hopes rose higher each moment of their conversation; and it was with an almost cheerful air that he promised to avail himself of the minister's invitation and be present at the assembly. 
               Sir Charles mentioned his new acquaintance to his daughter Stella, a beautiful young girl with fair, clustering curls, and an enchanting sprightliness of manner. She promised "to be very entertaining to the melancholy Earl, in fact, irresistible, if her father desired;" but her lover, the Count Von Stresenthral, protested "that such a promise was treason to himself, and if her father uttered another word in praise of the Earl, he would not allow her to be even introduced." Sir Charles listened, with a smile, to their nonsense, and thought with fatherly pride there was not a prettier pair of lovers in all Florence, than his blue-eyed Stella and her handsome fiance. A servant announced "Miss Clifton," and Stella, hanging on her lover's arm, went forward to receive her. 
               There was a slight embarrassment in the Count's manner, and his face flushed for an instant, as Mabel extended her white, jewelled hand, after a cordial greeting, to Stella. His fingers scarcely closed on the delicate palm that lingered in his, and without glancing at the beauty that lured him with a subtle power, he bent low over Stella's laughing face as he murmured a hurried apology for leaving her, and bowing coldly to Mabel, joined Sir Charles. 
               He scorned his weakness, but the radiant vision was not to be exorcised; and Mabel, with her star-like eyes, exquisite features, and scornful red lips, displaced the dimpled cheek and the fair face of his betrothed. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               MABEL was decidedly the most elegant and admired belle on the evening of the Minister's grand reception; the loveliest flower of the parterre that glowed with beauties from every land. The Hon. Miss Remington, the Minister's pretty daughter, had smilingly witnessed the desertion of the train of lovers, that a week before had courted her smiles as if they were the embodiment of sunshine. But there was a little shade of anxiety on her face as she glanced now and then toward Mabel, and saw towering above the rest the handsome figure of her noble lover, the Count Von Stresenthral. 
               She had always known him to be an enthusiastic admirer of beauty, and laughed with him over the idols a day or a week were sufficient to dethrone. But now that the time appointed for their wedding was so near, this appearance of devotion to another was not at all pleasing. Save one hurried greeting, on his arrival, she had been left to her own resources in fulfilling her duties as hostess. 
               Standing by her father's side, she received with undiminished gayety the throng of guests. 
               Mabel was in her most brilliant mood, and every moment the hapless Count grew more entranced, and less capable of resisting the glances that led him on to such a delirium of passion, that his honor, and even his long affection for his affianced bride were trembling in the scale. 
               He had made a gallant struggle, for he was sincerely attached to his laughing, blue-eyed Stella, and the marriage appointed for the next month had been the bright star of promise during a year of exile, in which he had wandered listlessly through scenes of bewildering beauty. 
               He glanced away from Mabel to his betrothed. So fair, so winsome, she looked in her fresh, young beauty. Her gay laugh fell on his ear,-the silvery laugh, so musical in its sweetness; the full, red lips were parted, and the pearly teeth gleamed saucily. He could imagine the piquant words so bewitching in their very daring. There was a half look of reproach in the merry eyes that sought his for an instant, and were turned resolutely away. 
               Tears of tenderness started unbidden to his own; could he live without that sunny face, or see it clouded with a sorrow his perfidy had wrought. His affection revived, and he half turned to join her when his name was murmured softly. 
               The words addressed to him were commonplace, but the tone so thrilling that he thought the flashing eyes beat on him with a look-yes, it was devotion; love that had mingled with his dreams, that he had thought too enchanting for earth. What was his plighted word, the bauble called honor, to the bliss of being loved by the peerless creature before him? 
               Her eyes met his for a moment, and then the white lids drooped low on her crimson cheek. 
               The room whirled round, and scarcely conscious, he stooped and raised the fan that had slipped from her grasp, and fallen to the floor. 
               He held her hand for an instant as he restored the trinket, and he forgot the crowded room, his honor-everything but the siren before him. 
               Her self-possession did not desert her, though his reckless agitation almost frightened her. 
               She rose with queenly grace and took his arm as carelessly as if unconscious that in the brief moment past the decision had been made that would being scorn and contempt on a name hitherto uncoupled with dishonor, and blight a young life that had been before all sunshine. 
               She might have trembled at the disgrace that would attach to her own name, but she was too exultant in her triumph to care for the comments of the world, or to feel pity for her victim, or relenting, as they passed his betrothed, the kind young girl who had welcomed her so cordially. 
               Count von Stresenthral had been harder to win than any of the other suitors, who wearied her with their attentions. and were so insipid. Their conquest had been too easy; she tired of them already. But the Count, after the first startled surprise at her wonderful beauty, had almost ignored her existence. 
               It was in vain she made her most effective toilettes. Stella, in floating blue muslin, with a few rose-buds in her hair, was a talisman that protected him. 
               Even her wonderful voice failed to attract him, while he would listen entranced to Stella singing a simple Scotch melody. 
               Stella had been her kindest friend since her arrival, and Mabel would probably have allowed her to enjoy the only conquest she prized-the heart of Count von Stresenthral; but he was the most distingu of all the gentlemen at Florence,-quite the lion that season,-and she began to almost hate Stella, who was childishly triumphant at her defeat. 
               Excitement had become necessary to her happiness, and to win the Count had been the study of her existence, since the hour they first met. She was obliged to proceed warily until her father's departure left her at liberty to exercise her wiles as she pleased. 
               One minute exultant, the next a word or look from Stella would recall her recreant lover, and Mabel, indignant and revengeful, would smile on her other suitors, and hide her defeat with a mask of indifference. 
               She had won at last, and Count von Stresenthral was her devoted lover, prepared to brave everything for her sake. 
               But a denouement was not at all to her taste. His devotion, purchased at the price he required, was dearly won. 
               Even while he professed to love her with an idolatry that changed his very nature, though he trembled at a word or glance, and was so enthralled by her witching beauty that he seemed to be under a spell, no blandishment or sophistry could win him from his purpose of breaking his engagement, and telling all to Stella. 
               "I have been weak, I have been a villain; I renounce even love for your sake," he said, passionately, as they stood together in the shaded garden,-"but I will be at least sincere." 
               Mabel clenched her hands in her anger, but her face was calm, and her flashing eyes downcast. 
               The love she had been trying to gain had sprung into existence suddenly, and broken down every barrier. 
               She had been obliged to feign love to win his. He was not a weak slave, who would be content to receive a smile, or a flower, as sufficient reward for his devotion. 
               She could not but respect him, though angry that he should thwart her plans. He was manly in his very weakness. 
               She thought to win him for her devoted slave, but she had not intended to commit herself in the least. He scorned concealment; and yet she was not prepared either to dismiss or accept him. 
               She could not endure that he should despise her, as she felt he would, if she told him that the glances that had won him from duty were feigned. 
                
               His love was a prize she could not keep,-she felt this now, as they stood in the calm moonlight; but it was pleasant while the novelty lasted,-it gave a new zest to life. 
               She hated herself that she would plead to him, but, proud as she was, she was not prepared for the consequences that would follow his public avowal of his passion. 
               After a rather stormy interview, he at last consented to carry on the deception of an engagement with Stella, until Mr. Clifton's return. 
               But no entreaties would induce him to remain at Florence during the interval. He would not even return to the saloon; and baffled and perplexed, Mabel withdrew into the shadow formed by a column of the miniature temple, and thought of the result of all her plotting. 
               Never had she been so disconcerted. She had won Count Von Stresenthral, but she could not glory in her triumph. She must either dismiss him, upon her father's return, or have it made public that she had accepted the love of her friend's betrothed. 
               Had she been free to marry him as Countess of Stresenthral, she would have defied her father's anger, and smiled at public opinion. Her position and wealth would have given her distinction, and silenced the voice of society. Her marriage placed a fatal barrier to the realization of her most ambitious dreams. 
               She wrung her hands in despair, and crouched further into the shadow, as a step sounded on the gravel-path outside. 
               She was hidden from view, but the figure at the doorway of the temple was distinctly visible. There was something familiar in the tall, handsome form-a something that thrilled her with a sudden terror. 
               She could scarcely tell why she trembled, but a moment more and the face was turned toward her, and she saw her husband-more stately than when he stood before her last, but still pale and ghastly. 
               The air was fragrant with the perfume of flowers, and the fountain sent up sprays that glittered in the moonbeams like myriads of diamonds. The night was beautiful, but she could see no beauty. Pale and breathless she sat, as if turned to stone, watching the motionless figure of her husband. 
               He sighed at last, a long, weary sigh, and seating himself on the marble step, covered his face with his hands, and murmured something. She could not understand the words; only "Mabel" was repeated twice, so mournfully, her heart ached at the sound. 
               For a while she sat transfixed with terror. 
               "Was he still insane, and had he come to seek her?" 
               But she soon dismissed the thought. There was something in his air that gave the contradiction to that fear, but her terror was not diminished: to meet him would be utter ruin. 
               She crouched farther into the shadow of the column against which she leaned, trembling in every limb, and almost fainting. 
               At last, to her great joy, he rose and walked down one of the paths of the garden. She scarcely waited for him to disappear before she hurried to the palace, and as quietly as possible made her way to the dressing room. 
               She dispatched a servant for her carriage, and wrote a hasty note to Stella, to say that she was quite ill, and must return home immediately. 
               Stella came to her at once, and, frightened at her pallor and agitation, begged her to remain with her at least for a few days, or until Mr. Clifton's return. 
               Mabel forgot how she had wronged her, and for a moment was tempted to accept her invitation. She thought with a shiver of the lonely villa. Her friend, the married lady who had undertaken to chaperon her during her father's absence, had that morning received a message calling her to Venice. 
               But Mabel decided, after a moment's reflection, that to remain at the Minister's palace would increase the danger of discovery, and no entreaties could alter her resolution of returning to her villa. 
               She borrowed a cloak, on pretence of suffering with the cold; and her chattering teeth and shivering limbs were sufficient excuse for the assertion. The cloak formed a complete disguise, for it enveloped her figure, and with the hood drawn over her head, and the addition of a heavy veil, it was impossible she should be recognized; but she trembled and shrunk at every footstep on her way to the carriage. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               MABEL scarcely felt safe after entering the carriage, for the moonlight was dazzlingly brilliant. She kept her face covered with her veil, and dreaded to reach home, for then she would be obliged to leave the friendly seclusion of her curtained seat. 
               The delay of her servant in opening the door almost drove her wild with impatience. 
               It was impossible her husband could be there, and yet she dared not raise her eyes, lest they should rest on his familiar figure. 
               She breathed more freely when the door was closed and bolted, and, dismissing her maid, she hurried to her room, glad to be alone and to think over her plans for the future. And very dismal the future looked to her now. 
               Her only pleasure in life was society, and to live in seclusion was a horrible alternative. Her brain reeled with the effort to think, and she started and trembled at every sound. If she closed her eyes and tried to sleep, she would see before her the pale face of her husband. 
               Spite of her fear of him, and her anger at the tie that stood between herself and ambition, there was an aching void at her heart as she thought of his devotion, and a pang of remorse at the remembrance of his sorrow as he sat before her in the shadowy moonlight of the beautiful garden. 
               Then imagination would blot out the past and present for a while, and, revelling in visions of the brilliant future she would command as the wife of the Count Von Stresenthral enthral, she would forget she was already married, until, starting at some sound, her heart would sink with dismay at the thought that her husband was still insane and searching for her. She could imagine all the horrible details of such a meeting, until only the fear of accelerating her fate enabled her to repress a shriek of terror. She wrung her hands in despair, and would have welcomed her father's presence as a priceless boon. 
               The hours passed slowly and morning dawned; but although the daylight allayed the violence of her fears, it could not dispel her anxiety or lessen the tedious monotony of her seclusion. 
               The afternoon shadows were lengthening, when a carriage dashed along the avenue. 
               There was a moment of terrible expectation and dread, and then Sir Charles Remington appeared and assisted his daughter to alight. 
               Mabel sank into a chair with a feeling of relief, but it was only momentary, for it suddenly occurred to her that Mr. Seldon might have prevailed upon Sir Charles to attempt a reconciliation; he might have come for that purpose. 
               So terrified was she at this new thought, that she could scarcely answer as there was a light tap at the door, and it was impossible to rise and receive her visitor. 
               It was not strange that Miss Remington paused in astonishment. 
               Mabel had not removed her party-dress. The jewels were still in her long hair and gleamed in strange contrast with her pallid, fear-stricken face and disordered toilet. 
               The rich satin was crushed and rumpled, and her hair hung in dishevelled-masses below her waist. 
               Stella's face was less bright than usual, and there was some reserve in her manner, but it vanished at Mabel's evident distress. 
                
               She advanced to her side and held her listless hands soothingly, while she said with cheerful kindliness,- 
               "You must not think I had forgotten you. I sent to inquire how you were at the earliest possible hour, and your maid sent word that you had not yet risen, and she disliked to waken you. 
               "Pa ordered the carriage immediately after luncheon, for he was quite in a state of anxiety at your illness, but he was detained by a visitor." 
               Mabel started so suddenly that Stella stopped speaking and surveyed her curiously, as her pale cheeks flushed and she almost gasped-"Who was it?" 
               "No one you have ever met,-an English nobleman," said Stella, still more surprised at the air of relief that crossed Mabel's face. 
               After a little hesitation, she said gayly, although her eyes were averted and her lips tremulous,- 
               "We have a grave charge to prefer against you, and being a foreigner, you can expect no mercy. The most grave and worshipful Count Ernestien Von Stresenthral was seen with your queenly self, and his subsequent fate is wrapped in mystery. Guilty or not guilty of spiriting him away?" 
               "Not guilty!" said Mabel, half smiling in her intense relief. 
               She had been expecting something of her past life-some allusion to the stranger in the garden. "He deserted me without much ceremony. I believe he intended going on an excursion to the woods of Valambrosa." 
               She closed her eyes wearily, and Stella, with a lightened heart, busied herself arranging the heavy masses of her hair. The gentle touch soothed her restlessness, and with a sigh, Mabel yielded to the pleasant influence. 
               "You look much better now," Stella said at last. "I wish I could persuade you to return with me. You will never get well left alone. 
               "By the way, this English nobleman is a prize worth winning. Too much on the Hamlet order to suit my fancy, but handsome, immensely wealthy, and an Earl. Pa has set his heart on introducing him to you. 
               "If you are only sighing for conquest, here is an opportunity too glorious to be lost." 
               Mabel smiled bitterly, but no persuasions could induce her to accept Stella's invitation to return home with her. 
               The young lady turned playfully at the door as she was about taking her departure. "I have not yet despaired of winning you from your seclusion. You are too alive to a sense of what are your rights as belle supreme of Florence, to allow any meaner rival to triumph. Countess of Richland!-just think of it! A German Countess is not to be mentioned in the same breath.-Au revoir!" and with a gay laugh she disappeared. Mabel watched her from the window, a savage scowl darkening her face, as she said bitterly,- 
               "And she presumes to jest with me-a German Countess indeed! she is too confident. I hate her!" she muttered between her clenched teeth-and sitting down on a low ottoman, she sobbed aloud. 
               Her nervous system was completely prostrated. 
               Between terror, loss of sleep, and want of nourishment, she was almost insane as she continued her soliloquy. 
               "The foolish, silly child, without half my beauty, accomplishments or elegance, has every wish gratified.-She-a Countess-and I"-she pronounced the words bitterly- "the wife of a common Western man without talents or education-not so elegant as our very coachman!" Again she wept in perfect abandonment. 
               At last she became calm suddenly, and rising, walked the floor, her cheeks crimson and her eyes flashing with all the proud brightness of triumph. 
               "What have I to fear?" she murmured; and going to the mirror, which reflected mockingly her queenly beauty, she grazed long and earnestly. 
               "Yes, Count Von Stresenthral is but mortal. I will bend him to my will. If we are married before my father returns, he will have no alternative, with all his pride and regard for justice, than to obtain a divorce for me, and nothing will be easier than to have a second ceremony performed. As Countess Von Stresenthral I can defy the world." So she mused in proud defiance of every barrier to her wishes. 
               The difficulties of her position disappeared as if by magic. She did not even tremble at the wickedness she contemplated. 
               What would have been her horror two years before, could the temptation to which she was about to yield been offered for her acceptance. 
               She was innocent then, and pure in thought and impulse, spite of her haughtiness and ungovernable temper. Step by step had she wandered in her downward course, and now a precipice yawned before her, and without a warning qualm of terror, she stood on the brink-scornful and radiant in her proud determination to win in the battle of life. 
               The soft shades of evening replaced the gorgeous Italian sunset, and a star trembled above the foliage that crowned the Fiesole Mount. 
               Calm and beautiful was the night, and soothing in its influence; but Count von Stresenthral, weary and depressed, stole along under the friendly cover of the trees, as if he were a guilty criminal who sought the darkness as his only protection. 
                
               His step was slow and irresolute, and his hand, usually so firm, trembled as he grasped the bell-handle. 
               The peal was loud and piercing, and Mabel stopped in her walk to and fro on the carpeted floor of her room and shivered with terror. 
               Again the bell rang; she heard the hall-door open and shut and a murmur of voices, and after a moment of suspense her maid appeared with a card, and Mabel read with a thrill of delight- 
               "Count von Stresenthral." 
               Fatigue and fear were alike forgotten as she made a hurried toilette; her cheeks flushing with the anticipation of triumph, and her languid eyes bright and hopeful. 
               The Count waited her coming in an agony of impatience. 
               It was not the impatience of a lover who counts the minutes until the appearance of the adored mistress of his heart, but a restless desire to rid himself of the haunting thoughts that had robbed him of rest and left their impress on his haggard face and burning brain. 
               Away from the bewildering glances that had ensnared him, he realized to the full extent the grave consequences of Stella's sorrow, her father's anger, and the contempt his perfidy so justly deserved. 
               The miserable part he was acting was harder to endure than all the rest. Concealment goaded him to distraction, and he vowed that Mabel should release him from his promise of awaiting Mr. Clifton's return. 
               "She owes me this small concession," he thought bitterly. "It will be a relief to tell Stella I am a villain. I will feel less like one after that confession." 
               He could think thus of Mabel, even while his pulses thrilled at the remembrance of her words and glances. 
               The door opened softly, and a radiant creature crossed the threshold,-glorious in her beauty as the evening star, perfect in face and form, with a brilliance that startled all the haunting memories, and made him forget everything but the present. 
               It needed not the thrilling tones, or the warm pressure of the hand he clasped in his to complete the spell. 
               He felt with beating heart as he assented rapturously to the suggestion so artfully worded, that it seemed the natural result of his determination to reveal all to Stella. "That if she dared, 
                      
                        "Light the path to Stygian horrors 
                        With the splendor of her smile," 
                     
                   he would follow unflinchingly. 
               He did not pause to think of a time when the charm that lurked in her rippling brown hair and scarlet lips, and the crimson that mantled her cheeks and brightened her wondrous eyes would fade or lose its power, for his senses were lulled by the magic spell of her beauty, and the past and the future were forgotten as he basked in her love. 
               The moon had risen as the door closed on Count von Stresenthral's retreating figure, and he walked proudly from the villa in the quiet moonlight, exultant in the thought that the beautiful Miss Clifton would be his bride before the stars rose again above the glittering river. It was the wildest delirium of passion that stirred his pulses, a delirium from which many awaken to life-long regret. 
               Love so quickly born often dies on the very air that gave it birth; but it is not while the blissful tide, like a draught of rich wine, stirs the current of life, that the knowledge comes. 
               "Mabel-what a beautiful name!" he murmured, unconscious that he was uttering the thought aloud until a gentleman, sitting on the portico of one of the palaces that line the Arno, started eagerly and laid his hand on his arm. 
                
               The Count grasped the hilt of his dagger; but a glance at the stranger's face reassured him. 
               It was pallid and quivering with emotion, but not insolent, and he stopped politely to listen. 
               "You will pardon me, sir," said the stranger, earnestly; "but the name you uttered is the name of-a dear friend for whom I have been searching more than a year;-was it Mabel Camden of whom you spoke?" 
               The Count shivered with a nameless terror as he answered,- 
               "Camden was not the name." He added, kindly, as the stranger turned his face from him, "I am sorry I can give you no clue to aid you in your search. Camden is a name I never heard before." 
               With a hasty apology and a sigh of disappointment, the stranger left him; and the Count, walking slowly on his homeward way, somehow could not recall the charm that had rendered the night enchanted. The river glittered coldly beside him, and dim forebodings dissipated the bewildering visions that had glowed in beauty but a little while before. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               ON the morning succeeding the reception, the Earl of Richland returned from an interview with Sir Charles Remington, and commenced preparations for an immediate journey to Rome. 
               He was buoyant with hope, for he believed that he had at last found a clue to the object of his search. 
               There had been in Florence some three months previous, a gentleman and lady who answered to the description of Mabel and her father; and, what was still more encouraging, the name was Camden. They had lived strictly secluded, in a small cottage on the bank of the Arno, and had left suddenly for Rome. 
               Furnished with letters, and every necessary direction for prosecuting his search, Lord Richland commenced his journey. Never had he been so hopeful since the day that Mabel left him alone in his despair. 
               He little thought that each mile bore him further away from her; or that on the night of the reception, when he left the gay throng and wandered in the silent garden, the object of all his hopes heard each sigh that burst from his aching heart, and that the marble statue that shone before him in the moonlight was not more cold or unloving. 
               The morning after his arrival at Rome was occupied in arranging the search, as Sir Charles recommended, and that business completed, he could only await the result with patience. 
               That a crisis in his destiny was approaching he felt assured, and he tried to prepare himself for his fate as he strolled listlessly along, scarcely heeding where his foot-steps led him. 
               He passed the Forum and wandered into the Colosseum. Even his attention was arrested by the beautiful ruins, that, magnificent in their fallen grandeur, burst upon his vision. The glowing sunshine lighted up the columns and arches, and the air was fragrant with perfume wafted from the emerald turf at his feet. 
               What was the present, with its petty cares,-one life balanced against the works that had existed, while thousands of human beings like himself had perished and left no trace behind to tell they had ever been. Overcome with the vanity and nothingness of boasted man, he seated himself on a fallen column, under the shelter of an aged ilex, over which the ivy had thrown a graceful net-work, and watched, with increasing wonder and admiration, the huge pile of stone-work rising above him in lofty tiers, and almost reaching the white, fleecy clouds. 
               The quietness and beauty gradually soothed his restless spirit, and a languor crept over him so delicious, that he yielded to its influence, and lay with half-closed eyes lazily drinking in the beauty around him. 
               He was startled by the sound of voices, and with a sigh looked out from his leafy covert. 
               Two Englishmen seated themselves near him. The cheerful monotony of their voices grew fainter, and he was almost asleep, when a name pronounced by one of them suddenly recalled him from the world of dreams. 
               The blood rushed madly through his veins, and his heart throbbed as if it would burst as he leaned forward to listen. Camden was the name he heard. 
               There was a little pause, and the speaker threw himself carelessly on the turf. 
               "Now that I am comfortably disposed of, I will tell you the story. Patience is a desirable virtue, and this will be a fine opportunity to display it." 
               Lord Richland clenched his hands convulsively as the speaker made another pause. 
               "You said her name was Camden, suggested his friend by way of reminder. 
               "Yes, Camden-Mirabel Camden-Mabel was the name she usually went by. She and her father had been travelling over the Continent for the benefit of his health, which was feeble. They stopped at Naples for a couple of months, and Miss Camden became acquainted with a person, who was to every appearance a gentleman, and being young and sentimental, and he the last person in the world she should have fancied,-of course she fell in love with him, and spite of her father's opposition, married him. He proved to be an adventurer of low origin and most unprincipled habits. Whether he committed the crime to possess himself of her father's fortune, or out of revenge at his opposition, is not known; but the facts are these: 
               "Her father being obliged to meet a friend at Rome, insisted that his daughter should accompany him; and they started one morning, the son-in-law escorting them a part of the way with every appearance of friendliness. 
               "They were within ten miles of Rome, when a party of ruffians rushed upon them. One seized the old gentleman and attempted to drag him from the carriage. 
               "The daughter sprang to his assistance with the fury of an enraged tigress; but she was quickly overpowered, and her father murdered before her eyes. But mark! During the scuffle the ruffian who first attacked them lost his mask. He regained it instantly, and, as he thought, unobserved; but Mabel saw his face distinctly, and it was her husband! 
               "The ruffians fled to the woods, leaving the coachman tied on his box. 
                
               "The party were found by some travellers; the unfortunate young lady in a deathlike swoon, and the old man lying half out of the carriage, perfectly dead. 
               "Every means was taken by the police to arrest the murderers, and a large reward offered by the Pope for their apprehension, all to no purpose. But when the guilty husband arrived, his wife denounced him as the murderer; and frightened and confused, he made no denial. His companions were arrested, and they all suffered the penalty they so richly deserved." 
               "Horrible!" said his friend; "but the unfortunate young lady-what became of her?" 
               "Poor girl, she went into violent convulsions after she had given in her evidence, and was never conscious again. She died after several hours." 
               "Died! O Heaven! she cannot be dead," shrieked Lord Richland, and he stood before them, his face sharpened with agony. "She was false to me, but, oh! she cannot be dead!" and sinking to the ground, his frame shook with convulsive sobs. 
               Frightened and amazed, the two men surveyed him in silent pity, and the one who told the story with such nonchalance, wept like a child. 
               Hours passed before Lord Richland was sufficiently composed to be taken to his hotel. He yielded himself passively to the guidance of the strangers. He was completely prostrated by the blow, and scarcely conscious during the week of illness that followed. They offered him every attention that kindness could dictate. Those who have been ill among strangers can realize the gratitude and affection inspired, and the loneliness Lord Richland felt when they left him to proceed on their journey. 
               He would have accompanied them to Alexandria and sought forgetfulness amid the Pyramids of Egypt, but he was tired of travelling, now that the object which gave it zest was removed, and he decided to return to England, and in the careful fulfilment of the duties of his station endeavor to gain that peace of mind to which he had so long been a stranger. 
               Although filled with grief and horror at the dreadful fate of the young girl, who he doubted not was his lost Mabel, he was no longer dissatisfied and restless. 
               The worst was easier to bear than the uncertainty that for two years had filled his life with bitterness, and deprived him of the power to be interested, or enjoy any of the blessings Providence had placed within his reach. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               COUNT VON STRESENTHRAL'S blissful musings were not of long duration. His meeting with the stranger thrilled him with dim forebodings; and the eager look that gave place to disappointment, broke in upon his world of dreams and dispelled all the enchantment. 
               It was in vain that he endeavored to recall some of the tones and glances that had drawn him into an elysium of delight. He tried to picture Mabel's glowing face, shaded with its wealth of rippling, wavy hair, and live over the caresses that had won him from duty, and the calm love that had brightened his existence and never stirred his pulses wildly, and then left a stagnation that was akin to despair. 
               It was all in vain: the pretty face of his betrothed would blot out Mabel's superb beauty, and her playful words and gay laugh dispel all the thrilling scenes he tried to recall. 
               All the consequences of his weakness were before him, unsoftened by a glance from the siren who had ensnared him,-his broken engagement, and indecent haste in forming new ties. He thought, with a groan, "No galley-slave would have been guilty of the base act I have committed." In long review rose the history of his engagement, and, alas! his happiness, now forever gone. 
               What was the wild, passionate exultation that thrilled his pulses, like a draught of some rich wine, when Mabel's beautiful face looked into his from its resting place on his shoulder; what was it, compared to the exquisite pleasure that made the world seem all sunshine, when Stella's eyes drooped beneath his glance and her soft hand rested confidingly in his own! 
               There had been no magic of burning looks and glances; Stella had not artfully measured each grace that was to ensnare him. He had loved her, and his devotion awakened the first affection of her innocent heart. He had won her proudly, and their engagement had, for two years, been commented on wherever they were known. 
               His wedding-presents, the family jewels, had been re-set, and were expected daily to arrive. Nothing could be more public than their expected marriage, among all the friends and relations of both parties. 
               He had fancied the sacrifice nothing to the love he felt for Mabel, while basking in her smiles; but the fascination died before the appalling consequences. 
               Morning found him haggard and miserable, and he looked forward to the evening with a feeling of horror nothing could soften. 
               Stella had resumed her rightful place in his heart. He knew now, when it was too late, that she was dearer to him than life; that she was the one woman who roused all his better nature, and that she was more to be loved in her simple, artless truthfulness, than the brilliant coquette whose presence made him forgetful of all that was higher and nobler in his nature. 
               He alternately cursed the pitiable weakness that had ensnared him, and mourned the love and the peaceful happiness he had thrown away for a bewildering dream, from which he awakened while its brightest visions were being realized. 
               He cared nothing now for the dishonor,-every thought was lost but that Stella could be his no more, and that the first sorrow that clouded her happy life would be a sorrow row brought by the man to whom she had given her truest devotion. 
               As, in agony no words could express, he attempted to write the words that would awaken Stella from her serene happiness and change her love for him to loathing, he had drained the cup of humiliation to the very dregs. Fate could offer nothing more terrible in the future, and no happiness could atone for that hour of despair. 
               The afternoon was drawing to a close, and Stella, who had been restless all day, joined her father, and tried to interest herself in the books and papers that loaded the heavy table before which she was seated. 
               She soon tired of her attempt to be interested, and, seating herself at the window, looked listlessly out on the hills, misty in the distance, and far away to the mountains, whose snow-clad summits seemed to pierce the clouds that floated lazily over the blue sky. 
               But she was not thinking of the landscape or the mountains, but of her lover, and the burden of her thoughts was wonder at Ernestien's absence. 
               A servant handed her a note. Her face lighted as she glanced at the superscription, and she gave an exclamation of delight. Her father looked up from his papers and smiled at her beaming face. The next moment he started at a faint sound like a stifled moan, and hurried to her in alarm. 
               Her face was white as marble, and her eyes had a wild, startled expression; she placed the note in her father's hand without speaking, and his agitation and eager haste almost defeated his purpose, and the letters swum before him. 
               The writing was almost illegible, and the paper blotted from a hurried folding. 
               It was signed "Ernestien von Stresenthral," and he could scarcely credit his senses as he read:- 
                
               "Stella, my heart's best love!-I am writing to you for the last time. I need not ask you to forget me, for my despicable conduct will make that impossible. I have no excuse to offer for my desertion, and no words could palliate my villany. I am to be married this evening to Mabel Clifton. Hate me as you will; you cannot despise me as I do myself." 
               Her father read the note again and again, before he could comprehend the meaning. 
               Count von Stresenthral had been attached to his daughter so long, it seemed impossible he should desert her-impossible he should marry another! 
               "It was some cruel mistake-or the Count was ill; the note was not one a sane person would write;" so Sir Charles argued. But Stella laid her hand on his arm to detain him, as he would have hastened away. 
               "No, dear pa," she said, in a harsh, strained voice, "it is no mistake; I feel it is true as he writes." The tears dimmed her father's eyes, and he turned away to hide his grief. 
               If Stella had shown her sorrow in a wild, passionate manner, he could have essayed to comfort her; but his courage failed him at the sight of her stony composure. 
               Could it be his merry, happy daughter who came to him after a while, so calm and stately in her despair? 
               There were no tears in her eyes, and her dimpled mouth was compressed and rigid. She laid her hand on his shoulder and said quietly: "I will leave you now, pa; I cannot see any one to-night;" her lips quivered; "to-morrow,"-she stopped abruptly. Her father caught her hands and covered them with tears; he could not trust himself to speak. 
               "Give me the note, pa," she said at last; "I will arrange my letters and presents and return them; then, I think, we had better never mention his name again." 
                
               He took her in his arms and kissed her; but she did not speak, and turned silently from him. 
               Long after the household were at rest, her father stole noiselessly and listened at her door. There was no sound of weeping, no noise or hurried footstep. He was powerless to comfort, and, sorrowful and stricken, he sought his own room, to pray that the Merciful Father, who tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, would watch over his wronged child and pour the balm of His mercy on her sorely bruised soul. 
               Alone during the long night did Stella battle with the first grief that had ever clouded her happy life. She did not weep, or moan, or wring her hands; but her heart ached to bursting, and her brain seemed stupefied. 
               With a kind of dreary calmness she collected all her store of love-tokens-the letters, books, and trinkets, each one a souvenir of some happy hour; she did not keep the most trifling. 
               They lay before her on her work-table in a glittering pile. It was her Mecaria, and her heart-strings seemed entwined with each offering. She trembled and turned away. If she looked longer, she would not have courage to finish her task. 
               She took the ring from her finger and laid it with her other lost treasures. 
               It was a magnificent ruby with at circlet of diamonds, and it flashed and sparkled from amid the heap of pretty keepsakes as if it were a thing of life and pleading with her to take it again-as if it said, "We have been companions so long, do not cast me from you." 
               She looked at it sadly and longingly, and then laid her cheek against it caressingly. But she must not think of all it had been to her, and the remembrances that made it so precious, for here was one more sacrifice, the last and most dreaded-the miniature that day and night rested near her heart. Her fingers trembled nervously as she unwound the slender chain from her neck, and the tears fell thick and fast. She had not intended to look at the pictured face again, but the impulse was too strong to be resisted. With a burst of grief she flung herself on her knees before her treasures, with the picture pressed to her burning face, and for the first time yielded to her despair. 
               Her weakness was not of long duration, and she rose, and dashing the tears from her eyes, gazed long and fondly on the pictured face. The brown eyes looked kindly into hers, and the mouth seemed to smile. "Never again on me," she murmured; but she kept back the tears, and pressing it again to her lips, laid it carefully away with the rest; and placing them all in an inlaid writing-desk-his last gift-locked them from her sight. 
               The sacrifice was over; she must think of him no more. The love she had once cherished was now a crime. Every hope for the future in which he shared must be crushed. Alas! that future would now be a struggle to forget. He had mingled with every thought for years; morning and evening had she breathed his name in her pure orisons, her most fervent prayer had been for his happiness. But it was all over now. There must be no wavering or yielding to the weakness she was determined to conquer. 
               How the Minister's heart warmed toward his brave, beautiful child as she joined him at the breakfast-table the next morning, smiling and cheerful as if she had not lost the brightest hope in life. She was paler than usual, and there was wanting the winning playfulness of manner. She was more the woman and less the child. "She will bear it now," he thought, "and soon forget him." He could not see the aching heart that throbbed so wearily, or know the struggle it cost her to appear calm. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               MR. CLIFTON and Beatrice were married quietly as soon as the necessary formalities were disposed of, and the happy pair, united after so many trials, started immediately for Florence. 
               Mr. Clifton thought it best to surprise Mabel. He had not entirely outgrown his youthful weakness, of taking an important and irrevocable step, and afterward braving the objections and difficulties that should have been met at first. 
               The only cloud that marred the happiness of Beatrice, was a doubt as to Mabel's reception of herself and the fear that she would remember their former meeting and the words then uttered. She could not remember what they were. They had been wrung from her, in her almost insane despair, just after she discovered that the Edward whose memory she had worshipped during years of absence had been false. 
               Mr. Clifton wondered at the half shade resting on her beautiful face, but he could not doubt her affection, almost idolatry, for himself. It was apparent in every tone and glance. The most jealous, exacting lover would have been satisfied. 
               Their journey was the old dream of enchantment realized; what matter that the country through which they passed was barren and desolate? 
               The sunshine was warm and glowing, and the rugged rocks and treeless heights seemed to smile in beauty. 
               But after passing Sienna, nature in her most winning loveliness exhibited her treasures, as if to reward them for the pleasure they had shown in traversing a country that a volcano had desolated. 
               The hedges were blooming with verdure and musical with the song of birds, and the graceful branches of the oak, with the wealth of leaves and ivy garlands, drooped low and mingled with the pale green of the olive and the glossy depth of color in the sweet-scented bay. 
               On emerging into the more open country, they passed glades trellised with graceful vineyards and sloping hillsides, green as emerald and interspersed with blue and white flowers, that seemed to smile a welcome as they peeped slyly from their dewy covert. 
               They drank deep draughts of beauty, and Beatrice forgot that there was sorrow or distress, or that aught less happy than themselves could breathe the flower-laden air, until an elegant carriage passed them and she caught a glimpse of a pallid, melancholy man who was leaning dejectedly on the cushioned seat, as if the beauty wearied him. It was the Earl of Richland on his way to Rome; but Mr. Clifton was too intent upon watching the radiant face of his newly restored Beatrice, to care for anything so trivial as the passing of a stranger. 
               What a change in the destiny of two persons would have been effected, had Lord Richland caught a glimpse of Mr. Clifton's face. 
               But fate willed it otherwise, and each went on his way unconscious of the crisis that would have ended, for one of them, the care and responsibility that threw the only shadow on his happiness, and to the other been life itself, or like the magical opening of the gates of Paradise. 
               The glow of a golden Italian sunset bathed the city of Florence in its amber coloring, and lighted its palaces and domes, the graceful bridges and the glittering river with sloping woods stretching down to the water's edge, and the line of mountains rising beyond Fiesole and towering till they reached the clouds. 
               Mr. Clifton, with the hand of Beatrice clasped tightly in his, drew her to his side, and together they watched the beautiful scene spread out before them, until the glow faded and the veil of darkness shrouded the fair city; and re-entering the carriage, they were driven swiftly along the silent streets to Mr. Clifton's villa.-Beatrice said little, but she nestled closer to her husband's side, and he felt her hand tremble in his. 
               Mr. Clifton, too, was silent, and almost regretted having given Mabel no intimation of his expected marriage; but it was too late now to remedy the mistake, for the light from Mabel's window gleamed through the foliage, and the dim outline of the house was just visible. 
               The villa was usually a blaze of light, and Mr. Clifton, with a feeling of relief that he would scarcely have admitted, told Beatrice that Mabel was probably away, and his welcome was all she would receive that night. 
               Her own relief was evident, and her smile was very bright as he assisted her from the carriage at the gate and dismissed the driver. His baggage and servants would come by the post. 
               The moon had not yet risen, but the stars shone brightly, and the shaded walk, along which they sauntered slowly, looked tempting in its dim obscurity. 
               Mabel had almost completed her wedding toilet, and was fastening a linen collar round her delicate neck, when the sound of wheels made her start nervously, although she had given strict orders to the servants to admit "no one." 
                
               Count von Stresenthral, his servant, and a priest were now awaiting her arrival in the dimly lighted parlor. She had never felt so nervous and ill at ease, and the presence of her maid was unendurable; she had dismissed her peremptorily some time before, but her trembling hands rendered her task of dressing slow and tedious. She felt reassured as after a short delay the wheels were again heard; "the carriage had not entered the avenue," and with a hasty glance at her reflection in the mirror, she descended to the parlor. 
               Count von Stresenthral hurried to meet her. He was now the more nervous of the two, for she had regained her composure and was as tranquil and self-possessed in her haughty beauty as if she was not about to steep her soul in crime. 
               There was no greeting exchanged between herself and her lover. His face was pale and haggard, and his hand trembled as he led her to the priest. 
               Her cheek turned a shade paler as the ceremony commenced, but her responses were made in a clear, distinct voice. The Count's tones were so faltering, and his agitation so apparent, that her indignant interest rendered her unconscious of the opening of the door and the faint echo of footsteps in the hall. 
               The priest stopped abruptly. Count von Stresenthral seemed unconscious of the interruption, and stood with his downcast eyes fixed steadfastly on the floor; but Mabel, with a thrill of terror, turned, and not five paces from her stood her father. She could not see his companion; she only noted his pale, startled face as he surveyed her. 
               It was a singular tableau. The dim, mystic light falling on the group; each figure as motionless as if suddenly turned to stone; Mabel erect, proudly defiant in her queenly beauty; the Count's tall figure drooping as with the weight of humiliation. 
                
               Mr. Clifton stern and unflinching, and Beatrice clinging to his arm; her face crimson with excitement, her dewy lips parted eagerly, and her dark eyes fixed steadfastly on her husband's face; the frightened servant shrinking back, and the stolid face of the priest transfixed with amazement. 
               Surprised at the continued silence, the Count raised his eyes inquiringly to the priest, and then in an instant comprehended the whole affair as his glance rested on Mr. Clifton. 
               His face lost its pallor, and his eyes flashed proudly as he motioned the priest to proceed. 
               Frightened and perplexed, he recommenced the ceremony; but Mr. Clifton's stern voice arrested the words on his lips. 
               "I forbid this marriage," and he strode hastily to Mabel's side. 
               The Count turned fiercely and again motioned the priest to continue the service so strangely interrupted; but Mr. Clifton stepped before him, and his slow, distinct words dropped like icicles on Mabel's heart:- 
               "This ceremony cannot proceed; my daughter is already married." 
               There was a moment of profound silence; and the Count, like one awakened from a fearful dream, walked slowly to the door. 
               Mabel had turned haughtily from her father, and her breast heaved wildly with the anger that rushed like a lava tide in her veins. 
               Her lips were tightly compressed, and her eyes glowed like stars as, with a faint cry, she sprang forward and laid her hand on the Count's arm. 
               "What does this dastardly conduct imply? do you intend to desert me? My former marriage was not binding!" 
               The Count surveyed her with a shudder. The charm was over; she was no longer the enchantress who could lure him from duty, love, and honor. She had ruined his hopes; but the spell was broken, and he turned from her with a shudder. Her father drew her away and closed the door on the Count's retreating figure. 
               The priest and servant were gone, and Beatrice, Mabel, and Mr. Clifton were alone. 
               Beatrice was now pale as marble, and Mr. Clifton led her to a sofa and stooped to reassure her. She pressed his hand kindly; but they both started as a slight moan fell on their ear. 
               Mabel's face was turned resolutely from them, but her hand was pressed to her heart as if in pain. 
               She pushed her father from her with a look of baffled rage and despair in her dim eyes, and would have spoken, but gush of blood choked her utterance. 
               Beatrice supported her sinking figure, and Mr. Clifton rang for assistance. Mabel leaned her head on the arm of Beatrice and looked imploringly in her face; but at her father's approach her anger returned, and she tried to rise; but a second gush of blood deprived her of the power to speak or move, and Beatrice motioned her husband away and raised her tenderly in her arms. The physician, who arrived shortly after, pronounced her case very critical. She had ruptured one of the larger blood-vessels, and quiet and freedom from excitement were necessary to the preservation of her life. 
               She was carried to the room she had thought to have quitted forever; and Beatrice, with quiet tenderness, watched by her bedside; only leaving her to speak a word of comfort to Mr. Clifton, who waited outside, not daring to enter. Mabel was now quiet as an infant, for she clung to life as only those can clings who have no hope beyond the grave. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               STELLA was sitting alone in the library the day succeeding the news of her lover's desertion. 
               There was no longer a necessity to be cheerful, or to wear the mask that had been assumed to hide her grief from her father's watchful eye, and from a censorious world's comment or pity. It would not be for long, this communing with her own thoughts; her father would return, or visitors be announced; but it was a relief to be alone for a time, however short. She sunk wearily back in her chair, and her face took a wan, haggard expression, while her hands were clasped tightly as if in pain. 
               The sunshine rested like a halo on her fair, drooping head, and lighted the curtained recess with gorgeous hues from the stained-glass windows. Crimson, purple, and gold tinged her rich dress and rested brightly on her white, clasped hands,-now the color danced along the carpet gayly, as if to mock her sorrow with their brightness; the very air seemed taunting her as it came in laden with the perfume of orange-blossoms. 
               She was so weary, she loathed the beauty around her, and longed for the night that came so slowly; she could have prayed with the poor seamstress,- 
                      
                        "Only for one short hour, a respite however brief, 
                        No blessed leisure for love and hope, 
                        But only a time for grief." 
                     
                   A time that could not come for hours. 
               There was a muffled footfall on the soft Persian carpet; thinking it was a servant, she did not change her position; but the step came nearer, and with a sudden beating of her heart she looked up, and Count Von Stresenthral stood before her-so pale and haggard she would hardly have deemed years could have so changed him. She met the mournful eyes that looked on her so imploringly,-she could not utter a word, but sat before him pale and cold. "Will you not speak to me, Stella?" he said, huskily. "I can better bear to hear you say you despise me than this silence." 
               She hesitated, and her pale lips moved; she could not think now of how he had wronged her. She only saw his wretchedness, only felt she loved him, and so she held out her hand. Count Von Stresenthral grasped it almost timidly, but at the familiar touch, the love came back in a resistless torrent, and he pressed it passionately to his lips and sunk at her feet. 
               "Stella, my darling, you do not despise me then? you will not cast me off?" he almost sobbed; and he laid his cheek against the cold hands now clasped in his. 
               Her tears fell fast on his glossy hair, and she did not withdraw her hands-she loved him so dearly-Mabel had no right to him-her own Ernestien. 
               She forgot for a time his marriage, then it came back to her remembrance; and her face that had flushed with the bliss of returning happiness, grew ashy pale, and a chill like that of death shivered her frame. 
               She withdrew her hands from his grasp, and rose sadly and firmly. 
               The hopeless, despairing look that met hers, almost destroyed her courage, but she would not allow the Count to retake her hand, and her voice, although faltering, was decided. 
               "This interview is a needless trial to both. I wish you well, and shall always pray for your happiness, but we must part now." He held her firmly as she would have left him, and said eagerly,- 
               "You must hear me, Stella, if you then banish me forever;" and with a rapid utterance, and an eloquence his passionate love gave him, he told her all his sad story-his weakness and remorse, and the attempted wedding. 
               "Stella," he said passionately, "I never knew how much I loved you until I stood beside her and thought our fates were to be indissolubly united. Your face was before me all the time; had she been a fiend, I could not have felt more dread. I saw then all the wiles that had lured me from you, and only despised her less than myself." 
               His voice softened, and he again took Stella's hand, but without raising his eyes to her face. 
               "Stella, I cannot ask you to be my wife now, you would always distrust me; but when I have proved my constancy, may I hope that you will love me again?" 
               She looked on his pale, haggard face and downcast eyes, and her own filled with tears; but her face was bright with happiness, and her cheeks glowed with a roseate hue. 
               Her smile had something of its old gay sauciness, as she said, with attempted playfulness,- 
               "After my heroic resolution of living without you, I should distrust myself were I to be guilty of the weakness of yielding. The only consistent course for us will be to leave all to pa." 
               The Count started eagerly, and his face flushed with returning hope, and then paled. "It could not be that she meant what she said, she was but mocking him." 
               He grasped both her hands, and looked imploringly in her face. "Stella, do not jest with me now; I deserve that you should despise me, but my sufferings should appeal to your pity!" 
                
               There was a minute's silence, and he gazed timidly on her glowing, half-averted face; then she bent over him and said:- 
               "Dear, dear Ernestien!" 
               The tone was not to be mistaken, and amid tears and blushes and rapturous protestations from her pardoned lover the reconciliation was completed. 
               Sir Charles Remington's surprise was beyond expression, when an hour later he returned and found the happy pair sitting side by side on the low-cushioned window-seat, in an attitude that was unmistakably lover-like. 
               He had never before been so near being angry, but Count Von Stresenthral and Stella knelt at his feet, and the pleading eloquence and contrition of the unfortunate victim to inconstancy, and the happy face of his daughter, so softened his heart that he wavered in spite of himself-and Stella decided the conflict by saying, playfully, although she ended with a torrent of tears,- 
               "I know, pa, that you think Ernestien deserves to be punished by a year's probation. I see it in your face, and I might agree to the justice of it, only I will be equally punished." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
               MORE than three weeks had passed since the evening of the attempted marriage of Mabel and Count Von Stresenthral. 
               Mabel had almost recovered from her illness; she was still pale and languid, but her physician had pronounced her sufficiently recovered to dispense with his services. 
               In taking his formal leave, he said, "All you need now, Miss Clifton, is exercise in the open air and cheerful society." 
               No persuasions had been sufficient to induce her to leave her room or even see her father. 
               She bowed stiffly in answer to the advice, and a bitter smile lingered on her face after the door closed on his retreating figure. 
               Mrs. Clifton watched her for awhile in silence, and then with some hesitation crossed over to the window-seat, where Mabel was indolently reclining. 
               "Mabel, dear," she said, placing her arm round her caressingly, "won't you let me persuade you to ride this evening? It will make you feel like a different person." 
               Mabel did not shrink from the caress, but the cold, hard look was still on her face, and she answered briefly, without so much as a glance,- 
               "I do not wish to ride." 
               Mrs. Clifton looked at her wistfully, and a yearning loving expression crossed her face as she noted the listlessness of the young girl before her, so beautiful and yet so uninterested in life, with apparently no affection and no hope. 
                
               She had tried so hard to win Mabel's love, and through it reconcile her to her father, and sometimes she would fancy her less cold. Her pity now overcame her diffidence, and she knelt beside Mabel, and clasping her in her arms, pressed her lips to her cold cheek. "O my beautiful darling," she murmured softly. "If you could know how I long to comfort you, you would love me a little-you are too young to look so coldly on life. 
               "I do not say, that you have not had ample cause," she said soothingly, as Mabel shivered slightly,-"but you will sooner forget." 
               Mabel started to her feet and her cheek flushed eagerly. 
               "Forget whom?" she said, in a cold, severe tone. "Do you refer to Count Von Stresenthral?-I do not mean to be unkind to you," she added more softly, extending her hand to Mrs. Clifton, who had started back with surprise and pain. 
               "You are one of the few I like-if I am capable of any feeling so tender,"-she stopped and leaned wearily against the window.-"My physician gives me strong hopes of life when he tells me to try and preserve an even calm-that it is necessary to my recovery. 
               "How can I be calm in this hated place, when every breath I draw is torment, and my blood boils in my veins. You ask me to ride," she said, passionately,-"to exhibit myself-when the very beggars on the street have probably heard my story- 
               "That I tried to marry Count--bah! I will not say his name-it stifles me-and that my father, with a kindness that was doubtless prompted by paternal affection, interfered and placed me in the position I now occupy,-my name a scorn and by-word for simpletons to bandy about. Don't interrupt me,-I have been silent until my heart seems bursting! 
                
               "Just think how delightful it would be to afford entertainment to the gaping multitude! 
               "Do order an open carriage,-I wonder if I had better appear in full bridal costume?" 
               She stopped from exhaustion, and the breath came short and quick from her parted lips. 
               Mrs. Clifton held her hand, and raised her eyes, wet with tears, to her flushed face. 
               "You are mistaken, carrissima. The story is not known, except to those whose interest it is to keep silent. Would Sir Charles Remington or his daughter wish it known?" 
               She stopped abruptly and stole a quick glance at Mabel's face. Mabel answered it with a bitter laugh. 
               "You did not fancy that I had not heard of the marriage; my maid informed me. I should think his first experience in private weddings would have warned him against a second. However, it ended better," she added, as if to herself. 
               "The whole family left Florence immediately," pursued Mrs. Clifton. "You can now understand that if the story was told, or surmised, no one could have known to a certainty; the marriage would have seemed a direct contradiction. Edward, that is, Mr. Clifton, asked me to persuade you to receive company while you remained here. He says it will be best, and that as soon as you are well enough we will leave Florence, and your wishes will decide him as to the destination." 
               Mabel withdrew her hand and seated herself in the armchair. Her face was flushed and angry, and her lips tremulous with scorn. 
               "Doubtless your husband has great regard for my wishes," she said, cuttingly; "but I have decided to relieve him of any further responsibility. Will you favor me by telling him so?" 
                
               Mrs. Clifton drew herself to her full height, and her eyes flashed for an instant, but she said quietly,- 
               "I will carry no message to my husband that his daughter should not send. Dear Mabel, let me implore you to think and speak of your father more kindly." 
               She glanced at Mabel's face as she stopped speaking; it had changed from hauteur to the most intense surprise. 
               Mrs. Clifton trembled at her scrutiny, and her eyes sunk beneath her gaze. 
               Mabel rose to her feet. 
               "Where have I seen you before? I have had a vague feeling, since the night you came, that I had some time met you-and your expression just now recalled something. Why cannot I think!" she said, impatiently. 
               There was the same look of affright on Mrs. Clifton's face as when she met Mabel's contemptuous gaze in the wood, near the gipsy camp, and her attitude was the same, as she shrank away. 
               Like a flash the whole scene came back to Mabel. 
               The gipsy who had defied her, and spoken words that could never be forgotten, was the same woman whose soft voice and gentle touch had soothed her during her weary illness. 
               She felt no gratitude; every kindly remembrance was obliterated, and the anger that surged in her breast left her pale as marble, and incapable of speech. 
               Mrs. Clifton, frightened at her expression, hurried to her side and would have taken her hand. Mabel pushed her away with scorn, and she sunk at her feet. 
               "Mabel, listen to me! for my husband's sake I kneel, and implore you to forgive the words I uttered then. I was not myself. When you have heard all the story of my life, you will not blame me-you who have loved and suffered." 
                
               "Loved indeed!" hissed Mabel, contemptuously, unsoftened by the pleading tones and the tearful, earnest face. "I have never loved, and if I had, how could you, a gipsy, a strolling vagabond, judge of my feelings! 
               "Does the man you call my father consider my degradation incomplete, that he insults me by sending you with a message?" 
               She had spoken rapidly, and her voice was loud and scornful. 
               The tones so familiar to her father's ear arrested his progress as he passed the door, which was partly open, and the last words fell on his ear clear and distinct. 
               His face turned white with anger, as he glanced from Mabel to his wife, who was still kneeling. He raised her tenderly, though he trembled with indignation, and spite of her pleading look led her toward Mabel, who had stopped speaking on his entrance, and who cowered before him. His voice was low, but the firm tones were unmistakable. 
               "Mabel, were the words I heard you use addressed to my wife? If so, I insist upon an instant apology." 
               Mrs. Clifton started, and looked appealingly into his face as she gasped,- 
               "Dear Edward, I never could gain courage to tell you that I spoke insulting words to Mabel long ago." 
               His stern look so frightened her, that the faltering words died on her lips. His eyes were still on Mabel's face, and he spoke in the same quiet tone, though he drew his wife closer to his side. 
               "When you, Mabel, so far forgot the respect due yourself, as to use words unbecoming a lady to your father's wife, I can readily conceive that it was under an impulse that for the moment excused it. You now see the impropriety, and, as a lady, are bound to offer the only reparation in your power-an apology. 
                
               "When it is made, I will listen to an explanation." 
               Mabel bit her lip until the blood started, and had her eyes been basilisk's, the expression would not have been more deadly; but she knew too well her father's firmness, when his passions were once aroused, to venture to disobey him. After a dead silence, during which she seemed struggling to control her anger, she said coldly,- 
               "Mrs. Clifton will, I hope, pardon the words I used. If she remembers the occasion to which I referred, she will not consider them so inappropriate. But her kindness to me during the last month deserved a better return, and I am sorry I spoke as I did." 
               There was no softening in her voice-the words were cold and mechanical. 
               Mrs. Clifton hid her face on her husband's shoulder, and Mabel resumed,- 
               "As to the explanation, if there is one necessary, it would be doubtful whether you, sir, or myself, are the person to whom it is most justly due. 
               "If my wishes have any weight, I would ask one last favor of you,-that I may be allowed to return to the United States-to our old home." 
               An expression of relief crossed Mr. Clifton's face. He motioned Mabel to sit down, and with his arm still supporting his wife, drew her to a fauteuil. She would have left the room, but he seated himself beside her, and looked at Mabel as much as to say, "I will hear you now." 
               She was still standing, and her face was as defiant as she resumed,- 
               "I wish to go immediately-and from the hour I leave your roof, you are relieved from all further responsibility on my account. At nineteen, a woman should surely be her own mistress; and I will never again brook such an interference as on the night of your return. There are things that can neither be forgotten nor forgiven." 
                
               Her father had risen to his feet and stood before her. 
               She stepped back, and her face crimsoned with passion. 
               "I mean just as I say! On that night when you deliberately frustrated my plans and made my secret public, I vowed I would never forgive you, or touch your hand in kindness. And so help me Heaven! I will keep my vow! If there is in your heart a particle of affection for me,-if you would not have me hate you, as I can hate no other person,-allow me to go in peace. 
               "My mother's fortune is sufficient for my wants, and in my old home, away from these memories that poison my existence, I may be able to think of you-without hatred at least." 
               Mr. Clifton's face looked old and haggard. The manner had all vanished, and pain and grief were imprinted on his countenance; and he said, brokenly,- 
               "Mabel, your own act and words have cancelled the tie between us. As you told me, my responsibility is ended, and may Heaven, who will judge our conduct, pardon my failures in duty, and be merciful to you. 
               "I would implore you to think again before you cut yourself loose from all natural affections, but I know it would be in vain. If ever you have cause to regret this step, your father's house, and his warmest welcome will be ready for you." 
               He bowed his head in the deepest sorrow, and tears that did not shame his manhood trickled through his fingers, and dropped on the carpet; the bitterest tears that can be wrung from the human heart-tears born of a child's ingratitude. 
               Mabel stood before him, calm and immovable in her purpose. No regret softened her heart; her only feeling was impatience to end the interview and be away. "Why should she care for his grief? Had he not ruined her hopes?" 
                
               It was as if she had staked her all on the cast of one die; it was lost, and she yielded entirely to the spirit of evil. 
               The rustling of her dress as she quitted the room broke the silence, and Mrs. Clifton knelt beside her husband, and drawing his bowed head on her shoulder, gave him the only comfort left him the soothing assurance of her love. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIX. 
               TWO years had passed since Alice Melville and Mabel Clifton walked together in the calm beauty of an October afternoon. 
               Since that day, the quiet life of Alice had been unmarked by any striking event; no great joys or sorrows had brightened or cast their shadows on her smooth, white forehead. After the marriage of her brother Laurence and pretty Annie Raymond, she had lived with her aunt in the quiet old homestead that had sheltered her childhood. 
               One visit to the populous Eastern city where her brother now resided, and a season at Newport, was the extent of her acquaintance with the gay world. 
               Several weeks after the departure of Mabel, Laurence Melville received a letter from Clarence Stanly, who had just finished a dreary course of law at one of the German universities. He was now twenty-one, and declared his intention of being an artist; all his leisure time had been devoted to his favorite pursuit, and he hoped his guardian would approve of his purpose. He also asked him to sanction his engagement with Alice, and wrote eloquently of their long affection, and the incentive to renewed exertion such a tie would give him, &c. 
               Mr. Melville was scarcely surprised; for the courtship of Clarence and Alice had commenced when they played together in childhood, and their united future had been thought of long before they were at an age to realize the grave importance of a step that seemed then such a matter of course. 
                
               Mr. Melville sought his sister, rather hoping she would prefer leaving so important a decision until her lover's return. They had been separated for years, and were both young enough to change, even could they have been certain of their attachment. 
               Alice was busy with an intricate piece of crocheting, and scarcely glanced from her works at her brother's entrance. The departure of Mabel had been a sore trial, and although her grief was quiet, it was none the less deep. 
               The faintest rose tinged her pale cheek as her lover's letter was read, and she looked up inquiringly, as her brother seemed to expect some reply. 
               "Well, really," he said, laughing at her calmness, this is a most extraordinary way to receive a proposal; from your manner one would suppose you had been a reigning belle long enough to become satiated with conquests." 
               Alice finished counting her stitches before she answered, and she was too glad that Laurence could laugh gayly to mind being the object of his mirth. 
               "Why, Laurence, what did you expect me to do? we have been partially engaged for several years." 
               Laurence interrupted her with a prolonged whistle of astonishment, and his laugh was not so genuine in its gayety. He drew away her work and said seriously,- 
               "Now, my little sister, I must tell you my opinion of this whole affair-it is a piece of foolishness. I do not blame you, deary, or even Clarence; you were both only children when he went away, and you are not yet sixteen. What do you know of love?-don't interrupt me now. You feel a friendship for Clarence; but friendship is not love, little one, and love should be the basis of an engagement. 
               "You liked each other as children; but you have each changed, and when you meet again, if you are bound by the solemn tie you now propose entering into so lightly, how will you face the evil which is not only possible, but highly probable, of finding that you are utterly unsuited? 
               "You will say, 'In that case we can easily break our engagement;' but there is another view to take of the case. Suppose that with one of you the calm affection you now feel merges into love, would it be easy then, my dear sister, to destroy hopes that have been encouraged until life, without them, will be robbed of all its brightness?" 
               His face was ashy pale, and he stopped suddenly, with compressed lips. 
               Alice put her little hand in his, and her eyes filled with tears as she nestled closer to his side. He understood her mute attempt at comfort, and tried to smile as he smoothed her hair and looked fondly into her face. 
               "And what does my little sister say to my reasoning? Not convinced, I see. The same old story,- 
                      
                        'Man may argue as he will, 
                        Woman's of the same opinion still.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Dear Laurence, you know best; I will do as you say, but"-and she glanced up coaxingly-"I am not afraid that I will ever love any one better than Clarence; and if you had read his letters to me and knew how he depends on my affection, you would not blame me for wishing to make him happy. 
               "He says, this hope is all that cheers him in his weary exile." 
               Her cheeks were flushed and her manner quite different from its usual calm. 
               Laurence kissed her and said,- 
               "You may be right, after all, and shall do as you please. Our dear father was anxious that you and Clarence should be married, and loved him only less than yourself; and as for me, your happiness is my first wish, sweet sister." 
                
               Two years passed, and Clarence returned to his old home, and the old life was resumed. 
               After the first surprise at their altered appearance, and after Alice had overcome her shyness at the strangeness of his foreign manners, it scarcely seemed as if they had been separated. 
               Alice began to listen for his step and count the hours of his absence. 
               She was quite pretty, now that this new interest brightened her life; and Clarence sketched her madonna-like face and thought it very fair and angelic. 
               It was a pleasant afternoon in June, and they were in the quaint old lilac-shaded sitting-room. 
               Clarence had tired of the book from which he had been reading aloud, and was lazily watching Alice as she sat at her work, her head drooping, and her slender, delicate fingers, white as snow-flakes, glancing from among the blue meshes of the fleecy zephyr she was fashioning. He was thinking what a quiet, happy future she would make for him. It would be summer always; not an angry look or harsh tone would ever break in upon his musings. 
               She glanced up from her work and blushed with pleasure as she met his fond, admiring look. 
               He motioned her to come and sit beside him, and playfully drew away her work and took possession of the busy fingers. 
               "I begin to fear that you have one fault, Alice; you are inclined to be industrious." 
               Alice smiled archly as she assured him that he was free from that sin. Her look said so plainly, "or any other," that he laughed and stroked her hair. 
               "I have been idle since my return; but I have been so happy to live the old life over, existence for the last few weeks has been like a beautiful poem, or a summer-voyage along a tranquil stream, with a cloudless sky above me, and I fancy, dear, that so it will ever seem." 
               He ceased speaking and looked away from Alice to the blue sky that shone through the clustering lilacs at the window, and Alice watched him with quickening breath. 
               "Antinous was not half so beautiful," she thought; "how can he love me? and yet he calls me beautiful. If he could see Mabel!" 
               She sighed as that name recalled memories of her lost friend, and her heart yearned for the olden intimacy. Her reverie was almost as profound as her lover's. But after a while she was startled, as with an exclamation of delight Clarence rose to his feet. 
               The window reached to the floor, and the flowing lace curtains had been drawn aside, and standing amid the fleecy drapery was an exquisite figure. 
               The soft lilac silk was the exact shade of the flowers that clustered around her, and the air was dreamy with their crushed fragrance. 
               But, oh! the beautiful face with the full, red lips, and the white lids half veiling the starry eyes, and rippling hair shading the ivory-like forehead! 
               Clarence stood spell-bound with admiration of the visitant who seemed to have been called up by his artist's dream; but the reality far surpassed his wildest fancies. 
               Alice looked up, and with a cry of joy sprang forward and was clasped in the arms of her friend. 
               Disappointed in all her schemes, weary of the struggle with the world, and yet shrinking from death, Mabel had returned to her childhood's home. There was one love left, a warm spot that cast a stray gleam of brightness over the desert waste of life, and made the present less intolerable. 
               It was the thought of seeing her early friend, and of enjoying joying the affection that no coldness in their past intimacy had been sufficient to change. 
               Never had her face been so softened with tenderness, as when she stood in the dreamy light, her arms clasped around Alice, and the tears trembling on her long lashes. Ambition was over, but it was something to be loved. 
               Alice clung to her with a joy and tenderness that seemed to change her very nature. She had never shown Clarence half the affection she now bestowed on her friend; but in his surprise at her warmth there was mingled no jealous pang. 
               Every faculty was absorbed in admiration of the queen-like girl who bent so fondly over his betrothed, oblivious of his presence. 
               Alice at last remembered him and extended her hand, with her eyes still on Mabel's face, as she said, "This is Clarence, Mabel; you must forget your childish antipathy and like him very much." 
               Mabel, roused from her unwonted display of sentiment, raised the languid white lids scornfully; but she started, and a glow of surprise and pleasure lighted her face, and a new sensation thrilled her veins as she met an earnest, passionate gaze and felt her hand clasped warmly. 
               She had met her fate. The color deepened on her cheek, and a faint smile wreathed her lips. 
               Alice watched them with a faint thrill; it must have been delight, and yet it was akin to pain. 
               Mabel seated herself on the low divan and drew Alice beside her; and Clarence brought an ottoman and sat at their feet. 
               All his listlessness had vanished; Alice could scarcely believe him the same person. His blue eyes flashed, and his face, as beautiful in its way as Mabel's own, sparkled with animation. 
                
               The sun set, and the moon lighted up the shrubbery with a fairy-like beauty, and brought out in bold relief the figures on the divan. 
               Clarence compared them as they sat together; Alice like a pale shadow, her waxen face almost as white as her dress, and her pale, yellow hair looking lighter in the silvery glare. But Mabel was a beautiful Hebe. The moonlight softened her rich color to a roseate hue, and gave a tender, womanly grace that made her seem more a creature to be loved than a divinity to worship. 
               Alice drew closer to Mabel and farther from her lover, by a kind of instinct. 
               He did not notice the movement, or her silence, as he talked gayly with her friend of foreign lands, places of which Alice had scarcely read. 
               She listened wonderingly and wearily, a kind of chill gathering at her heart. 
               Mabel rose with a half sigh, as the gathering darkness and the waning moon warned her of the lateness of the hour. 
               "See, Alice, it is eleven,"-she held up her little jewelled watch for her to see the hour,-"and the carriage came at nine; you must not ask me to stay longer." Alice kissed Mabel tenderly at parting; but the hand she gave her lover was so cold, he started at the touch and looked anxiously in her face. She smiled and called him "foolish," and bade him "not keep Mabel waiting." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XL. 
               ALICE watched the two figures until they disappeared in the shrubbery. Somehow the pain at her heart deepened, and her step, as she ascended the stair, was slow and heavy. But she murmured Mabel's name fondly, and child herself that she could feel sad the night of her return. 
               Mabel and Clarence wandered slowly down the flowery avenue, and their gay voices floated on the perfumed air and reached the ear of Alice as she crouched on the low window-seat. They were not thinking of her, or of anything but each other. Life was very pleasant, and youth and love and hope made the dusky pathway enchanted. 
               Clarence hurried to the house as the carriage drove away, eager to talk to Alice of her beautiful friend and their plans for the morrow's pleasure. 
               "Good night, Clarence," Alice called softly, leaning out of the window as her lover emerged from the shrubbery; "I am too tired to talk to you." 
               He turned away with some disappointment, mingled with anxiety lest Alice was ill; but his pulses thrilled at the recollection of Mabel's looks and tones. He did not dream of being false to Alice as he thought of Mabel with an admiration his affection for his betrothed had never kindled. So beautiful and yet so simple; so unconscious of her loveliness, he deemed her. Life had been pleasant before; but it would be blissful now that Mabel would gild its most commonplace scenes with her presence. 
               Alice might weep and moan in the quietness of her lonely chamber, but her artist-lover's heart was lost to her. He was not himself conscious of the fact; had he dreamed of danger, he would never have looked on Mabel's face again. 
               But Alice saw it all; she marked the flashing eye and kindling cheek, the animation that changed him from an indolent dreamer to an impassioned man, and seemed each instant to separate him farther from her. 
               Her brother's words came back now:- 
               "But suppose that with one of you it is the love of a lifetime?" There was one comfort, even in that hour she could feel it such: she would be the only sufferer. It was not as if Clarence had been false to her. 
               She knew that when he awakened from his Elysian dream, and felt as she was feeling that star-lit night, that as a dear sister he loved her; but that Mabel was his ideal, the one woman who satisfied all the longings of his nature, and that, while his pulses throbbed with life, he would love her. 
               Alice knew that death would not bring a keener pang than that bitter truth. She could imagine all his despair. He would hide it from her; his words would lose none of their kindliness; his compassion would give additional tenderness to his manner. 
               The picture was too dreadful. Better a thousand times to be separated forever than to be united, when his affection was, at best, but friendship. 
               She shuddered and hid her face; but she wept no more. 
               She had often felt, since his return, and as each day he grew dearer, that there were depths in his nature she could not reach, aspirations she could never share. 
               The more she loved him, the more she felt her want of sympathy with what he most cherished. 
               She realized now the hopelessness of her love, and that it was vain to expect happiness in a future unblessed by that congeniality which softens the hardest lot. 
                
               Her pleasant dream was rudely broken; but it was better now than later. 
               Clarence came in the morning; Alice was weak and languid, and shrunk from the trial before her. 
               She declined seeing him at first; but he begged so piteously to be admitted, that she relented, and he came softly into the darkened sitting-room. 
               She could scarcely keep back the tears as he bent over her kindly and anxious. 
               She assured him, "It was only a headache; she would be better by evening." 
               "No, she would not see a doctor, she only needed to be quiet; aunt Clara was an excellent nurse. All she asked of him was to see Mabel as he had promised." 
               After some persuasion he agreed to leave her, on condition that he and Miss Clifton could return in the evening. 
               Poor Alice, there was no need to feign headache after that interview. Her pulses throbbed to bursting, and aunt Clara was summoned from her silks and laces and city dressmaker to officiate as nurse. She was very fashionable and frivolous, but kind-hearted withal; and had there been duties for her in life, she would have performed them. As it was, her existence was all carnival, and she had only returned home to prepare for another jaunt. 
               Alice grew better under her judicious care, and at last sunk into a quiet sleep. 
               It was almost evening when she awakened. She now felt a sorrowful calm; the worst was over; she was prepared for her trial, and determined to bear it patiently. 
               They came in the early twilight-Clarence and Mabel. She heard their voices and Mabel's gay laugh as they sauntered up the avenue, and a sudden flush crimsoned her cheeks. 
               It deepened on their entrance, and Clarence hurried to her side, his face bright with happiness and joy at her recovery. 
               She forced herself to smile as she met his glance. Her hand rested listlessly in his for an instant, and then she turned to welcome Mabel. 
               She half started at her loveliness, and the color faded from her cheek; but Mabel took her in her arms and kissed her. 
               Alice grasped her arm tightly, and a film covered her eyes as the fresh, dewy lips were pressed to hers. She did not quite lose consciousness; she heard Clarence's wild, startled exclamation, and felt his strong arms enfold her. he was so kind and tender, she could almost believe he loved her, and that the weary struggle of the last few hours had been a dream. 
               Mabel had retreated a little distance and was watching them with jealous interest as Alice unclosed her eyes. Clarence had borne her to a sofa, and was bending over her with affection and remorse. She nestled closer to his side, and laying her small, white hand on his glossy curls, smiled happily in his face. 
               He was profuse in his protestations of affection and his regrets. 
               "He had intended coming again in the afternoon to sit with her, notwithstanding her cruelty in the morning; but somehow the time had passed so rapidly, talking of other lands." Alice sighed and buried her face in the cushions of the couch. 
               Before Clarence could speak again, a strain of music floated on the air; low and thrilling at first, and then bursting into a rich, wild melody, entrancing their very senses. 
               The music ceased, and Mabel came softly to the sofa where Alice was reclining and knelt beside her. 
               Alice shrunk from her touch, although she still loved her friend. There was a shadow of distrust in her heart. The unwonted tenderness was not so welcome. It seemed as if Mabel were playing a part; she could not return her caresses, and whispered at last, as she unclasped her hand: 
               "Give us some more music, Mabel dear." 
               There was a shadow on Mabel's face as she rose to her feet. Clarence had not stirred at her approach, and he did not look up as she turned away; but after a little hesitation he followed her to the piano. 
               For more than an hour she played; now a joyous strain, and then a low, plaintive melody that seemed laden with tears; and still Clarence sat watching the changes of her eloquent face, wrapped in dreams born of the witching tones. 
               Alice was forgotten. She had thought herself prepared for the change; but the tears fell fast over her pale cheeks and bedewed her slender fingers as she watched the two friends she had loved from childhood. 
               There was somehow a feeling of pity for Clarence, a longing to shield him, as if some evil threatened his life. 
               Mabel's face was turned toward the handsome artist, and her beautiful eyes were raised to his, and then veiled by the long lashes that rested on her crimson cheek. Her dress was pure white, soft and floating in its texture, and there were no gems to set off her exquisite loveliness. 
               Suddenly there came to Alice a vision of that scene in the wood and the words of the Gipsy,- 
               "Distrust her most when she is smiling; she will bring the trial of your life." 
               But it was as if the words were spoken to Clarence. A deadly terror for him rose in her heart and chilled her veins. He had risen and was bending over Mabel, so low that the short, thick curls of his hair almost touched her cheek. 
                
               "Was it too late to save him? She could at least make his life tranquilly happy." 
               Scarcely conscious, and without the power to control the fear that urged her, she hurried forward. Her light step fell noiselessly on the thick carpet, and she was almost beside them, when the darkness closed round her, and the figures grew indistinct. She stretched out her arms and called wildly,- 
               "Clarence, Clarence, oh! let me save you!" 
               He sprang to his feet, pale with fright, and hurried to her side. Her head fell heavily on his arm, and cheek and lip were like marble. 
               "Merciful heaven! she is dead," he groaned, totally unnerved for an instant; and Mabel, after one glance at his agonized face and the drooping form of Alice, sunk trembling into a chair and tried to shut out the fearful vision. 
               She heard Clarence call for assistance, and hurried footsteps to and fro overhead, but she dared not stir. 
               All the dreadful past came thronging back, as if the present were not enough. This was like the night of her mother's death; but there was no one now to comfort her. 
               She had never pined for love before; hearts had been laid at her feet, and she had felt no throb of pity as she turned away. But she would not turn away now; the love and sympathy of one human being would be worth all the world. 
               Minutes seemed hours; but at last her solitude was broken. A kind voice sounded in her ear, and a shawl was wrapped about her shivering form. 
               Her pulses thrilled wildly at the touch, and she raised her face and met the earnest gaze of Clarence. 
               She could not ask of Alice, but he understood her mute appeal and told her, "that Alice had only fainted; the physician assured him she would soon be well." 
                
               Mabel's face brightened, and the color came back to her cheek. 
               She stole a timid glance from under her drooping lashes and extended her hang. Clarence hesitated an instant; but she raised her tearful eyes to his face, and he stooped and pressed his lips passionately to her beautiful taper fingers as he clasped her hand in both his own. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLI. 
               MABEL sat long at her window that night, her hair unbound and enveloping her like a cloud, and her cheek resting on her hand. All the past, with its ambitions, its triumphs, and failures, seemed fading from her like the memory of a dream, and the present was filled with a quiet joy that lulled her weary soul. 
               She had passed from the whirlpool of passion to a haven of rest, and the future stretched out calm and beautiful. 
               What spell was it that brought peace to her in the old home? The very air seemed laden with gladness, and her pulse thrilled with an ecstasy she had never felt before. She was thinking of a face that had lifted all the shadows from her life, and given new hope to an existence that was horrible in its stagnation. There was a spell in those blue eyes that awakened all that was womanly in her nature, an influence she had never felt before. 
               For Laurence Melville her kindest feeling did not amount to more than a passive liking; and Mr. Seldon had exerted a species of fascination to which she had yielded, because it was the only interest in her life. 
               The others were tools she despised before they were fairly won; all, except Count von Stresenthral; she could not despise him, weak as he had shown himself,-and she had felt a fierce yearning for the power to win the true, lasting love of such a man. It was bitterness to feel it was only the spell of her rare beauty that won them for a time; but there was no bitterness in her heart as she sat so quietly looking out on the stars, and recalling the last scene in the parlor, when Clarence Stanley came to her in her loneliness,-of Alice she did not think-a stronger interest had crept into her daily life, and her friend was forgotten. 
               She could almost have prayed, her heart was so softened; but the impulse passed away, and the blessing that might have rested on her new life was unasked. 
               Days and weeks passed and lengthened into months. 
               Autumn was painting the woods with gorgeous hues, and a blue, misty light hung over the landscape, and tinged the far-off hills with the shadowy haze that artists love. 
               Even to Alice the time had passed happily. Mabel was so like a spirit of gladness, and after the first few days had regained her old power of fascination. 
               In her love, Alice had forgotten her jealousy, and Clarence was not more ready to do homage to Mabel's beauty and talents than herself. 
               Her desire to leave them grew each day more faint, and they were like three happy children, enjoying to the full the present, without a thought of the future. 
               The first change was in Clarence; he became pale and thoughtful at times, and then extravagantly gay. Alice scarcely thought of what the change might portend; she was rather a passive character, but seldom roused. Her jealousy allayed, she had almost forgotten it ever existed. 
               But to Mabel the change came like a sudden shock, half bliss, half pain. 
               She had not asked herself, if it was love for Clarence Stanley that made the world so beautiful and threw a charm over the simplest pleasures; her happiness was too perfect; she did not wish to think. 
               When Clarence was moody, her spirits were only gayer, and in the triumph of charming away his melancholy she would forget to wonder at the cause. But after a while she could not but mark his coldness and avoidance of herself; his eyes never sought hers now, and if she persisted in attracting his attention, the coldness of his look struck her with a sudden terror. 
               Of Alice as a rival she had never thought with anything but a smile of derision. The engagement was a safeguard and kept off the enclaircissement that in all her other love-affairs had ended their interest. 
               The knowledge had slowly come that her happiness was not in her own keeping. Her arts availed her nothing now. Clarence admired her only when she was simple and womanly; and in the battle that went on silently day by day she was the loser. The passions that had lain dormant so long awakened, and the servants found their mistress as tyrannical and hard to please as in other days. 
               Still, Alice was unsuspicious and saw no change in either of her companions. 
               They had been wandering in the woods one beautiful afternoon, and sat down to rest, with the tassels of the birch waving above them from the mossy rocks, and a rippling stream at their feet. 
               Mabel was in a bitter mood; her summer had ended, and she had no future. She looked pale and weary, and her hands were folded listlessly. Alice, for once, was rosy and animated, and Mabel turned from the reflection of her bright face in the water, and thought of the changes in her own life,-her husband, and the fatal barrier that cut her adrift from the hope that might have brightened her life. Alice grew tired of the silence and strolled away by herself to gather mosses, and the two were left alone. Mabel was startled from her painful reverie by a hurried footstep, and Clarence threw himself beside her on the mossy log. She was willing to forget the past in the present; but the face into which she looked was white and rigid, and the eyes gloomy and resolute. She turned half away with a feeling of angry disappointment; but her heart softened at the sound of his voice. 
               "Mabel, do not turn from me to-day; I have something I must tell you now, while it will be no sin.-You have made this summer so happy, that in the future it will be the one bright spot in my life-the future that can never be blessed with your love." 
               He rose with fierce energy. "Oh! it kills me to tell you; but we must never meet again after this hour!" Her face was white as his own, and she clasped his hands in terror. "You do not mean it, Clarence; you will not be so cruel. I have no other friend, I am alone in the world!" He tried to withdraw his hands, but she only clung the closer, her white face raised to his own. 
               He turned away with a groan. "Mabel," he said, soothingly, "you would not have me perjure myself; I am bound to Alice-we have been engaged for years. If I do not love her as wildly as I love you, Mabel, I at least"-He again turned away, he could not endure the anguish depicted on her countenance. He had not dreamed that she loved him so dearly, and he shrunk appalled from the trial his duty pointed out. With the woman he loved clinging to him in despair, how could he be resolute? Minutes passed; he would feel that he had courage to be firm; but one glance at Mabel's face, still inflexible in its resolve, and he would falter. 
               "Mabel," he said at last, looking wistfully into her upturned face, "have you no mercy? you will help me to do what is right. I never could be happy, even with your love, were I to be guilty of the deliberate sin of deserting Alice-dear Alice; think, how she loves you, Mabel. 
                
               "Let us do what is right, darling, and God will bless us!" 
               His tone was solemn, and he looked inspired. Mabel withdrew her hands. 
               There was a long silence, and she at last rose and stood before him, and her words were cold and harsh in their tone,- 
               "It is your fixed resolve to marry Alice?" 
               "It is, Mabel," he said, resolutely. 
               "And yet you love me?" 
               He did not answer, for Alice stood before them. Her light step had fallen noiselessly on the grassy turf. Clarence trembled and shrunk back as if he had been a criminal, and Mabel turned toward her with an air of angry defiance. 
               Alice understood it all at a glance, and her heart throbbed wildly for a moment, and then she was perfectly calm. The rose-tint faded from her cheek, but it was scarcely paler than was its wont. 
               "Clarence," she said, sweetly. He turned at the sound and grasped her extended hand. "I know what you would have hidden from me in your mistaken kindness-I know that you love Mabel." She raised her truthful eyes to his troubled face and added: "We are unsuited to each other, dear Clarence; I could never have made you happy, or been happy myself as your wife; I have felt it for some time! And now I wish you both all the happiness this world can give." She turned suddenly from him and glided rapidly down the path through the forest; and as he stood like one in a dream, watching her retreating figure, she stopped, waved her hand, and turned her smiling face toward them, and then disappeared in the dense shrubbery. A flood of tears bedewed her face and blinded her eyes as she hurried along; but Clarence and Mabel were not there to see, and she could weep now to her heart's content. 
                
               They were not altogether bitter tears. She had spoken truly when she told Clarence she had long felt they were unsuited to each other; but her heart was heavy, and the great interest of her life was ended. 
               It was a trial to leave Mabel; she could not but love her still, although she had cared so little for her happiness. 
               Again the fear for Clarence returned as she thought of the Gipsy's prophecy. "Was it right," she asked herself, tearfully, "to desert him, as she did by releasing him from his engagement?" and then her grief returned with tenfold force. But it was for Clarence she grieved-her dear, kind friend;-not so much grief that their paths would be separate, as that in his new destiny there would be trials she could not smooth for him. 
               It was more as a sister she had loved him, after all. Her heart ached at the thought of the rude awakening from the enchantment with which he had invested Mabel. 
               He was one of those sensitive persons who seem born only for sunshine, and women were to him angels; he had seen them only gentle and loving. 
               It would break his heart, Alice thought, if Mabel were ever to look at him as she had looked at her but a little while before. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLII. 
               WHEN Clarence turned again to Mabel, after the last glimpse of the smiling face of Alice, he was startled at the change. She was transformed from a Niobe to a blushing Hebe; her eyes sparkled with animation, and cheek and lip were crimsoned with a joyful triumph. 
               At a bound he was by her side, with her hands clasped tightly, and her lovely face resting on his shoulder. Alice, all the world besides, were forgotten in the delight of that hour of bliss. 
               Mabel could not forget so easily. There was a hurried vision of two other scenes in her life: one, when she told Laurence Melville falsely that she loved him, and with her very soul revolting from his caresses. The other of a sunny morning, in a far-off Western town, and a dark, earnest face beaming with devotion. The memory thrilled her for a moment, and she looked up quickly, half expecting to meet the impassioned gaze of his flashing eyes. 
               She saw, instead, a face as perfect in its exquisite contour as that of sculptured Antinous, and blue, tender eyes, all softness and beauty, smiled upon her, exorcising all past visions. 
               The evening shadows lengthened, and the forest closed behind them dark and mysterious in its gloom. Mabel looked back with a shudder, and the past threw its shadows over the present and darkened the future. Clarence followed the direction of her eyes and said dreamily,- 
               "How gay and beautiful the wood was but a few hours ago, and now so dismal." 
                
               Mabel drew closer to him as she thought, how his words applied to her own destiny. It had been full of bliss but an hour before; but her husband might appear any moment, and then love and hope would be forever past. 
               "Come away, Clarence, it frightens me, the gloom and the stillness." 
               He laughed gayly; but looking into her face, saw it was pale, and that there was a look of terror in her large eyes. 
               He walked on, talking soothingly of the future; but the shadows still rested on Mabel's face. 
               "My darling, I do not like to see you unhappy; what is it troubles you?" he said, tenderly, stopping and drawing her closer to him. 
               She did not answer at first, and then her anxiety gave a coldness to her manner as she said wildly,- 
               "Oh, I cannot tell; it frightened me, the horrible gloom of that forest. It seemed ominous;-do not talk to me, I am too miserable to answer!" 
               Surprised and pained at something in her manner and tone, he continued his walk in silence. 
               She grew calmer as they entered the town, but seemed ill at ease and kept her face concealed by her veil. 
               He paused at the gate leading to the home of Alice. Mabel drew back. 
               "I do not wish to see Alice to-night," she said, coldly. 
               "But she will think strange if we do not stop, dear Mabel; I ask it as a particular favor," Clarence urged; but she still refused, this time with an angry emphasis, as she withdrew her hand from his arm. 
               "You can remain if you wish," she said at last, her voice chillingly haughty; but in another instant her hand was laid coaxingly on his arm, and she murmured softly,- 
               "Do not be angry with me to-night, Clarence; I do not mean unkindly to Alice; to-morrow we will go together and see her." Clarence could not resist the pleading tones, and Alice waited in vain for their coming. He wondered if she would miss them, and sighed as he pictured her loneliness. "Dear, unselfish Alice," he thought, tenderly; yet he could not have told why he considered her unselfish in this instance. 
               The remainder of the walk home was not particularly agreeable; although having made the sacrifice for Mabel, he was determined not to show how her conduct disappointed him. But there was a gravity in his manner Mabel did not like; at any other time she would have resented his thinking of Alice and her happiness in opposition to her merest caprice; but she was very much in love with him, and it was rather soon to show her power. 
               The parlors were brilliantly lighted, and the cheerful glow seemed to welcome them as it lighted the avenue and shone on their path. 
               Mabel's spirits rose, and Clarence forgot in her gay sallies that there were duties or cares in life. 
               He had worshipped her beauty at a distance, and thought it too much for a poor artist's aspirations; but now this queenly creature seemed to exist only in his smiles. 
               She left him, after they reached the parlor; and before the smile her parting words had called up was banished she was with him again, sparkling as a star,-her dress an amber-colored satin that glittered with every motion of her superb figure, and jewels flashed amid the braids of her glossy hair and on her snowy arms, and all the richness was in keeping with her perfect beauty. 
               Clarence would have been content to kneel at her feet, and with all his artist's soul admire her exquisite loveliness; Pygmalion could not have been more entranced with the faultless marble his hand had chiselled. But this queenly creature ture nestled close to his side, and her wondrous eyes sought his with a pleading look of timid love. 
               Had she been Lamia, and had death lurked in her caresses, he would have welcomed her embrace. 
               Memory in after-years often recalled that evening, and the delirium that steeped his soul in ecstasy. 
               Alice sat alone in her room, with the bitterest pang her heart had yet known. 
               "I loved them both so dearly; I would not stand between Mabel and happiness at the first, when, at a word, Clarence would have gone away, and now they forget me in their joy!" 
               She wept over her wasted friendship as we weep over the coffined forms of those we love. 
               Clarence thought of her as the light from her window glanced through the darkness; but he had promised Mabel to wait until morning, and he drowned the remorse at his heart with the new hopes that brightened his life. 
               Morning came; but in Mabel's smiles and welcome he forgot that Alice existed, as Mabel was determined he should, and the hours flew by as if laden with enchantment. 
               In the afternoon their Elysian dream was interrupted by visitors. Clarence withdrew to the seclusion of the heavily draped window. He was longing for brush and canvas, that he might transfer Mabel's attitude and look, when the name of Alice startled him into full remembrance of his cruel neglect. 
               They had played together in childhood, with the unrestrained intercourse of brother and sister; the same house had sheltered them both, and the same interests united them. 
               After the formal announcement of their engagement and his return, he had taken lodgings as a mere formality, for the old home seemed as naturally his own as ever. 
                
               He looked at his watch; it was four. "Poor Alice!" he thought, with a groan. 
               Mabel came to him, on the departure of her visitors, gay and smiling; but his stern face did not clear at her approach, and he spoke with an air of decision,- 
               "Are you going with me to see Alice? We must start at once!" 
               "Certainly, sir; are there any other commands your august highness will do me the honor to express?" 
               "Nay, Mabel, I beg your pardon if I spoke authoritatively," and he seized her reluctant hand and tried to look in her averted face. 
               "Think how shamefully we have neglected Alice; we do not even know that she reached home safely-it was a lonely road.-Good heaven! Mabel, you are not crying?" 
               She withdrew herself proudly and turned to the window. 
               "How have I offended you, dear Mabel; will you not tell me?" he said I humbly; but he made no attempt to follow her. She turned slowly, and there were tears on her glowing cheeks as she extended her hand. 
               "It is Alice you love, not me. You may go to her now, but I cannot go with you." 
               He kissed away the tears and fondly reassured her, delighted that it was jealousy, after all, that had caused his darling to appear ungrateful and unkind to dear little Alice, and in explanations and endearments the time passed until dinner, and it was in the beautiful gleam of early moonlight that they at last sauntered down the avenue. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIII. 
               ALICE rose, after a sleepless night, reconciled to the change in her destiny, and without any bitter feeling toward Clarence and Mabel; she could even make excuses for their absence the evening before. 
               "Clarence, who was so kind and thoughtful to every one, had some good reason for his apparent neglect. Laurence could as soon be unmindful of her happiness." 
               Still no reasoning could allay the dull pain that made her heart throb wearily; and glancing at the mirror, she saw reflected a pale, haggard face, destitute of beauty. 
               She sighed as she thought it mattered little, her looks; Mabel would be all brightness. 
               Hours passed, but the two friends for whose appearance she waited so eagerly came not. 
               It was in vain she tried to read or work; she started at every sound, and trembled if a footstep crossed the floor. 
               A sickening disappointment gathered at her heart as she felt that in their happiness they had ceased to care for her. They would not come that day, perhaps. 
               Her quiet self-control deserted her, and she rose hastily; in the seclusion of her own room she would, at least, be safe from any criticising eyes. 
               A servant met her as she crossed the threshold. 
               "Here is your mail, Miss Alice," he said, handing her a package of letters. 
               A flush of joy lighted her sad face as she caught sight of one in the familiar writing of her brother Laurence. 
               It was not lengthy, but full of love and tenderness. He wrote that he was coming to take her home with him, and would listen to no denial. 
               "Annie has not been well since the death of our little Alice. Your presence will cheer her, and I long for you, little sister; no one can ever take your place in my heart." 
               His loving words were like balm to her wounded spirit, and the prospect of change made her almost happy. 
               She was busily engaged in preparations for departure, when a despatch came. It was dated from a neighboring city and signed "Laurence." 
               Her heart beat a little quicker as she read,- 
               "I am detained by business. Have Clarence escort you, and come to-day without fail." 
               "Alas! she no longer had a right to claim the protection of Clarence." But the necessity of immediate exertion left her no time for regrets. 
               But when the last trunks were strapped and corded, and her travelling toilette completed, she had leisure to sorrow over the neglect of her friends, and to hope they would yet come, if only to say farewell. 
               The sound of wheels put an end to expectation, and writing a hasty "good-bye" to Clarence and Mabel, she entered the carriage. 
               She was very quiet during the journey, never once raising her veil. Even the thought of seeing Laurence did not quicken her pulses. Her life seemed aimless and barren of interest. 
               Her brother did not meet her at the station. Taking it for granted Clarence would accompany her, he devoted himself to the law-suit in which he was engaged, satisfied with the hope of meeting Alice at noon. 
               Alice had no reason to complain of her welcome then. His delight at seeing her was very evident, and she could not but rejoice that he was so occupied with business, that he failed to notice the change in her manner, and that, after his first surprise and disappointment at the absence of Clarence, he forgot that he had expected him. 
               The greetings over, he took a roll of papers from his pocket and was instantly absorbed in the contents. 
               It was so like the old times at home, that Alice half smiled as she watched him, and happening to glance up from his papers just then, he said heartily,- 
               "It does me good to see you, Alice, it does indeed;" and a minute after her presence was forgotten. 
               He talked some during dinner, but principally of Annie, and when the meal was over, hurried again to the courtroom. 
               After tea he left her for a while to make arrangements for their early departure the next day. 
               Alice dreaded his return and the tte--tte-conversation during the long evening; but no dreading could avert it, and before she thought to see him again, he came gayly into the room, and taking her hands, looked affectionately into her face. 
               She smiled at first, then her lip quivered, and the tears dimmed her eyes; and laying her head on his shoulder, she wept as if she had just realized her trouble. 
               Laurence drew her to a sofa, without attempting a word of consolation; but his strong arm encircled her tenderly, and the assurance of his love and sympathy soothed her inexpressibly. "Here was one friend who would never grieve or disappoint her trust!" 
               After a while she grew calm. First she slipped her hand into his and half raised her head from his shoulder, and reassured by a pressure of his arm, found courage to look into his face. 
               It was grave and questioning, and there was no appeal from the confession she must now make. 
                
               "You have something to tell me, Alice," he said, kindly and encouragingly; and with his truthful eyes helping her, she told him all her little story. 
               His color changed at Mabel's name, but he made no comment, and heard his sister through quietly. When she had finished, he folded her in his arms in silence. After a while he stooped and kissed her, and she found that his face was wet with tears. 
               He had expected, at the worst, to hear of a trivial misunderstanding; but no explanations or concessions could restore the love now given to another. That Alice, whose affections were so intensified with her quiet nature, should meet a trial that would wreck her happiness, was more than he could bear. 
               How could she, so gentle and dependent on those she loved, endure a disappointment whose bitterness the greatest strength of will could only mitigate? All his philosophy had not enabled him to overcome his love for Mabel and the distress her desertion caused; spite of his resolution and wedded happiness, the remembrance still embittered his life. 
               He could offer no consolation, and he released Alice and turned away with a groan. 
               "Is it for me you grieve, Laurence?" said a soft voice, and Alice twined her arms timidly around his neck. "I shall not be unhappy, dear brother, lonely for a while, perhaps; but you told me truly long ago, do you remember? You said, 'that friendship was not love.'" 
               He looked searchingly into her face; she blushed under his scrutiny, but said steadily,- 
               "I am not quite sure what love is, but I think, if I had loved Clarence in that way, I should not feel so kindly toward him now. I think it would be more natural to hate him a little, and I like him just as well; all I care for is that he forgets me so easily, and the strangeness-" 
                
               She smiled through her tears and relapsed into another cry on her brother's shoulder. Such a load was taken from his heart that he was quite in spirits, and by way of giving her comfort, took upon himself to argue the wrong side of the question, and made it evident that Clarence and Mabel-he winced at the name-acted in the most natural manner, taking into consideration they were lovers, and that lovers were proverbially selfish and in a state of mild lunacy, at the best,-and with such a happy mixture of humor and kindliness, that she smiled, at first rather pensively, and finally laughed outright. 
               All through the evening he kept her interested and amused, and when she sought her own room at a late hour, she was quite cheerful, and thought more of her journey on the morrow, the meeting with Annie, and the pleasure of seeing her brother daily, than of her broken engagement and beautiful friend. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIV. 
               CLARENCE STANLEY'S thoughts were not of the most enviable nature as Mabel and himself walked slowly along in the delicious autumn-evening. Regret that he should have neglected his little friend who, in all her life, had never treated him unkindly, struggled with the strangeness of his position. 
               Mabel seemed unconscious of embarrassment or feeling of any kind; but as Clarence seemed disinclined to talk, she thought it best to respect his mood. 
               But cold and heartless as she was, she uttered an exclamation of dismay as the house loomed up before them, dark and sombre. Clarence was speechless with surprise and apprehension, and the minutes seemed hours until his ring was answered. 
               But the housekeeper's cheerful face allayed his fears. She escorted them to the parlor, and before leaving them handed Clarence the note Alice had written. 
               The lines were traced hurriedly, and the tears came even to Mabel's eyes as she read, leaning over her lover's shoulder,- 
                      
                         
                            
                              "My dear friends! My only regret in leaving home is that I go without seeing you. 
                              "That heaven may bless you both is the most earnest prayer of your loving friend, 
                              
                                 ALICE."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                  
                
               It was long before Clarence spoke, and Mabel was softened by this last display of unselfish affection. 
               "Dear little Alice," she said, involuntarily, after a long summary of her past kindness and love which she felt then she had so little deserved. Clarence looked up at the words, and the tears in the beautiful eyes of his darling tightened the links her fascinations had woven. 
               "Alice is an angel, Clarence; how could you leave her for me?" It was the real sentiment of her heart, and she received her lover's passionate protestations with a mournful smile and a paling cheek. 
               It seemed as if the veil that hid her wickedness was drawn aside, and she saw her conduct depicted in the most loathsome colors. A woman who deliberately encouraged the affection of her dearest friend's betrothed! That was dark enough to contemplate; but there were darker shades. She was not entitled to the affection she had stolen; she deceived even the man she loved. He would turn from her in horror, could he know that she was the wife of another. Her very soul sickened with a loathing of herself. She looked down on her lover's face, so fair it was as if no sin had ever disturbed its calm beauty. 
               "Clarence," she said, passionately, her face white and rigid, "I am not worthy of your love; we must part now! No, do not tempt me-go! while I have the courage to tell you,"-she almost shrieked as he attempted to take her hand. 
               "Will you listen to me, Mabel?" he said slowly and solemnly. "I love you! Do you know what those words mean? Were you the most wicked person living; were, your hands stained with the blood of a human being, I would still love you; through evil and good report, mine own forever! He took her in his arms, and the struggle with her conscience faded as she looked in his face, so dear it was that now, in the first glow of the only strong affection that had ever stirred the cold depths of her heart into warmth, she could have yielded even ambition for his sake. 
                
               That night she mused long over her future, and the trials that stood in the way of her "modest hopes," as she termed them. 
               Clarence told her of his prospects in the future that he asked her to share,-a competency, nothing more;-but he hoped to gain both fame and fortune. The old demons, Pride and Ambition, tugged fiercely at her heart again; true, she had failed, most pitiably failed. With every gift a mortal could covet,-beauty, talents, and manners unsurpassed for grace,-yet her marriage had been the barrier to success. But love silenced every other impulse, and before she laid her head on her pillow, the letter was written that would open the way toward freeing her from the hateful bonds that had thwarted her ambition, and now stood in the way of her love; and while her heart was still softened, she wrote to Alice a letter so kind and loving, that, reading it over afterwards, she could scarcely believe she had written it. 
               Clarence came in the morning, and with her smiling face near him, wrote a long letter to Alice which he enclosed in Mabel's. 
               The news of their engagement excited no little surprise and the pride Clarence might otherwise have felt at having won a lady so beautiful and admired as Miss Clifton, was tempered by the thought of the probable comments on his broken engagement. 
               But he had one comfort: Mabel was not an heiress, like Alice; no one could accuse him of interested motives. 
               Months passed, and one gloomy day in March Mabel received from her lawyer the welcome news that her divorce had been effected, without creating any stir or excitement. There was no opposition. Mr. Seldon had left the village-now grown into a thriving, populous town-shortly after herself, and had not since returned. 
                
               She was now entitled to her old name, and free to decide her own destiny. 
               After the first throb of pleasure, she sat gloomy and silent, the letter clasped listlessly, and her eyes fixed on the fire. 
               Clarence had been watching her so intently, he had forgotten that his own letter lay unopened on the table before him. Startled at first by Mabel's joyful exclamation, and then riveted by the change in her face,- 
               "Have you bad news, Mabel?" he at last said, anxiously. 
               "No," she answered, without changing her position, or looking toward him; and with a sigh he broke the seal of his letter. 
               It was from Laurence Melville, and the contents so surprised and startled him, that he forgot Mabel's coldness and said gayly,- 
               "Mabel, prepare for a wonderful surprise. I am almost ready to take up my juvenile faith and believe in the Arabian nights." 
               Mabel deigned a slight show of interest, and he teasingly insisted that she should guess, and the most improbable event imaginable, if she hoped to succeed. 
               His gayety was irresistible; the cloud left Mabel's brow as she joined in his mirth, and they were as merry as two children. 
               Mabel at last laughingly declared "that she had exhausted her imagination, and that he would find her unendurably stupid for a month to come, at least, if he kept her mental powers longer on the stretch. 
               "And to prevent such a direful result," he assured her, "was his only object in gratifying her curiosity so soon." 
               He expected surprise; but Mabel sat like one stupefied, the color coming and going in her face, and her hands grasping the letter so tightly, that the blue veins showed distinctly on their white surface. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLV. 
               SEVERAL weeks had passed since the evening that Alice told her brother of her broken engagement. The new life and the kind welcome and love that surrounded her with an atmosphere of tenderness, softened her sorrow, and enabled her to attain a quiet cheerfulness. She felt she would be a most ungrateful, wicked person, undeserving of the many blessings God had given her, could she repine. 
               The letters that reached her a few days after her departure removed the only drop of bitterness that lingered in her quiet sorrow, if such it could be called. 
               Laurence and his wife were not seeing much of the gay world, in consequence of the death of their little girl; but they found a friend to chaperon Alice, and she saw enough of society and dissipation to keep her mind occupied. 
               Under the direct supervision of Annie, and with the assistance of hairdresser and maid, she had just completed her toilette for a grand party, given in honor of a distinguished foreigner. 
               Annie surveyed her admiringly and said: "If she was not the belle of the evening, it would be only because she was too modest to attract attention." 
               And she certainly looked beautiful enough to warrant the most extravagant praise. 
               The rose-colored tulle, festooned with buds over a rich silk of the same hue, gave a lovely tinge to her usually pale cheek, and the graceful arrangement of her light-brown hair added piquancy to her beauty; she was less the saint and more the woman. 
                
               There was a half timid modesty in her air that was irresistibly winning, that set off her fresh beauty with a grace as charming as the emerald veil thrown around the moss-rose. 
               Laurence was in his cosy library, revelling in all the delights of dressing-gown and slippers and his favorite author. 
               He gave a half sigh of contentment as a silk dress rustled near him, and read with renewed satisfaction. 
               "Good night," said Alice, softly. 
               He paused in turning a leaf. 
               "Ah! sure enough, you are going to the party,-good night," and he resumed his reading, without looking up. 
               "What an uncivilized lawyer you are!" said his wife, laughingly, laying her hand on the book. 
               He smiled good-humoredly in her face as he said, with an air of mock alarm,- 
               "What faux pas have I been guilty of now? Oh, I understand: Alice, I wish you success!" 
               "Worse and worse!" exclaimed Annie; "you have not looked at her." 
               "Sure enough! I beg your pardon, ladies. Come, Alice." 
               She advanced, blushing and radiant, and he surveyed her with all a brother's pride. 
               "I had no idea you were so pretty, Alice;" and then he added slyly: "Alas! for that noble Don, or Grand Mogul,-I am not quite sure I have his title-but he is a lost man!" 
               Alice laughingly assured him "that she had no idea the lion of the evening would even look at her." 
               She looked at him, however. He was the first object that arrested her attention, amid all the confusion of lights and flowers and gay dresses; the crowds passing and repassing, her eye returned to the one object with a singular interest. 
                
               He was tall and graceful in figure, and his gray eyes flashed with an animation that fairly transformed his face at times; but when not speaking or interested, there was a weary, hopeless expression that touched the heart of Alice; it added to her interest a gentle sympathy. She wondered what trouble he could have known. It was not that he had loved vainly-no woman could resist his love. 
               Absorbed in her interesting romance, she stood with downcast eyes, unmindful of the gayety around her, until startled at the sound of her name. She looked up, and the blood rushed in a torrent to her face as she saw before her the object of her thoughts, and her chaperon said, smilingly,- 
               "Miss Melville, Lord Richland requests the honor of an introduction." 
               Her heart beat painfully, and provoked at her unwonted emotion, she made a strong effort at self-possession and bowed with her usual quiet grace. 
               It was some time before she mustered sufficient courage to raise her downcast eyes, or converse with any degree of fluency. 
               In her embarrassment she forgot that the Earl's attention rendered her the observed of all observers. Her modest demeanor disarmed criticism as he led her to the dance, and the most envious of the disappointed belles could not dislike a rival who bore her triumph so timidly. 
               Poor Alice could only think of her unfortunate reverie, and vow "that she would never again be betrayed into the misdemeanor of thinking so intently of a strange gentleman." 
               Could she have imagined her companion's admiration of the mauvaise honte she deplored so bitterly, she would have found it still more difficult to meet his eye. Her anxiety for the conclusion of the quadrille was mingled with regret "that she would never have an opportunity to reinstate herself in his opinion. If he remembered her at all, it would be as a stupid, bashful country-girl he unfortunately asked to dance. 
               Lord Richland seemed in no hurry to relinquish his partner. There was a promenade, and refreshments, and then he petitioned for another dance. 
               Before it ended, Alice had regained her self-possession, and could enjoy his pleasant conversation. It was not brilliant, but sensible and entertaining. 
               Alice scarcely thought how much of her time had been spent with the lion of the evening, until the laughing congratulations of her friend set her thinking. Her parting salutation was: "Expect me the first thing to-morrow, for I shall certainly call and inform Mr. and Mrs. Melville of the triumph of my charge. 
               She kept her word, and Laurence sighed as he noted the blush that mantled his sister's cheek at the mention of Lord Richland's name. 
               He would not lose his little sister for all the earls in Christendom; besides, he was too genuine an American not to dislike the idea of a foreign marriage. 
               After a minute's reflection, he smiled at his foolishness, in allowing a little badinage to have any weight, and almost forgot the existence of the Earl of Richland until his frequent visits and the changed manner of his usually quiet sister set him to thinking seriously. 
               Of Lord Richland's intentions there could be no doubt, and Mr. Melville, in spite of his determination not to be pleased, was won by his frank kindliness of manner. 
               Alice was all smiles and blushes, with just enough animation to make her charming. 
               Her happiness was Mr. Melville's first wish, and conquered all his scruples, although it could not soften the pang of losing her. 
                
               When Lord Richland requested a private interview, and made a formal proposal for the hand of Alice, Mr. Melville gave his consent with a sufficient show of cordiality, and even agreed to an early marriage, on condition the Earl would spent the first six months of his marriage in the United States. 
               "You have no idea what Alice is to me," Laurence said, rising abruptly, and walking to the window to conceal his emotion, and again confronting Lord Richland after a little silence. 
               "She has been my first care, and the object of my deepest love, since my dying parents gave her to my keeping. It is no little thing you are asking of me!" he commenced, passionately; but something in the expression of the face before him touched his heart, and he added, kindly,- 
               "It is not that I distrust you, or that I fail to appreciate the honor you do my sister; you might have chosen a more brilliant and beautiful woman, I do not forget that." He extended his hand. "As I said before, I do not distrust you, or even refuse my consent to your marriage when Alice is eighteen, which will be in six months; but I object to an earlier marriage, except on the condition before stated." 
               Lord Richland's face cleared with one of the rare similes that so became him as he said, heartily,- 
               "It was your generosity, sir, that kept me silent. Had you named a year, instead of six months, I would have thought your demand reasonable. You tell me I cannot understand what Alice is to you,-you who have been prosperous and happy, born to wealth and position; surrounded by friends; without any troubles greater than the ordinary trials of life. 
               "But if your childhood had been spent in that worst of poverty which pride makes hideous; if you had only known friends to lose them, and gained wealth when it was too late-" He turned deadly pale. "If you had been for years a lonely wanderer, and then had won the love of a pure, gentle girl like Alice, could a brother, or a parent cherish her with half the tenderness?" 
               He covered his face with his hands, and when, after a while, he said, huskily,- 
               "I have not told Alice yet of my past life; it torturers me to speak of it; but, perhaps, as her brother, you should know all." 
               Mr. Melville, touched by his agitation, and thinking of that one sorrow in his own life, said, kindly,- 
               "Tell Alice; there should be no secrets between you; we are all liable to errors, and I would not condemn what she can excuse." 
               There were actually tears of gratitude in Lord Richland's eyes as he wrung his hands. "Time, perhaps, will soften the bitterness of the past, and when you know all, you will understand the kindness you do me now." 
               He went in search of Alice, and Mr. Melville drew a chair in front of the blazing fire and attempted to read; after a while he flung the book from him. There was a shadow on his face, and he thought discontentedly of his weakness in not listening to Lord Richland's past life. 
               "It was foolhardy trustfulness; it would have been inexcusable in a sentimental girl," he thought, in an agony of reproach, and then, as the Earl's looks and tones came up before him, he would decide, that if the past hour were recalled, his conduct would be the same. 
               He could hear the hurried footfall in the next room, as Lord Richland paced to and fro with impatient steps. Laurence waited almost as impatiently for the sound of the opening door. It came at last, and he heard the low murmur of voices; Alice was with her lover. 
               Again his thoughts recurred to the past life of Lord Richland. 
                
               "It would be a very terrible revelation, if Alice could not excuse it; and yet her life had been so protected from even a knowledge of evil, that an error he would consider trivial might seem to her a crime. He shuddered at the thought. It would break her heart to lose faith in Lord Richland. It was not now the calm affection she had felt for Clarence Stanley, but the love that comes but once in a life-time. 
               Annie opened the door softly, but retreated at the sight of her husband's troubled face, and left him to await in silence and alone the result of the communication that would decide his sister's destiny. 
               Other thoughts came crowding back, and with startling vividness that scene at Mr. Clifton's, the day after the departure of the family, when he met the beautiful stranger, the lady with the mournful eyes and wealth of raven hair. He had almost forgotten her; but his wonder at the mystery was not diminished by the time that had elapsed since the occurrence. 
               Hours passed; the fire burnt low, and the shadows of twilight were creeping slowly among the pictures and the books with their rich bindings. 
               A rustle at the door roused him from his reverie, and looking up with a start, he saw Alice and her lover before him. 
               Lord Richland's face was very pale; but a serene happiness displaced the melancholy that had never before left it, except when he smiled. Alice was clinging to him with a devotedness that seemed to say: "It must be my first care, to make you forget the past in the happy future." A minute more, and she was kneeling by her brother's side, and had drawn his face down to a level with her own,-so tearful, and yet so smiling,-her hand still clasped in that of her betrothed husband. 
                
               The revelation had only proved a closer tie. Every shadow vanished from Mr. Melville's face, and after a while the three went in search of Annie. 
               They found her standing by the parlor-window, looking out on the wintry street, and her husband knew she had been thinking of a baby-face that could never again gladden her with its loveliness, and of little pattering feet that were forever still. She smiled through her tears at his approach, and he whispered,- 
               "You were right, after all, dearest; our sister Alice will be a countess." 
               Lord Richland knew that Mrs. Melville had been his firm friend from the first, and advanced toward her, radiant with happiness and gratitude, and grasped both her hands, with the cordial affection of a brother. Her brown eyes sparkled with all their olden beauty, and, woman-like, she forgot her trouble, in sympathy with the happy lovers. 
               Laurence drew her to his side when the congratulations were ended, and looking on her glowing face, thanked Heaven "that she was all his own, and dearer each day." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVI. 
               CLARENCE hurried to Mabel's side in alarm; but she rose with a haughty gesture and left the room; envy and rage stifling each nobler impulse, and even love buried amid the chaos of contending emotions. "Alice Melville a countess, and Mabel Clifton destined to be the wife of an unknown artist," was the thought uppermost in her mind as she paced the floor, with burning cheeks and flashing eyes. 
               Had Alice been her bitterest foe, she could not have hated her more. Kind, happy Alice, who thought of her tenderly, and who longed for the time when she could welcome her to the home that was being fitted for her own reception. 
               There was something fearful in her baffled rage. Ambition had been her idol, and had painted the future with gorgeous castles that gleamed before her eyes mockingly, and disappeared at the very moment of realization. 
               What availed her beauty and Circean charms, when the most insipid girls could take all the prizes in life? Of Clarence she would not think; what was love to her, when it could bring neither wealth nor power? 
               The hours passed on leaden wings, and the chill gray of morning touched her cheek with such a ghastly light, that she started at the reflection in the mirror; and worn out with the conflict of thoughts, sank into a chair and burst into tears, the first she had shed. 
               She could struggle no more; there was a deadly sinking at her heart, that recalled her weary illness and the doctor's warning. Thrilling with terror at the thought, that she might be even then dying, she tottered to the bell-rope and grasped it with a trembling hand. 
               When consciousness returned, she was lying on the bed, surrounded by a group of frightened servants. Her heart gave a joyful throb at the sound of her lover's voice in the vestibule, and she whispered them to call him. 
               He came at the summons, looking pale and anxious. She smiled and clasped his hands tightly as he bent over her. 
               It was a blessed feeling of rest and protection that came to her then, and she closed her eyes and sunk into a quiet slumber. 
               She was ill for several days, during which she was kept very quiet, and she was so kind and patient that the housekeeper shed bitter tears, when out of her room; and in spite of the doctor's favorable opinion of his patient, insisted sadly "that it was death, she had felt it from the first. I have seen too many Cliftons die, not to know the sign; when they are gentle and patient, it is death coming." 
               Clarence Stanley was very happy during those days of convalescence, and the recollection in after-years softened all that was harsh and bitter in his memory of Mabel, and made her seem as angelic in heart and life as she was beautiful in person. 
               Mabel said to her lover on one of those quiet days of convalescence, when she lay back in her easy-chair and watched the fire-light dancing on the pictures and carvings of the beautiful room, and shining on the fair yet manly face, so perfect in its contour, and so full of love for herself. 
               "Don't talk to me of the world, dear Clarence; I wish to think only of you and the present. Listening as you read or talk, I forget the struggles and temptations of life." 
               "But your letters, dear," he remonstrated gently; "they are from Alice." 
               Her cheek flushed, and she pushed them from her, smilingly ingly-"Not yet, wait until I am well. It has never been so easy to be good before," she said, half sadly, half in mirth; and he pressed her hand to his lips with silent tenderness, and resuming his book, read softly,- 
                      
                        "The day is done, and the darkness 
                        Falls from the wings of night, 
                        As a feather is wafted downward, 
                        From an eagle in his flight," etc. etc. 
                     
                   all through the beautiful poem. He closed the book at the end and looked up in Mabel's face as she repeated, as if in continuation of her thoughts,- 
                      
                        "And the night shall be filled with music, 
                        And the cares that infest the day 
                        Shall fold their tents, like the Arabs, 
                        And silently steal away." 
                     
                  
                
               "I never knew Longfellow was so beautiful," she said, smiling; "it must be that you lent to the charm of the poet the music of your voice." 
               "I know that you are the blessing and charm of my life, Mabel," Clarence said, passionately, leaning over her chair and looking fondly into her beautiful face. A sudden change swept over it, like a shadow, and she said, bitterly,- 
               "I am so sorry you love me, Clarence; if you are ever tempted to hate me, think of this time and that I loved you." Before he could answer, a servant entered and handed him a despatch. He uttered an impatient exclamation, and handed it to Mabel in silence. 
               "You never told me how near you were to being a rich man," she said, brightly, and her eyes sparkled with sudden animation. 
               "I never knew certainly of the prospect until lately," he answered, gloomily; "but I would not leave you now for double the sum." 
                
               "The spirit of the sixteenth century risen to reproach my avarice," Mabel said, gayly, with a touch of sarcasm in her tone. 
               "But I must go immediately!" 
               She laughingly interrupted him, - 
               "Then, in the heroic spirit of seventy-six, I bid you go!" 
               With much reluctance and a heavy heart he made his adieus. It was so hard to leave her before she was entirely well; but a fortune trembled in the balance, and his presence was necessary. 
               "Do not think of me as sick or unhappy, Clarence; your good fortune will be a talisman that will banish every evil." Her face had never been more radiant, and her smile banished his last scruple. 
               He thought of her incessantly as the cars dashed onward through the starlight of a clear, frosty night, and of the beautiful future that stretched before him, roseate with love and hope; and the wish of his heart ever uppermost through all the weary routine of the lawsuit was "to meet Mabel again." 
               He pictured her beautiful face, and it danced before him over the dusty parchments as he thought smilingly of her last words:- 
               "It would be worth while to part now, if it were only to feel the happiness of meeting." 
               In the defiant joy of youth he would have laughed to scorn the foolish poet's words,- 
                      
                        "The meetings in this world of change 
                        Are sadder than the partings oft." 
                     
                  
                
               Mabel told him truly when she said the news of his fortune had restored her health. Just when she mourned the fate that scattered disappointment in her path, the smiling goddess Fortune showered her with golden favors, and smiling Loves circled in the future. 
                
               Alice was welcome to her new honors. 
               Clarence Stanley, the artist with a moderate income, who would spend the best years of his life in obscurity, was a different person from a wealthy artist whose splendor would smooth even the path to flame. 
               What a brilliant future gleamed before her; she acknowledged no fears as to the result, and triumphantly opened the letters from Alice. 
               The last was a loving invitation to Mabel, that would brook no denial, to come and make her a long visit, and reach New York in time for her reception, which would be on the fifteenth. 
               "Just a week from this time," thought Mabel, and she glanced carelessly down the sheet. 
               Alice wrote of the splendid home of which she was to be mistress for six months; "and the most beautiful room of all, dearest, will be for you. 
               "Willard selected every article with a view to your taste." 
               Mabel colored at the name, and shivered with a kind of terror. Her eyes turned with a species of fascination to the bold, firm writing of the postscript, cordially reiterating the invitation of Alice, and signed, "Your friend, WILLARD." 
               But she had very little time for dwelling on the coincidence that brought that name to her recollection at the very time when she had cast herself adrift from the past; and after a hasty note to Clarence, asking him to meet her in New York in time for the wedding-festivities of the Earl and Countess of Richland, she gave herself up to the delightful feminine task of inspecting silks and satins, and all the enchantment lurking in laces and jewels. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVII. 
               IT was quite late in the afternoon, when Mabel reached New York. She was so exhausted with her journey, that she scarcely noted that the carriage awaiting her arrival was rich in emblazonry and glittering with silver. 
               "My lady had given you up," said the obsequious maid, who was ready with furs and wrappings. 
               Mabel leaned back on the cushions and closed her eyes with a sense of relief, and the carriage dashed along through interminable windings. 
               "I will go at once to my room," she said, briefly, when she had ascended the marble steps and stood within the hall. It was grand enough for a palace, showing a long vista of elegant rooms, dazzling with mirrors, pictures, and beautiful furniture, and fragrant with the perfume of rare exotics that hung in fairy-like baskets from the rich carvings, and bloomed in curious vases on the marble mantles and ormula tables. 
               Her eye drank in the beauty at one quick glance, and then she wearily ascended the staircase. The frescoed cherubs beaming on her from the exquisitely pictured walls, and smiling hours scattering roses, and cupids peeping from azure-tinted clouds. 
               But she absolutely started with an exclamation of pleasure as the door of her own room was flung open, and revealed a continuation of magnificence and taste beyond her wildest dreams. Clouds of fleecy lace, with at glow like a rose-tinted sunset, shrouded the long windows, and hung in graceful festoons over a couch whose snowy pillows and satin coverings were of the same delicate hue. Every chair and table was a bijou of art, and the rose-colored Persian carpet seemed blooming with delicate lilies of the valley; and all this loveliness, veiled in the shadowy twilight, glowed before her like a fairy vision, or a dream of enchantment. 
               While she paused, spellbound with admiration, delicate arms encircled her, and Alice, clad in silk, and flashing with jewels, murmured a passionate welcome. 
               "I so feared you would not come, Mabel darling, and the happiness of my wedding-day would have been incomplete without your presence. But you look pale and weary," she said, anxiously, after she had removed her friend's wrappings and caught a full view of her face. 
               "You must rest now until it is time to receive our guests, and even Willard shall not see you. We were just at dinner, but I will order yours brought to your room." 
               Mabel leaned back in her chair and smiled brightly on her friend who was so artlessly glad to see her, and whose simplicity and lovely, timid manner contrasted oddly, yet not ungracefully, with her elegant dress and magnificent surroundings. 
               Alice had seated herself on an ottoman, her hands clasped on Mabel's lap, with all her old childish abandon and devotion. 
               "What a modest little countess you are, to be sure," Mabel said, playfully smoothing her fair hair. 
               "I wish I could be more dignified," Alice replied, half sadly, a shadow crossing her face; "but Willard likes me all the better now, and as I mix more in society, I will improve." 
               "The fates forbid!" said Mabel, kissing her tenderly; "the violet might as well wish to be a glaring tulip. I have had time to think seriously of life during my illness, and I know there are not many so trusting and pure as yourself, dear Alice. You must teach me to be good.-Nay, Alice," and she laid her hand over the pretty lips that would have uttered a disclaimer-"I have said nothing but the truth. You have long enough worshipped me as a divinity; you are not the only person who judges a jewel by its setting. Because I am beautiful and fascinating, you excuse all my faults and believe me perfection. If I ever had a good quality, it was smothered by selfishness. I attended church last Sunday, Alice, and what is more singular, I listened to the minister, and St. Paul expresses my case exactly in saying: 'When I would do good, evil is ever present with me.' If you knew all my past life, you would shudder; but I believe you would still love me. You and Clarence have awakened all that is lovable in my nature. But I am like a vessel on a wide sea, without sail or compass, tossed by every wind; the haven seems peaceful, and I believe the storms are over; but I cannot tell," she said, wearily, after a moment's pause, "or why I talk thus to my friend on her wedding-day-selfish even in my best moods, I suspect." But she smiled and added, gayly, "My reformation will be no easy task for you, Alice, even with Clarence for an assistant. Perhaps, after all, Lord Richland will be a sufficient undertaking; but I see from your blush that you think him perfection." 
               A servant interrupted their conversation by bringing in dinner, and Mabel insisted that Alice should return to the Earl, whose eternal enmity, she protested, she did not wish to incur, by appearing as a rival; and Alice departed in a flutter of delight. 
               Mabel tried in vain to eat, but a glass of wine acted like a charm; and when Alice paid her a flying visit an hour later, her maid was unrolling packages until the room was a labyrinth of handsome dresses, fleecy laces, and all the paraphernalia of a modern belle's toilette, and Mabel, her own blooming self, engaged in directing the maid and unwinding the coils of her magnificent hair. 
               Alice surveyed her admiringly, and confessed in her pretty, smiling way, that her reception would have been a trying ordeal without her friend's assistance. 
               "Willard is so indifferent as to what people say; but I want this to be the grand affair of the season. Your expected arrival has created quite a sensation." 
               Mabel's cheek flushed with a glow of conscious triumph as Alice told how fashionable belles were trembling for their laurels, and that the beautiful Miss Clifton was the theme of all tongues.-Alice stopped suddenly in her recital, and said, with a frightened air, that she had forgotten her errand,- 
               "Clarence had telegraphed her brother that it would be impossible for him to reach New York that evening, or earlier than the next afternoon." 
               Mabel interrupted her apologies with a kiss. "What a tyrant I must have been, Alice, that you should fear my anger at so slight an offence; but remember in future"- Alice looked up wonderingly-"that you are Countess of Richland, and that I-am on my good behavior; and your very humble servant wishes your opinion on the momentous question of a dress for to-night." 
               Alice replied by putting her arm around her neck, and whispering,- 
               "Do not call me Countess, or my lady, even in jest. The title seems absurd to me here. I may like it better in England." 
               Mabel's laugh rang out mockingly. 
               "And what says the Earl to this heresy from his democratic wife?" 
               "He agrees with me perfectly in that respect; he-" 
                
               Mabel's exclamation of surprise recalled Alice to the fact that she was about to betray her husband's secret, and then blood rushed in a crimson tide over face and neck. 
               "Excuse my interruption," said Mabel, a little sarcastically; "the world seems to have changed since my year of seclusion. Perhaps it would be better to give up dressing for your reception, and at once prepare for the Millennium. To meet in one house a lady who dislikes a title, and an Earl who considers his coronet an absurdity!" 
               Touched by the embarrassment of her friend, she added, with a smile that disarmed her speech of unkindness,- 
               "Depend upon it, Alice, you, two, should have lived in Arcadia." 
               Alice said in a low tone, "If you knew all the circumstances, you would not feel so much surprise. My husband was not always an earl." 
               The more reason why he would appreciate the title, Mabel thought; but she said kindly,- 
               "After you have lived abroad, you will understand better than I can tell you, the advantage a title gives its possessor." 
               But her face was grave, as it suddenly occurred to her why the name of Lord Richland had impressed her so strangely. It was at Florence she heard it. The recollection of all that occurred in those few weeks flashed across her mind, and thrilled her with a sudden terror. "It was there she met her husband; the name was inseparably united with the remembrance; was there a mysterious connection between the two?" She smiled a moment after at her folly, and was soon engaged in a laughing controversy with Alice, who pronounced in favor of a silver tissue, exquisitely painted with violets, that seemed to bloom with the freshness of life amid the glittering fabric. 
               The dressing-bell found Alice triumphant, and bidding Mabel come to her room at nine, she hurried away. 
                
               Mabel turned from the finery heaped around here in graceful confusion, and leaned wearily back on the easy-couch, and watching the fire-light through the masses of hair that hung over her face, fell into a slumber so profound and dreamless, it was like a trance, from which it was pain to awaken. 
               Voices seemed murmuring softly in the rose-tinted atmosphere, and she half unclosed her eyes and listened breathlessly, wondering if she were dreaming. A startled exclamation roused her, and she saw the frightened face of her maid bending over her. 
               "You looked so ill, I feared you were-" 
               "Give me some wine," Mabel interrupted, faintly, and with trembling hand raised the glass to her lips; it circled through her veins like a draught of youth, and the color came back to her lips, and the brightness to her eyes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVIII. 
               ALICE, now Countess of Richland, awaited in her dressing-room the arrival of her husband. She was resplendent in all the beauty of her bridal attire, fair as a lily, and as fresh and pure. 
               She blushed at the reflection of her own loveliness, as she stood before the tall mirror. Satin and lace and pearls were in keeping with her creamy complexion and placid features and wealth of fair hair. 
               The splendor that surrounded her seemed strange and unreal. She felt as if she were playing a part in some glittering pageant and that in a few hours she would lay aside her gay attire, and the lights would die out, and the flowers wither, and she would waken and find herself the quiet Alice Melville, to whom fashionable life was a mystery, and love an unrealized dream. 
               The Earl entered so quietly that she was unaware of his presence, until his arm had encircled her waist, and the dear tones of his voice fell like music on her ear. After a while she raised her eyes to his face and smiled brightly at the devotion, that glowed in every feature. 
               It was to them a bliss so perfect, that Eden could have added nothing to their joy. 
               There was a rustling of silk at the door, and Mabel Clifton stood, hesitatingly, on the threshold, startled at the unexpected beauty of her friend, and softened at the sight of their devotion, as she watched the happy pair, with a smile parting her glowing lips. 
               Her heart beat tumultuously at a something familiar in Lord Richland's figure, and yet the feeling was not defined, as she waited curiously for a glimpse of his face, that was hidden by his clustering hair. Something in his attitude made her heart throb faster, and pressing her hands tightly, she leaned forward in breathless expectation. Now there is a glimpse of the clear-cut features, and the blood curdles in her veins for an instant, and then rushes, like a burning flood, to her throbbing brain, as she sees distinctly before her, in the mirror, the face of the man to whom she once promised to be faithful unto death-the husband she had so cruelly deserted. She clung to the doorway for support, and her senses reeled. Minute after minute passed in an almost superhuman effort at self-control. And the happy lovers, absorbed in their Elysian dream, were unconscious of the presence that was to their Eden as the serpent by whom our first parents lost Paradise. 
               She heard their voices, but the words were unmeaning sounds, and troops of figures from the unforgotten past came crowding before her, a ghostly train. Her meeting with her husband, and the events that cast a gloom over the home to which he welcomed her so cordially; her mother, as she looked on that night, when the whiteness of death was on her calm face, and the long lashes rested motionless on the marble-like cheek. And still the familiar tones floated on the hushed air, and in half-frenzy she turned and fled along the corridor, past the astonished servants,- the glaring gas-light flashing on the diamonds, and sparkling and glowing in the folds of her rich dress. She gained her room by a kind of inspiration, and sunk into a chair, the chaos in her mind deepening, and the past and the present battling in her throbbing brain. 
               Carriage after carriage rattled along the pavement; gay voices rung through the hall, and merry laughter startled the echoes in her silent room; but she took no heed. It must have been hours since a servant came to her room. with a message,- 
               "The Earl and Countess were ready to receive their guests; would she join them?" 
               She had roused herself to send an excuse, and relapsed into the dreary thinking, if a state in which figures and voices, blended with memories of the past, could be so termed. No light had yet broken on her troubled brain. 
               "Oh! I must be going mad," she said, wildly starting to her feet, still giddy and confused. 
               Her eye fell on a letter, placed conspicuously on her dressing-bureau. It was from her lover, and the memory of Clarence brought a sudden feeling of rest. 
               "If he were only here now, I would tell him all," she thought, with a passionate longing to look on his face again, and to leave all this new horror that had burst upon her; to flee, as we sometimes do, from a wild storm to where the sky is unclouded, and the war of the elements, and flashes of lightning, no longer startle us with terror. 
               There was another message from Alice, who was frightened and distressed at her absence, and had not yet found an opportunity to leave her guests. 
               She returned the same answer, "that she was not yet rested;" and after another interval there was a tap at her door, and a familiar voice, whose tones had startled her in dreams since she heard them last, called,- 
               "Miss Clifton, Alice fears you are ill; can I prevail upon you to come down now?" 
               Clarence Stanley's letter proved a talisman. Looking at the bold, firm writing, she found courage to answer, though her voice sounded hollow and unnatural,- 
               "She was only tired from her journey. She would send word when she was ready." 
                
               Lord Richland did not recognize the voice, and after a little hesitation turned away. 
               Mabel listened eagerly to the muffled sound of his foot-steps, and then hastily resolved to go quietly and leave him to the happiness he had found, after so many trials. 
               She grew calmer every moment, and when she could look around her steadily, opened the letter. The first lines roused her to the full possession of all her faculties, as a sudden calamity will restore the confused intellect of a drunken man. 
               "My dearest Mabel! I have lost the suit. I will have no deeper wealth to offer you than my love,-it is unbounded!" 
               She read no more; and crushing the paper in her hand, flung it into the fire. Her pulses seemed turning to ice, and her heart was cold as adamant. 
               After a while she rose and smoothed her hair, and shook out the folds of her dress. There was a fearful beauty in her cold face, and her eyes gleamed like stars. There had been no struggle; that letter had decided her doom. Hope and love and truth she flung aside for ambition. Were Clarence dying at her feet, and with one word she could save him, it would not be uttered. She felt no pity for Alice; would she waver at her grief, when she did not hesitate for her own. As to the divorce, it was obtained by bribery; it should be annulled, and she, instead of Alice, would be Countess of Richland. 
               She waited with dreadful calmness for the last guest to depart. Hours passed, and silence came at last. She looked out on the long, deserted hall. The air was stifling with perfume, and the cheerful lights mocked her with their gleam. 
               She slowly descended the staircase, and stood within the magnificent drawing-room. 
                
               A group was gathered in front of the fire. Years had passed since she looked on two of the faces, Laurence Melville's and Annie Raymond's. They were talking gayly, and Alice was leaning on her husband's arm. 
               Mabel had reached the centre of the room and stood under the full blaze of the chandelier, when Alice turned toward her with a glad smile and an exclamation of delight. Laurence Melville turned deadly pale, and his wife gazed in speechless admiration on the beautiful vision that seemed too lovely for mortal eyes to look upon; a radiant being, wrapped in a flood of dazzling light. 
               There was a faint shriek from Alice as she caught sight of her husband's face; it had changed from terror to a despair that seemed turning him to stone. 
               There was a silence like death; and Mabel stood motionless, her eyes fixed steadily on Lord Richland's face as he advanced toward her. She put her hand within his arm, and the smile of triumph dimpled her glowing cheek and shone in her eyes as she glanced defiantly on the group. 
               Alice started forward, and there was anger in her blue eyes, usually so gentle and loving. 
               "Mabel Clifton, do you remember the Gipsy's prophecy?" she said, in a clear, distinct voice. "She warned me of you; and her words were true; you have worked the sorrow of my life;-but your own doom is yet to come!" 
               The momentary anger faded as she met her husband's mournful, despairing gaze, and she extended her hand to Mabel. 
               "By the love I have shown you from childhood, listen to me now,-we were so happy, Willard and I; leave us in peace!" 
               Lord Richland fixed his despairing eye on her face; but there was no relenting in her triumphant, inflexible purpose. He essayed to speak, but no sound came from his white lips until he turned again to Alice,- 
               "My poor, lost darling, the woman before you is the woman I thought dead, the wife who deserted me." 
               With a groan he caught her to his heart convulsively, and kissed her. He parted the hair from her forehead, and looked long and tenderly in her face, and then placed her gently in a chair, and turned to Laurence Melville, whose face was haggard as if years had passed over it. 
               "You think me a villain; but I am the victim of a horrible mistake. The grave covers all errors; and when Alice has told you my sad story, you will pity, if you cannot forgive me!" 
               His words were hurried, his face livid with anguish and the deadly purpose that seemed printed on every lineament, and with a last look at Alice he turned to leave the room, without glancing again at Mabel. 
               Alice, with a shriek that rung wildly on the air, sprang forward and grasped him with her trembling hands, and clung in a despair too deep for utterance. 
               Mabel's voice broke the silence. She was slowly sinking to the floor; the color had left her face, and no marble could have been whiter. 
               "For the love of Heaven, listen to me!-oh! I am dying." 
               Her appealing glance rested on Laurence Melville, and he took her in his arms as he knelt beside her, and her beautiful face, ghastly with the shadows of coming death, rested on his shoulder. 
               There was no mistaking the pallor and the fluttering breath, and they gathered round her in a solemn awe that stilled the tumult of passion. 
               Laurence Melville could feel the icy chill that shivered the almost pulseless form that rested in his arms for the last time on earth. 
               He almost felt that he was with her passing the boundaries of life. She lay so quiet, that, in an agony of fear, he laid his trembling hand on her pallid fingers. The touch seemed to recall her fleeting spirit, and she enclosed her eyes and looked mournfully in his face. She read there the forgiveness he could not utter, and an expression of peace illumined her countenance; her fingers pressed his tightly, as if it was her last hold on the existence that was slipping away; but she extended her other hand to her husband. He pressed it to his lips in silence, and his breast heaved with suppressed sobs. He could only remember then that he had loved her, and that she was dying. 
               She spoke slowly: "I am not legally your wife, and I wish the secret of our marriage to die with me. There is one person in all the world who believes me good; let him still think me so,-dear, dear Clarence!" 
               She paused, and the tears stood in her lovely eyes. 
               "If I only could have died when Clarence was with me, and I was so happy," she murmured, faintly, as she lay with closed eyes. She opened them at the sound of weeping. It was Alice, who sank beside her in an agony of grief. 
               "Mabel, oh, my darling, forgive the cruel words I spoke to you!" A burst of sobs choked her utterance. 
               Mabel tried to support her with her trembling arm, but sunk back, panting with the exertion, and the blood bubbled to her white lips. Laurence bent and wiped away the crimson stain, and she murmured, faintly,- 
               "Kiss me, Alice, and comfort Clarence when I am gone." 
               As Alice bent fondly and pressed her fresh, warm lips to her friend's, her consciousness deserted her, and Lord Richland, at a sign from Laurence, bore away her fainting form. 
               Annie, who had been standing apart from the group, came forward, pale and tearful, and took the place Alice had quitted. 
               The struggle was almost over; but Mabel pressed Annie's hand faintly. It was her last act of contrition, and with a tremulous sigh, her erring soul quitted its earthly tenement. 
             
             
                
               THE END. 
               THE sunlight of an April morning stole through the heavy curtains on the pallid form of Mabel Clifton, clad in snowy robes, and adorned with pure, white blossoms that smiled in fatal beauty around the inanimate figure-the poor semblance of what once glowed with youth and beauty. 
               The story of her life was ended, and no love or hope could thrill the pulseless heart. 
               She was white as a lily, and a smile half parted her exquisitely chiselled lips. 
               Clarence Stanley sat beside her motionless as a statue. His eyes never wavered from her beautiful face; his own looked as cold and passionless, and the grief imprinted on his countenance was the grief that time could never cure. 
               There were forms replete with health and vigor that stole noiselessly to that white draperied couch, and gazed with suppressed breath on the shrouded figure,-some with tears that fell on the waxen petals of the flowers that lay in a cross on her breast. A few knelt and kissed the white lips, or reverently touched the hair parted so smoothly on the placid forehead. 
               It was a solemn warning to all, the sudden death of the gifted young girl who breathed her last on her friend's wedding-night, and whose veins were thrilling with the icy current while the gay murmur of voices rang out on the perfumed air. 
               The bride, so smiling a few hours before, stole timidly in and out of that silent room, her long, black robes and tear-stained face contrasting with the snowy purity of the pulseless, unconscious dead. 
               It seemed strange that Lord Richland should sit with bent head and rigid features, and that, when he drew the weeping Alice to take her last look at the friend to whom she had been faithful even unto death, his face was as white as the face he kissed so passionately; or that he and Clarence and Laurence Melville kept their silent vigils night after night, until the coffinlid was closed forever on the beauty they had each worshipped. 
               Lord Richland and Alice alone knew all the secrets of the proud heart that had throbbed so fiercely with pride and ambition, and they could pity and excuse the errors that had embittered her young existence and blighted her life. In that hour, never forgotten by any who stood beside her dying form, Mabel had said: 
               "There is one person living who believes me good: let him think me so still." And of all who wept beside her shrouded form, Clarence, who loved her most, could grieve with the least bitterness. 
               Amid the struggle and turmoil of the future, he could look back on the bliss that flooded for a brief period his life with happiness. He could never be utterly lonely so long as that memory was left him. 
             
         
       
   
